16-04-2020||India||Rapid kits finally arrive to test Covid immunity||New Delhi: The much-awaited Rapid Testing Kits, or RTKs, which use antibody-based blood tests for Covid-19, arrived in New Delhi at 11.30am on Thursday after missing their third deadline by a day, and will likely be used to test for coronavirus disease in areas with no or few cases -- the health ministry’s green zones -- according to an official at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The kits will be used to test people with fever, cough, and shortness of breath in 325 districts that are currently unaffected, starting with those that are in states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, explained the official, who asked not to be named. This will be the first mass testing exercise in these districts.“Many states have started dedicated fever clinics; and the samples for rapid testing could either be lifted of people visiting those clinics or cases our front-line workers identify after screening,” added this person.The move will significantly widen testing for Covid-19 in the country, which currently tests around 203 people per million, with most tests restricted to health care workers treating Covid-19 patients, travellers who may have visited countries with a significant number of infections, and people who may have come in contact, directly or indirectly, with an infected person. Much of the testing is also happening in so-called containment areas which are themselves within hot spot districts with either outbreaks or clusters (called red zones by the health ministry) or districts that are not hot spots but with clusters. There are 170 hot spot districts and 207 other districts with clusters According to the health ministry, all other districts are in the green zone. There are around 730 districts in India.ICMR guidelines say antibody test should be run after seven days of illness, as it takes at least five to seven days for antibodies to develop after contracting an infection.“An antibody test is not suited for diagnostic purposes but it is a useful surveillance tool for epidemiological studies,” said the ICMR official. Put otherwise, it is a quick and easy way to understand the extent to which the disease has spread.“These kits are not for early diagnosis as their sensitivity and specificity is lower than RT-PCR tests; it can be used for surveillance purposes, to periodically spot disease trends; to collect data on whether there is an old infection in a section of population or if it is a recent infection; whether the spread is increasing or being successfully contained in places that are termed as hot spots etc,” Dr RR Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said at a news briefing on Thursday.And since it is cheaper than RT-PCR, it can easily be deployed for mass testing, if required.The consignment has 500,000 antibody testing kits and 100,000 RNA extraction kits. Of the 500,000, 300,000 are from Guangzhou Wondfo and another 200,000 from Zhuhai Livzon. The RNA extraction kits are supplied by MGI Shenzhen.The flight carrying the supplies finally landed in Delhi at around 11.30am on Thursday.After clearing customs, the kits have been moved to ICMR’s main depot at the National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR) in Dwarka, which is one of the two main ICMR depots where the orders placed with different suppliers are being received and stored in the cold container unit.“We have created 16 depots across the country for the storage of these kits, from where the supply is distributed regionally. We have just received the kits and the logistics are being worked out at the moment. We can make use of flights and also transport them by road to nearby places,” said the ICMR official.The stock is being initially distributed to 6 regional depots in Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Dibrugarh, Bhopal, and Hyderabad, and later to other 10 depots. The supplies are likely to depart Delhi by Friday.According to people familiar with the mater who asked not to be named, India pulled diplomatic strings after the Chinese suppliers missed three deadlines. Demand for the RTKs, which some countries hope to be able to use to decide who is immune and can therefore return to work, has soared. And the Chinese government has tightened its export policies after a large number of kits failing quality tests in other countries, causing some amount of embarrassment to Beijing.“We have been emphasising on having the National Medical Product Administration, China, approval for all items being imported from China. It’s a sort of quality assurance certificate from the Chinese government, and we are rejecting anything that is not certified ,” a second ICMR official said on condition of anonymity.The Indian embassy in Beijing tweeted that “it is important to ensure product quality as well as reasonable and stable prices”. It called on China’s National Medical Products Administration to expedite registration of Chinese firms, especially those with export orders and already licenced by Indian regulatory bodies.The external affairs ministry is also working to obtain testing kits from other countries. “Firm quotations have been obtained from companies in Canada, France, Malaysia, the UK and the US. We have also obtained leads from companies in Germany and Japan,” an official familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Experts say that India’s decision to introduce antibody testing kits could be a game-changer in its fight against Covid-19.“Rapid testing needs to be ramped up for the country to be able to get back to normalcy. If we want to cover maximum people who have symptoms to know the disease burden, then rapid testing is the solution as it is quicker and cheaper, and helps in achieving the ultimate goal of public health care testing,” said Dr T Jacob John, head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.“However, the quality of kits plays a crucial role. It is also a good way of picking infections when we know most of those infected will not show symptoms or depict mild symptoms,” he added.(With inputs from Rezaul H Laskar and Sutirtho Patranobis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-kits-finally-arrive-to-test-covid-immunity/story-173LwyWr8W6PoRxsZV7LII.html
16-04-2020||India||7 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, state to approach Centre on classifications||Kerala reported seven fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday taking the total number of infections in the state to 394, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan asaid.The CM said out of 7 new cases five had returned from abroad while two contracted the virus from Covid-19 patients. He said 27 patents were discharged and the rise in number of people getting cured was really a positive sign. Out of 394 patients, 247 were discharged and 147 are undergoing treatment in hospitals.He also said the state will approach the Centre to make changes in the classification of virus-hit zones.“There were some discrepancies in the classification of zones and the state will approach the Centre to get them rectified,” he said.The Union Health Ministry had put seven districts in red zone category, six in orange and one in green zone. Kerala recorded the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates and minimum number of cases in the last two weeks, and the new classification had surprised many.“We want the most affected four districts in one category- Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikkode and Malappuram - and less affected in another and least affected and Covid-free districts in third and fourth categories,” he said. Interestingly, Wayanad in north Kerala which has only a single case and Thiruvananthapuram and Pathnamthitta which did not report new cases in the last few days are in the red list. Covid-free Idukki and Kottayam districts are in the orange zone while Kozhikkode that has nine active cases are in the green list.The CM said after April 20 rules will be eased in areas other than hotspots to alleviate the pressure on people. Government and private construction activities will begin under strict guidelines and small industrial activities and traditional sectors will be allowed. Similarly farming and farm-related activities and food processing will start, he said. Hair-cutting saloons will be allowed to open twice a week. He said proprietors of these units will be held responsible for any lapses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-state-to-approach-centre-on-classifications/story-wn1S1MjLaVU1hvVfWfEpiI.html
16-04-2020||India||Telangana reports 50 new Covid-19 cases, minister appeals to Markaz contacts to get tested||With Telangana reporting 50 more Covid-19 cases, including 25 from Hyderabad alone on Thursday, the Telangana government has appealed to the people who had come in contact with returnees from last month’s Tablighi Jamaat conference to get themselves tested for the disease.On Thursday, the number of Covid-19 positive cases touched 700 with 50 new cases and no deaths. State health minister Eatala Rajender said 68 patients who had been undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital were discharged.He said nearly 80 per cent of the 700 cases were linked to the people who had attended the Markaz event organized by the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month. “Though the police and health department authorities had managed to trace a majority of them and got them quarantined, we are of the view that there could still be some Jamaat returnees and their contacts, who are avoiding treatment despite repeated requests,” the state health minister said.“During our door-to-door survey, one person who contracted the virus in Talab Katta area in the old city of Hyderabad transmitted the infection to 20 people. Similarly, six Jamaat returnees had infected 81 people. I request people who have contacted Markaz returnees to come forward. We appeal to you to come to us before the health and police officials come to you,” the health minister said at a news conference.According to a bulletin from the state government on Thursday, 496 people are still undergoing treatment, while a total of 186 people have so far recovered and been discharged, while 18 others have died.Rajender said that the state government is also ensuring all Covid-19 patients who are admitted at the state-run Gandhi hospital, are getting required nutrition and that they are being provided with all the required amenities. “We also have separate wards for children. For women also, we will have separate wards,” he added.The health minister also pointed out that among all of the patients, the 10 Indonesian nationals who were found in Karimnagar district (and who attended the Markaz Nizamuddin congregation), had also travelled to different places, insinuating that they had possibly spread the infection to others. “The district authorities took immediate action there and the situation there has been contained. We are doing that in Hyderabad as well,” Rajender added.Meanwhile, 16 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Suryapet district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 39, according to district collector T Vinay Krishna Reddy.The development created a flutter in the district since it comes within 24 hours of the Centre’s announcement that the district was an orange zone. The spurt in Covid-19 cases is likely to bring the district under the red zone.Of the 16 positive cases reported on Thursday, 14 were primary contacts of a Covid-19 positive person, a resident of Kothedudem Bazar in the town. All of them are linked to a Markaz returnee. The other two are also contacts of earlier cases – one from Tirumalgiri and another from Aipur village in the district.The health minister said the new state-of-the art hospital for Covid-19 patients at Gachibowli is almost ready and will be inaugurated on April 20. He said the state was ready to handle any number of positive cases. “We are procuring 10 lakh PPEs and 10 lakh N-95 masks. We have given permission to two more private labs for testing of patients and now, we can test 5,000 samples every day,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-50-new-covid-19-cases-minister-appeals-to-markaz-contacts-to-get-tested/story-4XXWOjyNhUct5FakkfaM8I.html
16-04-2020||India||Assam DC, SP quarantined after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients||The deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of Assam’s Morigaon district have been sent to quarantine on Thursday after they came in contact with Covid-19 patients.Along with deputy commissioner Rituraj Bora and superintendent of police Swapnaneel Deka, some journalists of the same district have also been sent to quarantine.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said details of how and when the officials and journalists came in contact with the patients are not available yet.Morigaon is one of the five hotspot districts in Assam. The others in the list released by Centre on Wednesday are Nalbari, Dhubri, Goalpara and Golaghat.Earlier in the day, two persons from Morigaon, who are secondary contacts of Nizamuddin Markaz attendees, had tested positive taking the total number of infections in Assam to 34. The total figure increased to 35 in the evening with the Union ministry for health and family welfare including Nagaland’s lone Covid-19 positive patient to Assam’s tally. The person had been tested in Guwahati and is admitted here.Five patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. One patient died at Silchar Medical College and Hospital last week while 29 others are admitted in various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-dc-sp-quarantined-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-patients/story-A9AE3xq9csx3VBug0PaxLM.html
16-04-2020||India||Railways mark its 167th anniversary with no passenger trains on its tracks||At 3.35pm on April 16, 1853 amid a 21-gun salute, three locomotives - Sahib, Sindh and Sultan - chugged off on their maiden trip pulling 14 carriages and ferrying 400 guests from Bori Bunder (now Mumbai) to Thane becoming the first passenger train run by the Central Railways, then known as the Great Indian Peninsula Railway. The three locomotives covered 34 km scripting history on the day that the Indian Railways celebrates its anniversary. One hundred sixty seven years later, the national carrier has come to a standstill with no passenger trains plying on its network since 25 days for the first time in its history, thanks to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. “Today, 167 years ago with the zeal of ‘never to stop’, the wheels of the first passenger train from Mumbai to Thane started rolling. For the first time, passenger services are stopped for your safety stay indoor and make the nation victorious,” the ministry of railways tweeted. The mammoth rail network of India that runs nearly 14, 000 passenger trains ferrying 23 million passengers daily is not celebrating its ‘rail day’ as it would, perhaps, the first time in its history. “Back in 2002, to celebrate its 150th year we had run a steam engine along the same track from Victoria Terminus station to Thane with all the political stalwarts including the then railway minister Nitish Kumar and chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. We had recreated that journey, I was the Division Railway Manager then. It has been a great journey,” former railway board chairman Vivek Sahai recalled. Presently the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) heritage building stands in place of the old Bori Bunder railway station and was completed in 1888. There remains no documented photograph of the day, according to the railways. Sahib, Sindh and Sultan were not preserved and their fate remains unknown. Many believe they were scrapped by the British, as was common practice then. The life of a steam locomotive would be 35 years after which they were usually scrapped.“We too tried looking for them but found no record, we believe they may have been scrapped sometime in the early 1900s perhaps during the First World War,” Sahai said.India’s oldest preserved steam locomotive is the 165-year-old Fairy Queen that is kept at the Rewari Locomotive Shed. To commemorate India’s 73rd Independence Day, a heritage special service was hauled by the oldest locomotive in the world from Chennai Egmore to Kodambakkam last year. Since the lockdown, the railways have operated only freight and parcel trains for supplying essential cargo. “It is an important and a momentous day for us. Indian railways has been synonymous with the growth and development and the emergence of modern India. Railways evolved from chugging its first train covering a distance of just 34 km to becoming the fourth largest network in the world. The day the railways doesn’t operate it seems like the world has come to a standstill. Even so, while these are extraordinary times railwaymen have shown exemplary strength in ensuring more than 8 lakh wagons have been deployed across the country since the lockdown operating on just one third of our staff strength,” railway ministry spokesperson said. “Railways’ resolution must be to increase its daily cargo capacity after the pandemic, Sahai said. “Railways are ferrying nearly 1.1 billion tonnes of cargo along with 23 million passengers per day. After this pandemic is over the resolution should be to reach 1.5 billion tonnes load per day. Looking at the journey, railways has played such a major role in Indian history and even after independence. This is the same rail network that is there in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. See where they are now and where we are. We can certainly do better though. With high speed rail coming India will be the third Asian country joining Japan and China,” Sahai added. For now, the national carrier has suspended all train operations till May 3, nor is it taking advance bookings anymore. Passengers will have to wait a while to board a train again and transport, when it resumes, might not be the same anymore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-mark-its-167th-anniversary-with-no-passenger-trains-on-its-tracks/story-aa63uCf66ablcUj6ZabQ1N.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kolkata, Howrah figure in red zone; Bengal’s death toll touches 10||The Bengal government on Thursday said three more deaths due to Covid-19 had been confirmed by its audit committee comprising of five doctors, taking the toll in the state to 10, while 24 new cases were detected since Wednesday. Chief secretary Rajiv Sinha said Kolkata and Howrah figured in the ‘red zone’ earmarked by the Union health ministry. “Red zones indicate that the number of cases (in the area) is doubling in four days. Many districts are in the orange zone,” he added.Sinha said there are 144 active Covid-19 cases in Bengal on Thursday while 3,811 people had been tested for the infection till date. “On Wednesday, the figure stood at 3,470,” he said.“I cannot understand why the media is biased towards the Centre and is comparing data on different parameters. Rest assured there are no lapses on the part of the state government. The state and the Centre work together,” Sinha said at a press conference at Nabanna, the state secretariat, when he was asked whether door-to-door survey was being done following guidelines of the Union health ministry. He was speaking in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Agitated by repeated complaints on unavailability of rice and other items at fair price shops, which triggered agitations and road blocks in several districts, Banerjee on Thursday pulled up the civil supplies department and transferred Manoj Agarwal, its secretary. She announced this at the press conference.“There was disruption in supply in around 10 per cent places in the state. We will appoint a new secretary. The ration shop owners were not ready for this crisis. Also, many of them do not have enough space to stock up a month’s quota of ration for enlisted beneficiaries in that area. I have asked the administration to use the premises of local community clubs to disburse ration. As announced, we will give five kg rice to all those who are needy along with pulses. People will get ration for six months free of cost,” said Banerjee.“Let me make it clear that this is government-supplied ration and not anyone’s personal property,” the CM said in a veiled threat to Trinamool Congress workers in some districts who have been accused of using food distribution to gain mileage for local party units. Banerjee also announced that acting on requests from sweet shop owners the government was extending their time of operation from 8 am to 4 pm. Earlier, the shops were allowed to open at 12 pm.On Thursday, the government also allowed online registration of property so that people don’t have to visit registration offices. The chief secretary said people would get a 20 per cent discount on registration fee with the maximum ceiling on the discount fixed at Rs 20,000.Asked how the government was determining death figures, Sinha said, “We list all deaths and these are sent to the audit committee of doctors. We are not aware how many deaths the audit committee has reviewed so far and how many it has marked as non Covid-19 related.”Dr Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of the global advisory committee set up by the state government, told the media in Banerjee’s presence that the audit committee of doctors reviewing the deaths is following guidelines of ICMR and WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kolkata-howrah-figure-in-red-zone-bengal-s-death-toll-touches-10/story-OWhEXkdGKGEtM4dY8npnQK.html
16-04-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Bhutanese PM, discusses situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke with his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering and discussed the situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic.“His Majesty The King (Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck) and Lyonchhen (the prime minister) are leading Bhutan’s efforts admirably,” Modi tweeted.He said India will stand by its close friend and neighbour in fighting the effects of the pandemic.Modi and Prime Minister Tshering discussed the regional situation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and updated each other about the steps being taken by their governments to control its effects, an official statement later said. Tshering thanked Modi for taking the lead to promote anti-COVID coordination at the regional level, even while fighting the pandemic within a large and complex country like India.They expressed happiness at the progress made in implementing the special arrangements agreed on 15 March between the leaders of the SAARC countries.Referring to the timeless and special nature of India-Bhutan ties, Prime Minister Modi assured the Bhutanese leader that India would ensure all possible support to Thimpu for minimising the health and economic impact of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-bhutanese-pm-discusses-situation-arising-out-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-ZBfU1MBN1kyN39kqIGpSLN.html
16-04-2020||India||Delhi-based cop pens poetry to spread awareness on corona||Those of us stuck in self isolation or just following the rules of the lockdown and glued on social media must have come across a spate of passions that people have evolved while in quarantine. But, a Delhi-based cop, Suhaib Farooqui, has given wings to his love for poetry while on duty in the time of Covid-19 lockdown. Farooqui, Station House Officer (SHO) at South Avenue Police Station, has penned his poetry on the struggle with coronavirus. He posted it on his social media accounts, and since then the poetry has gone viral.  The poetry is composed into a song by Mumbai-based music director Sudhakar Sneh. The lyrics of the poetry go like this: “Hai waqt’e inqelab, Corona se jung hai... Muh par rakho nakab, Corona se Jung hai... Denge use jawab, Corona se Jung hai... Lena hai use hisab, Ab corona se jung hai...” Farooqui, who is on duty during coronavirus lockdown, dedicates this to corona warriors in his Facebook post, and shares with us, “I have been reading and writing poems since childhood. I have read about almost all popular poets, and their works. And this is not the first time I have written something. People are talking and sharing my work at this time because they can relate to it more now.” Read: Farah Khan’s son Czar Kunder records rap song on coronavirus, gets a thumbs up from Abhishek Bachchan, Sania Mirza. WatchThis Delhi Police inspector generally writes in Urdu, but in order to reach more people and spread awareness about coronavirus, this time he chose Hindi as his medium. Farooqui, who is a self-confessed admirer of popular ghazal-singer Pankaj Udhas, adds, “I have been working on the field since the first day of lockdown, and it’s so difficult to make people understand that it’s not a law and order situation but more about maintaining self-discipline. Social distancing and self isolation are the only ways to fight against corona, and my poem is one of the many ways to spread awareness about it.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271 Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/delhi-based-cop-pens-poetry-to-spread-awareness-on-corona/story-1JaZEa3iDJ0j8xoxQ69O0K.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India approves supply of hydroxychloroquine to 55 countries as commercial sales or grants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: India approves supply of hydroxychloroquine to 55 countries as commercial sales or grantsThe Indian government has so far approved the supply of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, either as commercial sales or as grants, to 55 countries as part of the efforts to fight the global Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. Read more. Covid-19: India gets 650,000 testing kits from China; looks to South Korea, France, US for more suppliesIndia on Thursday received 650,000 testing kits from China even as efforts were ramped up to obtain personal protective equipment (PPE) and medical supplies from countries such as South Korea, France and Canada, people familiar with developments said. Read more. ED files money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat chiefThe Enforcement Directorate on Thursday registered a money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad based on Delhi Police’s FIR seeking answers related to the religious gatherings in mid-March at the group’s six-storey headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti. Read more. Govt directs airlines to refund tickets booked during lockdownThe Centre on Thursday issued an advisory for all domestic and foreign airline operators to issue full refund to passengers who had booked during the lockdown period up till May 3 for both domestic and international flights. Read more. Kolkata slum emerges as a Covid-19 hotspot with six new coronavirus casesAfter Dharavi in Mumbai, a densely populated slum at Belgachhia in north Kolkata is rapidly turning into a Covid-19 hotspot, with at least six people reportedly testing positive for the coronavirus infection.The administration ‘sealed’ the slum on Tuesday – putting up barricades at all entry points – besides launching a door-to-door survey on Thursday. Read more. This video of a monkey playing with a kite has left people surprised. With people practising self-isolation and various countries under lockdown, videos of animals taking over streets have become common on the Internet. Such videos are generously praised and evoke happiness among people. However, this recent video has left people surprised. The video shows what appears to be a monkey playing with a kite. Watch here. Season’s Greetings review: Lillette Dubey shines in this poetic film that marks Celina Jaitly’s comebackActor Celina Jaitly has returned to the screen in Season’s Greetings, a film that she shot during trying circumstances -- the actor has said that she lost a child and her mother while she did the project. However, it can be safely said that she has worked through that immense pain to deliver one of her finest performances. Read more. Glenn McGrath picks the batsmen he wishes to dismiss in his dream hat-trickFormer Australia pacer Glenn McGrath was arguably the greatest seam bowler of his era - his unnerving accuracy and relenting lines and lengths caused havoc and there were few batsmen around the world who dominated him. However, over the years he was locked in great battles with batting icons and in a chat show with ESPNCricinfo, he picked the batsmen who he would want to dismiss in his dream hat-trick. Read more. Covid-19 positive person can infect people before getting symptoms: Know howPeople with Covid-19 can infect others 2-3 days before symptoms appear. Contagiousness started 2-3 days before symptoms, and peaks at 0-7 days before first signs of cough or fever. 44% people get infected by people with no visible signs of illness. On average, it takes 7 days to develop symptoms after getting infected. Many infections cannot be linked to known Covid-19 cases or travel to hotspots, which indicates asymptomatic transmission. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-approves-supply-of-hydroxychloroquine-to-55-countries-as-commercial-sales-or-grants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-umD95FkF5Jagy54KDLLhdJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: With May 3 in sight, Tamil Nadu moves to devise exit strategy post lockdown 2.0||A committee under Finance Secretary S Krishnan has been formed to devise the exit strategy post May 3 when the extended lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to end, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami told reporters on Thursday.The state reported a fresh Covid-19 death taking the virus toll to 15, while 25 more people tested positive for the disease on Thursday, prompting the CM to describe the virus as a “disease of the rich” and a “big challenge”. In all, there are 1,267 coronavirus cases in the state.After chairing a meeting of district collectors to take stock of the preventive measures being implemented across the state, the CM said that the exit strategy could be a phased one. The new committee will discuss finalising which industries may be allowed to function after April 20, as permitted by the Centre.Palaniswami said the lower number of fresh cases showed the government was containing the spread of the contagion. “It is a disease of the rich. People who had travelled abroad or to other states have imported it (to Tamil Nadu). It did not originate here,” he said.Explaining the state’s fight against COVID-19, the chief minister said that the state took an early lead by launching screening of air passengers and placing orders for personal protective equipment as early as January.There were adequate stocks of ventilators, PPE and masks while enough strength of health workers has been ensured, including new appointments.Further orders have also been placed. The rapid test kits ordered by the state with China have been “diverted to another nation,” and even Centre was awaiting the consignment, he said. The state was in the second stage of the spread and today’s new number of cases of 25 against 38 yesterday showed the state has managed to contain it, he said.The first batch of 5.5 lakh antibody-based rapid test kits arrived in Delhi from China on Thursday. The stock is expected to be dispatched to six regional depots, including one in Chennai, on Friday morning. Fresh cases in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday stood at 38, a little more than Tuesday’s tally of 31, unlike higher numbers seen earlier in the week. The state had reported 98 fresh cases on Monday and 106 on Sunday. As many as 87 lakh people had been screened in 558 containment zones in the state.Palaniswami expressed hope the number will soon touch zero as the rate of people getting cured was also increasing. As many as 180 people have been discharged so far, as against the 118 on Wednesday, he said.He said that the government will extend government support to journalists who have contracted the virus and would provide an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh in the event of their “unfortunate death.” These will apply to accredited journalists, he added.To a question, Palaniswami said people’s essential needs, including of those in the containment zones, were being taken care of by the government.This included cash assistance and provisions of free rice and pulses to rice ration card holders and financial help to those in the unorganised sector.About 13,000 migrant labourers were lodged in 311 facilites and their needs were being taken care of, he added.The police were also strictly enforcing the lockdown, with the authorities having clamped section 144 of the CrPC, which bars assembly of more than five people, for this purpose.Police have filed 1.94 lakh cases and arrested over two lakh people for lockdown violations, besides seizing 1.79 lakh vehicles, he said. A sum of Rs 89 lakh has been collected as fine. Meanwhile, the police announced returning the seized vehicles and said this will be done after verifying the documents. The process will be carried out at the local police station limits and the vehicles will be returned to owners after informing them, police said. (With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-may-3-in-sight-tamil-nadu-moves-to-devise-exit-strategy-post-lockdown-2-0/story-M0ZGYRbcrTl0JKZRl7newJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Lab error declares man, 68, suffering from cold as Covid-19 positive||An elderly man from Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha who was suffering from common cold and sore throat was wrongly declared coronavirus positive because of a typographical error by an Aligarh lab which tested his sample, officials said.The 68-year-old man from Nauganva village had gone to the primary health centre (PHC) in Amroha with a complaint of sore throat and cold.“Since the man had fever too, he was referred to Moradabad district hospital where he was admitted on April 6,” said Dr Umar Farooq, in-charge of PHC at Amroha.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Dr Farooq said from there his blood sample was sent for testing to a lab at Aligarh Medical College where samples for coronavirus were being tested. The test result came Monday night.“When the test report came in, we were told by medical officials in Moradabad that the man had tested positive,” he said adding that immediately six ambulances were rushed to quarantine eight of his family members and track down others who had come into his contact.“We screened all eight family members but found them negative,” the PHC in-charge said.Meanwhile, a confirmation was sought from the Chief Medical Officer’s office in Moradabad which said the man’s name had been wrongly added to the list of positive cases, said Dr Farooq.“The earlier report had, by mistake, mentioned that the patient was coronavirus positive,” said CMO Moradabad Dr M C Garg adding that it was because of a misprint by the lab in Aligarh where the blood sample of the man was sent.The senior citizen was finally released from hospital on Wednesday. CMO, Amroha, Megh Singh said: “The man was confirmed negative for coronavirus and he along with all his family members have been discharged now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-citizen-in-up-tests-for-common-cold-lab-typo-makes-him-covid-19/story-yUVjxNHn2pWEkRnuHMVPdO.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Lathis on lockdown violators not to be normalised’: Former UP top cop to SC||Illegal police action and police brutality through frequent lathi-charge during lockdown should not be normalised, a former Director General of Police (DGP) in Uttar Pradesh told the Supreme Court on Thursday.The petitioner, Dr Vikram Singh, who is currently chairperson of think tank, Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change, sought quashing of FIRs registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against persons for violation of the Coronavirus lockdown.“The registration of FIRs under section 188 IPC is grossly illegal and antithesis to Rule of Law, and violates Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution”, the petitioner submitted.Section 188 of the IPC states that any person who disobeys an order given by a public servant can be punished with imprisonment up to 6 months.Singh, in his petition, pointed out that between March 23 and April 13, 848 FIRs were registered under section 188 of IPC in 50 Police Stations of Delhi alone.Similarly, he also claimed that as per Uttar Pradesh Government’s own admission through its Twitter handle, 15,378 FIRs under section 188 were registered in the state against 48,503 persons.“If this is the situation in the national capital and adjoining state, then the situation in other parts of the country can very well be imagined”, the petition said.Singh also referred to the order issued by the Supreme Court on March 23 in a suo motu case directing release of prisoners from jails to reduce overcrowding in prisons and minimise the risk of spread of Covid-19.However, the police on the other hand, is continuing to burden the criminal justice system through FIRs in petty offences in unlawful manner, which at the most mandate the jail term of six months, Singh alleged.“The Petitioner, who himself was the DGP of Uttar Pradesh understands the police functioning as well as the pain and suffering of those who are caught in the wheels of the criminal justice system. The Petitioner is also concerned with the undue burden on police officers, who will have to do voluminous documentation in all such matters”, the petition stated.Singh maintained that he was not supporting violation of lockdown and that strict action should be taken against violators; however, action under criminal law should be minimal. He contended that alternative methods like directions to plant trees and cleaning of drains should be adopted to deal with those who violate lockdown. “Coronavirus has caused a global pandemic, in which every person is suffering. The situation needs to be handled humanely, and it will be best to avoid adding aspects of criminality, wherever possible”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lathis-on-lockdown-violators-not-to-be-normalised-former-up-top-cop-to-sc/story-LUEI7hSWmvO6NlMyTUR1oK.html
16-04-2020||India||Kolkata slum emerges as a Covid-19 hotspot with six new coronavirus cases||After Dharavi in Mumbai, a densely populated slum at Belgachhia in north Kolkata is rapidly turning into a Covid-19 hotspot, with at least six people reportedly testing positive for the coronavirus infection.The administration ‘sealed’ the slum on Tuesday – putting up barricades at all entry points – besides launching a door-to-door survey on Thursday.Local Trinamool Congress (TMC) corporator and Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen, who himself is a doctor and leading the administration’s operations from the front, said, “I cannot give numbers of people testing positive but there have been a few cases and the administration is taking all precautionary measures.”The slum has a population of about 50,000 and there are over 5,000 households, Sen said.“Since there have been a few cases, all our focus is on this slum now, as it is very densely populated and houses have no gaps between them. Even sleeping space is shared rotationally depending on one’s work hours. Now, with the lockdown, the entire population is staying in the slum, causing further space crunch. We are reaching out to every single household,” Tarun Saha, chairman of KMC’s borough no 1 said. Dharavi in Mumbai is home to nearly 15 lakh people who live in shanties. As many as 71 cases of Covid-19 positive have been reported from Dharavi till Thursday morning. At Belgachhia slum, according to a senior health department official of the state government, “Six persons, including two from a family, have tested positive for Covid-19. Other members of these families have been sent to government quarantine centres at Rajarhat and to the Haj House.”On Thursday, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) workers and staff from the health department launched a door-to-door survey to inquire about symptoms of influenza and severe acute respiratory infection. They were all wearing personal protective equipment or PPE.“A meeting was held exclusively to handle the Belgachhia situation on Wednesday and it has been decided that all lanes and by-lanes will be sanitized on a daily basis. Fifteen teams have been formed, with each team comprising of two health workers and representatives of the corporator. They were given a briefing today, following which door-to-door survey started,” Sen said.A school teacher living in the area, who did not want to be named, said that panic and rumours are spreading in the slum faster than the virus. “It is difficult to maintain social distancing here. Think of 10 people living in an 8 ft x 8 ft room. Usually, many people sleep on the streets at night due to shortage of space at home. Besides, there is illiteracy that is helping rumours to spread in the area and panic as well,” the schoolteacher said. Several non-government organizations have already launched the work of providing relief to local residents. They include the local Jamaa Masjid, the Islamic Library, local clubs and Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha, the science wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist).“We are not allowed to move into the slum. So, we are gathering at its entrance with hand sanitizers and so that our workers can prepare some food. People from the slum are coming to the entry point and collecting those,” Anindya Chowdhury of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha said.Kolkata’s deputy Mayor Atin Ghosh said that a similar door-to-door survey would be carried out in all slum areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-slum-emerges-as-a-covid-19-hotspot-with-six-new-coronavirus-cases/story-SeIiL5Cbn0vxgdYU9T6HEP.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Most patients in Bihar recover without critical care, govt keeps fingers crossed||A senior Bihar government official on Thursday described the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state as “quite good” and pointed out that a majority of them did not need emergency medical support.Out of the 80 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, only one has died at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Patna. The man who hailed from Munger had returned from Dubai and had kidney ailment. His sample had tested positive after his death.None of the other cases developed serious complications and 37 of them recovered without requiring any emergency support like oxygen or ventilator. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The recovery rate in Bihar is quite good, which is an encouraging sign. We hope the morbidity remains low and there is no need for critical care. We keep the asymptomatic patients in the facilities developed in districts only and send symptomatic patients to dedicated hospitals,” said principal secretary, department of health, Sanjay Kumar.Though the number of Covid-19 cases has increased gradually, the smooth recovery is a comforting sign for the authorities, who say in most cases, the government had to reach out to the suspects because very few had reported voluntarily.So far, 24 Covid-19 patients have been admitted at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NNMCH), first dedicated facility for the disease in Bihar, and over 90% of them (22) have recovered and put under home quarantine after testing negative twice.“None of them required any oxygen or ventilator support at any stage. All the patients responded well to treatment. They did not have serious complications, while some of them did not even have apparent symptoms. There was no need for any additional support to any of them,” said Superintendent, NMCH, Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha.At Gaya’s Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (Gaya), where five Covid-19 cases have so far been reported, three have recovered, but none of the patients required any ventilator or oxygen support.“We also have some suspected cases under observation, but none has developed any serious complications. All the positive cases have responded well to treatment,” said Gaya civil surgeon Brajesh Kumr ISngh.Many others who tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted for treatment to various hospitals, remained asymptomatic and recovered.“There were no serious complications and no requirement of any outside support to any of the seven patients admitted here. Six of them have been discharged after testing negative twice,” said Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (Bhagalpur) superintendent RC Mandal.At Siwan also, where one person who returned from Oman and infected 22 others of his family, the district magistrate Amit Kumar Pandey said there has been no serious complication with any of the patients. “There has been no requirement of any additional life-saving support. Half of the patients from Siwan were sent to NMCH), while rest asymptomatic ones have been kept here at our facility,” he added.The only death of a Covid-19 patient so far was reported at AIIMS, Patna. “He died of renal failure as he developed serious complications soon after admission. He had kidney problem. The second case was discharged without requirement of any outside support, as the patient responded well,” said AIIMS director PK Singh.Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital superintendent Raj Ranjan Prasad said there is no Covid-19 patient in the facility. “There is one person kept under quarantine on suspicion, and his test report is awaited, but he is asymptomatic,” he added.At Sri Krishna Memorial College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur, the superintendent SK Shahi said that there was neither any positive case nor any suspected case admitted there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-most-patients-in-bihar-recover-without-critical-care-govt-keeps-fingers-crossed/story-MhTgEX9eC8qeLBtBfmCOeM.html
16-04-2020||India||ED slaps money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat chief||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case to investigate the entire funding of Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin, both from within India and abroad, using which it organises religious congregations and travel of foreigners to different states, two officials confirmed to HT.The central anti-money laundering probe agency has initiated its probe under Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a Delhi Police Crime Branch FIR registered against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Muhammad Saad and five others under the Epidemic Disease Act of 1897 and Indian Penal Code after it was found that the Jamaat members flouted the nationwide lockdown. A separate case for culpable homicide was also registered by the Delhi Police against Saad. He has been named accused by the ED as well under the PMLA.According to the government, Tablighi Jamaat members were the reason for almost 35% Covid-19 positive cases in India till April 7 and close to 26,000 contacts of Tablighis were in quarantine across the country. Around 1800 foreign Tablighi workers have also been blacklisted by the ministry of home affairs for violating their visa conditions.One of the officials cited above said that ED will focus on whether donations received by Markaz were part of money laundering and if it was moved through hawala or non-banking channels.“For this, we will examine all their financial transactions, travel details, usage of money in different events and identify the handlers of money. Saad and his associates will also be summoned soon,” said the officer.Saad has claimed so far that he is in self-quarantine and hasn’t joined Delhi Police investigation.Earlier this month, Jamaat had issued a statement in which it denied allegations against the organisation.A senior government official said that Income Tax department may also soon start looking into possible non-declaration of income, tax evasion by the trustees of Tablighi Jamaat and channeling of funds for personal gains.The Delhi government and Delhi Police have maintained that Tablighi Jamaat members were asked much in advance to vacate the Markaz at Nizamuddin, but they violated the directions risking many lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-files-money-laundering-case-against-tablighi-jamaat-chief/story-tB8LW79rSDTqcTcqpjPnoN.html
16-04-2020||India||Ensure adequate arrangements for migrant labourers, stranded people: Centre to states||On the second day of the extended nationwide lockdown, the cabinet secretary asked all states to make adequate arrangements for migrant workers even as the home ministry closely monitored lockdown violations and attacks on health workers.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asked all state chief secretaries on Thursday to ensure adequate arrangements are put in place for the safety, shelter and food security of migrant workers and stranded people.The top bureaucrat at the Centre also asked states to appoint district collectors as nodal officers responsible for coordinating arrangements for migrant workers. “Each camp (for migrants) should be put [under the] charge of a senior officer,” Gauba directed.The Supreme Court last week ordered that adequate medical facilities and proper arrangements for food, clean drinking water and sanitation should be ensured for migrant workers at relief camps across the country. Following this directive, the home ministry had asked all states to put in place welfare measures for migrant workers while issuing detailed guidelines.A senior government official, who didn’t wish to be named, said once certain manufacturing and other business activities in rural areas resume from April 20, some migrant workers, who were heading home, might stay back and join their work.The home ministry, meanwhile, said it is monitoring on a daily basis all violations of lockdown measures, including congregation of people and opening of shops and establishments.It said incidents of violence against health workers engaged in surveillance and quarantine measures are also being ascertained.State police forces have already been asked several times to act against the violators under the Disaster Management Act. The home ministry has also warned action will be taken under the act against officers found responsible for violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-adequate-arrangements-for-migrant-labourers-stranded-people-centre-to-states/story-SQbp4x0PIv9By35ASp1OgP.html
16-04-2020||India||Karnataka registers sharp spike with 36 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||For the second consecutive day on Thursday, Karnataka registered a sharp spike in new Covid-19 cases with 36 more people testing positive and taking the total tally to 315.The state count of 315 cases also includes 82 people who have recovered and been discharged. A 66-year-old Covid-19 positive patient has died in Bangalore taking the total number of deaths due to the virus in the state to 13.While the border district of Belgavi saw the biggest jump with 17 new cases being registered, minister for primary and secondary education Suresh Kumar briefing the media said that this was primarily because two families had attended the funeral of a Covid-19 patient in neighbouring Maharashtra. Admitting that in spite of the best efforts of the administration a 100 per cent lockdown had not succeeded, Kumar pointed out how Vijayapura which did not have a single case till four days back now had 17 cases. The state government therefore has decided to try and enforce the lockdown more stringently to minimize the rise in positive cases in Karnataka.Meanwhile, CM B S Yediyurappa launched five mobile rapid testing labs which will travel across Bangalore to hotspots. Later on, similar rapid testing mobile labs are likely to be sent to Belgavi, Vijayapura and Dakshin Kannada, his cabinet colleague Kumar stated. He also said that the 462 fever clinics across the state had screened 46,751 people till date.Yediyurappa also launched the ‘Makala Vani’ an exclusive You Tube channel to keep the children of the state engaged during the lockdown. The channel will have stories, music, drawing, painting, drama, crafts and other educational infotainment to engage children who are at home due to the extended lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-registers-sharp-spike-with-36-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-g10op1AbzTsZZCJD1fcIdO.html
16-04-2020||India||Govt has no current plans to bring back Indians stranded around world||The Indian government currently has no plans to repatriate thousands of citizens stranded around the world because of Covid-19-related restrictions, and people familiar with developments reiterated the administration’s advice that they should “stay put” where they are.The people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a total of 3,336 Indians had tested positive for Covid-19 in 53 countries, while 25 Indians had died of the disease. No further details were immediately available.There are no official figures for Indian citizens stranded in different countries but several estimates have put the number in the thousands. There have been reports of scores of Indians stranded in airports in countries such as Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageEven before the government imposed a lockdown in March, the external affairs ministry had advised Indians around the world, including thousands of students, to stay put till travel restrictions are withdrawn. The nationwide lockdown has been extended till May 3.“Our advice has always been that you stay put, times are difficult. It’s a matter of having patience. They should contact the Indian missions wherever they are, and seek their help, support and guidance,” one of the people cited above said.“To the extent possible, our missions have reached out to a large number of people and are trying to solve their problems. These are difficult times, we need the understanding of our people that this too will pass,” the person added.In several countries, the people said, the Indian missions have taken the support of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and OCI card-holders to provide support to the stranded Indians. This support has included providing meals and rations to the Indians.The people also ruled out the possibility of bringing back the Indians who had tested positive for Covid-19, saying their movement increased the risk of spreading the coronavirus.“We have to very careful dealing with such cases as the nature of the virus is such that it spreads very fast. For that reason, we’ve been advising those who tested positive should stay put, get all the support they can get locally, including medical support,” said one of the people cited above.“If they start moving to another country or coming back to India, there are chances of spreading the virus. Fortunately, the recovery rate has been good in countries where the Indians tested positive,” the person added.More than 250 Indians, a majority of them pilgrims from Kashmir, had tested positive in the holy city of Qom in Iran last month. They are currently being treated in special facilities created in Qom.Indian envoys have reached out to the sick Indians and worked with local governments to ensure they get the best possible care, the people said.“We hope once they recover, they will hopefully be able to come back and join their loved ones,” a second person said.Indian authorities have also facilitated the evacuation of some 35,000 nationals of 48 countries who were stranded in India, the people said. This included the citizens of Australia, France, Germany, Israel, Russia, the US, and the UK.The repatriation of 186 Pakistanis is also being facilitated following a request from the Pakistani mission in New Delhi. Forty-one Pakistanis, who came to India as pilgrims or for medical care and were stranded in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, returned via the Wagah-Attari border crossing on Thursday.The external affairs ministry’s 24x7 Covid-19 control room has also fielded 18,000 emails and 5,000 phone calls and addressed 2,000 public grievances, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-no-current-plans-to-bring-back-indians-stranded-around-world/story-gHT7NRuDfbjXglDa1iltGL.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: With no new case for a week, Bhilwara may become first hotspot to transition to Green Zone||Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, a designated hotspot among the 123 Covid-19 districts with large outbreak, may become the first to transition from red to green zone as it reported no new confirmed case for a week.The last Covid-19 case in the district was reported on April 9 after a gap of five days.The Union health ministry identified 170 districts as hotspots on Wednesday, classifying them under Red Zone, 207 districts as non-hotspot or White Zone, and 353 unaffected districts as Green Zone. The 170 hotspots were further categorised into hotspot districts with large outbreak (for 15 cases or more) and those with clusters (for fewer than 15 cases).Follow coronavirus latest update here.According to a letter sent by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan to chief secretaries, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, there are 12 hotspot districts, including Bhilwara, in Rajasthan. The textile town is among the hotspots with large outbreaks because it has reported 28 cases so far.The first case in Bhilwara was reported on March 19. In the next 14 days, the district emerged as one of the biggest Covid-19 hotpots in the country with 26 cases. Among those infected were three doctors and 14 nursing staff and other health workers of Brijesh Banger Memorial Hospital, a private institution, in Bhilwara.“We will complete the second 14-day cycle on Friday. If we can stay without a new case until May 15, we will become Covid-19 free district,” said Rajendra Bhatt, Bhilwara district collector, who has been in the forefront of implementing what has come to be known as the Bhilwara model of ‘ruthless containment’.The letter from Sudan said a district could move from the Red to the Green Zone if it does not report any case for 28 days, and vice-versa. If there’s no new confirmed case in a Red Zone district for 14 days, it will transition into the White Zone, a middle zone between the red and the green zones.Districts that together contribute 80% of the cases in a state or those that have a doubling rate of less than four days have been marked as Red Zones. Rajasthan’s capital, Jaipur, also figures in the list with more than 480 cases until 9am Thursday. The state’s tally is 1,101.Rajasthan with 12 hotspot districts is among the top 5 states; the other states are Tamil Nadu (22), Andhra Pradesh (16), Maharashtra (14) and Uttar Pradesh (13).The Bhilwara collector said the administration has extended the second phase of curfew in the city until April 20. Curfew was first imposed on April 3 and was in force until April 13. In the first phase, there were no exemptions to anyone and all essentials were home-delivered by the administration.After Jaipur, Bhilwara is testing most samples in the state. So far, about 5,000 samples have been tested from Bhilwara which is about 8,000 less from the number of samples tested from Jaipur.Out of the 28 cases in Bhilwara, only one is in hospital; two have died and the rest have been discharged after recovery, said Bhatt. “We have put 55 people in government quarantine facilities and 9,819 are in home quarantine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-no-new-case-for-a-week-bhilwara-may-become-first-hotspot-to-transition-to-green-zone/story-0SOYxxq1iFjAfxqJ8rbVyN.html
16-04-2020||India||DRDO moves PPE testing facility from Gwalior to Delhi to cut delays||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on personal protective equipment (PPE) from Gwalior to New Delhi to cut down delays and ensure faster delivery of the safety gear to healthcare workers, the defence ministry said in a statement on Thursday.At a time when the country is facing a shortage of PPE kits, the testing facility has been shifted from Gwalior-based Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE) to the Delhi-based Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS). “The facility at INMAS is fully operational for testing and evaluation of body suits and masks. More than 50 batches of these items have already been tested at the laboratory,” the ministry said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe DRDE specialises in developing detection and protection technologies against biological and chemical agents. The statement said the Gwalior laboratory will now test only masks received by HLL Healthcare Limited from foreign countries before they are distributed to various agencies.PPE kits are sent to DRDO for testing by HLL Lifecare Limited, which is the government’s nodal agency for medical procurement. The kits are distributed to various agencies only after they pass stringent quality tests. A PPE kit contains a full-body suit, masks, goggles, gloves, and shoe covers.Conducting tests on PPE kits is a challenging task and there can be no room for error as it’s about the safety of healthcare workers, said a senior official familiar with the DRDO’s testing procedures.“Our procedure is quite elaborate and includes synthetic blood penetration test and pressure testing at various levels to ensure that the suits can provide protection to the wearers. In testing, we look for the weakest link which is usually the seams. The safety of healthcare workers is crucial in the fight against coronavirus,” he said. Pressure testing of PPE suits is done at six different levels.Another official said that the DRDO does not certify samples received from HLL Lifecare Limited for testing as ‘passed or failed’. “We only list out the technical parameters of the PPE kits and send it back to HLL Lifecare Limited. After that, it is for them to decide,” he said. The DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It has developed several products to combat the pandemic including ventilators, PPE kits, large area sanitisation solutions and Covid sample collection kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-moves-ppe-testing-facility-from-gwalior-to-delhi-to-cut-delays/story-sl9MUKd2lVYQ50j8rwGPGL.html
16-04-2020||India||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant writes to NGOs, asks them to take grains to feed people from FCI||The Centre on Thursday told non-governmental organisations that have been running relief camps for vulnerable sections or operating kitchens to feed people during the national lockdown to buy rice and wheat at below market prices from the Food Corporation of India.In a letter to the nonprofit sector and state governments, NITI Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant asked them to contact the district administration or Food Corporation of India to buy a kilogram of wheat at Rs 21 and rice for Rs 22 to ensure that no one in the country remains hungry.“It has also been directed... that there will be no upper limit for allocation of food grains to each such organisation from any FCI depot,” Kant said in his letter sent out on Thursday.About 92,000 NGOs are registered with the NITI Aayog Darpan portal but others who may not be on this list would also be entitled to receive grains at these rates to feed the vulnerable sections including migrant labourers.In its report to the Supreme Court earlier this month, the government had said over 26,000 relief and shelter camps had been opened across the country, helping 1.03 million migrant workers and other needy people during the Covid-19 lockdown.Of the 26,476 camps, 22,567 are being run by governments of various states and Union territories and 3,909 by non-government organisations. Government-run camps house around 630,000 and NGO camps some 400,000.Additionally, food camps operated by various governments are feeding 8.4 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant-writes-to-ngos-asks-them-to-take-grains-to-feed-people-from-fci/story-UiCoQXfYAgMV610qkejPUO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India gets 650,000 testing kits from China; looks to South Korea, France, US for more supplies||India on Thursday received 650,000 testing kits from China even as efforts were ramped up to obtain personal protective equipment (PPE) and medical supplies from countries such as South Korea, France and Canada, people familiar with developments said.The supplies from China were despatched on two cargo flights against the backdrop of concerns about some earlier consignments from Chinese firms failing to clear quality tests in India. The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, said steps are being taken to source goods only from companies that fulfil the requirements for exports from China.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Indian embassy in Beijing tweeted that “it is important to ensure product quality as well as reasonable and stable prices”. It called on China’s National Medical Products Administration to expedite registration of Chinese firms, especially those with export orders and already licenced by Indian regulatory bodies.Thursday’s consignment was part of 1.5 million testing kits to be procured from Chinese firms over the next two weeks.The external affairs ministry has been coordinating the government’s efforts to acquire vital supplies from other countries, including identifying suppliers, obtaining quotations, and coordinating with clearing agents, airlines and local authorities to ensure timely deliveries, the people said.Also read | Covid-19: No immediate plans to evacuate stranded Indians abroad“As part of these efforts, the first lot of 300,000 rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo and another 250,000 from Zhuhai Livzon, and 100,000 RNA extraction kits from MGI Shenzhen were cleared by customs late on Wednesday night,” said one of the people cited above.“Our missions are closely coordinating with concerned agencies for the supply of PPE kits. A large consignment is expected shortly,” a second person said.The external affairs ministry is also working to obtain testing kits from South Korea. “Firm quotations have been obtained from companies in Canada, France, Malaysia, the UK and the US. We have also obtained leads from companies in Germany and Japan,” the second person added. The people said the Indian missions are facing several challenges in acquiring medical supplies, including a general shortage in other countries and local regulations. For instance, they said, the embassy in Beijing and the consulate in Guongzhou had to make special efforts with Chinese authorities for customs clearance and clearances for non-scheduled flights that transported the 650,000 testing kits.Also read: India ramps up PPE production, but quality remains a challenge“But now supplies of vital items required for our Covid-19 response are well underway,” the second person said.On Tuesday, India’s ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, told reporters that facilitating India’s imports of Covid-19-related critical medical equipment and keeping the drug production supply chain open would be the “best” signal from China for bilateral ties.Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million PPE kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits by the Indian government and private firms.However, several countries have criticised the quality of critical equipment made in China in recent weeks. In late March, the Netherlands, Spain, the Czech Republic and Turkey reported medical supplies from China had failed quality tests.China then hurriedly moved to ensure the quality of medical exports. China’s commerce ministry, the customs authority, and the National Medical Products Administration issued new regulations on March 31, directing manufacturers to provide a declaration that their goods meet the quality-control standards of export destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-gets-650-000-testing-kits-from-china-looks-to-south-korea-france-us-for-more-supplies/story-iRgzlgQXa7zMZMruKhLsuL.html
16-04-2020||India||Plasma therapy trial for Covid-19 patients in Delhi soon: Arvind Kejriwal||The decks have been cleared for the trial of plasma enrichment technique to start in next three to four days to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Thursday.“We had asked for permission for testing plasma technology (for #COVID19) from the Central government, now we have got the permission,” Arvind Kejriwal in a video address.“If successful, we can save the lives of serious Covid-19 patients,” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.There is currently no cure for Covid-19 and convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for patients. Plasma enrichment technique entails taking blood plasma from a person who has recovered from Covid-19 as it contains antibodies which, when transfused to a sick patient, can boost immunity and help in recovery.More than 1,500 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi so far and 33 have died.The condition of several Covid-19 patients is improving and in the next 3-4 days, many of them will be discharged from hospitals. … With collective efforts, we all will be able to contain coronavirus in Delhi,” the chief minister said.He also claimed that 15 lakh people have applied for ration cards after the government announced online applications.“We have made special arrangements. Yesterday also we served lunch and dinner to nine lakh people. We can also make arrangements to feed 15 to 20 lakh people. We have also given ration cards. I request the media and common people to inform the poor who are not aware of the government’s arrangements who are still unaware. We will act the same way we did to provide food and shelter after the public informed us about the Yamuna river incident (in which two shelters for the homeless were burnt down),” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-trial-for-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-soon-arvind-kejriwal/story-IefGCqOcefiavH486JRnAO.html
16-04-2020||India||India ramps up PPE production, but quality remains a challenge||Thousands of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits among the 1.7 lakh donated for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protection by the world’s main supplier China, failed the safety tests at the government-approved laboratories. These included coveralls, headgear, foot cover, mask, goggles or face shields, and gloves for healthcare and lab workers who are higher risk of infection from closely handling sick people and infected samples.“Yes, some of the samples of PPE kits from the imported lot did fail the safety tests,” said an official from the Defence Research and Development Establishment in Gwalior, where the kits had been sent for testing after arriving in India on April 5.Since then, the Bureau of Indian Standards has set stringent standards for PPE, which were issued on April 14.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe government also used the learning to work with 39 domestic manufacturers to scale up the production of PPE kits to 50,000 a day. But the capacity needs to be doubled to meet India’s daily requirement for PPEs.“We were initially about to start our production with fluid-resistant materials, but we stopped even before we began because there were talks of viral-barrier suits. Now the challenge is availability of the raw material and the taping machines. These are dampners when it comes to scaling up production in the country. We have now managed to source material for viral-barrier suits and have started manufacturing, but our product is yet to be certified. The Chennai Lab is not yet ready to test the products. Our PPE kits should reach the market next week,” said Dr GSK Velu, chairman and managing director, Trivitron Group.“The government should enforce the uniform standards for all kits, including the imported kits. Right now, several manufacturers are selling products that do not comply with any of the specifications,” he said.Some suggest purchasing the critical missing materials, rather than entire PPE kits.“What is the guarantee that the manufacturers who claim CE and US FDA approval are okay. We have seen Chinese manufacturers exporting poor quality kits to India and other countries where the regulations are not as stringent. It is better to import critical missing raw material fabric for PPE that’s breathable and yet is fluid and viral resistant, rather than importing plane loads of PPE Kits,” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD).The new specifications released by the Bureau of Indian Standards on the bio-protective coveralls has manufacturers in a tizzy. The problem? The requirement that the suits be impermeable to viruses.“These guidelines are impractical. India does not have materials to make viral barrier suits. Instead, most companies are now laminating the coverall material and looking at sealing the seams to make the suits fluid and viral resistant. However, this is like wearing a raincoat in a non-AC ward, you can imagine the discomfort,” said Dr Ghanshyam Das Agarwal, chief managing director, G Surgiwear one of the manufacturers of PPE kits.“Breathability should be a bigger concern. Government should instead allow suits made of GSM 50 non-woven material, which will not pass the current test but is breathable and can provide 95 to 98% protection,” he said.Even for the makeshift suits, there are very few sealing machines in India. “The government is currently accepting the suits made in India, which might not be viral-resistant. However, to improve quality the government is developing newer materials and is also looking at importing these machines as well,” according to an industry expert, who knows about the matter.The earlier ministry of health specifications released on March 24 just required the suits to be fluid-resistant.“The higher standard specifications have been released by the BIS, but this is in a developing stage. Our feedback has already been sent through the official channels, so I cannot comment. But, it is likely that the specifications will be changed,” said Vijaya Shankara from Shree Hari Healthcare, one of the 39 manufacturers approved by the government.The newly released guidelines for bio-protective coveralls were removed from the BIS website on Thursday.The implementation of quality control, when it comes to the PPE kits, is patchy across the country owing to the extreme shortage.“However, the implementation is patchy. The manufacturers are required to get certified from these agencies to sell their product to HLL, which is the agency procuring for the central government. However, different state government follow different specifications and they do not necessarily ask for the certification,” said Malini Aisola, Co-convenor of All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN).This is the case in Delhi, which had floated a tender for 1.2 lakh PPE kits through the Central Procurement Agency in March.“This tender is being given to us as aa piece-meal of about three to four thousand kits a day. When we had floated the tender there were very few manufacturers who had come forward, and many did not necessarily have the certification. Even the ones with good products were not able to reach the only certification agency then – SITRA – in Tamil Nadu because of the lockdown. So, we started procuring the products after checking them for fluid-resistance ourselves,” said a senior Delhi government official.To test, water was poured into the bodysuit to check for leaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ramps-up-ppe-production-but-quality-remains-a-challenge/story-EfsCTDeZGAslZ6hqdFIfdO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Ambulance driver’s wife names son Lockdown to spread awareness||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 health crisis and the subsequent lockdown announced by the Union government, a woman delivered a baby boy in Jhalawar and named him ‘Lockdown’ to create public awareness and also commemorate the efforts of her corona warrior husband who is an ambulance driver in the state health department.The woman’s husband has been working round-the-clock amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Nagma (25), delivered a baby boy at the Government Shri Rajendra General Hospital of Jhalawar on April 15.The newborn’s father Sohail Khan (27), supplies medicines and medical equipment to hospitals in an ambulance in Jhalawar and is nowadays continuously wearing a PPE kit.“I decided to name my newborn son Lockdown to create awareness about the government move following the outbreak of Covid-19,” he said.When asked about the reason for choosing such a name for her infant son, Nagma said, “When he will grow up and people will ask him the reason behind his strange name then the answer would symbolize the significance of corona warriors and his father who worked tirelessly during the outbreak of Covid-19 and the lockdown.”“We will tell people that the Covid-19 disease had spread and lockdown occurred in the country during which his father worked for the society by risking his own life,” she said.“Lockdown is an integral part of the Covid-19 battle so we have kept this name for our son,” Nagma said.“Due to the lockdown and since he is a part of essential services, he rarely visits the house these days,” she asserted.The couple has a girl child and the baby boy is their second born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ambulance-driver-s-wife-names-son-lockdown-to-spread-awareness/story-W6FAgmCemDwQJwzospsFlK.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Postal department to step up delivery of food and essentials||To reach out to migrant workers and others in need, during the ongoing lockdown that has been extended till May 3; the postal department will step up its services in reaching out with food and essentials said people aware of the developments.Union minister for Communications, Electronics and Information Technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad has instructed chief post master generals and chief general managers of all states to keep their postal network geared and active to help those in need.The ministry’s action comes in the wake of a raft of complaints from migrant workers across states about the unavailability of food and essentials.“The minister said special focus should on providing food to those in need. In last 14 days, around 1 lakh food and dry ration packets have been distributed. In Uttar Pradesh alone, more than 50,000 food and dry ration packets have been distributed amongst migrant labourers, construction workers; while in Bihar, around 16,000 food packets and 11500 packets of soaps, masks, sanitizers and gloves have been distributed,” said a functionary aware of the details.From trekking to Gauchar in a remote part of Uttarakhand to deliver lifesaving drugs to transporting ventilators from Puducherry in the South to Gujarat in the East, the postal department has emerged as a frontline delivery agent at a time when the Corona pandemic is raging globally.In the absence of mass transport systems, during the nationwide lockdown that will end on May 3,the postal department has had to not just transport tones of medicines and equipment, but has also had to step in to ensure government benefits are reaching the beneficiaries.Given the postal department’s experience at running primary savings services, the department was given the task of opening new accounts so that direct benefits could be transferred to those in need. It has also been tasked with the responsibility of doorstep delivery of pension in remote parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Leh, Gujarat, Telengana, Karnataka, tribal areas of Jharkhand, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.According to the functionary quoted above when the lockdown was first announced on March 24, a group of migrant workers in Meghalaya, found themselves stranded with little money and food. Shifted to various relief camps in Shillong, these workers had no bank accounts, which made it difficult for the government to each out with aid.“In order to provide timely relief, the department of posts in coordination with India Post Payments Bank organised an account opening camp in the relief camp at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Shillong,” said the functionary quoted above,After the lockdown began on March 25, all businesses and production came to a grinding halt, except essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postal-department-to-step-up-delivery-of-food-and-essentials/story-c3Ur1gdGTGJWvNWDBb1WdJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Mercury rises in northwest and central India, several parts record 40 degree C||Several parts of the country are recording maximum temperatures above 40 degree C according to India Meteorological Department’s heat bulletin on Thursday.These include Vidarbha, Marathwada, West Madhya Pradesh, East Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh and West Uttar Pradesh.Some states are recording maximum temperatures as high as 5 degrees above normal in Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, parts of Saurashtra and Kutch, at few places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. Maximum temperature is about 3 degrees C above normal over northeastern states, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Tamil Nadu among others.The highest maximum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at Akola in the Vidarbha region at 43.4 degree C. “These regions in central and west India are climatologically prone to heat during this period. There are also clear skies and no weather systems affecting these places,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Meanwhile, a fresh western disturbance (WD) is likely to impact the western Himalayan region and the north-western plains on April 17 and 18. This WD is likely to cause scattered to widespread thundershowers over the western Himalayan region and scattered thundershowers over the northern plains including Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh on April 17 and 18.Due to convergence of strong moist winds from Bay of Bengal parts of the northeast and sub Himalayan west Bengal will get widespread rains in the next 7 days, IMD said in its bulletin. Maximum temperatures may fall by a couple of degrees for a couple of days in northwest India owing to the WD but maximum temperatures will remain in the range to 40 to 42 degree C in Telangana, Rayalseema and north interior Karnataka, IMD’s bulletin said.Air quality in several parts of northwest India deteriorated marginally from “satisfactory” and “moderate” to “moderate” and “poor” categories due to dust raising winds which increased the PM 10 (coarse pollution particles) on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.On Thursday, for example, Delhi was in “moderate” ; Faridabad in “poor”; Bulandshahr in “very poor”; Ghaziabad, Kanpur in “poor” among others. “This is mainly because of dust raising winds blowing over Delhi NCR and surrounding regions from Rajasthan. Its not a contribution from other emission sources,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Meanwhile, an analysis by Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) released on Thursday, on the impact of the lockdown found visible reduction in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels based on Satellite data from Sentinel 5P-TROPOMI. The main source of NO2 emissions is fuel combustion by vehicles and industries. On March 22 when Janata curfew was imposed, air pollution levels were found to be lowest since 2017.The comparative satellite data of the period March 11 to 24 and March 25 to 7 showed NO2 hotspots over cities and industrial areas have reduced significantly. CREA researchers said NO2 pollution was responsible for thousands of child asthma cases and formation of PM 2.5 particles due to secondary particle formation from NO2 emissions.The main reason behind reduction of NO2 levels is the dip in consumption of diesel or petroleum products, consumption of diesel had decreased by 25% in March 2020 compared to March 2019 and petrol consumption reduced by 18% during the same period.“The current crisis has shown us that clear skies and breathable air can be achieved very fast if concrete actions towards reducing burning of fossil fuels… We have to ensure that we invest heavily in renewable energy and other clean energy solutions,” CREA researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-rises-in-northwest-and-central-india-several-parts-record-40-degree-c/story-sz23zz2IzyDAxm5wCtm8VN.html
16-04-2020||India||Andhra offers Rs 2,000 to migrant workers to stay put in quarantine camps||The Andhra Pradesh government has come up with an attractive incentive to retain migrant workers and other poor people held up in various quarantine camps on account of the lockdown with many of them desperate to return to their native villages.Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday suggested that migrant workers who stay back in the camps till the lockdown is lifted be given a financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each while leaving the camps after completing their quarantine. The amount would be useful to migrant workers to reach their homes after the quarantine period and have proper food. “This will encourage the migrant workers to stay put in the quarantine camps till the lockdown is lifted,” an official familiar with the development said.In several parts of the state, people who have been kept in quarantine camps have been leaving by foot to reach their native places, after the extension of the lockdown till May 3.The chief minister sought details on the facilities being provided at quarantine centres. He suggested that the poor people held up at the centres should be given nutritious food like milk, vegetables, and eggs.The officials informed the chief minister that an amount of Rs 850 had been spent on each person put up at the quarantine centre, including Rs 500 for food, bed and blanket, Rs 50 on sanitation facilities and Rs 300 on transportation. A double room or single room is being provided to the people in quarantine and they are being sent home after following medical protocol, officials said.They said all the quarantined people were being provided healthy food, aimed at improving their immunity, including dry fruits, citrus fruits, eggs and banana, apart from regular meals like rice, dal, sambar and curd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-offers-rs-2-000-as-incentive-to-migrants-to-stay-put-in-quarantine-camps/story-ExJwN30LrH7QtIttujAaOK.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 2.0: Deve Gowda’s grandson marriage to be low-key||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda’s grandson Nikhil Kumaraswamy is entering into wedlock in a low-key ceremony on Friday, with the family forced to shelve grand plans in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.Only close family members will attend the marriage to be held at a farmhouse in nearby Ramanagara district. Nikhil, son of former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, will tie the nuptial knot with Revathi, the grandniece of former state housing minister M Krishnappa, at the farmhouse in Bidadi town.Both families had earlier decided to have a grand wedding ceremony in Ramanagara, the political turf of Kumaraswamy.With congregation of any type not allowed during the lockdown to check coronavirus spread, Kumaraswamy explained in a video message that the event will be a low-key affair of two families with minimum number of people.He also appealed to his party workers, relatives and well-wishers not to visit the venue. According to him, after the lockdown was announced, the marriage was planned at their home here itself but since social distancing will be a challenge, it was decided to organise it at Ramanagara.He cited Bengaluru being in the ‘Red Zone’ with maximum COVID-19 cases in the state as also a reason for shift in the venue.“It is difficult to maintain social distancing if the event is organised at home. That’s the reason we are organising the event at our farmhouse in Bidadi. I request my workers and well-wishers to avoid attending the event,” Kumaraswamy said.The decision to organise the marriage was taken after consulting doctors, including those in his family, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-0-deve-gowda-s-grandson-marriage-to-be-low-key/story-4IwkV5EK3Q7dAPyf5QOwWM.html
16-04-2020||India||11 more test positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi to take tally to 71||Eleven new cases of coronavirus were reported from Mumbai’s Dharavi on Thursday, taking the total number of infections in the area to 71, official said.Eight people have died of Covid-19 so far in Dharavi, one of Asia’s largest shantytowns.Out of the 11 new cases, four new were reported from Mukund Nagar, two each from Social Nagar and Rajiv Nagar and one each from Sairaj Nagar, Transit Camp and Ramji Chawl, civic officials said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North Ward said. “As of now we have targeted the five red zones in Dharavi and screening procedure is going on as per red zones. In this screening, 113 people have been identified and 85 samples have been collected. New cases have been reported from these localities only.” He further said high-risk symptomatic patients were institutionally quarantined, and low risk, asymptomatic patients were home quarantined.To ensure the strict implementation of restrictions in a particular area, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is providing grocery packets to residents. Each packet contains 3 kg of rice, 2 kg of dal, sugar, salt and 250 gm of tea.Out of the total 71 cases, highest 18 positive cases have been reported from Mukund Nagar area of Dharavi, eight from Social Nagar, seven from Muslim Nagar and five from Dr. Baliga Nagar localities. The civic body has prepared a quarantine centre in municipal school with 600 beds and at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex with 300 beds. In addition to that, the BMC also acquired Sai Hospital with 51 beds capacity with its medical staff.The Dharavi slums spread over 240-hectare have 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per sq km, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city. Activists and health workers had expressed concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where on an average of 10-12 people stay in each of 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sq ft.Maharashtra continues to have the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India with over 3,000 after 165 new cases were recorded since Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dharavi-to-take-tally-to-71/story-8WwbK3V14OY18DsahyNALI.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: No immediate plans to evacuate stranded Indians abroad||There are no immediate plans to evacuate stranded Indians from different countries, government sources said Thursday.“Stranded Indians are advised to stay put, Indian missions will assist them. So far, 3336 Indians have tested Covid-19 positive in 53 countries, 25 Indians have died abroad,” the sources said.The Indian government had earlier said flights cannot be operated for some 20,000 Indians stranded around the world during the lockdown which has now been extended till May 3.Sources said the government is also ramping up the fight against Covid-19.“Besides 650,000 testing kits despatched from China today, India will also get large consignment of PPE kits soon,” sources said.India will also provide hydroxycloroquine either as commercial sales or grants to 55 countries. Twenty one countries will get it as commercial salesSources said all formalities have been completed for first list of 13 countries including the United States which are getting hydroxycloroquine from India.India which produces nearly 70 per cent of the world’s supply of hydroxycloroquine, India recently agreed to export the medicine to the US following a request by President Donald Trump.Hydroxychloroquine or HCQ has emerged as a much sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of coronavirus disease.Last week, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that it won’t recommend hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients unless satisfactory results are seen during tests.ICMR said hydroxychloroquine is recommended only to those asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19 and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-immediate-plans-to-evacuate-stranded-indians-abroad/story-eDAuROnTuAN63ImiFIa04K.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 941 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, 325 districts still have none, says Health ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘941 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, 325 districts still have none’: Health ministryThe Union Health Ministry said on Thursday that 941 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. It also said that 37 people succumbed to the disease between Wednesday and Thursday. At the daily press briefing, Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health said that there are 325 districts in the country which have no cases of coronavirus disease. Read more. ‘Lockdown no solution to beat coronavirus’: Rahul Gandhi messages CentreFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button, and stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted. Read more. Hundreds of soldiers to take special trains for border duty amid lockdownThe Centre has given its nod for the running of two special trains to be deployed for the Indian Army personnel citing national security consideration, according to officials aware of the development.Two special trains are scheduled to run on Friday and Saturday (April 17 and 18). Read more. Zoom not a safe platform: MHA issues advisory on usage of the appVideo conferencing app Zoom has been in the middle of a privacy storm in the past couple of weeks. Now, the Ministry of Home Affairs has issued an advisory cautioning individuals on the safe usage of the app. MHA has deemed Zoom as an unsafe platform and it is asking individuals using the video conferencing app to adhere to certain security settings in a bid to safeguard their meetings from malicious attackers. Read more. If you need MS Dhoni in World Cup T20 team, you pick him: Harbhajan SinghIndia veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday said that India should not take too much time in deciding whether they want MS Dhoni in the team for the T20 World Cup this year. Dhoni has been away from international cricket since India’s exit from the T20 World Cup after losing to New Zealand last year. Read more. Banksy’s wife doesn’t appreciate this work from home art piece. Do you?Lots of partners have had to get used to their spouse’s professional habits as more and more people work from home nowadays. But this adjustment can be particularly hard when you are married to Banksy, the world-renowned anonymous graffiti artist. Read more. Your shoes could be a major carrier of coronavirus. Here’s how to keep them cleanI don’t know about you, but my timeline is filled with how to keep everything sanitised - my hands, the grocery bags I bring home, the masks we wear to step out for the occasional grocery run, I could go on. Chances are, that like me, you’re a fairly clean and hygienic person on a regular day but these uncertain times are demanding a little bit more. Read more. Iranian vessels make ‘dangerous & harassing’ manoeuvres near US warshipsIranian naval vessels made ‘dangerous and harassing’ manoeuvres near US warships. 11 vessels made manoeuvres in the northern Persian Gulf of Kuwait on April 15. In a written statement, US Naval Forces Central Command said the Iranian Revolutionary Guard vessels repeatedly crossed the bows and sterns of several American ships at close range and high speed. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-941-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-325-districts-still-have-none-says-health-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eirc1MMybwAuBVcucyKaYO.html
16-04-2020||India||Stopped from going home amid lockdown, migrant worker dies in relief camp||A 45-year-old migrant labourer living in a relief camp in Haridwar since April 2, died on Thursday morning after complaining of chest pain, said officials. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the incident.The labourer was taken to a makeshift relief camp on Haridwar-Delhi highway (in Haridwar district) after he was stopped from marching on foot towards his home town in Uttar Pradesh near Roorkee. He has been identified as Netrapal Singh, son of Bhudev Singh, resident of Rani Kothari Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. Since April 2, he was staying at Grand Vedantam Banquet Hall, a temporary relief camp for 40-odd migrant labourers stuck near Roorkee.According to officials, he reported chest pain on Wednesday night and despite doctors attending to him, he died on Thursday morning.Relief camp authorities have sent his body to All India Medical Science Institute (AIIMS), in Rishikesh for post-mortem examination to know the exact cause of his death.On April 2, the deceased labourer was coming from Dehradun. He was stopped at Roorkee when he was trying to move towards his home city in Aligarh on foot, amidst lockdown restrictions.District magistrate C Ravi Shankar said when he came to know about the death of the migrant labourer, and he immediately ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter. He said the inquiry will be carried out by Roorkee joint magistrate Namami Bansal who would submit the report to him within a week.Additional nodal officer Haridwar Nalineet Ghildiyal said due care is being taken of the people put up in relief camps ranging from food, clothes, sanitizers, cleanliness, health check-up and even entertainment aspects.“We are conducting yoga classes, motivational sessions and even counselling them so that they remain physically and mentally stronger,” said Ghildiyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-migrant-labourer-dies-in-uttarakhand-relief-camp-probe-ordered/story-tRkLk8MzoowUl4IoAaoooM.html
16-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Govt monitoring violation of guidelines, assaults on medicos||The government on Thursday said it is monitoring on a daily basis incidents of violation of guidelines for the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.“MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) is monitoring on a daily basis incidents of violation of lockdown guidelines, including congregation of people and opening of shops and establishments,” the Information and Broadcasting Ministry said in a statement. “Instances of violence against health workers engaged in surveillance and quarantine measures etc are also being ascertained,” is said.It also warned that actions would be taken against officials for violation of lockdown guidelines.“MHA would take action under Disaster Management Act against officers found responsible for such violations,” the statement said.The government had invoked the Disaster management Act when the lockdown was first announced on March 24.On Wednesday, two persons, including a doctor were injured when a mob attacked an Uttar Pradesh health department team in Nagfani area of Moradabad when it had gone to take away relatives and contacts of a Covid 19 victim to a quarantine facility.Police dispersed the violent mob using mild force and took at least 10 people into custody. The Moradabad incident was the latest in a series of assaults on medical professionals involved in Covid care.Earlier on Tuesday, hundreds of migrant workers in Mumbai ignored lockdown restrictions and gathered at the Bandra West railway station demanding transportation to their homes in different states following rumours that the Railways were arranging trains. The crowd of migrant workers which gathered in Bandra a few hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown till May 3, finally dispersed after a lathi charge by the police. Union home minister Amit Shah had taken a serious view of the Bandra incident and told Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that such the protests weaken India’s fight against coronavirus and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents.There have also been reports of overcrowding in markets and not following social distancing in different places in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-govt-monitoring-violation-of-guidelines-assaults-on-medicos/story-GfmnVqCpjHgbbmzwQOHnJI.html
16-04-2020||India||Two family members of Mumbai Fire Brigade officer test positive for Covid-19||Two family members of a senior officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade have tested positive for Covid-19.However, the officer and his other family member have tested negative. His two family members have been admitted to a Covid-19 speciality hospital, and the officer along with the other family member have been quarantined at home. The fire brigade personnel have been at the frontline of Mumbai’s bid to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, and have been sanitising containment zones and hotspots, including special tertiary care hospitals and other isolation centres. The health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC)E ward, which has the jurisdiction over the fire brigade station in Byculla, has set up a special Covid-19 testing camp on an emergency basis, to trace contacts of the officer, whose two family members have been infected.This led the fire brigade authorities to quarantine four other officers and their family members, but all of them have tested negative.“We have sealed two floors of a building where these four officers live along with their family members. All the precautions have been taken as per the standard operating procedure of the BMC’s health department,” P Rahangdale, Chief Fire Officer, Mumbai Fire Brigade, said.“All the fire personnel on the field are given personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and they are taking all the precautions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-family-members-of-mumbai-fire-brigade-officer-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-qS6xhGpxI0wacjVy01ByPL.html
16-04-2020||India||‘941 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, 325 districts still have none’: Health ministry||The Union Health Ministry said on Thursday that 941 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. It also said that 37 people succumbed to the disease between Wednesday and Thursday.At the daily press briefing, Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health said that there are 325 districts in the country which have no cases of coronavirus disease.He also said that special attention will be given to the quality of drinking water supplied in areas which have been declared containment zones.The total number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 12,000-mark on Thursday, with the death toll rising to 414.While the number of active Covid-19 cases is 10,477, as many as 1,488 people have been cured and discharged and one had migrated, the health ministry said on its website. The total number of cases include 76 foreign nationals.Of the total 414 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 187 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 53, Gujarat at 33, Delhi at 32 and Telengana at 18.Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have reported 14 fatalities each.Punjab has reported 13 deaths while Karnataka have reported 12 deaths and Uttar Pradesh has 11 deaths.West Bengal has registered seven deaths.Four persons have lost their lives in Jammu and Kashmir while Kerala, Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each.Jharkhand has reported two deaths.Meghalaya, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/941-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-325-districts-still-have-none-health-ministry/story-9FU8YPZmlT8WWXtlWs1UkK.html
16-04-2020||India||Afghan forces intercept Taliban fighters, find Jaish terrorists training for Kashmir||A chance discovery of global terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed cadres in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province on Monday night has confirmed the assessment of Indian intelligence agencies that Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence had resumed training a select groups of terrorists for Kashmir in war-torn Afghanistan, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The Afghan forces had carried out a raid in Nangarhar’s Muhmand Dara at what was presumed to be a Taliban camp that led to a bloody gunfight. At the end of the clash that cost the Afghan security forces four lives on April 13-14 night, the security personnel discovered that only 5 of the 15 men they had killed were from the Afghan Taliban. The other 10 were Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists being trained to fight in Jammu and Kashmir.One Jaish terrorist survived the gunfight and was captured.Counter-terror operatives in Delhi and Kabul told HT that the Masood Azhar-founded Jaish-e-Mohammed, which shares the same Deobandi umbilical cord with Taliban, appeared to be running three camps (called Mustaquil) along with four Taliban camps in Nangarhar province. The camps have been identified as Khogyani I, Khogyani II and Dargah camp in Nangarhar province and were lent by the Taliban in lieu of Haqqani network’s cadre being trained in JeM’s camps in Pakistan.Hindustan Times has accessed photographs and video footage of the clash. One of these photographs shows some of the weapons seized by the Afghan security forces from the camp: 2 mortar launchers, one rocket-propelled grenade and 2 AK series rifles.Maulana Masood Azhar, who has been on India’s most wanted list for years, is incapacitated due to health issues and lives in the terror group’s headquarters, Markaz-e-Usman-o-Ali in Pakistan’s Bahawalpur.His younger brother Mufti Rauf Asghar is the man running the Jaish ‘s terror show.Intelligence reports indicate that the Jaish’s de facto chief Mufti Rauf Asghar’s son Wali Azhar is also being trained in these camps that are headed by former Afghan war and Harkat-ul-Mujahideen veteran Mufti Asghar Kashmiri. His second-in-command at these camps is the Jaish’s Kashmir infiltration specialist Abdullah aka Asadullah.“We have photographic evidence that places Kashmiri and Abdullah at the terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir,” one official told HT.Also Read: The Taliban has trumped the US in Afghanistan | AnalysisAccording to information shared with India’s security planners, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir residents Yasin, Umar, Said and Mansoor along with Bahawalpur-based chief trainer Chacha Wagah, Junaid and Qari Sahab were present in the camp along with Kashmiri and Abdullah as late as March 29.The total strength of Khogyani I camp is 23 cadres and seven instructors, while the number of cadres in Khogyani II and Dargah camps number 66 excluding trainers and logistics staff.The radicalised cadre are being given a 15-day normal training after which they have to clear the six-month “Jundullah (commando)” training course before being launched into J&K. These cadres are also being given jungle survival training in Kunar reserve near Nuristan border.Also Read: Pakistan proxies in fight to the finish in Afghanistan, but India too needs to prep | AnalysisMiniature replicas of the areas around their launch pads at Neelum, Sharda, Kel, Athmuqam, Leepa, Kotli and Forward Kahuta across the Line of Control (LOC) have been created for briefing them about infiltration into J&K.Already, intelligence agencies have reported that the Pakistan terror groups had prepped to send about 230 terrorists across the Line of Control.Indian national security planners are also watching with some anxiety the emerging big picture in Afghanistan with the US on the verge of withdrawal and Taliban all set to fight it out with the Ashraf Ghani regime for the seat in Kabul.It is quite evident that once the Taliban gain control of Kabul, Pakistan would acquire strategic depth through Afghanistan and use the soil to launch terror strikes against India, a counter-terror operative in Delhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-border-clash-with-taliban-exposes-jaish-terror-camps-for-kashmir/story-GyRErS9kvUzbYcq544s6bO.html
16-04-2020||India||Govt directs airlines to refund tickets booked during lockdown||The Centre on Thursday issued an advisory for all domestic and foreign airline operators to issue full refund to passengers who had booked during the lockdown period up till May 3 for both domestic and international flights. To be clear, the order categorically states the advisory is only for those passengers who have booked flights during the first lockdown period from March 25 till April 15 for flights up till May 3, since the extension of the lockdown period.Senior civil aviation ministry officials have clarified the order does not apply to passengers who had booked flights prior to the lockdown for the same period. “There were several distress cases that we got of passengers who had booked flights from April 15 onward thinking the lockdown would be lifted and our priority was to address those cases. The second issue was of passengers who had booked in the first lockdown period during the same period. For example, there were several cases where airlines were still taking bookings despite India’s lockdown orders. Which we said will not be allowed and they will have to pay the passengers back in full,” a senior ministry official said requesting anonymity. As per the advisory issued by the ministry of civil aviation, airlines have to refund the full amount collected without levy of cancellation charge.“Substantial number of travelers eager to move from the places where they were have booked tickets for the travel after the end of the lockdown period i.e. from April 15 onward. Currently, the Government has further extended the lockdown period up to May 3, 2020, with the ban continuing on operation of all domestic and international flights,” the advisory says. “MOCA acknowledges the unusual situation that has arisen due to the lockdown being imposed to contain the further spread of COVID-19 and its consequential effect on the air passengers and airlines,” it added. Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation has been instructed to monitor the compliance. “A circular has been issued by the ministry of civil aviation for guidance and strict compliance of domestic and foreign airline operators engaged in domestic and international air travel in India,” the DGCA said. If a passenger has booked a ticket during the first lockdown period and the airline has received the payment for booking of air ticket during the first lockdown period (from March 25 to April 14) for travel during the second lockdown period (from April 15 to May 3, 2020) for both domestic and international air travel and the passenger seeks refund on cancellation of the ticket, the airline shall refund the full amount collected without levy of cancellation charge. The refund shall be made within a period of three weeks from the date of request of cancellation,” the advisory says. The advisory came after a meeting was chaired by the civil aviation minister with CEOs of private airlines Wednesday to discuss the issue of refunds for flights cancelled during the lockdown period. “Airlines have reiterated that advance bookings for flights will not be stopped,” another senior official said. Airlines, say, IndiGo had on April 14 announced it will resume flight operations from May 4 in a phased manner. The airline plans to start with curtailed capacity Initially and will increase the operating capacity over subsequent months. It also said it will re-open selected international flights, depending on the existing international travel guidelines.“We will begin operations for domestic only and then gradually ramp it up further, to commence operations on some international routes as well. Our singular focus will be on ensuring the health of our customers and our employees,” Ronojoy Dutta, Chief Executive Officer, IndiGo said. At present, most airlines are providing credit shell in lieu of refunds for flights cancelled due to the lockdown. Aviation regulator in the United States too has come down heavily on airlines who are not providing refunds on flights cancelled due to Covid-19. It had, earlier this month directed its airlines to issue refunds to passengers.Meanwhile the Indian Railways has cancelled advance booking for all trains. The Railways which was taking bookings till April 14, said no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed till further orders, though the facility of online cancellation will remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-to-refund-full-ticket-money-for-domestic-international-tickets-cancelled-during-lockdown/story-AoW4BtnNlFdxuvzteRVWwO.html
16-04-2020||India||Govt-recommended drug for Covid-19 treatment potentially life-threatening: Plea in SC||A petition filed in the Supreme Court by a US-based doctor of Indian origin has raised concerns about the possible side effects of using the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in treating people infected by the coronavirus.Hydroxychloroquine has been in focus in the fight against Covid-19 since US President Donald Trump described it as a “game changer”, and India, the largest manufacturer of the drug, has approved its use in some cases. India is also in the process of supplying the drug to countries around the world, including the US.The petition was filed by Kunal Saha in the Supreme Court in the name of his Kolkata-based NGO People for Better Treatment, and he is expected to argue the matter in person. It could not immediately be ascertained if the petition has been admitted by the apex court or will be taken up for hearing.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndian authorities have so far clear the use of hydroxychloroquine in the case of asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in caring for suspected or confirmed Covid-19 case and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases.The petition argues that the use of hydroxychloroquine along with the broad spectrum antibiotic azithromycin (AZM) for Covid-19 patients is potentially known for life-threatening effects on the cardiovascular system.The petition also refers to a health bulletin issued by the American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and US-based Heart Rhythm Society on April 8 that warned doctors about this drug combination having the potential to trigger “arrhythmia” or abnormal heartbea), heart failure and death.Saha also wrote to India’s health ministry on April 8, sharing this information. He said the ministry ought to have specified precautionary measures to be adopted by doctors in line with those prescribed by the American organisations.The petition also cites the extreme precautions in administering this drug suggested by the Canadian Medical Association and by an international study group of doctors based on the analysis of data from more than 300,000 patients. The finding showed no risk in short-term use of hydroxychloroquine but increased risks of 30-day cardiovascular mortality, chest pain or angina and heart failure were observed in the use of hydroxychloroquine and AZM.Hydroxychloroquine’s global demand is on the rise and India is exporting the drug to the US, the UK, Brazil, Israel and South Asian neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-recommended-drug-for-covid-19-treatment-potentially-life-threatening-plea-in-sc/story-SOarr0N01EtXPynXqNDmLL.html
16-04-2020||India||Disagree with PM, but we have to be united in fight against Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said he differs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on many issues, but at a time when coronavirus disease Covid-19 is spreading rapidly, it is time to stand united.“I don’t want to get involved in ‘Tu Tu Main Main’ (blame game) as the country is fighting a tough battle against the virus and we will only be successful to contain it when everybody works together,” Gandhi said at a press conference organised by Congress via video-conferencing.“There should be no declaration of victory, it is a long fight. I disagree with PM Modi on a lot of issues but we have to unite and not fight. We have to defeat the virus together,” he added.He suggested that the Prime Minister should listen more to the chief ministers. “Our strength to fight Covid-19 is at state and district level. Success in Wayanad has been due to district level machinery. So, I suggest that the approach to fight against Covid should not be top-down but bottom-up. Prime Minister should empower states,” Rahul added.Gandhi also said that lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button and stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.Extending his support to PM Modi, the Centre and all state governments in the fight against Covid-19, he demanded immediate scaling up of the testing facilities to contain the pandemic.Rahul Gandhi said that the government should think of the exit strategy and economic burden which is going to come in months. “Decide what your exit strategy would be after the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disagree-with-pm-but-we-have-to-be-united-in-fight-against-covid-19-rahul-gandhi/story-3A5dNWU5xCLwOQKDDsHAnK.html
16-04-2020||India||Mauritian PM thanks India’s ‘generous donation’ amid Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister of Mauritius, Pravind Jugnauth, on Thursday thanked India for the medical supplies that the country received on Wednesday. PM Jugnauth thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “generous donation of medical supplies” amid the coronavirus crisis.“I am very thankful to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for the generous donation of medical supplies from the Government of India which reached Mauritius yesterday, Wednesday, April 15, by a special flight of Air India,” Jugnauth tweeted out on Thursday. (1/2) I am very thankful to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for the generous donation of medical supplies from the Government of India which reached Mauritius yesterday, Wednesday, April 15, by a special flight of Air India. @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/OcJuOynHUf“This high mark of goodwill underscores, once again, the close bonds between Mauritius and India,” his tweet read.India has sent crates of medical supplies to hundreds of countries in the past two weeks. A top government official told Hindustan Times that India is supplying nearly 85 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and close to 500 million paracetamol tablets to the 108 countries.  The HCQ tablets were sent as gifts to Mauritius and Seychelles on special Indian Air Force planes on Wednesday. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson-led UK government on Wednesday thanked New Delhi for approving the export of nearly 3 million packets of paracetamol to ease shortage and supply gaps of the drug in the United Kingdom amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Last week, the US received a large consignment of the antimalarial drug, which President Donald Trump has promoted as a potential “game-changer” in the fight against the coronavirus. US President Donald Trump thanked New Delhi and tweeted out in his support. “Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!” Trump had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mauritian-pm-thanks-india-s-generous-donation-of-medicines-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-8na25YskgvzICWyN8SNW9H.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Not safe’: Govt warns people against using Zoom video conference service||The home ministry on Thursday issued an advisory stating that the videoconferencing app Zoom, which government officials have been barred from using, is “not safe” for use by private individuals.The government’s missive came after the national cybersecurity agency – Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in) – flagged the cyber vulnerability of the popular app, currently being used by tens of thousands of professionals working from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The latest advisory issued by government’s Cyber Coordination Centre or CyCord is for private individuals, and officials pointed out that the NIC (National Informatics Centre) platform is being used for most government video conferences.Government officials have been asked not to use any third party app and services for meetings. The CyCord portal was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018 for sharing all cyber-related matters among law enforcement agencies, government organisations and other stakeholders.The home ministry asked private individuals using Zoom to follow certain guidelines – including preventing unauthorised entry in a conference room, preventing an unauthorised participant from carrying out malicious activity on the terminals of others, and avoiding DOS attack by restricting users through passwords and access grant.A DOS (denial-of-service) attack is done by hackers to make a computer or network resource unavailable to its intended users.Earlier, CERT-in had said that unguarded use of Zoom can make it vulnerable to cyber-attacks, including leaks of sensitive office information to criminals.“Many organisations have allowed their staff to work from home to stop the spread of coronavirus disease. Online communication platforms such as Zoom, Microsoft Teams and Teams for Education, Slack, Cisco WebEx etc are being used for remote meetings and webinars,” the CERT-in advisories dated March 30 and April 6 said.“Insecure usage of the platform may allow cybercriminals to access sensitive information such as meeting details and conversations,” the advisories said.In an interview with CNN last week, Zoom’s CEO Eric S Yuan said his firm had “moved too fast…and we had some missteps”, adding the company has learnt its lessons and “taken a step back to focus on privacy and security”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoom-app-is-not-safe-for-private-persons-entities-mha/story-eAM93lrayy2N7sK90JgBAK.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Lockdown no solution to beat coronavirus’: Rahul Gandhi messages Centre||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button, and stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.Extending his support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Centre and all state governments in the fight against Covid-19, he demanded immediate scaling up of the testing facilities to contain the pandemic.“The biggest weapon to fight this virus is testing. Our rate currently is very slow and we are not using the testing strategically. We are at present chasing the virus. We should immediately and aggressively push for rapid testing, maximise it and use it strategically. If we don’t ramp up testing, we will be forced to again go into lockdown,” Gandhi said, addressing a news conference through video-conferencing.The Congress has been demanding adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) for doctors, nurses and other health workers apart from aggressive testing to fight the coronavirus.“Whatever has happened has happened. We are at an emergency level today and need to look to the future and fight the coronavirus together as one, irrespective of religion, caste and age and unitedly defeat it. We will lose the fight if we remain divided,” Gandhi said when asked that he had warned the government of the looming crisis on February 12.Watch l ‘Lockdown a pause button, need to maximise testing’: Rahul Gandhi on COVID-19 The Congress leader called for empowering the government machinery at district and at state levels. “We can’t have a top down approach to fight the virus. It should be bottoms up. The Prime Minister and the chief ministers should empower districts and the Centre should immediately release the money and resources to states to enable them to deal with it in a nuanced manner,” he added.However, Gandhi urged the government to manage its funding to enable the country to tide over the massive financial backlash due to the coronavirus, saying it cannot be controlled but has to be dynamically managed to defeat it.“We will see the first wave of unemployment immediately after the lockdown and then it will spiral. We have to ensure that we don’t destroy our economy. I get worried seeing blunt instruments being used to deal with the pandemic. We need to decentralise and start conversation and particularly knowing Modiji’s style one can work around it,” he said.On the suspension of MPLADs, Gandhi, who represents Kerala’s Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha , dismissed it as “not a major issue” in the present situation. “We need to utilise all our assets and also effectively use the administration and resources. We don’t need to use blunt instruments and instead focus on a strategic approach, besides open up communication with districts and try to fulfil their demands.”Gandhi said the government should strategically open key areas and use the testing to identify hotspot and non-hotspot zones across the country whenever the lockdown is lifted. “Lockdown is in no way a solution to Covid-19. It is like a pause button. When you lock up the people, the disease gets locked up and when you open up the disease rushes out. So, it is important to create two zones – hotspots and non-hotspots and once you identify the hotspots you clamp down on those,” he said.The Congress-ruled states and the party had supported the lockdown announcement with many leaders saying that it was the only way out to contain the pandemic.On the issue of stranded migrant labourers, Gandhi said some mistakes were initially made as a result of which a lot of migrants are stuck in different states. “It is important to have a strategy to deal with this crisis. The government needs to act on it quickly otherwise there will be social unrest in the country. You have to respond quickly and be compassionate while addressing the issue. I have told Congress chief ministers that they need to handle this situation with extreme care and gentleness.”The former Congress chief demanded a food safety net for the poor and the needy, claiming that the biggest cause of worry is that there will be massive food shortage in the future.“We have enough food supply in godowns and it should be distributed immediately even to those who don’t have ration cards. I suggest that 10 kg of wheat and rice, one kg of sugar and one kg of pulses should be given to the poor every week,” he said.Asked if he agreed with the Prime Minister that India took early steps to contain Covid-19, Gandhi said it was not the time to criticise the government and insisted that he wanted to give constructive suggestions. “I disagree with the Prime Minister on several issues and will continue to do so but this is no time to fight. It’s a long battle and all of us need to fight it together. It’s also a test for our country and we need not be scared of it but embrace it. We must not look at it through a prism of fear. I don’t want any credit and whoever wants to take it can take it but we would give constructive suggestions even if the government takes it or not,” he added.Asked if the Indian democracy could witness a change post Covid-19, Gandhi said, “That is a real possibility but we have to first take care of the virus. We know how to make sure that India remains democratic and we will do that. Also, I would like to say that premature declaration of victory over the virus will prove fatal.”The Congress leader also said the government should be careful and ensure that the people don’t take advantage of the situation by picking up stakes in strategic interests important to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-no-solution-to-beat-coronavirus-rahul-gandhi-messages-centre/story-YSvPqVFKA4UtNAkVYa4VaO.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Zoom app is not safe for private persons/entities’: MHA||The ministry of home affairs has issued an advisory stating that videoconferencing app Zoom is “not safe”.The government’s missive comes after the national cyber-security agency – Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in) cautioned against the cyber vulnerability of the popular app, currently being used by tens of thousands of professionals working from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The latest advisory issued by the government’s Cyber Coordination Centre or CyCord is for private individuals, as officials pointed out that the NIC (national informatics centre) platform is being used for most government video-conferences. The government officials have been asked not to use any third party app and services for holding meetings. CyCord portal was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018 for sharing all cyber related matters amongst law enforcement agencies and government organizations and other stakeholders.It asks private people who would like to use Zoom to follow certain guidelines – including preventing unauthorized entry in the conference room, preventing an unauthorized participant to carry out malicious activity on the terminals of others and avoiding DOS attack by restricting users through passwords and access grant. A DOS (denial-of-service) attack is done by hackers to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended user (s).Earlier, CERT-in had stated that unguarded usage of the digital application can be vulnerable to cyber attacks, including leakage of sensitive office information to criminals.“Many organisations have allowed their staff to work from home to stop the spread of coronavirus disease. Online communication platforms such as Zoom, Microsoft Teams and Teams for Education, Slack, Cisco WebEx etc are being used for remote meetings and webinars,” the CERT-in advisories on March 30 and April 6 said.“Insecure usage of the platform may allow cybercriminals to access sensitive information such as meeting details and conversations,” it said.In an interview with CNN last week, Zoom’s CEO Eric S Yuan said, “We moved too fast…and we had some missteps,” adding that the company has learnt its lessons and “we have taken a step back to focus on privacy and security”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoom-app-is-not-safe-for-private-persons-entities-mha/story-I5yfhaueEI4N90yPrQiEQP.html
16-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Kerala man forced to carry aged father on shoulders from hospital to autorickshaw||The human rights commission in Kerala has sought a report from the Kollam Police after a viral video purportedly showing a man carrying his 82-year-old father on his shoulder for over 100 metres during the lockdown surfaced on social media. The district police authorities allegedly stopped his auto-rickshaw over 100 metres away from a hospital on the pretext that he was not carrying the self-declaration form during the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The incident occurred on Wednesday when Roy Matthew visited the Punalur taluk hospital in Kollam district to bring back his father home, who was discharged from the medical facility.Roy alleged that the policemen stopped the auto-rickshaw over 100 metres away from the hospital and made him carry his father to the waiting vehicle, as he was not carrying the self-declaration form.A self-declaration form, stating the reasons for an individual to venture out is mandatory during the lockdown, which was initially enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and has since been extended till May 3.Kollam Police authorities said that they would look into the incident after the viral video fuelled into a controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-kerala-man-forced-to-carry-aged-father-on-shoulders-from-hospital-to-autorickshaw/story-wydbRsI9q7eFXc3Iov72CM.html
16-04-2020||India||Rajasthan: Amid Covid-19 scare, 692 inmates released from state jails||Rajasthan prisons department has released 638 inmates from the state’s jails and in line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) recent order to decongest prisons to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Of the 638 inmates, 492 have been granted bail and another 146 have been released on parole, said Ashok Jain, member secretary, Rajasthan state legal service authority (RSLSA).“Altogether 1,881 applications of inmates, who were all first-time offenders and booked in cases of up to seven years of rigorous imprisonment, were filed by the district legal services authority (DLSA) in respective courts. Out of these applications, 921 were rejected and the rest are pending,” Jain said.Another 82 inmates, who were booked for petty offences, were also released by the Undertrial Review Committees (URTC’s), which is headed by a sessions court judge, district collector and superintendent of police. “The URTCs are conducting weekly meetings as per Rajasthan high court chief justice Indrajit Mahanty’s order to identify the accused who could be released amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” Jain added.On March 23, the SC ordered all states to form a committee under the chairman of state legal services authority (SLSA), including principal secretary of the home department and director-general of jails, to take a call on which prisoners could be released on parole or interim bail to decongest jails because of the viral outbreak.The state prisons department has conducted a 100% screening of the inmates and also interviewed them to know their recent travel history. The authorities have set up two new wards and an isolation ward to treat prisoners for Covid-19 suspect cases. Every inmate, who has been released, is kept under observation in a new ward for three days. The isolation ward is earmarked for Covid-19 suspect cases.Besides, all meetings between prisoners and their relatives in jails are being held via video-calling facilities to ensure social distancing norms are strictly maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-amid-covid-19-scare-692-inmates-released-from-state-jails/story-cnmy4rHjzRrSWG5lhhD6wI.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown dealt blow to Punjab drug smuggling: Official||The Covid-19 lockdown has dealt a major blow to drug smuggling in Punjab and more than 26,000 people have registered at de-addiction centres since curfew was imposed in the state to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus, officials have said.Additional director general of police Harpreet Singh Sidhu, who heads the anti-narcotics Special Task Force (STF), told Hindustan Times the surge in registrations at out-patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres across Punjab was because the supply chain of drug trafficking rings has been disrupted by the strict lockdown.“The supply chain crunch has already been there and that is why we had over four lakh registrations at OOAT centres across Punjab since 2017. Lockdown has helped us further tighten the grip,” he added.A total of 309 cases were registered by Punjab Police under the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and a large quantity of drugs have been seized, including 22 kg of heroin and more than 527 kg of poppy husk, since March 23, when the curfew was imposed.A total of 498 people have also been arrested in connection with drug smuggling during the lockdown.The anti-narcotics task force was set up after the Congress government, headed by Captain Amarinder Singh, came to power in April 2017. It was one of the key elements of the party’s manifesto.Drug abuse, coupled with corruption, had dominated the 2017 assembly elections in the state, with the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) making it their main campaign plank against the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).The 26,000 fresh registrations at de-addiction centres include 2,375 in Ludhiana, 1,966 in Moga, 1,604 in Bathinda, 1,542 in SAS Nagar and 1,518 in Tarn Taran.Sidhu said the total number of patients registered at OOAT centres in Punjab since 2017 stands at 440,165.According to the report “Magnitude of Substance Abuse in India”, released in February 2019 by the Union social justice and empowerment ministry in collaboration with the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC) of Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), there are 720,000 drug users in Punjab.Sidhu described the increase in people registering at de-addiction centres as a “huge success” in the “war” against drugs in the border state.Punjab shares a 553-km border with Pakistan and successive state governments have often talked about the neighbouring country’s involvement in narco-terrorism through several Indian states.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has been demanding a national drug policy to enable states to follow a similar approach and strategy to tackle this menace.Interacting with the national media last week through video conference, Singh said Covid-19 has broken the supply chain of drug smuggling rings in his state.“The only good thing that has come out of Covid-19 is that the supply of heroin and other drugs has been broken. We are happy. We already have a 1,000-personnel task force that has been continuously working on this front,” he said.Sidhu agreed: “We had already managed to effectively block the supply chain and reduce the demand by the comprehensive action against drug abuse (CADA) strategy being implemented in Punjab through a three-pronged approach based on a balanced emphasis on enforcement, de-addiction and prevention (EDP). It is a reasonably good model.”He added, “Covid-19 has done us an extra help in further tightening the supply line and prompted more people to approach drug de-addiction centres.”He said this will have a positive follow-up effect, given that those whose supply chain has not been affected by the lockdown will be encouraged by hundreds of people thronging the de-addiction centres.“They will see the benefits of the people who have gone into the treatment and also get influenced because we have seen that 85% of addiction happens through peer pressure,” Sidhu said.The state government has also launched mobile OOAT vans to provide treatment and consultation to addicts at their doorsteps to ensure strict social distancing norms.Asked about the challenges faced by the STF in ensuring the supply chain remains disrupted even after the lockdown, Sidhu said: “It is possible some supply will come once the lockdown is lifted. But with so many people registering with de-addiction centres, they have come onto our radar and if they drop out of the programme we will be able to trace them and persuade them to come back.”He added that police have also made inroads in areas where supply could not be contained earlier.Sidhu described the de-addiction centres as major life savers. “Imagine if such centres wouldn’t have been there during this lockdown period, lack of supply and withdrawal could have had disastrous consequences and possibly a rise in suicide bids,” he said.“I always say we had nothing when we started in 2017, then we had some strategy in 2018, and in 2020, we are constantly adapting to the situation. All our models are flexible and we are making them better as we go on. If we further increase our momentum, we should be out of this menace by next year and hopefully have good results,” Sidhu remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-dealt-blow-to-punjab-drug-smuggling-official/story-aqmBGMnh2d9Gxvs7wKwm5K.html
16-04-2020||India||7 of 14 Kerala districts in Covid-19 ‘red’ zone, Centre’s classification surprises state||Kerala government doesn’t seem to be happy with the classification of Covid-19 zones in the state. Two districts in Kerala which were reported Covid-free in more than a week are marked in the ‘red’ zone and another which has at least nine active cases are marked in ‘green’. Among 14 districts of the state, seven are classified in the ‘red’ zone category, six are in ‘orange’ and one in ‘green’ zone. The classification of Covid-19 zones in the state has worried Kerala government which has now decided to approach the Union Health Ministry for the rectification. Kerala, which was one of the top coronavirus hotspots in the country just last month, has been reporting fewer cases and a high rate of patient recovery in the last few weeks. The number of Covid-19 fatalities in the state stands at 3. The state was the first to report the country’s first coronavirus cases in the month of January - all three patients had successfully recovered. On Wednesday the state had reported a single case. Among 387 positive cases, 220 had discharged leaving only 167 in hospitals.Interestingly, Wayanad in north Kerala which has only a single case and Thiruvananthapuram and Pathnamthitta which did not report new cases in the last few days are all in the ‘red’ list. Kasaragod, Kannur, Malappuram, Ernakulam are the other districts that fall in the ‘red’ zone as classified by the health ministryCoronavirus-free Idukki and Kottayam districts are in the ‘orange’ zone. Other districts in the zone include Thrissur, Palakkad, Alappuzha and Kollam. Kozhikode, on the other hand, that has nine active cases is the only district in the state in the ‘green’ zone.According to Union Health Ministry’s directive ‘red’ zone comprises the districts which report the maximum number of cases with high possibilities of community transmission. It has identified 170 districts across the country in the ‘red’ zone. Non-hotpots, but those regions that have enough chances of the virus spreading, are classified in the ‘orange’ category - six districts in Kerala are in ‘orange’ category. ‘Green’ zones the safe areas with respect to the virus spread.“It seems the classification has been done without realizing the ground situation. Some of the districts which have done a stupendous job by containing the virus are again in the hotspot list. We are upset with this. The state government will take it up with the Union Government,” said a senior official of the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-of-14-kerala-districts-in-covid-19-red-zone-centre-s-classification-surprises-state/story-I1UlxVEZyBcvowguDonZ2H.html
16-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: HAL hands over 300 Aerosol boxes to six state govts to aid Covid-19 fight||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Thursday said it has produced and handed over more than 300 Aerosol boxes that acts as an insulator between the doctor and the patient to various state governments, as part of its fight against Covid-19.As part of its continued fight against Covid-19, HAL has produced and handed over more than 300 Aerosol boxes to various state governments like Karnataka, UP, Maharashtra, AP, Telangana and Kerala to be used in hospitals, the company said in a statement.It said, the transparent box acts as an insulator between the doctor and the patient, and it can significantly reduce the possibility of Covid-19 transmission to doctors and medical staff treating coronavirus patients.The boxes are produced at various divisions of HAL across the country.The results are encouraging and we can cater to more hospitals and states in this hour of need, HAL CMD R Madhavan said.HAL management has already announced contribution of Rs 26.25 crore in PM-CARES fund, the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-hal-hands-over-300-aerosol-boxes-to-six-state-govts-to-aid-covid-19-fight/story-sbqNOJR6bD99HM09GpFORO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Army to strictly observe ‘no movement’ till April 19||Indian Army on Thursday said all military establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters, and units will strictly observe ‘no movement’ till April 19 while issuing its latest instructions after the ongoing nationwide lockdown was extended till May 3. Initially, the government had enforced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak but further extended it by another 19 days because of a spike in viral outbreak cases.The army said its latest directive will not hinder operational tasks of units and those will be carried out with the requisite strength.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Within the army headquarters; only the military operations, military intelligence, operational logistics, and strategic movement branches will function, to carry out operational and Covid-19 related tasks. However, duration of stay and strength within these branches is to be at a bare minimum till April 19,” the instructions said. The army said personnel from the remaining branches would work from home and any specific task would be handled on a case-to-case basis until April 19.The instructions said at the Command HQ level, only manpower, logistics, and operations branches would function with a skeleton staff. However, the intelligence branch would also function at the operationally critical Northern and Eastern Commands.The army said offices in its headquarters, Command HQ and formation HQ might start functioning at 50% of their strength between April 19 and May 3. The Directorate General Medical Services (Army) will continue functioning at full strength to provide a robust response to Covid-19 and all medical establishments and hospitals will continue functioning at full strength till May 3.“All training activities and temporary duties will remain suspended till May 3. Directions on actions to be taken after May 3 will be issued on receipt of fresh orders from the government. No activity is to be assumed,” the instructions added.All social, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious gatherings have also been suspended till May 3. Nor will religious congregations, regimental or ceremonial functions be permitted.“Offices falling in ‘hotspots or containment zones’ will observe strictly ‘no movement’ till they are denotified. Exceptions to be given will depend on the local military authority,” the instructions said.The army, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, took a raft of preventive measures in March to stop the spread of the viral outbreak within its ranks.These measures included the cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel, a freeze on postings and foreign assignments, avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel and postponing all courses for officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-army-to-strictly-observe-no-movement-till-april-19/story-CigfvCaIOqZnf51rZQY1dM.html
16-04-2020||India||Govt data shows India better placed than others in Covid-19 fight||India is in a better position in terms of the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 and the number of fatalities, according to Union health ministry.The health ministry data revealed that India has seen just nine cases per million - the lowest in the world - as compared to one of the worst affected countries Spain, which has seen 3,864 cases per million. Covid-19 has devastated Europe with other European countries like Italy and France recording 2,732 and 2,265 positive cases per million.Even the United States has close to 2,000 (1,946 to be exact) cases per million, as per the health ministry data.The number of fatalities is too is lowest in India - 0.3 deaths per million as against 402 in Spain. In Italy and France, the figure stands at 358 and 263 per million respectively.As the number of Covid-19 cases increased, the Centre proactively ramped up testing for the disease. The health ministry said that India has tested 2,17,554 people as the figure crossed 10,000, next only to Canada which has tested 2,95,065 people in the same category.It took more number of days for infection to double in India, due to the stringent measures put in place by the Centre. While in US, France, UK and other countries the infection doubled, first from 75 to 1500 and then from 1,500 to 3,000 in 2-3 days, in India the time taken for infection to spread was four days.Similarly, it took six days for the number of infected to spread from 6,000 to 12,000 in India, whereas the grim milestone was achieved in just four days in other Western countries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had highlighted the scenario in his address to the nation on April 14 as he extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. He asserted that India has chosen the correct path and managed to avert to a large extent the damage caused by the pandemic in many countries.He acknowledged that the lockdown has come at a huge economic cost, but said the saving lives of the citizens is his government’s priority.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 12,380 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. At least 414 people have died of the disease, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-data-shows-how-india-is-better-placed-than-other-countries-in-covid-19-fight/story-QeL3rG5kfrhqgS0Q4guMfP.html
16-04-2020||India||6.50 lakh medical kits to fight coronavirus dispatched from China: Indian envoy||The coronavirus medical test equipment being procured by India from China to combat the pandemic gathered pace on Thursday as 6.50 lakh Rapid Antibody Tests and RNA Extraction Kits were dispatched to the country.In a tweet, India’s Ambassador to China, Vikram Misri said the medical kits were dispatched early on Thursday from Guangzhou Airport in southern China.“#IndiaFightsCoronavirus A total of 650,000 kits, including Rapid Antibody Tests and RNA Extraction Kits have been despatched early today from Guangzhou Airport to #India,” Misri tweeted.Over two million test kits being procured from China will be sent to India in the next 15 days, Misri told PTI here.The Rapid Antibody Test Kits deliver results in 15 minutes and work on blood samples instead of nasal swabs to tell whether a patient has ever been exposed to the novel virus. The RNA extraction kit enables the total RNA extraction from tissues. This extracted RNA is a mix of a person’s own genetic material and, if present, the coronavirus’ RNA.Two major consignments of the medical kits were reported to have been sent to India from China earlier as part of the efforts to step up testing especially in hotspots during the ongoing lockdown in the country.On Tuesday, Misri told the media here that India has placed orders to procure 15 million personal protection gear from China for medical personnel treating COVID-19 patients, besides three million testing kits.The orders are being placed with bonafide firms with the help of the Chinese government.“I think facilitation of our needs and our requirements in a timely manner, in a smooth manner, on a predictable timeline at prices that are stable and orderly, would be the best signal possible to send for the India-China relationship,” Misri said.As its factories resumed operations after over a two-month grim battle against the coronavirus, China is busy tapping into the vast business opportunities of export of key medical goods, especially ventilators and personal protection equipment (PPE), across the world, including India, where both private and government bodies are placing orders for the import of these products.India has extended its ongoing lockdown to fight the coronavirus till May 3. It has reported 414 deaths due to the disease and 12,380 people have been infected by the disease in the country.Considering the importance, Misri said the Indian embassy is facilitating commercial procurements besides coordinating flight linkages for their timely arrival in India.As demand for Chinese medical supplies scaled up due to the spread of the virus in several parts of world, China on Wednesday asked all the countries to import these items through reputed Chinese firms cleared by the government and vowed to punish those involved in counterfeit behaviour.Responding to questions about quality concerns raised by several countries related to medical equipment imports from China, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here on Wednesday that the Chinese government is facilitating the orderly exports.“We hope foreign buyers can choose products from companies that have been accredited by Chinese regulators with good production credentials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-50-lakh-medical-kits-to-fight-coronavirus-dispatched-from-china-indian-envoy/story-GXk8x11ycBitxaPPweET4M.html
16-04-2020||India||Delhi HC denies interim bail to rape accused for father’s last rites, cites Covid-19 risk||The Delhi High Court has dismissed the plea filed by an accused in a rape case seeking interim bail to perform his father’s last rites, saying it would be dangerous to release him in the current coronavirus pandemic situation as he will get in touch with many people outside increasing the risk of infection.The court also said the bail application was totally silent on various aspects including record of recovery of the body of man’s father who allegedly died by drowning, documents of cremation and details of other ceremonies.“There is another aspect of this matter. The village of the petitioner (accused) is around 800 Km from Delhi so it will be highly dangerous to release the petitioner on interim bail as it is not known as to how many persons he will get in touch while he will be there in his village,” Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said.The court added, “There are great chances of his being infected and then his coming to jail after a period of interim bail would further complicate the matter which cannot be allowed in the current pandemic situation. Needless to repeat that the interim bail application is totally bereft of any details.” Accused Rakesh Kumar claimed that his father died on April 9 by drowning in a river in Kurwa village in Uttar Pradesh Ambedkar Nagar and sought to be released on interim bail for two months to perform the last rites and to settle family affairs.The man, against whom a rape case was registered against Kumar in 2014 at Anand Parbat police station, said he has been lodged in jail for over six years.The prosecution opposed the bail plea saying nothing has been placed on record to show that the man’s father died on April 9 due to drowning and contended that the allegations against him are serious in nature as he is accused of raping a minor girl.The high court, while dismissing the bail plea, said “Nothing has been placed on record to show that the father of the petitioner expired on April 9 by drowning. The petitioner could have filed the police documents regarding the recovery of the dead body of his father or any document to show that he was cremated.“More so, in the entire bail application it is not stated as to what all ceremonies have to take place and on which date these ceremonies are to be performed. The bail application is totally silent on this aspect.” The court, which was informed by the prosecutor that the trial court has fixed the matter for pronouncement of judgement, said it was expected from the lower court that the verdict would be passed as expeditiously as possible and when the situation warrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-denies-interim-bail-to-rape-accused-for-father-s-last-rites-cites-covid-19-risk/story-kx1yNLloPwp5NlpEYKa9tL.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Blunt instruments mustn’t be used against Covid-19,’ says Rahul: 10 points||Former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi on Thursday held a press briefing wherein he talked about the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. Gandhi said that the lockdown is not a permanent solution to the coronavirus outbreak in the country and described the measure as a “pause button”.He also slammed the government saying that the coronavirus testing in the country is not up to the mark and is also not strategic. He also said that though he disagreed with PM Modi on many issues, right now, the time isn’t to fight.“I disagree with Narendra Modi with a lot of issues but now is not the time to fight. Unite and fight the virus,” he said.Here’s a look at what else the Congress leader had to say:1. My main suggestion is that blunt instruments must not be used. We must work strategically. Lockdown has not resolved the problem, it has only postponed the problem.2. Lockdown is in no way a solution to the Covid-19. Lockdown is like a pause button. When we come out of the lockdown, the virus is going to start its work again.3. If you want to fight the virus, you’ve to increase the testing dramatically and your testing has to go from chasing the virus to moving ahead of it. You’ve to move to random testing and pre-empt where the virus is moving.4. Biggest weapon against coronavirus is testing - testing at scale so you know where the virus is moving and you can isolate, target and fight it. 5. Our testing rate is 199 out of a million, all tests that we’ve done in the last 72 days, work out to an approx average of 350 tests per district.6. We need to push testing aggressively and use testing strategically to assist the states in their fight. 7. Use testing not to just track patients but to create a map of India to see where the virus is moving.8. Now we’ve reached a level, where we are in an emergency situation. India must unite and fight against it. 9. To fight against coronavirus, our main force is working at the state and district levels. Success has been achieved in Wayanad, Kerala because of the effective machinery at the district level.10. Centre needs to work on the strategy on the issue of migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-suggests-blunt-instruments-mustn-t-be-used-in-fight-against-covid-19-10-points/story-g1KPT3IEeew81EFhv32w3I.html
16-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Quarantined labourers learn to write for first time in Uttarakhand’s Champawat||55-year-old Pratap Bora, a resident of Kailali district of Nepal, who never went to school due to poverty, had never imagined that it would be in a quarantine facility that he would hold a pencil and a notebook for the first time in his life. And he is now both thrilled and amused that he has finally learnt to write his name in Hindi.“I have never held a copy or a pencil in my hand in my entire life. Here for the first time, I learnt to write in a notebook. Learning to write was a very different kind of experience for me. Now I can sign on any paper in Hindi. I feel I have got some extra special power,” said Bora with a smile on his face.Bora learnt how to write his own name as well as his village name with the help of government teachers at the relief centre set up at a school in Tanakpur area of Champawat district where he has been quarantined with others. Bora used to work as a labourer with a national highway contractor at Dhaun, 55 kilometres from Tanakpur on Pithoragarh road.When he was going to Nepal with other companions after the lockdown was announced, he couldn’t cross the border due to the sealing of the Indo-Nepal border and local administration put him under quarantine in the relief camp at the school.Likewise, Prahlad, 36, a resident of Bahraich area of Uttar Pradesh had never gone to school and worked as a daily wager. He too has learnt to write his name and names of other basic things.“Had I gone to school I would not have to become a labourer. Now, the time has gone but this learning has given me strength. In the future, I would definitely send my children to school,” he said.Faizan, 25, who hails from Bareilly worked in Nepal as a tile-laying mason, was going to Bareilly on foot due to lockdown and the unavailability of transport. Police caught him and his companions on the way to Bareilly in Banbasa and quarantined him here.“It was a thrilling experience for me to learn here how to sign. Now I will sign on paper instead of using my thumb impression while receiving wages in future,” he said.Similar are the stories of many labourers like Iqbal, Mohammad Shahid, Ramnath Bir Bahadur who are being imparted basic education at these relief centres in Champawat.“We have set up 10 centres in Tanakpur, Banbasa, Champawat and Lohaghat. Literacy class initiative is being implemented in our district only,” said SN Pandey, district magistrate, Chamapawat.“Thousands of labourers from different parts of India and Nepal are engaged in mining, construction of the building and all-weather road in Champawat. Literacy initiative will provide somewhat basic knowledge to such quarantined people” said Pandey. “48 Indian and Nepalese nationals have been put under quarantine in a relief centre set up in this school building in Tanakpur area of Champawat. Classes of yoga and meditation are other entertainment activities that are being held to keep quarantined people busy and to reduce their stress,” said Prema Thakur, senior teacher and in-charge of the relief centre in Tanakpur She said, “On the instruction of higher authorities, literacy classes were also conducted here. We provided them with pencils and notebooks for learning and writing. They showed good interest in learning”.“Similar literacy activities are being conducted at relief centres in Banbasa, Champawat and Lohaghat also. Some centres are using blackboards for teaching. Though much can’t be imparted in a short period, these people must have experienced the importance of education in life,” said RC Purohit, chief education officer, Champawat.“In the beginning, these people were shy about joining the class and holding a pencil and notebook, but later they showed good interest. Now, they seem to be happy after learning at least how to write their own names,” said Thakur.Notably, thousands of labourers were earning a livelihood through mining in Sharda and Ladhiya river as well as in the construction of the all-weather road in Champawat before the lockdown, the official said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-quarantined-labourers-learn-to-write-for-first-time-in-their-life-in-uttarakhand-s-champawat/story-CghEzNDn8XzJos3JWVAwxI.html
16-04-2020||India||Hundreds of soldiers to take special trains for border duty amid lockdown||The Centre has given its nod for the running of two special trains to be deployed for the Indian Army personnel citing national security consideration, according to officials aware of the development.Two special trains are scheduled to run on Friday and Saturday (April 17 and 18).The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has approved the running of two special trains for security forces, the officials said. “The MHA authorities have given their nod for deploying two special trains for security forces,” a senior official said requesting anonymity. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTo meet the operational requirements for Northern and Eastern borders, two military special trains are planned to be run. These are: Bangalore - Belgaum- Secunderabad - Ambala- Jammu on 17 April 20. And Bangalore - Belgaum- Secunderabad - Gopalpur - Howrah - NJP - Guwahati on 18 April 20,” the official said.“This will enable decongestion of Category A and B training establishments at Bangalore, Belgaum, Secundrabad & Gopalpur as well assist in op preparedness of active formations deployed in the borders. Only personnel due to rejoin units deployed in northern and eastern borders and have undergone mandatory Quarantine period/ found medically fit will be accommodated. Further coordination with Ministry of Railways is in progress for planning additional trains in coming weeks.”he added.Hundreds of soldiers, who have finished their training at key centres such as Bengaluru, Secunderabad, Gopalpur and Belgaum, need to be moved for their deployment.“Only personnel due to rejoin units deployed in northern and eastern borders and have undergone mandatory quarantine period/found medically fit will be accommodated. Further coordination with the Ministry of Railways is in progress for planning additional trains in coming weeks,” the official said.All passenger train services and domestic and international flights have been suspended since the nationwide 21-day lockdown came into effect from March 25 and further extended by another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The Indian Railways is only running freight and parcel trains for an uninterrupted supply of essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-two-special-trains-for-indian-army/story-8Tidmtl386gGIYgrhWUD0I.html
16-04-2020||India||Lockdown not a solution to fight Covid-19, need to ramp up testing: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday held a press meet via video-conferencing where he said that government’s testing level for coronavirus is not up to the mark, and is neither strategic. He also said that lockdown is just a pause button, and not a solution to check the spread of Covid-19.“We are in a very serious situation. People of India and parties need to work together,” Gandhi said in his opening remarks.“I have been speaking to large number of experts, both in India and abroad, as well as outside the government who have a better understanding of what is going on. We need to understand that lockdown is a pause button, it’s not a solution to coronavirus,” he further said.“When we come out of the lockdown, the virus will again begins its work. So we need to have a strategy,” said Gandhi.Speaking on Covid-19 testing in India, he said, there is a need to ramp up your testing facility, to prepare our hospitals. The biggest weapon in fight against Covid-19 is testing - it will tell us where the virus is moving, so you can understand where it is going, so you can isolate it.”“Our testing is not enough to understand where the virus is moving, and it has to go from chasing the virus to getting ahead of it,” added the Congress leader.Gandhi has been critical of the Centre’s handling of coronavirus outbreak.On Wednesday, he demanded that emergency ration cards should be issued to those facing a shortage of foodgrains during the lockdown enforced to contain coronavirus.In a tweet, he had said lakhs of people were unable to take benefit of the public distribution system (PDS) as they do not have ration cards.Earlier this month, he had taken a dig at the BJP-led government over the way lockdown was enforced, saying no country with such a huge number of migrant labourers has attempted it without arranging for their stay and food.With 941 more Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s coronavirus tally crossed the 12,000 mark with the tally reading at 12,380 cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-not-a-solution-to-fight-covid-19-need-to-ramp-up-testing-rahul-gandhi/story-WN5xIDFQPBn4cb1Z9VhvWJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi’s ILBS gets nod for trials to test plasma therapy efficacy||The Drug Controller General of India has given its approval to the Delhi-based Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) to conduct trials to test the effectiveness of convalescent plasma therapy for serious coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The therapy uses plasma – a component of blood – extracted from healthy patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to treat those who are critical. The immune system creates an antibody to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, when it enters a human body. This antibody remains in the human body even after the virus has cleared out.“The antibodies from the recovered person will theoretically help critical patients in fighting the infection. It can be beneficial in the absence of any other vaccines to treat Covid-19. This procedure has been tried for several other viral diseases as well,” said Dr Sarin, director, ILBS.“We take around 300-500 millilitres of blood from those healthy people who have recovered from the infection and have high antibody level, from which plasma is derived, frozen and then administered to patients who are critical and have no other form of treatment available to them,” he said.However, no antibody tests are available in the country now, as it is not manufactured in India. “India doesn’t manufacture antibody testing kits. This makes it impossible to measure the antibody levels of a Covid-19 patient who has recovered. We’re choosing only those healthy patients who have recovered, as they are likely to have a good immunity response,” said Dr Sarin.The trial will be conducted only on healthy individuals, who have recovered from Covid-19 and will act as donors. The donors must not have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, no heart condition and below 60 years of age. The therapy will be given only to the critical patients such as those with a respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), have an oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or have pus in their lungs.“Dr Meenu Bajpai will do the extraction at an isolated area at ILBS, and it will be administered to patients admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital under the supervision of Dr Suresh Kumar from Maulana Azad Medical College,” said Dr Sarin. As per the trial procedures, 10 patients will be randomly administered plasma therapy and an equal number will receive a placebo, as in it will devoid of any therapeutic effect but help in testing new drugs.The procedure will determine whether those who received the plasma recover faster than those who did not.“Healthy Covid-19 patients, who have recovered, should come forward to help those who are critical,” Dr Sarin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-s-ilbs-gets-nod-for-trials-to-test-plasma-therapy-efficacy/story-QLLOk41IoV5tTBtYBFT6aO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Cash-strapped Oyo offers free stay to medical personnel||The coronavirus pandemic has paralysed the travel and tourism sector across the globe. 26-year-old Ritesh Agarwal-led Oyo is facing significant losses in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The company has been reported to be freezing operations worldwide and furloughing employees to brave the Covid-19 pandemic. Reports suggest that thousands of Oyo employees have been placed on furloughs and leaves for nearly 2 to 3 months as the company fights to weather the coronavirus pandemic. In a video message to his employees, Agarwal said that furloughs will keep jobs safe and will help the business in the long haul, Bloomberg reported.Earlier this month, Agarwal announced that the company revenues have taken a hit of as much as around 50-60 per cent. Oyo, however, has been leading initiatives to provide help during the pandemic. On Wednesday, the company said that it is opening its hotels for a free stay of doctors, nurses and other medical first responders who are helping in the fight against coronavirus in India. Select OYO Townhouse hotels in Gurugram and Bengaluru will offer the service, news agency ANI reported.With more than half of the globe under lockdown, the coronavirus pandemic has taken a massive toll on the tourism industry across the globe. According to the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), the tourism sector accounts for one in ten jobs across the globe but due to the coronavirus crisis, as much as 75% of it under threat. “Research conducted by WTTC shows that 75 million Travel & Tourism jobs are at risk globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with at least 6.4 million losses across the EU, and one million in the UK,” mentions WTTC on its webpage.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cash-strapped-oyo-offers-free-stay-to-medical-personnel/story-Ev2PHATencuxuD1OmSqnAJ.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IAF chopper on Covid-19 duty makes precautionary landing on expressway and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IAF chopper on Covid-19 duty makes precautionary landing on expresswayAn Indian Air Force helicopter on Thursday made a precautionary landing on the Outer Ring Road after developing a technical snag, the IAF said in a statement. Read more India dials up medical diplomacy, sends 85 mn HCQ tablets to 108 countriesThe exercise to deliver the HCQ and paracetamol tablets has been a complicated exercise since most countries including India do not permit flight operations. Read more Watch: Maharashtra Police makes Covid-19 lockdown abusers perform yoga Maharashtra Police on Thursday resorted to an unusual way to punish those who were caught violating Covid-19 lockdown measures in Bibvewadi area of Pune. The police personnel were seen making the violators perform yoga. Read more Asia doing better than other regions, may recover faster says IMFAsia is doing better than other regions in the world in their fight against the deadly coronavirus and may recover faster, a top official from the International Monetary Fund has said. Read moreWWE releases more than 18 wrestlers including Kurt Angle and Rusev amid Coronavirus pandemicThe Coronavirus pandemic has struck the wrestling world hard today. Even though WWE has been deemed as ‘essential service’ by Florida and will continue their live shows from their performance center, they have decided to trim their roster. Read more Reliance Industries, Facebook mull over WeChat-like super-app for India: ReportReliance Industries and Facebook are planning to develop a super-app that allows users to do more things than simply basic communications, reports Economic Times. Read moreCharlie Chaplin 131st birth anniversary: Heartwarming quotes by the cinematic titan and immortal ‘tramp’The silent film era’s most popular names, his name is synonymous with telling the most profound stories in the simplest manner with a perfect use of comedy and humour. Read more Pune Police interrupt friends’ plan to meet during lockdown with hilarious tweetLockdown 2.0 is in effect and that means people will have to wait just a little longer to meet their friends and other acquaintances. While many are abiding by the protocol for their own safety, some not so much. Read more Watch| ‘If WHO knew the gravity of…’: US President Donald Trump doubles down on allegations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-iaf-chopper-on-covid-19-duty-makes-precautionary-landing-on-expressway-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cCCdcuDl63ErSrSTs7XQRN.html
16-04-2020||India||Centre asks states to ensure adequate safe drinking water supply during lockdown||The ministry of Jal Shakti, has written to all states to ensure clean water supply to citizens including those residing in shelter homes or undergoing quarantine or treatment during the ongoing pandemic. Offices and divisions concerned with the treatment and supply of water are part of the essential services allowed during the ongoing nation-wide lockdown that will end on May 3.In a letter that was sent on April 13, the ministry has said that state governments can use the flexi funds under the Jal Jeevan mission to meet the requirements that have arisen on account of the pandemic. The JJM aims to provide tapped water to every household.“The provision of Flexi funds up to 25% of the annual allocation already exists in the Jal Jeevan mission, it is reiterated that the Flexi funds under this mission can be utilised for mitigating drinking water requirements during calamities and whenever needed,” the letter says.Also read: 6,50,000 kits dispatched from China for India, to arrive later todayStates have also been asked to ensure that portable water supply, an essential service is maintained and necessary arrangements for manpower, chemicals, water testing, operation and maintenance are in place. “In case, people involved in running the water supply systems get infected, alternate arrangements have to be made so that there is no breakdown in service,” the letter says.The ministry had also issued an advisory for the states to ensure safe drinking water during the period of lockdown. State government have been asked to ensure that chemicals needed for purification of water are acquired, water supply is available in rural areas where the facility of medical sanitisers may not be available; and to accord priority for supply of water in deficit ares such as relief camps, places of quarantine, old age homes and slums.Also read: Food delivery agent tests Covid-19 +ve in Delhi, 72 families quarantinedThe centre has also suggested increasing supply hours so that people who have to fetch water from the public stand post are not inconvenienced and can follow the protocol of social distancing. Prof. Vikram Soni, Emeritus Professor at Jamia Millia and JNU said though there is little evidence to suggest the transfer of Cornoavirus through water; it is imperative that the authorities should provide clean water.“It is not just availability of water that is of concern but that it should be free from contamination. Contaminated river water which carries human waste, sewage and toxic waste can be a huge carrier of viruses and we do not know where and how they can mutate and strike… To avoid another catastrophe we must protect our good water sources with our life and make sure that contaminated water does not release another invisible monster to plague our world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-ensure-adequate-safe-drinking-water-supply-during-lockdown/story-oNKIMKJcfIvpPzD25vEASK.html
16-04-2020||India||Over 1,000 cases in Delhi are Markaz cases, says state health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, on Thursday, said that over 68 percent of the Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital are of persons who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event at the Markaz Nizamuddin.“In the last 24 hours, with only 17 new cases being reported and two deaths, the total number of cases rises to 1,578 of which, 1,080 cases (68.4 per cent) are Markaz cases,” the Delhi Health Minister told ANI.Out of the 1,578 cases, 867 people have been admitted to hospitals. 29 patients are in intensive care, five patients are currently on the ventilator and 32 patients are dead.With regards to whether the extension of lockdown would help to curb the Covid-19 cases in the national capital, he said: “Three weeks of the national lockdown have already been passed with 17-18 days more to go, if the public follows the lockdown norms judiciously, we can contain the spread to quite an extent.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageJain informed that the hotspots identified would continue to remain sealed as the chances of new cases emerging are from these areas is high. “The hotspots have been sealed from all corners and health workers are also going to these areas and checking for any symptomatic patients. The necessities required by people will be fulfilled,” he said.On the issue of a pizza boy being detected with the coronavirus, Jain said that 17 other delivery boys linked with him have been placed under institutional quarantine and 72 people have been placed under home quarantine.Click here for Covid-19 updatesSpeaking about the matter of the anesthetist working at the Intensive Care Unit of the Maulana Azad Medical College, he said: “We are currently investigating the matter. Around 20 health workers have been infected and all of them will receive treatment.”Regarding the availability of rapid testing kits, he said that the Delhi Government has not received any new kits as of now, citing reasons that the centres may not have received the kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-cases-in-delhi-are-markaz-cases-says-state-health-minister/story-Olvhgi8L5FONBqDuBpFAnM.html
16-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to address presser via video conferencing today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will address a press conference via video conferencing today.The Gandhi scion has been critical of the Centre’s handling of coronavirus outbreak.On Wednesday, he demanded that emergency ration cards should be issued to those facing a shortage of foodgrains during the lockdown enforced to contain coronavirus.In a tweet, he had said lakhs of people were unable to take benefit of the public distribution system (PDS) as they do not have ration cards.The lockdown, which was to end on April 14, has been extended till May 3 to prevent the spread of coronavirus.ALSO WATCH | BJP’S ‘game-changer’ claim Vs Rahul Gandhi’s ‘nowhere in game’ counterWith 941 more Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s coronavirus tally crossed the 12,000 mark with the tally reading at 12,380 cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday.Out of the tally, 10,477 patients are active cases while 1,489 patients have been cured, discharged and migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-address-presser-via-video-conferencing-today/story-cqmLRNoarr89gP2PydGWeP.html
16-04-2020||India||India dials up medical diplomacy, sends 85 mn HCQ tablets, paracetemol to 108 countries||India has dialled up its medical diplomacy, sending loads of medicines to 100-plus countries over the last two weeks to help them fight the Covid-19 pandemic. A top government official told Hindustan Times that India is supplying nearly 85 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and close to 500 million paracetamol tablets to the 108 countries.This is apart from the 1,000 tonnes of paracetamol granules that have been sent to make tablets.“As we speak, a total of 4,000 plus consignments to 60 countries are being cleared for dispatch,” the government official cited above said. In all, the medicine supplies will cover 108 countries.ALSO WATCH | Covid-19 | ‘HCQ can be harmful’: AIIMS head on medicine amid export debateMany of the supplies have been made through special Indian Air Force flights, foreign evacuation charters and even diplomatic cargo.It is a huge exercise, and complicated too given that most countries, including India, have shut flight operations. As one example, officials speak about how Indian HCQ tablets to be delivered to the Dominican Republic, which is the current President of the UNSC, were placed as diplomatic cargo on a US evacuation flight to Atlanta, Georgia. This diplomatic cargo will then be flown from New York to the island in the Carribean region in a Dominican charter later on Thursday. The HCQ tablets sent as gifts to Mauritius and Seychelles were loaded on special Indian Air Force planes on Wednesday for delivery. For reaching the medicines to Afghanistan, efforts are being made to send the medicine by a special charter.According to South Block officials, 5 million HCQ tablets and a large quantity of paracetamol has been either supplied or in the process of being supplied to 31 countries as grant assistance to combat Covid-19.“The emphasis has been on clearing consignments to those friendly countries first which are badly affected by the virus. We will also be clearing requests from some other countries who have sought help in this hour of need. This will be done in a day or two,” said a senior official.Basically, India has decided to supply all the drugs that were lying in special economic zones or 100 percent export oriented units after ensuring that there was an adequate buffer stock for domestic requirements in a worst-case scenario.“Broadly, almost everything that was ready and lying at the airports/ports that cannot be used domestically as on April 14 has been cleared for exports,” said a Ministry of External Affairs official.India has already supplied 80 million HCQ tablets to 24 countries through commercial contracts including US, UK, Russia, France, Spain and Netherlands. It has also supplied large quantities of paracetamol to 52 countries including Italy, Sweden and Singapore. In some cases, both HCQ and paracetamol tablets were supplied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dials-up-medical-diplomacy-sending-85-mn-hcq-tablets-to-108-countries/story-O6n44wY3cNKWUcKqKdphGP.html
16-04-2020||India||Your voice may be able to tell if you have Covid||The rush to understand, predict and head off the Covid-19 outbreak has prompted technology researchers to deploy artificial intelligence to create tools that can determine whether people are infected by analysing the sound of their cough, the way they speak or even breathe.Currently, most of these efforts are at a stage in which the researchers are gathering data – speech and coughing recordings paired with information whether someone has an infection. These are then fed to AI algorithms – specifically deep learning and machine learning programmes.“Since the voice production mechanism is so complex and dependent on cognitive abilities, any factor that affects your body or your mind will reflect in your voice. The changes can be in fractions of seconds -- what we call “micro” signatures, that are not audible to the untrained listener, but nevertheless present,” said Rita Singh, a computer sciences research professor at the Carnegie Mellon University, whose team created the COVID Voice Detector.The changes, added Singh in a video-call, carry “a surprising amount of information that can be linked to physiological factors”. “Any condition affecting the lungs or the respiratory system – as has been established in the cases of Covid-19 infections -- has a palpable effect on voice. Moreover, the cough of a Covid patient is also distinct from a healthy person’s,” she added.“The tool is basically a self-learning system that is now trying to learn signatures of a Covid infection that shows up in voice, not just in cough,” Singh said, adding that more data it is fed, the more it understands the signatures.At the core of the tool is a computer programme patented by Singh and used extensively in voice profiling work by law enforcement in United States, according to a homeland security research agency.A similar effort has been launched by researchers at the University of Cambridge. The COVID-19 Sounds app, available as a Chrome or Firefox plugin for now, is at present building a crowdsourced data set.“Having spoken to doctors, one of the most common things they have noticed about patients with the virus is the way they catch their breath when they’re speaking, as well as a dry cough, and the intervals of their breathing patterns,” said professor Cecilia Mascolo from Cambridge’s department of computer science and technology in an article published by the university.A third such initiative is being carried out by Mumbai-based Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence. Launched on April 7, Wadhwani’s Cough Against Covid mobile application asks users to record the sound of their coughing and share an image of a test result if they are positive.For such efforts to work, the quality and the accuracy of data is crucial. “Such a system needs to be thoroughly vetted by the medical community and thoroughly tested. It must have near-zero false positives and zero false negatives. This is impossible to achieve in a short run, so our goal is tempered down to being able to return more conservative factoids from voice that may still be helpful to everyone,” Singh said.As the disease brings much of the planet to a halt, scientists and health experts have called for technology to play a bigger part in tackling the pandemic – which has grown too quickly for conventional containment tools to have an effect.Software giants such as Apple and Google are working on a mobile phone-based contact tracing tool, a technology that several nations – including India with the Aarogya Setu app – have already deployed on their own.Apart from AI and proximity-estimating tools meant to trace contacts, researchers are also looking at internet-of-things (IOT) devices such as smart thermometers. “A company called Kinsa comes up with heat maps of fever prevalence. Such tools can be useful in identifying large outbreaks that health authorities can respond to and direct testing and containment resources if need be,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of biostatistics at the University of Michigan.The efforts also present a challenge for privacy, since connected device data, personal audio recordings, location histories and health records need to be protected from profiteering and surveillance.India’s Aarogya Setu app has been criticised by privacy advocates for collecting too much data, the use of which is governed by privacy policies that, they say, lacks transparency and accountability. The developers and the government of India have rejected the concerns..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-voice-breathing-pattern-help-detect-covid-19-technology-explores/story-SiygaOmdRV6BU8Qhqg5XmO.html
16-04-2020||India||Watch: Maharashtra Police makes Covid-19 lockdown abusers perform yoga||Maharashtra Police on Thursday resorted to an unusual way to punish those who were caught violating Covid-19 lockdown measures in Bibvewadi area of Pune. The police personnel were seen making the violators perform yoga. The violators were seen on a morning walk on Thursday morning when the entire nation has been placed under a strict lockdown and citizens are urged not to step out of their homes unless very urgent. Maharashtra has seen more than 3,000 coronavirus cases till date. On Thursday, the number of active cases in the state rose to 2,916. Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 187 deaths so far while 295 patients have recovered.#WATCH Maharashtra: Police made people, who violated lockdown for a morning walk, perform yoga in Bibvewadi area of Pune, early morning today. #CoronavirusLockdown pic.twitter.com/m5ooX6ixaNThe Ministry of Health on Thursday updated the coronavirus tally in the country to 12,380, the figure includes 10,477 active cases, 1,488 people who have been cured or discharged and 414 deaths.The national capital has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with as many as 1,578 active Covid-19 cases. 32 people have died from the infection while 40 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data. Tamil Nadu has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1242. The state has seen 118 recoveries and 14 Covid-19 deaths.The 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown was extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14 keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The lockdown will come to end on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-maharashtra-police-makes-covid-19-lockdown-abusers-perform-yoga/story-e8MiJPUV1rf4Erw2vCIX6M.html
16-04-2020||India||Renewal date of health, motor insurance policies further extended to May 15||The Union ministry of finance on Thursday notified that the payments for the renewal of health and motor vehicle insurance policies, due during the lockdown period between March 25 and May 3, can be made on or before May 15.“With a view to mitigate hardship to policyholders whose health & motor (third party) insurance policies are due for renewal during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, the government has issued a notification allowing policyholders to make payments on or before May 15 towards the renewal of their policies,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s office tweeted on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe decision is taken to ensure continuity of policies and hassle-free claims payments to policyholders during the grace period, it said.“The policyholders whose motor vehicle third party insurance policies fall due for renewal during the period on and from March 25 to May 3 and who are unable to make payment of their renewal premium on time in view of the prevailing situation in the country as a result of Covid-19, are allowed to make such payment for renewal of policies to their insurers on or before the May 15 to ensure continuity of the statutory motor vehicle third party insurance cover from the date on which the policy falls due for renewal so that any valid claim triggered during the grace period can be paid,” said a notification issued by the department of financial services (DFS), an arm of the finance ministry.Click here for Covid-19 updatesA similar amendment has been made in the laws related to the renewal of health policies, it said. The decision has been taken in the public interest considering the prevailing situation in the country caused due to Covid-19 and consequent extension of lockdown period by further 19 days starting on and from April 15, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renewal-date-of-health-motor-insurance-policies-further-extended-to-may-15/story-A7v0VcVNBw6lOo47g9CpYK.html
16-04-2020||India||IAF chopper on Covid-19 duty makes precautionary landing on expressway||An Indian Air Force helicopter on Thursday made a precautionary landing on the Outer Ring Road after developing a technical snag, the IAF said in a statement.The Cheetah helicopter was on its way from Hindon to Chandigarh on a Covid-19 related task. “Approximately 3 nautical miles out of Hindon, the aircraft developed technical snag… The actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct. Recovery aircraft was launched immediately from Hindon. The aircraft was rectified and recovered back promptly and safely at Hindon,” the statement added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe air force is playing a key role in the fight against the pandemic ferrying medical and essential supplies to different parts of the country. It also evacuated Indians from China and Iran after the Covid-19 outbreak.The Cheetahs play a crucial role in supporting the soldiers on the Siachen glacier, one of the world’s highest battlefields, flying at more than 20,000 feet.The Kamov-226T light utility choppers, to be built jointly with Russia, are to replace Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. However, the $1-billion programme is yet to kick off and the military may have to wait several years for the new machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-on-covid-duty-makes-precautionary-landing-on-expressway/story-4Hb6Ff0g9ht84dOtofp4LI.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 6,50,000 kits dispatched from China for India, to arrive later today||A consignment of 5,50,000 antibody testing kits and 100,000 RNA extraction kits was dispatched by Chinese firms to India on Thursday morning for use in the country’s efforts to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19, people familiar with developments said.The consignment includes part of the large orders placed by India for medical supplies and equipment with Chinese firms, the people said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The external affairs ministry has been playing a key role in coordinating the government’s efforts to acquire vital medical supplies from other countries, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.ALSO WATCH | ‘1st consignment of COVID-19 kits from China to arrive in India on Apr 15’: ICMR “As part of these efforts, the first lot of 3,00,000 rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo and another 2,50,000 from Zhuhai Livzon and 1,00,000 RNA extraction kits from MGI Shenzhen were custom cleared late on Wednesday night,” said one of the people cited above.“The consignment left this (Thursday) morning for India,” the person said. “The total of 6,50,000 kits is on the way and should reach today (Thursday).”Also read: Two firms begin production of antibody rapid test kits in IndiaThe Indian embassy in Beijing and the consulate in Guangzhou played a key role in the despatch of the medical equipment.On Tuesday, India’s ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, had told reporters that facilitating India’s imports of Covid-19-related critical medical equipment and keeping the drug production supply chain open would be the “best” signal from China for bilateral ties.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits comprising gowns, gloves, masks and goggles, and 1.5 million rapid testing kits for Covid-19 by the Indian government and private companies, he said.India has asked China to speed up the export of a large quantity of quality-checked medical equipment such as protective clothing, ventilators and testing kits from Chinese companies. India is also in communication with China on keeping the supply line of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) open for manufacturing generic drugs, Misri added.In a separate development, India supplied half million hydroxychloroquine tablets and 12 tonnes of life-saving medicines to Mauritius late on Wednesday.Also read: Slow Covid-19 testing pipeline as big a worry as kit delayThis was the first consignment of Covid-19-related medical supplies provided by India to Mauritius. The country’s vice prime minister, Leela Devi Dookun-Luchoomun, received the consignment that was carried in a special Air India cargo flight.India has so far cleared supplies of hydroxychloroquine to 13 countries, either as humanitarian aid or as commercial sales. Several neighbouring countries are being provided the drug as part of humanitarian aid.Also read: Did coronavirus originate from China? Trump says US investigating||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-650-000-kits-dispatched-from-china-for-india-to-arrive-later-today/story-QB4JxKfZ5nLvND1xspFlJK.html
16-04-2020||India||Delhi, Maharashtra see dip in new patients, 2nd highest Covid-19 recoveries in Kerala||While the number of coronavirus cases breached the 12,000-mark on Thursday, reports showed signs of some respite for top Covid-19 affected regions like Delhi and Maharashtra.As per the health bulletin released by the government, Delhi reported only 17 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday - lowest figure for Delhi in April.Maharashtra, on the other hand, witnessed a drop of over 30% in the new cases on Wednesday when compared to Tuesday’s figures - this was the lowest rise for the state in the past 6 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 232 new Covid-19 cases as compared to Tuesday’s figure and exhibited a drop of more than 30%.Kerala, which was among the top coronavirus hotspots of the country, has managed to slow down its number of new cases and accelerate the number of recoveries.The state has the second-highest rate of coronavirus patient recovery with 218 patients beating the deadly contagion so far.However, it would be too early to say if such figures indicate the ‘flattening’ of the coronavirus curve in India. Other states like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan continue to witness a surge in new cases while states like Meghalaya, which previously had no cases of the disease, have also reported patients suffering from the virus.To flatten the Covid-19 curve, India needs to ensure that the virus does not spread any further and that a trend of drop in new cases is established all across along with a rise in the number of recoveries, especially in the coronavirus hotspots.The government on Wednesday released a list of 170 hotspot districts which include all major metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, and Hyderabad. Tamil Nadu tops the list with 22 districts in the hotspots while Rajasthan and Maharashtra are second on the list with 11 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-maharashtra-see-dip-in-new-patients-second-highest-cases-of-covid-19-recovery-in-kerala/story-ov5raIHdN4HyEfUGKnmCGM.html
16-04-2020||India||25 fresh Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan take state tally to 1,101||With 25 more Covid-19 cases reported from Rajasthan, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state have risen to 1101, informed the state Health Department on Thursday.“25 new coronavirus positive cases have been reported in Rajasthan today so far, 1 in Ajmer, 1 in Bikaner, 2 in Jhunjhunu, 10 in Jodhpur and 11 in Tonk. The total number of positive cases in the state has risen to 1101,” said the Health Department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs per the latest information by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India’s coronavirus tally crossed the 12,000 mark with the number reaching 12,380 cases on Thursday.941 Covid-19 cases were reported in the country in the last 24 hours.Out of the total tally, 10,477 patients are active cases while 1,489 patients have been cured, discharged and migrated.With 37 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll has risen to 414.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-take-state-tally-to-1-101/story-oSpMHcXTOuKwa5I8tbgPrI.html
16-04-2020||India||Villagers attack police, medical team sent to spread Covid-19 awareness in Bihar’s East Champaran||Locals of a village in Harsidhi blocked and attacked a medical and police team who went there to spread awareness on coronavirus and urge villagers to follow lockdown guidelines and social distancing.According to SDO Dhirendra Mishra, security personnel and a health manager were injured in the attack.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We had received complaints that people were not practising social distancing and not following the lockdown guidelines in the village. Due to this, a police team along with the medical team went there to make them aware of the infection and the dangers it posed. However, the situation turned heated,” Mishra told reporters here.“However, the administration team showed restraint and came out of there, meanwhile, a health manager and a bodyguard along with some other security personnel received injuries in the incident. We are keeping an eye on the situation,” he added.Bihar, so far, has 70 confirmed cases of Covid-19, including one death, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-attack-police-medical-team-sent-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19-in-east-champaran/story-2jAzOYY6GjDtQUcnnGC7JM.html
16-04-2020||India||All Delhi districts in 170 Covid-19 hotspots, Tamil Nadu tops the list||After extending the nationwide lockdown, the Union health ministry on Wednesday released a list of 170 hotspot districts.All the major metros including Delhi, Mumbai, Bengalauru, Chennai, Kolkata, and Hyderabad are part of the list of hotspots notified by the ministry. Tamil Nadu tops the list with 22 districts in the hotspots while Rajasthan and Maharashtra are second on the list with 11 each.These districts were classified as hotspots or red zone after a letter from India’s health secretary Preeti Sudan. It adds that 123 of these districts have seen large outbreaks of Covid-19 infections and 47, clusters . The letter, a copy of which has been seen by HT, also lists 207 more districts where there are “clusters” of infections. All other districts are in the “green zone”.Here is the list of hostpots identified by the government:Delhi: All nine districts, namely South, South West, Shahdara, South East, West, North, Central, East and New DelhiAndhra Pradesh: Kurnool, Guntur, Spsr Nellore, Prakasam, Krishna, YSR, West Godavari, Chittoor, Vishakhapatnam, East Godavari, AnantapurBihar: SiwanEntire ChandigarhChhattisgarh: KorbaGujarat: Ahmedabad, Surat, Bhavnagar, Vadodara, RajkotHaryana: Nuh, Gurugram, Palwal, FaridabadJammu and Kashmir: Srinagar, Bandipora, Baramulla, Jammu, Udhampur, KupwaraKarnataka: Bengaluru urban, Mysore, BelagaviKerala: Kasaragod, Kannur, Ernakulam, Mallapuram, Thiruvananthapuram, PathanamthittaMadhya Pradesh: Indore, Bhopal, Khargone, Ujjain, HoshangabadMaharashtra: Mumbai, Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Thane, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Buldhana, Mumbai suburban, Ahmednagar, YavatmalOdisha: KhordhaPunjab: SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot, Shaheed Bhagat Singh NagarRajasthan: Jaipur, Jodhpur, Tonk, Jaisalmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Kota, Banswara, Jhalawar, JhunjhunuTamil Nadu: Madurai, Tuticorin, Chennai, Salem, Cuddalore, Coimbatore, Erode, Vellore, Tiruchirapalli, Tirunelveli, Dindigul, Villupuram, Tirupur, Theni, Namakkal, Chengalpattu, Karur, Viruhnagar, Kanyakumari, Thiruvarur, NagapattinamTelangana: Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Warangal Urban, Ranga Reddy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Medhchal Malkagiri, Karimnagar, NirmalUttar Pradesh: Noida, Lucknow, Shamli, Firozabad, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Meerut, AgraUttarakhand: DehradunWest Bengal: Kolkata, Howrah, Medinipur East, 24 Parganas North||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-delhi-districts-in-170-covid-19-hostpots-tamil-nadu-tops-the-list/story-cmcbp6pvnoKE5mHiYCjPJN.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 2.0: Health, motor insurance policy renewal extended till May 15||In the wake of the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that policyholders can now renew their health and motor insurance policies till May 15.Sitharaman took to Twitter on Thursday morning and posted that the move is aimed to mitigate the hardships of policyholders “whose health & motor (third party) insurance policies are due for renewal during COVID-19 lockdown”.With a view to mitigate hardship to policyholders whose health & motor (third party) insurance policies are due for renewal during COVID-19 lockdown, Govt. has issued notification allowing policyholders to make payments on or before 15.05.2020 towards renewal of their policies. pic.twitter.com/KauhDvovhf“Govt. has issued notification allowing policyholders to make payments on or before 15.05.2020 towards renewal of their policies,” her tweet read. The extension is for the insurance policies that are due between March 25 and May 3.Sitharaman said that the move is to “ensure their continuity and hassle-free claims payment during the above grace period”.This comes a day after the government issued a revised list of guidelines that are to be followed during the extended phase of the coronavirus lockdown.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Apri 14 extended the 21-day coronavirus lockdown till May 15. On Thursday, as per the data released by the Ministry of Health, India reported over 12,000 cases of Covid-19. India has as many as 12,380 Covid-19 cases which include 10,477 active cases, 1,488 cured or discharged patients and 414 deaths, the Union Health Ministry said in the figures released this morning on its website.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases. With 2,916 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 187 deaths so far while 295 patients have recovered.Delhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,578 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-0-health-and-motor-insurance-policy-renewal-extended-till-may-15-by-govt/story-uCPUbGfKjQH4YS2ykhMidO.html
16-04-2020||India||Whole country fighting under leadership of PM Narendra Modi: Yogi Adityanath||New Delhi: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath says his government is battle-ready to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. In an email interview to HT, he spoke about how his government is working to ensure food for the people amid the nationwide lockdown, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak and has since been extended till May 3, and drafting policies for hassle-free transportation of essential commodities. Edited excerpts from the interview:Q: Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state. How many tests per million have been conducted till now? What other measures are being taken to assess the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and its containment?A: The entire country is fighting against Covid-19 us under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is a battle to save humanity. The state government is working as per his guidance and the central government’s guidelines. Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state in the country, and it is a big challenge for us to prevent the spread of Covid-19 here. We started working to prevent the outbreak soon after its alarm was sounded. In the last one month, where only 200 tests could have been performed in one laboratory, now 14 testing labs are functional and 2,500 tests are being done. Uttar Pradesh is also the first state in the country where Covid-19 pool testing has started. In pool testing, 8, 16 or 32 samples are being tested at a time. We have also identified and sealed hotspots in every district to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We have allowed only people associated with three essential services to enter these sealed areas -- the medical team, those related to sanitisation of houses and doorstep delivery.Q: UP has a large population of migrant workers, a sizeable percentage of whom, are back in the state. There are concerns that many of them may not be able to or may not even want to go back to their jobs when the lockdown restrictions are lifted. How will the state take care of thousands of unemployed people?A: Our government is serious about this issue. During the lockdown and after it is lifted, the state government will try to accelerate the infrastructure and labour-oriented projects that will provide maximum employment in a short time. We will also bring in more labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). Besides, the state government is also working on other schemes. We have constituted 11 committees under the chairmanship of ministers to draft a policy towards strengthening the state’s economy after the lockdown is lifted and to further extend the employment activities.Q: The pandemic has dealt a blow to the global economy. How will the lockdown, now extended till May 3, impact the state’s economy? How will the state emerge from the blow? A: The state government is working on a long-term strategy to give momentum to the economy. Our government has taken many important decisions in the cabinet meeting regarding this. State government policies are being formulated in keeping with the PM’s message of ‘Jaan Bhi-Jahan Bhi’. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya is heading the committee constituted to restart construction work on major projects of expressways, highways, public works department (PWD), and other departments. The committee, headed by Finance minister Suresh Khanna, will offer recommendations about which services should be carried forward to maintain the revenue receipts in the state. This committee will also recommend measures for the industrial sector and begin work in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Another committee, headed by Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya, will give recommendations to protect the interests of workers. We have also started work to ensure that farmers do not face any problem in harvesting, availability of seeds and purchase of their crops. We have started purchasing crops at the minimum support price (MSP) from April 15. Farmer producer organisations are being encouraged to buy crops from the farmer’s home or fields. In order to facilitate the harvesting of Rabi crop, our government has given an exemption to labourers or farmers while observing social distancing and has issued passes so that harvesters could reach their fields. We have opened seed and fertiliser shops for the sowing of crops.Q: Are there any specific sectors for which you need the central government’s assistance? Many states have indicated that they will need an impetus to help increase their incomes, GST compensation and increase in borrowing capacity?A. The relief package announced by PM Modi has provided great relief to Uttar Pradesh. Whatever further steps need to be taken will depend on the recommendations of the 11 committees. We are getting continuous support from the Centre. Our government will consider all issues related to increasing income, GST compensation and borrowing capacity after the suggestions of constituted committees.Q The government has eased restrictions to some sectors and road construction activities in areas that are not Covid-19 hotspots. Now, the PM has said there will be strict monitoring till April 20. Is UP in a position to resume work in any of its districts?A: According to the guidelines issued by the central government, the work of industries and road construction can be restarted. The committee, headed by Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, will study the guidelines of the central government and submit its report accordingly after reviewing every aspect.Q: There were many complaints of police action in the state against people during the lockdown? Has any direction been given to the police?A. Uttar Pradesh Police is doing a commendable job during the lockdown. In this hour of crisis, people have come to see the humane face of the police. I conduct daily meetings with the officers and I have directed that no wrong step of any kind is taken anywhere. If during the lockdown, a person gets involved in any prohibited activity, then the police will definitely take action. In the Tablighi Jamaat case, the police had come forward and demanded their cooperation. But in many places, they had to face resistance, because of which they had to take action. In some places, the Jamaat members went into hiding and were later captured and kept in quarantine. This has been done to stop community transmission. On behalf of the government, the police have instructions to get the suspected cases admitted to a hospital and put them under quarantine.Q: The Centre has allowed wholesale markets to function and allowed the transportation of essential goods, yet there are difficulties in the food supply chain. In western UP, sugarcane farmers were gearing for sowing. What steps are being taken to ensure there are no disruptions?A: There is no shortage of foodgrains in the country and in the state. There is no problem with any kind of food supply in the state. We have enough rations available and have distributed fruits and vegetables through 13,977 mobile vans, e-rickshaws, tractors, and 29,100 carts to date. More than 20,000 people are distributing milk. Necessary items were distributed through 21,256 grocery stores in the state, using the help of 49,399 home delivery providers. We have fixed the responsibility of the District Supply Officer, who has to ensure everyone gets a ration. People’s ration cards have been made and they are given Rs 1,000 as immediate relief. We have allowed farmers and workers to go to the field for sugarcane harvesting and to bring sugarcane to the centres and mill gates. Permission has been given to open seed and fertiliser shops. I can assure you that not a single farmer in Uttar Pradesh will face any problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whole-country-fighting-under-leadership-of-pm-narendra-modi-yogi-adityanath/story-UZDVLCEgXPpcWuNOw6MV1L.html
16-04-2020||India||Cases near 3500 in Maharashtra; over 1000 patients in Rajasthan, TN: Covid-19 state tally||The Ministry of Health on Thursday updated the coronavirus tally in the country to 12,380, the figure includes 10,477 active cases, 1,488 people who have been cured or discharged and 414 deaths.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases neared 3,500 while in the national capital the cases rose to 1,650.Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients.MaharashtraWith 2,916 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 187 deaths so far while 295 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,578 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 32 people have died from the infection while 40 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1242. Tamil Nadu has seen 118 recoveries and 14 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1023 on Thursday. The state has reported three fatalities, and 147 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 987 positive cases of coronavirus. 53 people have died from Covid-19 here while 64 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh735 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 51 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 11 have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 766 coronavirus cases and 64 recoveries so far. 33 people have died from the infection in the state.Telangana647 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 120 people have made a recovery from the virus while 18 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 525 positive Covid-19 patients and 20 cases of recovery. 14 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 388 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 218 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 279 Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths. 80 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 300. Four people have died from the infection while 36 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 205 and 186 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 13 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 43 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 27 in Punjab.231 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been seven deaths and 42 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 60 Covid-19 positive patients, 18 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 70 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 29 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 33 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 37 coronavirus patients, 9 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and seven have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 33 cases of coronavirus and 17 people have recovered.Ladakh has 17 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 35 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 28 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported seven cases and one death. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and MizoramSikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. The Prime Minister said that though India took timely steps to control the spread of novel coronavirus, there is an urgent need to scale up efforts to ensure no new hotspots emerge.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-near-3500-in-maharashtra-rajasthan-tamil-nadu-delhi-see-over-1000-patients-covid-19-state-tally/story-SM53XLXmfIl7sra9MXixiN.html
16-04-2020||India||WHO chief hails India’s step to engage in polio surveillance network to fight Covid-19||WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday appreciated India’s collaboration with the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the systematic engagement of polio surveillance network across the country to fight against coronavirus.In a series of tweets, Ghebreyesus said, “Great news: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and World Health Organisation-South-East Asia initiated a systematic engagement of the WHO’s national polio surveillance network, and other field staff, for India’s Covid-19 response, tapping into the best practices and resources that helped India win its war against polio.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe WHO chief thanked India’s Health Minister Harsh Vardhan for his leadership and engagement with the UN body to fight the global crisis. “My thanks to Minister @drharshvardhan for his leadership and collaboration with @WHO. Through these joint efforts, we can defeat the #coronavirus and save lives. Together! #COVID19,” he tweeted.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the WHO have initiated a systematic engagement of WHO’s national polio surveillance network and other field staff, for Covid-19 response, WHO said in a statement.“Time and again, the Government of India and WHO together have shown our ability, competence and prowess to the whole world. With our combined meticulous work, done with full sincerity and dedication, we were able to get rid of polio,” said Harsh Vardhan in the statement.“Today, I would like to remind you of your potential and ability and the big things we can do together. All of you in the field - IDSP, state rapid response teams and WHO - are our ‘surveillance corona warriors’. With your joint efforts we can defeat the coronavirus and save lives,” he added.The minister, along with Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, was addressing WHO and other field staff, simultaneously connected from over 1 000 sites all over the country - from capital cities to the remotest corners.The entire world is struggling hard to fight the coronavirus which has claimed over 1.3 lakh lives.India’s tally of coronavirus cases has gone up to 11,933, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.Out of the total tally, 10,197 cases are active while 1,344 patients have been cured/discharged and migrated and 392 people have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-chief-hails-india-s-step-to-engage-in-polio-surveillance-network-to-fight-covid-19/story-oirfCGEXS9LqzImLUV4dLO.html
16-04-2020||India||Tripura security personnel allegedly forces man do squats for breaking lockdown, suspended||A Tripura State Rifles (TSR) jawan was suspended on Wednesday allegedly for making a scooterist squat holding his ears apparently as a punishment for violating the lockdown norms on the Bengali New Year’s day, officials said.The incident occurred at Udaipur in Gomati district, about 60 km from here, while the youth was returning from market on Tuesday.A purported video of the incident that has gone viral showed two TSR jawans stopping him and one of them asking him to squat holding his ears. The youth held his ears but hesitated to squat when the jawan started beating him up with a baton.Finally, he gave in and obeyed his order. A middle- aged woman who was standing beside the scooter was seen requesting the man in uniform with folded hands to forgive him. The other jawan then came forward and allowed the man to leave.Tripura Police Cyber Crime Cell on their official Facebook page said the erring jawan was suspended pending enquiry.“Some social media platforms are showing the beatings by one TSR jawan in Udaipur, Gomati district. It is to inform you all that the TSR jawan has been suspended pending enquiry.Tripura Police does not subscribe to the idea of use of excessive force,” the cyber crime cell said in the post.TSR is a paramilitary force of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-security-personnel-allegedly-forces-man-do-squats-for-breaking-lockdown-suspended/story-C3FsVJhlkLSzKxm3qRF3BK.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai Covid-19 infections near 2,000, 5 new cases in Dharavi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai Covid-19 infections near 2,000, 5 new cases in DharaviThe number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai nudged 2,000 on Wednesday with the city’s civic body saying the growing numbers are a result of extensive testing even as the risk of infection in the crowded slum of Dharavi worried authorities. Read more First for Assam: Two Covid-19 patients recover; discharged from hospitalThe two patients, both with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, were released from the Sonapur district hospital on the outskirts of Guwahati on Wednesday evening. Read more SDM shifted after wife seen learning driving in his official vehicleA sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), engaged in administrative work to check spread of coronavirus, was shifted from field posting on Wednesday after his wife was found learning driving in official vehicle of her husband on Tuesday. Read more Evidence of virus’ effect on US economy grows more ominousEvidence of the coronavirus’ devastating impact on the US economy has been steadily emerging, and the signs have grown ominous. Sales at stores and restaurants plunged in March by the largest amount on records dating back to 1992. Read more Salman Khan angry at lockdown violators in new video: ‘If you don’t go out with friends, police wouldn’t hit your behinds’Salman Khan has shared a long video on his life under lockdown. The actor also schooled those who are venturing out of their houses, putting their families at risk of the novel coronavirus. Read more IPL postponed, franchises toldThe BCCI has suspended this year’s IPL till further notice. “After the government extended the lockdown (till May 3), it has been decided that the IPL shall remain suspended till further notice,” a top BCCI official said on Wednesday. Read moreMaskaba: Fashion designer Masaba Gupta manufactures face masks to battle coronavirusOn Wednesday, Mumbai-based fashion designer and actor Neena Gupta’s daughter, Masaba Gupta announced that she will be contributing to India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic by producing non-surgical face masks at a production facility. Read moreApple iPhone SE 2nd gen: Top things to know about the new iPhoneApple on Wednesday announced the launch of iPhone SE 2nd gen. The successor to 2016 iPhone SE model, Apple’s new phone comes with a combination of old and new features. Read more Even Tulsi has refused visitors to her home: This message from BMC has Smriti Irani’s nodWho can forget the iconic Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi title track. Even the slightest mention of it conjures an instant image in our minds of Tulsi opening the doors to her house and welcoming you in. Read more Watch: WHO chief reacts to Donald Trump’s decision to halt funding amid Covid war||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-covid-19-infections-near-2-000-5-new-cases-in-dharavi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-E2IuR1DEa90B6k40TtICQK.html
16-04-2020||India||Kerala man forced to walk with ailing father in arms after police stop auto||A man in Kerala had to carry his ailing father for around a kilometre after the auto-rickshaw carrying them was allegedly stopped by the local police citing guidelines issues in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown. The person was seen carrying his 65-year-old ailing father in his arms. The incident took place in Kerala’s Punalur area on Wednesday. The man was taking his father back from the hospital in an auto when the police allegedly stopped their auto due to Covid-19 guidelines even after being shown the hospital documents, news agency ANI reported.The ailing man is a native of Kulathupuzha and was admitted to the Punalur Taluk Hospital. He was discharged on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Kerala State Human Rights Commission has taken cognizance of the incident and has registered a suo moto case in connection with the incident, ANI reported.#WATCH Kerala: A person carried his 65-year-old ailing father in Punalur & walked close to one-kilometre after the autorickshaw he brought to take his father back from the hospital was allegedly stopped by Police, due to #CoronavirusLockdown guidelines. (15.4) pic.twitter.com/I03claE1XOOn Thursday, as per the data released by the ministry of health, Kerala reported a total of 608 coronavirus cases including 388 active cases, 218 people have recovered from the disease and 3 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 12,000-mark on Thursday. The figure includes 10,477 active cases, 1,488 cured/discharged/migrated and 414 deaths, the Union Health Ministry stated.India on Thursday entered the second day of the extended coronavirus lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The lockdown will come to an end on May. On Wednesday, the government released a revised list of guidelines that is to be followed during the lockdown. Worldwide, cases of coronavirus have crossed 2 million while more than 1 lakh people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-kerala-man-forced-to-walk-with-ailing-father-in-arms-after-police-stops-their-auto/story-S0bEECqz5EiwMJKrXrSAWJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases breach 12,000-mark in India, death toll at 414||The number of Covid-19 positive cases in India breached the 12,000-mark on Thursday morning, and the number of deaths reached 414.The figure of 12,380 includes 10,477 active cases, 1,488 cured/discharged/migrated and 414 deaths, the Union Health Ministry said in the figures released at 8 am on its website.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest number of infections at 2,916. The death toll in the state reached 187.Delhi has the second highest number of infections at 1,578, according to health ministry.India carried out close to 27,000 Covid-19 tests on Wednesday and added 22 new labs in the last two days, ramping up efforts to speed up a process that is crucial to determine the extent of the outbreak but has suffered from long delays due to several bottlenecks.The 26,351 samples processed on Wednesday, according to data released by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), represents a five-fold increase over the roughly 5,000 a day number at the beginning of the month. The total number of labs, including private ones, is now at 258.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-breach-12-000-mark-death-toll-at-414/story-wynAf7EZ4rqh0uWMtmHZPN.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Maybe once in 1000 years’: ICMR on Covid-19 transmission from bats to humans||The incident of humans contracting coronavirus from bats is an extremely rare event, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, adding that a Chinese research showed that the Sars-CoV-2 virus which has causes Covid-19 in humans is in a mutated form.“Coronavirus is found in bats. We have come to know from the research in China so far that the virus which has affected humans either may have been because the bat virus developed such mutations that it developed the capacity to cause disease in humans or it got transmitted to pangolins from bats first and then to human beings. This question is being asked because we started a survey on emerging infectious diseases and to see if those viruses can be found in bats. We found the presence of coronavirus in two bat species but they are not capable of affecting human beings adversely,” senior ICMR scientist R Gangakhedkar said on Wednesday.“The instances of transmission of virus from bats to humans can happen may be once in around 1000 years or so. It is a rare event,” he said.Gangakhedkar, who heads the Head of Epidemiological and Communicable Diseases department at ICMR, said that a recent study by the medical body has found the presence of coronavirus in two Indian bat species, but those are incapable of affecting humans adversely.These bat coronaviruses have no relation with Sars-CoV-2 responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.The Union Health Ministry, meanwhile, declared 170 districts in 25 states as Covid-19 hotspots on Wednesday and 207 districts in 27 states as non-hotspots, reiterating that there has been no community transmission of the disease in the country so far.Addressing the daily briefing to provide updates on coronavirus situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said that states have been asked to classify districts witnessing higher number of cases as hotspots, districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots, and those which have reported no cases as green zones.Hotspots are those districts which are reporting more number of cases or where the rate of growth of Covid-19 cases is high, Agarwal said, adding a detailed direction has been issued to states stating consolidated efforts are required to utilise this period of lockdown to curb the spread of the virus.In order to break the chain of transmission, focus needs to be on contact tracing, monitoring and clinical management. States have been asked to uniformly implement the containment plan in every district across the country, Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maybe-once-in-1000-years-icmr-on-covid-19-transmission-from-bats-to-humans/story-YqtqjDOK88gFRZejNbfeQO.html
16-04-2020||India||India’s lockdown 2.0 guidelines, China’s growth woes: Covid-19 news today||India on Wednesday conditionally allowed industries in rural areas and economic enclaves to reopen next week, green-lighted work under the federal job guarantee scheme, and permitted daily wagers in some areas to return to work, as it sought to get the economic engine chugging again and lessen the pain of millions affected by the ongoing lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. In neighbouring China, the coronavirus disease is likely to have taken a huge to on the economy, according to an AFP poll of economists. The world’s second-largest economy contracted for the first time in around three decades in the first quarter as the pandemic brought China to a standstill, according to the survey.Here is a preview of the top Covid-19 news today from India and the world.Govt lists curbs to be eased on April 20The Union government on Wednesday conditionally allowed industries in rural areas and economic enclaves to reopen next week, green-lighted work under the federal job guarantee scheme, and permitted daily wagers in some areas to return to work. Read more Slow testing pipeline as big a worry as kit delayThe 26,351 samples processed on Wednesday, according to data released by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), represents a fivefold increase over the roughly 5,000 a day number at the beginning of the month. The total number of labs, including private ones, is now at 258. Read more Trump halts WHO’s funding; not the best time, says world bodyUS President Donald Trump has announced he will halt funding for the WHO for “severely mismanaging” the Covid-19 crisis, prompting the Indian government to say on Wednesday the world community’s focus should remain on the pandemic. Read more Covid-19 outbreak: It took the world 13 days to get its second millionWhile the first million infections took 93 days, the second took place in 13 days, driven largely by the United States and Europe. In all, about 130,802 people have succumbed to the infection, according to data tracked by worldometers.info. Read more Opening Covid-free areas may have limited economic impactAs the government prepares for the second phase of the lockdown, it has announced that states will lift restrictions on individual districts and cities based on their protection from, and exposure to Covid-19. This will help restart economic activities and provide some relief to livelihoods. Read more Whole country fighting under leadership of PM Narendra Modi: Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath told Hindustan Times in an interview about steps taken to control the Covid-19 spread, lockdown measures, and the concerns of migrants. Read more With lockdown extended, anxiety grips stranded migrant workersWorkers in several states, such as Punjab, Telangana, Haryana and Odisha, said they would start walking back home shortly as the ration they have received is about to be exhausted and they do not have any money left. Read more Two firms begin production of antibody rapid test kits in IndiaTwo of the three Indian manufacturers of antibody-based Rapid Test Kits (RTKs) for Covid-19 have begun production after the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the national regulatory body for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, issued manufacturing licenses. Read more 170 districts in ‘red zone’, govt also lists 207 areas with Covid-19 clustersA letter from India’s health secretary Preeti Sudan to the chief secretaries of states lists 170 districts classified as hot spots, or in the “red zone” . It adds that 123 of these districts have seen large outbreaks of Covid-19 infections and 47, clusters . Read more Lockdowns work better for rich nations: StudyA hard lockdown may benefit developed countries more than developing and low-income countries, a new study has suggested, indicating that policymakers need to keep in mind the human and economic costs of sweeping restrictions in place to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more Could virus have silently infected far more than reported, asks studyThe projection, by researchers from the Imperial College London, underscores how the disease multiplies silently among populations, complicating efforts to cut off its spread especially at a time when authorities need a clear picture to be able to relax lockdowns. Read more Scientists divided over strain mutation: ‘Need more evidence’A mutation in the coronavirus strain isolated in India has the potential to jeopardise global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19, which has infected 2 million people and killed at least 126,000 in four months, according to a preliminary analysis of 106 Sars-CoV-2 and 39 SARS genome sequences. Read more Covid drags exports by a record 34.6%India’s merchandise exports slumped by a record 34.6% in March while imports declined 28.7% as countries sealed their borders to combat the covid-19 outbreak. In February, merchandise exports had rebounded 2.9% after falling for six months in a row. Read more China’s economy shrinks for the first time in decades: SurveyChina’s economy contracted for the first time in around three decades in the first quarter as the coronavirus crisis brought the country to a standstill, according to an AFP poll of economists. Read more IPL postponed, franchises toldThe BCCI has suspended this year’s IPL till further notice. “After the government extended the lockdown (till May 3), it has been decided that the IPL shall remain suspended till further notice,” a top BCCI official said on Wednesday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-lockdown-2-0-guidelines-china-s-growth-woes-covid-19-news-today/story-qtugldAzVUsSETud1CzzUO.html
16-04-2020||India||Delhi HC grants bail to man who allegedly assaulted women doctors, accused them for spreading Covid-19||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to Sanjeev Sharma, an interior designer, who was arrested by the city police for allegedly assaulting two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital after accusing them of spreading Covid-19 in Gautam Nagar area on April 8.Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar granted bail to Sharma on a personal bond of Rs 20,000 after the police had arrested him on a complaint by a 29-year-old junior resident doctor at Safdarjung Hospital who had alleged that Sharma started speaking about social distancing and remarked that doctors like them were spreading infection in residential areas while she had gone to the market on April 8.According to the complaint, she then told Sharma that she knew the importance of social distancing and tried to reason out with him but he got abusive and aggressive and threatened that he would get a case registered against them. It also said that Sharma even assaulted them and touched them inappropriately when they were about to leave the spot.Sharma was granted bail by the Metropolitan Magistrate on April 9, however, it was cancelled on the same day by the Additional Sessions Judge looking into the seriousness of the allegations. Aggrieved, he moved to the Delhi High Court seeking release from the jail.Appearing for him, his counsel contended that his client had been falsely implicated and he had only protested against the complainant and her sister for not maintaining the social distancing. He said that both the ladies became aggressive and told that they were doctors and knew the meaning of social distancing.However, the court said that Sharma being an educated man should have been respectful to the doctors rather than abusing and threatening them.“The country is passing through a very difficult phase and the doctors are rendering service to the nation. The petitioner being an educated man, as stated by the counsel for the petitioner that he is an interior designer by profession, should have been respectful to the doctors rather than abusing and threatening them,” the court said.It also stated that No useful purpose would be served by keeping him in judicial custody and overcrowding Tihar Jail.“Therefore, in view of the above facts and circumstances, the petitioner is admitted to bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs 20,000 with one surety of the like amount subject to the satisfaction of the concerned MM/Duty MM,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-man-who-allegedly-assaulted-women-doctors-accused-them-for-spreading-covid-19/story-MLylyiBNg0GQPdnYGkyujK.html
16-04-2020||India||Lockdown will continue and decision will be taken on April 21 after review: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, the lockdown in the state will continue and a decision will be taken on April 21 based on the review of the government.The CM said that the districts where the coronavirus pandemic is under control, lockdown relaxations protocol will be extended after a review.In his video message to the people of the state, Baghel said now the need is to strictly implement the lockdown, wear masks, wash hands regularly and maintain physical distance.“This is testing time… But with the cooperation of the people, it can be contained” he said.Baghel further said that the state government has taken a pledge that no one in the time of this crisis sleeps hungry for that, free ration is being distributed in advance for two months.The migrant labourers, even from other states, are also being taken care of, he said.Soon, testing for Covid-19 will start at the Raipur medical college in addition to the ones at AIIMS, Raipur and Jagdalpur, which will further enhance testing capacity, he said.Till now, a total of 33 positive cases have been reported in the state and of them, 13 have been discharged after being recovered from the infection.Baghel further said that non-government and civil societies are doing a commendable job but they should work in coordination with the district administration.Meanwhile, Raipur collector and district magistrate Dr S Bharatidasan on Wednesday issued an order for a complete lockdown in the entire district from April 16, 5.00 pm to April 19, 5.00 pm, except for the emergency services.During the period, only medical shops, milk booths, petrol pumps, LPG gas outlets and online home delivery services will remain open, the order said.Vegetable markets and shops will remain closed, the collector said in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-will-continue-and-decision-will-be-taken-on-april-21-after-review-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel/story-uAY7MkgoKRkMwcT2ijfo7L.html
16-04-2020||India||First for Assam: Two Covid-19 patients recover; discharged from hospital||Two Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease in Assam on Wednesday - the first for the state - after their samples were found negative in repeated tests.The two patients, both with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, were released from the Sonapur district hospital on the outskirts of Guwahati on Wednesday evening.“Both the patients were tested twice, once on April 13 and again the next day and all the results came negative for Covid-19. Chest X-ray and doctor reports also say they have no symptoms now,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.Assam has 32 Covid-19 positive cases as on Wednesday. While 29 are recovering in various hospitals, two have been discharged and one has died.As per World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, patients will be under home quarantine for another 14 days after they test negative. In Assam, the government has arranged a guest house in Jagiroad where the two patients will spend the next two weeks.They will be allowed to meet their family members and will be able to lead normal lives for the next 14 days, said Sarma.“We hope that on Thursday we will be able to release three more patients in Goalpara district. Within April 20 we hope release most of the patients from hospitals,” Sarma said.In Assam, Golaghat district has reported the highest Covid-19 cases (nine), followed by four each from Goalpara, Nalbari Morigaon and Dhubri, two from Silchar, one each from Hailakandi, Kamrup (M), Kamrup, Lakhimpur and South Salmara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-for-assam-two-covid-19-patients-recover-discharged-from-hospital/story-ws0OUsG3KNElQjsFPdLJfJ.html
16-04-2020||India||‘Stop adding religious colour’: India slams US body for remarks on ‘misguided’ report||India on Wednesday came down hard on the US Commission on International Religious Freedom for its criticism of the country based on a “misguided” report that Covid-19 patients in a hospital in Ahmedabad were segregated on the basis of their religious identities.The US Commission expressed concerns over the way India is fighting the coronavirus pandemic following a media report that a government-run hospital in Ahmedabad segregated the infected patients on the basis of their religions.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “As if its peremptory commentary on religious freedom in India is not enough, the USCIRF is now spreading misguided reports on the professional medical protocols followed to deal with spread of Covid-19 in India,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.He said no segregation of patients is being done in the civil hospital on the basis of religion as clarified by the Gujarat government.Srivastava said the USCIRF “must stop adding religious colour to our national goal of fighting the pandemic and distract from larger efforts”.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayEarlier in a tweet, the Commission said it was concerned over the reports of Hindu and Muslim patients being separated in the hospital.“Such actions only help to further increase ongoing stigmatization of Muslims in #India and exacerbate false rumors of Muslims spreading #COVID19,” it said. The USCIRF had earlier criticised India on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Also read| Covid-19 outbreak: It took the world 13 days to get its second millionClick here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-stop-adding-religious-colour-india-slams-us-body-for-remarks-on-misguided-report/story-4idYpkzwrhlWSuGfh1VC5L.html
16-04-2020||India||SDM shifted after wife seen learning driving in his official vehicle||A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), engaged in administrative work to check spread of coronavirus, was shifted from field posting on Wednesday after his wife was found learning driving in official vehicle of her husband on Tuesday. He was posted in Silvani area of Bhopal’s neighbouring Raisen district.On Tuesday, a video went viral on social media in which a man is seen questioning SDM’s wife as to in what capacity she was driving the official vehicle. The man also asked the woman if she had a driving licence. The woman denied that she was driving the vehicle and was heard saying since her vehicle had developed some snag she had to take a lift.She said her driving licence was at home and refused to tell the man about her credentials.On Wednesday, Raisen district collector Umashankar Bhargava issued an order shifting the SDM from the district collectorate and appointing a new SDM LK Khare in his place.The order didn’t mention any reason behind the transfer. However, it read, “This order is to be enforced with immediate effect.”Bhargava couldn’t be reached for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sdm-shifted-after-wife-seen-learning-driving-in-his-official-vehicle/story-eBjuyNwS4GaRw1VKGn2rXN.html
16-04-2020||India||2 relatives of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad test positive for Covid-19||Two relatives of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district, an official said on Wednesday.After the two relatives of Kandhalvi tested positive for Covid-19, the district administration sealed Mufti locality in Mandi area here, Saharanpur DM Akhilesh Singh told PTI. He said eight other people from the area were placed under quarantine. The two persons who tested positive are Kandhalvi’s in-laws and they had stayed at the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, the district magistrate said.They had recently returned from South Africa and quarantined along with two other persons, Singh said.The authorities are now trying to find those people who came in contact with the two relatives of the Tablighi Jamaat’s leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-relatives-of-tablighi-jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-ynTZ1aFrEX8jfkvj0ENFqJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Monsoon forecast brings relief to farmers, industry||The prediction of a normal June-to-September monsoon by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has brought relief to farmers, industry, and the government alike as it will likely lessen the strain on the economy from widespread disruptions caused by the covid-19 pandemic, experts said on Wednesday.The monsoon rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and half the population depends on agriculture for a livelihood.With good rains, spending by rural consumers on manufactured items such as television sets and gold jewellery goes up, and boosts factory output. A deficient monsoon cuts rural consumption and also drives up inflation. A normal monsoon is key for robust agricultural output growth, which the government targets at around 4%.“Deficit rain could have toughened the fight against the covid-19 pandemic because not only does it necessitate costly drought-fighting measures, but poor rains also directly impact rural farm-derived incomes,” said economist R Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Prediction of a normal monsoon rainfall is good news and offers a ray of hope of keeping farm incomes going amid such times, he added.The monsoon is said to be normal if rains are between 96% and 104% of the country’s long-term summer rainfall average of 88 cm. This year, the rains are predicted to be 100% of this average. Farmers await the arrival of monsoon on June 1 to begin kharif sowing of a range of crops such as rice, lentils, gram, soybean, cotton, tea, coarse cereals, fruits and vegetables. A good monsoon results in robust farm output and eases inflationary pressures. A poor one could increase pressure on rural incomes and the make-work rural jobs under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-forecast-brings-relief-to-farmers-industry/story-wGvTDA8cUV5DasWIKM5fnK.html
16-04-2020||India||Scientists divided over strain mutation: ‘Need more evidence’||A mutation in the coronavirus strain isolated in India has the potential to jeopardise global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19, which has infected 2 million people and killed at least 126,000 in four months, according to a preliminary analysis of 106 Sars-CoV-2 and 39 SARS genome sequences.Scientists, however, warn against reliance on a single sample and say further confirmation is needed.The mutation was in the mechanism the virus uses to enter human cells. It was found in the strains isolated from a case in Kerala on January 27. The findings were published in the preprint server bioRxiv, which puts scientific papers in the public domain before peer-review.Sars-CoV-2 consists of a strand of RNA enclosed in shell covered with spikes. Most vaccine and drug development efforts are focusing on stopping the action of the spike protein.The study found changes in a part of the spike protein that allows the virus to bind to and penetrate cells. This protein targets cells containing ACE-2, a protein found in lung, kidney, heart, and gut cells in humans. “We identified a mutation that leads to weaker receptor binding capability.... This represents the first report of a significant Sars-CoV-2 mutant, and raises the alarm that the ongoing vaccine development may become futile in future epidemic if more mutations were identified,” wrote the study’s authors from multiple institutions in Australia and Taiwan. The study also provided direct genetic evidence that Sars-CoV-2 has a much lower mutation rate than Sars-CoV, the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome.“The lower receptor fit may make virus less efficient in transmission, but then we need to watch out for a change in virulence also. As of now this paper, is ‘curiosity’ information. We have to wait and watch,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The mutation appears to be random and not the result of natural selection by the immune system because there were no more variants in that part of the spike than elsewhere in the genome, say scientists.“The study lays too much reliance on a single sample with a variation that has been previously discussed. Unless one sees this confirmed further at sequence and protein level studies, at the minimum, no conclusion can be reached,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, Delhi.Most work on vaccines and drugs is targeting the spike protein to prevent it from binding to the ACE-2. Five vaccine candidates are in phase 1 clinical trials to establish safety for humans and 73 in exploratory or preclinical stages. A vaccine is likely to be ready in early 2021, according to an analysis of the global vaccine database of Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness (Cepi), one of the world’s biggest public funders of vaccine development. The analysis was published in Nature Reviews Drug Discovery .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-divided-over-strain-mutation-need-more-evidence/story-gKHWkQpzdmbSfD4SxoXzfJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Opening Covid-free areas may have limited economic impact||As the government prepares for the second phase of the lockdown, it has announced that states will lift restrictions on individual districts and cities based on their protection from, and exposure to Covid-19. This will help restart economic activities and provide some relief to livelihoods. To understand the economic impact of such a move, we looked at coronavirus disease and credit data (an indicator of economic activity) at the district level. There are 327 districts with no confirmed Covid-19 cases in India. That is 45% of all 717 districts in the country. However, these districts accounted for only 7% of the total credit in the third quarter of 2019, according to the latest data available from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This essentially means that even if the restrictions are lifted in districts free of the coronavirus, the economic impact will be limited. This is not only because of their low level of economic activity, but also because they are often tightly interconnected with other districts -- for resources, inputs and markets -- that are under lockdown. We classified the districts into four categories. The first is districts with no cases -- green. These will most likely see some economic activity post-April 2020. Next up are districts with five or fewer cases with the number of cases increasing at a very low rate of less than 20% over a week - yellow. The third, orange, are districts where the number of cases is growing at a rate of more than 20% and less than 100%. A 100% growth rate is when districts are doubling their cases every week. The last category, red, are districts where the number of cases has breached 100 or are doubling every week. These districts, 93 in all, account for more than 50% of all the credit flowing within the country. But, a large part of the credit goes to India’s large cities; 21% of all of India’s credit in Q3, 2019, went to Mumbai and 12% to Delhi. Cumulatively, nine districts that each account for more than 1% of total credit (together they account for 51%) have 43% of India’s total Covid-19 cases. Economic activity will be immensely affected without these districts also opening up.It may be argued that even within these districts and cities, restrictions will be opened up in some parts. But the analysis shows that across eight important states, the lion’s share of credit goes to districts where the number of cases are doubling every week or are at least 100. From the states’ perspective, even if a majority of the districts were to lift the lockdown, it will see very minimal business happening if the large metros and economic centres are still shut down. Of the total credit flowing within Maharashtra, 61% of it is in districts that have seen a high growth rate of cases and may be the last to open.  However, the impact of opening up will be higher if it is backed by other initiatives that improve productivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opening-covid-free-areas-may-have-limited-economic-impact/story-Q4kDmYmmoJf2iBg5rOHgYP.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, the health department of New York City did something unexpected. It estimated the number of deaths that would have occurred in the city between March 11 (the day the city recorded its first death from Covid-19) and April 13 under normal circumstances, found out that around 3,000 more died than should have, and attributed the deaths to the coronavirus disease. It is likely that a few of these people were actually infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, but New York’s logic for adding them to its total toll from the disease (which went past 10,000 as a result) wasn’t that – it was that the pandemic disrupted its health and other systems, causing these deaths that would otherwise not have happened. As cities, states, and countries around the world grapple with the disease, it is becoming clear that there is often an unmeasured but significant cost in terms of lives (leave alone livelihoods). New York’s experience has highlighted one of the factors that seem to work in favour of the disease – density. The New York Metropolitan Area, which includes other parts of NY state and large and proximate cities in the states of New Jersey and Connecticut, has a population in excess of 20 million and a density of 2,500 people per square km. This is something that should worry both Mumbai and Delhi. The National Capital Region of Delhi (including some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana) has a population of around 46 million, and a density of about 840 people per square km. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including adjoining regions in Maharashtra, has a population of around 26 million and a density of 4,764 people per square km. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region and NCR numbers date back to 2011, India’s most recent census. With the city limits, the density is several times higher in both places. And within both regions, there are parts which are extremely crowded – Mumbai’s Dharavi slum for instance. On Wednesday, the number of cases in Mumbai were 1,896 and Delhi 1,578. Together, the two cities accounted for about 28% of all Covid-19 cases in India. Both cities have a high number of so-called containment zones – 438 in Mumbai, and 56 in Delhi. Thus far, 114 Covid-19 patients have died in Mumbai and 32 in Delhi. Both Maharashtra (Mumbai-specific test numbers aren’t available) and Delhi have also tested far more people (per million population) than other states. The number for Maharashtra is 462 per million, and Delhi 989 per million. The national average is 203.Given the number of containment zones in both the National Capital Region and the Mumbai Metropolitan Area, it is unlikely that both will benefit significantly from the partial relaxation of restrictions that will come into effect from April 20. While the relaxations are significant – some have described it as a “big first step” – it is unlikely they will make a big difference to economic activity in these areas. An analysis by HT’s data partner Howindialives took credit flow as a proxy of economic activity and discovered that 43% of cases are in districts that together account for over half of all credit flows. Still, it is a first step, and more such are needed – as is a generous economic relief and stimulus package that benefits both individuals and businesses alike.The guidelines (see page 2) issued by the home ministry are notable for another reason – they say that spitting in public spaces will be punishable with a fine across India. India is a country of expectorators and this is probably the first time there has been a move at the national level to crack down on the unhygienic practice||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-LIkJeRNvhCaOXP0ja5OjGN.html
16-04-2020||India||17 more cases, 1 new containment zone identified||People in Delhi who were infected with coronavirus (Covid-19) from coming in contact with a positive case was four times higher than those who got it from travelling abroad, as per the data released by Delhi government. So far, only 82 people who travelled internationally have tested positive for Covid-19 in comparison to 327, who got the disease locally. On Wednesday, Delhi reported 17 new cases of Covid-19, none related to the Markaz. On Tuesday, nine cases had been reported among those who had been evacuated in the special operation, down from 325 the day before.A total of 2,300 people were taken to hospitals and quarantine centres from Nizamuddin, of which 1,080 people tested positive — putting the positivity rate among them to 46%. “As so many people were living in such close proximity, a high number of people were thought to have the infection. This is the reason the government started testing even those without symptoms at the quarantine centres. Now, all the tests have been completed,” a senior official from the department of health in Delhi said. All those who had returned from international travel have completed their mandatory home quarantine, the data shows. The authorities also reported two Covid-19 deaths in the city on Wednesday — a 43-year-old woman who was admitted to RML Hospital and a 55-year-old woman at the Safdarjung Hospital. Of the 867 positive cases admitted to hospitals, 29 people are in intensive care, with five on ventilators. Just 323 tests were done on Wednesday, a day after the Delhi government decided to undertake a massive testing drive.An order has been issued to all registered nursing homes and private hospitals, stating that they shall not refuse treatment to the injured/ serious patients brought to them for any reason. On Wednesday, one new containment zone was added in Delhi, taking the total to 56. The zone was identified in North Delhi’s Model Town’s Police Colony. As many as three blocks (G, H and I) were sealed and cordoned off to prevent the spread of Covid. By late Wednesday evening, a block in South Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave was also identified as a potential containment zone. As it was a late development, the neighbourhood is likely to be added in the official list of the government on Thursday as the orders are still being issued, said a senior government official.“We are issuing containment order for B block of Safdarjung Enclave. Four persons of a family tested positive for Covid-19,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate of south zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-more-cases-1-new-containment-zone-identified/story-3OUl8yK0ELTFBQC6ukNeWO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Govt lists curbs to be eased on April 20||The Union government on Wednesday conditionally allowed industries in rural areas and economic enclaves to reopen next week, green-lighted work under the federal job guarantee scheme, and permitted daily wagers in some areas to return to work, as it sought to get the country’s economic engine chugging again and lessen the pain of millions affected by the ongoing lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. The guidelines on the restart of the economy , with a sharp rural focus, was described as a giant first step by some analysts. It comes after an initial three-week nationwide lockdown to flatten the curve of infections that ended Tuesday midnight was extended by 19 days to May 3. To be sure, none of the activities will be restarted in so-called containment zones declared by state and local administrations; district magistrates have been empowered to take decisions that work locally. No public transport including planes, trains, buses, metro rail and taxis will be available during the second phase of the lockdown, although courier services have now been allowed and will likely feed into air and rail cargo services, which were also operational during the first phase. “Select additional activities” are being allowed to “mitigate hardship to the public,” the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in its order, caveating that “these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures”. The conditional and partial opening-up was welcomed by industry and experts who saw it as striking a fine balance between easing restrictions and ensuring the pandemic doesn’t spread — especially with local officials being allowed to act quickly and reimpose them if infections flare up or emerge. “An important redeeming feature of the new guidelines operative from April 20 is the opening up of the agricultural and rural sector including MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) activities. MGNREGA works are allowed primarily for irrigation and water conservation works. Farming operations in the fields are allowed fully for farmers and farm workers. This would help save the rabi crop to a significant degree,” DK Srivastava, the chief policy advisor, EY India, said. The home ministry’s order laid down “National Directives for Covid-19 Management” that made masks compulsory in all public and workplaces; said spitting would be punishable with a fine, and banned the sale of liquor, tobacco, and chewing tobacco (gutka). The guidelines also specified social distancing and sanitation rules for workplaces and factories. The guidelines also said e-commerce companies would be allowed to operate, although it wasn’t clear whether this was merely an extension of the current situation — most already operate, delivering essential goods — or the delivery of non-essential goods would also be allowed. The stock markets lost all their early gains and closed down (the Sensex by 310 points at 30,379), although experts said this wasn’t because of the guidelines but global factors. Activities including food processing industries, road construction and industrial projects in rural areas will restart from April 20, as will irrigation projects, construction and other industrial projects, MHA said. The federal job guarantee scheme,the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), will restart with a focus on irrigation and water conservation works. Rural Common Service Centres (CSCs), delivering e-governance services to rural India will also be restarted.The guidelines also said that all farming-related activities will remain operational. With the harvest season on , it added that it will be business as usual in terms of procurement and that mandis (farm markets) operated by Agricultural Product Marketing Committees, satellite mandis notified by states, even direct marketing operations by states or industries to buy directly from farmers will all be allowed.“Since majority of farm practices, right from sowing, harvesting, grading, loading, cleaning, packaging etc. are done manually, an acute shortage of labourers is posing a challenge for harvesting,” said Shivendra Bajaj of the Alliance for Agri Innovation. Businesses dealing in agricultural equipment and their repair, and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of fertilizers, seeds and pesticides will go on, the guidelines said. The fisheries and dairy sector will remain operational and the government has allowed sale and marketing of tea, coffee, rubber and cashew nuts -- but with a maximum of 50% workers deployed in these plantations. The MHA order allows the restart of certain manufacturing activities from Monday in areas that are not hot spots or containment zones , and in special economic zones (SEZs) and industrial townships. It also allowed export- oriented units (EoUs) to operate. The order permitted manufacturing of essential goods such as medical equipment and pharmaceutical products, but also said food processing units could operate in rural areas. It allowed the manufacture of IT hardware, packaging material, the mining of coal and other minerals, and oil exploration and refining. However, it wanted employers to arrange transport of employees to the workplace and also suggested that they make “arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible”. The order allows construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, and all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas and industrial estates. Besides, construction of renewable energy projects and in-situ construction within the municipal limits is also allowed provided workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside, it added. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president of the National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) and also of the industry body Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) , said the order permitted a “staggered reopening” of stalled construction works from April 20 with certain conditions. “The real estate industry acknowledges the positive impact this will have in handling the migrant crisis and avoid any strain further to the Covid-19 human-economic crisis,” added the Mumbai-based developer.“With this order, the economic drivers of the country will start moving again, even as we extend the lockdown. Considering the estimated loss of ₹26,000 crore per day to the Indian economy as a result of the lockdown, this relaxation is a constructive step,” he added.Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (Ficci) president Sangita Reddy welcomed the government’s calibrated restart of the economy, but also stressed the need for a relief and stimulus package for industry. “It is now crucial to announce a relief and economic stimulus package, which protects wages, employment, and business.” Industry bodies have asked for a financial package of ₹14 lakh crore to ₹16 lakh crore to revive the economy, HT reported on Wednesday.Rumki Majumdar, an economist at Deloitte India, said, “Allowing certain economic activities, especially in areas that are not hotspots and have low probability of turning into one, will likely help the vulnerable section of the population in sustaining their livelihood.”“However, several hot spots are also manufacturing hubs (such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi, among others), which makes it difficult to resume factory activities quickly,” Majumdar said.The exhaustive guidelines for services catering to urban India offer no room for recreational activities but focus on ensuring functioning supply chains for essentials.People can use their private vehicles for emergency situations or procuring essential goods, MHA said; in some parts of the country, the use of private vehicles for this was restricted by local administrations. To be sure, they will have to practice social distancing with only two people being allowed in cars. The home ministry said all kirana shops, even roadside carts that deal with “food and groceries, hygiene items, fruits and vegetables, poultry, meat and fish and animal feed” will operate.The guideline said, “all facilities in the supply chain of essential goods, whether involved in manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through local stores, large brick and mortar stores or e-commerce companies should be allowed to operate, ensuring strict social distancing without any restriction on their timing of opening and closure.”E-commerce companies welcomed the move. “The resumption of economic activity from April 20 is a welcome step that will depend on unhindered availability of labour that is critical to deliver essential products to people across the country and ensure they can stay home safely,” a spokesperson for Amazon India said. In addition, the MHA order also allowed courier companies to function.Even as restrictions are eased in some parts of the country, Covid-9 hotspots will see stricter perimeter control to ensure no unchecked inward or outward movement except for medical emergencies and maintaining law and order.The government also invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to lay down penal provisions for violations of lockdown measures. For obstructing any officials, misappropriating money or materials and for making false claims, people may face up to two years of imprisonment and fines.If someone is caught giving a false warning of any disaster, he or she may face a prison term of up to one year. Officials, too will face charges if they fail to perform their duties. The guideline also invoked section 188 of the Indian Penal Code to say that any disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant can lead to fines and one month’s jail term.A government statement said the objective of the fresh guidelines is “to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners.”It added that the government aims to ensure that “agricultural and related activities remain fully functional, the rural economy functions with maximum efficiency, employment opportunities are created for daily wage earners and other members of the labour force and select industrial activities are allowed to resume their operations with adequate safeguards and mandatory standard operating protocols (SOPs).”“ At the same time, keeping the imperative of containing the spread of Covid-19 in the country, National Directives for Covid-19 management have been laid down, which shall be enforced by the District Magistrates through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-govt-lists-curbs-to-be-eased-on-april-20/story-D4S3uCEgXwLk8FmLTj0ekM.html
16-04-2020||India||Sunder Pichai, Satya Nadella, four other Indian-Americans in Donald Trump’s list of economic advisers||President Donald Trump has roped in six Indian-American corporate leaders, including Sundar Pichai from Google and Satya Nadella from Microsoft, to seek advice from the “brightest” and the “smartest” people on how to restart US economy that has been crippled by the coronavirus pandemic.America’s economy, the world’s largest, has come to a standstill due the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 95 per cent of the 330 million population is under stay-at-home order amid a national emergency in place. A record number of over 16 million people have lost their jobs due to the ongoing economic crisis in the US, according to latest official figures. President Trump has named over 200 top American leaders from various industries and sections to create nearly a dozen and a half different groups as part of the Great American Economic Revival Industry Groups. These leaders will advise the president and offer recommendations on how to revive the American economy, which has hit an unprecedented ebb in just a few weeks due to the deadly coronavirus. “They’re the names that are, I think, the best and the smartest, the brightest. And they’re going to give us some ideas,” Trump told reporters at his daily White House news conference on coronavirus on Tuesday.In addition to Pichai and Nadella, the president has named IBM’s Arvind Krishna and Micron’s Sanjay Mehrotra to the Tech Group. Other members of the group are Apple’s Tim Cook, Oracle’s Larry Ellison and Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg. Indian-American Ann Mukherjee from Pernod Ricard has been named to the manufacturing Group, which among others include Caterpillar’s Jim Umpleby III; Tesla’s Elon Musk, Fiat Chrysler’s Mike Manley, Ford’s Bill Ford and General’s Mary Barra. Ajay Banga from Mastercard has been named to the Financial Services Group along with, among others, Al Kelly from Visa, Blackstone’s Stephen Schwarzman; Fidelity Investment’s Abigail Johnson and Intuit’s Sasan Goodarzi. The various groups created by Trump are: agriculture, banking, construction/labour/workforce; defense, energy, financial services, food and beverages, healthcare, hospitality, manufacturing, real estate, retail, tech, telecommunication, transportation, sports and thought leaders.These bipartisan groups of American leaders will work together with the White House to chart the path forward toward a future of unparalleled American prosperity, the White House said. “The health and wealth of America is the primary goal, and these groups will produce a more independent, self-sufficient, and resilient nation,” the White House said in a statement.President Trump recently said that reopening the country’s economy will be the “biggest decision” ever he will have to make. “I’m going to have to make a decision and I only hope to God that it is the right decision, but I would say without question it is the biggest decision I have ever had to make,” Trump said last week. He said the reopening the country to business activities would be taken at an appropriate time in consultation with his close advisors, including the members of the White House Task Force on Coronavirus.Trump, however, did not give a definitive date for this at the briefing which the president has been hosting to provide Americans an update on his administration’s ongoing efforts in the war against the “invisible enemy”. Earlier, he was keen on reopening the economy by Easter (April 12) as the businessman-turned politician was reportedly under pressure from his friends on the Wall Street. The International Monetary Fund warned on Tuesday that the global economy will this year likely suffer the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, as governments worldwide grapple with the Covid-19 pandemic.With schools and many businesses shut, the measures to slow the spread of the disease have taken a painful toll on the US economy.The coronavirus death toll in the United States crossed 25,000 on Tuesday with the country witnessing the highest single-day tally of 2,129. As of Tuesday, more than 6,05,000 Americans had tested positive for the novel coronavirus -- more than the other top three countries taken together -- according to Johns Hopkins University. Globally, 126,722 people have died and nearly two million people have been infected by the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunder-pichai-satya-nadella-four-other-indian-americans-in-donald-trump-s-list-of-economic-advisers/story-9BIhHglNa95vyuvzcf986O.html
16-04-2020||India||India rejects USCIRF’s criticism on reported treatment of Covid-19 patients||India on Wednesday rejected criticism by a US panel on religious freedom of the reported segregation of Covid-19 patients in a hospital in Gujarat, saying it shouldn’t add “religious colour” to efforts to fight the pandemic.The US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), a bipartisan government entity that monitors and reports on threats to religious freedom abroad, had criticised reports that patients at a hospital in Ahmedabad had been separated on the basis of their faith.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a statement: “As if its peremptory commentary on religious freedom in India is not enough, the USCIRF is now spreading misguided reports on the professional medical protocols followed to deal with [the] spread of Covid-19 in India.“It must stop adding religious colour to our national goal of fighting the pandemic and distract from larger efforts. No segregation is being done in civil hospitals on the basis of religion, as clarified by the Gujarat government.”The USCIRF had tweeted that it was “concerned with reports of Hindu & Muslim patients separated into separate hospital wards in #Gujarat. Such actions only help to further increase ongoing stigmatization of Muslims in #India and exacerbate false rumors of Muslims spreading #Covid19.”On Tuesday, the USCIRF had welcomed the Indian Supreme Court’s decision to relax conditions for release of people detained as “foreigners” in Assam’s detention centres because of Covid-19-related concerns.The Supreme Court ordered the release of people held for at least two years and lowered the personal bond necessary to secure release from Rs 100,000 to Rs 5,000.In its 2019 report, the USCIRF had highlighted concerns that the implementation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam “is an intentional effort to discriminate and/or has the effect of discriminating against Muslims”.The Indian government has reacted angrily to the USCIRF’s criticism in the past as interference in the country’s internal affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-uscirf-s-criticism-on-reported-treatment-of-covid-19-patients/story-Bfk627MHQThx23oYeAqaqO.html
16-04-2020||India||Are you living in a Covid-19 containment zone in Delhi? Here’s the final list||The Delhi government expanded the list of containment zones in the national capital to 56 on Wednesday. The areas of G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town was added to the list of containment zones to check the spread of the coronavirus.Some of the localities in the national capital are highly vulnerable to the Covid-19 pandemic due to densely-populated residential neighbourhoods. At least, 17 new coronavirus positive cases and 2 deaths were reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. The total number of positive cases in the national capital now stands at 1,578 (including 1080 positive cases - under Special Operations). The total death toll stands at 32:An additional list of containment zones had been issued by the government late on Tuesday evening and also included areas in Sangam Vihar, C-2 Janakpuri, several lanes in Chhuriya Mohalla of Tughlakabad village in south Delhi and Jahangirpuri in north Delhi, Bara Hindu Rao area and Nawabganj in central Delhi, taking the count to 55 on Tuesday.If you are living in a Covid-19 containment zone in Delhi, here’s where you can find out:1.Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi 2.Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi. 3.Affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension, New Delhi 4.Shop No. J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki Village, New Delhi.5.Jain Moholla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi6.Shahajahanabad Society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.7.Dinpur Village 8.Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi9.C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 10.Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti 11.Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas. 12.Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar ( Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone13.H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II, Delhi 14.H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II15.Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar Extension16.Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, 17.H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi18.E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, 19.H No. 97 to 107 and H. No.120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash, 20.E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, 21.H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash, 22.Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No. 112B, Gali No.2, 23.Entire Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village 24.B Block Jahangirpuri.25.Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri. 26.1100 Wali Gali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (H. No. 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, 27.G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town28.H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri 29.Mansara Appartments , Vasundhara Enclave30.Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur 31.East Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar , 32.Vardhaman Appartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, 33.Mayurdhwaj Appartments , I P Extension, Patparganj34.Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), Krishan Kunj Extension, 35.Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension 36.Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar37.Shahdara E-Pocket, GTB Enclave38.J & K , L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri39.F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony 40.Shahdara Pratapkhand, Jhilmil Colony. 41.Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh 42.Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi43.Sadar Bazaar, Central District. 44.Chandni Mahal, Central District45.Nabi Karim, Central District46.Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari47.Bara Hindu Rao Area48.Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi 49.In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar50.In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar,51.In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar52.In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden53.In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Paschim Vihar54.In and around area of A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur55.In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar56.H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-you-living-in-a-covid-19-containment-zone-in-delhi-here-s-the-final-list/story-jY0E0RcOyqF7Ev7kw0tChK.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Two more Delhi cops test positive, families told to quarantine themselves||Two Delhi police constables from central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, senior officers said. Both the policemen were sent to a hospital in Saket for treatment and their families have been asked to quarantine themselves at home. The two men, in their early 40s, were posted at Chandni Mahal police station, the same area where at least 52 people have so far tested positive for the disease. Last month, many of them had even attended a congregation in Nizamuddin which emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said while one of the constables was posted at a picket in the area, another was attached with the Station House Officer.“Their reports were received on Wednesday according to which they are Covid-19 positive. They were immediately sent to Max hospital in Saket for further treatment. Their families have been asked to quarantine themselves at home,” Bhatia said.A senior officer who did not wish to be named, said since the two constables lived at the Chandni Mahal police station, many other personnel from the police station, including the station house officer (SHO) and other inspectors have been advised to go on home quarantine, as per the standard protocol pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic. The deputy commissioner of police (southwest), along with 37 personnel, including ACP of Safdarjung Enclave sub-division and the SHO of Safdarjung Enclave police station, were asked to go on home quarantine on Sunday because they had come in contact with an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), posted at AIIMS Trauma Centre police post, was tested positive for Covid-19.DCP Bhatia said the police staff who were in close contact of the two constables are being identified.With the two constables, the total count of Delhi police personnel testing positive far for Covid-19 has gone up to five. More than 1,500 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi so far. On Sunday, a Delhi police assistant sub inspector, who was posted at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, tested positive for and was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Dilshad Garden.Last week, another ASI posted with Delhi Traffic Police had tested positive and was shifted to AIIMS Trauma centre for further treatment. Later in the week a head constable who was posted with the Bureau of Immigration, at the Delhi airport, had also tested positive and had to be admitted in LNJP hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-more-delhi-cops-test-positive-families-told-to-quarantine-themselves/story-FtknEaWwQk8NFRbaCzC4oI.html
16-04-2020||India||Tripura’s first Covid-19 patient recovers, sent to quarantine||Tripura’s first Covid-19 patient was discharged from hospital on Wednesday after she tested negative in consecutive tests, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said.The 45-year-old woman was shifted to institutional quarantine for 14 days at Udaipur in Gomati district under the observation of a medical team. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6. After consecutive tests of her came negative, she was released from the isolation ward of the state-run GBP hospital in Agartala.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Glad to share that first # COVID19 positive patient of Tripura has been discharged today, as she has recovered & found negative in consecutive tests. She has been sent for institutional quarantine for 14 days under medical supervision at Udaipur,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said in a Facebook post.Tripura has another Covid-19 patient, whose condition is said to be stable. According to medical reports, viral load in his sample has reduced. A total of 600 people are under surveillance across the state. Out of the 600 people, 145 are in institutional quarantine and 455 in home quarantine. A total of 738 samples have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-s-first-covid-19-patient-recovers-sent-to-quarantine/story-PCs7qUhyeC0yd8pb53XoeI.html
16-04-2020||India||Medical staff at state-run hospitals in Bengal to work every alternate week, says Mamata||Doctors, nurses and other medical staff in state-run hospitals in West Bengal will now get a week-long holiday every alternate week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday.Making another announcement she said that the state government will send small help, including monetary help, to migrant labourers, tourists and patients from Bengal who are stranded in other states because of the lockdown.“The doctors, nurses and other medical staff are not getting any rest. Hence from now on they will work for one week and then a week long leave. This will boost their energy level. The chief secretary has been asked to speak with the state health department and work this out,” said Banerjee, who also holds the portfolio of state health minister.The top brass of the police force have also been asked to see if the duty hours of police personnel could be curtailed by a few hours every day.“We will try to send some money to migrant labourers from Bengal stuck in other states. Some tourists from Bengal and some who had gone for treatment have also been stranded. If we get information, we will try to help them through our local sources. We have also sent help to a team of tourists stranded at Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh,” she added.Banerjee had earlier written letters to chief ministers of 18 states requesting them to help migrant labourers from Bengal stranded in those states. In West Bengal more than two lakh labourers from various states have been given shelter in more than 700 camps. The chief minister also said that in some places doctors and nurses are being ostracized for treating Covid-19 patients.“I have got at least eight such cases. At Ranaghat in Nadia locals had protested when a nurse went to meet her family. I have allotted the nurse a rented government flat she can stay there,” Banerjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-staff-at-state-run-hospitals-in-bengal-to-work-every-alternate-week-says-mamata/story-5L63XyyqITzYTMgzXTybXN.html
16-04-2020||India||Normal monsoon forecast brings some cheer to India||Monsoon rains are likely to be normal this year at 100% of the long-period average (LPA), the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday, bringing some cheer to farmers reeling under the impact of the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown that has disrupted agricultural supply chains across India.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the monsoon season that generally begins in June and starts to retreat by September; the monsoon is key to the prospects of agriculture in the country.For the first time in its monsoon forecast history, IMD on Wednesday also released new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates, factoring in the likely impact of climate change, which has altered the way the south-west monsoon progresses over India.IMD’s new onset dates are based on an analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019, and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists in IMD, Pune.The dates show that farmers may have to make some changes in their sowing schedule. The new onset dates are delayed by three to seven days in many parts of central, west and east India while withdrawal is delayed by a week to two weeks from northwest India. But the onset date over Kerala continues to remain June 1 and withdrawal from the south peninsula October 15.Until 2019, the onset and withdrawal dates were determined based on records of 149 meteorological stations between 1901 and 1940. “The data we were using for monsoon onset and withdrawal was very old and based on only a few stations. It’s better to use latest data as much as possible. We don’t know if the changes in monsoon dates are a result of climate change. It is a possibility. It could also be a normal change in monsoon cycle or what we call natural variability. These things will have to be studied further,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“Clearly taking into account data from the recent period makes more sense. Whether it is human-induced climate change or changes due to natural variability, taking data from so long ago (1901 to 1940) cannot be representative. What IMD has done is logical -- instead of farmers and others complaining about rains not arriving on time. The new data indicates a gap of one week for onset in some places and two weeks for withdrawal at some places, which is quite big,” said Krishna Achuta Rao, a professor of atmospheric sciences at the Indian Institute of Technology, DelhiIMD said in its briefing on Wednesday that it expects a normal monsoon this year because prevailing neutral El Nino and Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions. El Nino is a climate pattern characterised by high sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean which is neutral now. El Nino years in India are linked to below normal monsoon rains and higher-than-normal frequency of heat waves. Last monsoon, weak El Nino conditions prevailed, which led to a delayed onset of monsoon rains, according to scientists.IOD is characterised by warmer sea surface temperature in the equatorial Indian Ocean; positive IOD conditions are usually associated with normal or above normal monsoon rains.But some global climate models are indicating the possibility of development of weak La Niña conditions over the Pacific Ocean during the second half of the monsoon season. La Niña is characterised by unusually cold ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific, just the opposite of El Nino.“La Nina is good for our monsoon. It is linked to normal or above-average rains in India,” said Rajeevan.South-west monsoon rainfall is crucial to rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds cultivation in the country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy and employs over half of its people. The farm-to-fork supply chain has been disrupted by the Covid-19 outbreak, subsequent lockdown, shortage of labour and transport bottlenecks. Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said global agencies too unanimously indicate normal monsoon rains for June to September, which is good news. “This is largely based on the favourable conditions in the Pacific as there is no coherent sign of an El Niño developing during the early stage of the monsoon.”The rain in the pre-monsoon period has also been above average, which experts say will help improve and retain soil moisture and help with sowing in some parts of the country. From March 1 to April 15, central India received 150% and northwest India 52% excess rain even as east and northeast India are 46% deficient, according to IMD.Ocean temperatures in the equatorial Indian Ocean are forecast to be warmer than normal, which has the potential to reduce monsoon rains but that is often not factored in by monsoon models, Koll said.This monsoon also offers unique conditions for meteorologists to study this link because air pollution levels have dropped dramatically across the country since the lockdown imposed on March 25. The lockdown will continue till May 3. Several studies in the past have linked high air pollution levels in India with weakening of the south-west monsoon. Light-absorbing particles like black carbon (BC) scatter and absorb solar radiation which then affects the clouds. The particles also act as surfaces on which water vapour condenses, thereby impacting rainfall and monsoon wind pattern.“I do not know if the monsoon models are factoring in this new scenario with less pollution. This has not happened before and hence can give us important insights,” added Koll.As per IMD’s new analysis, the monsoon’s onset over Kerala will continue to be on June 1. But monsoon advance dates over Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh are delayed by three to seven days compared to existing dates. Over northwest India, the monsoon will arrive a little earlier, on July 8 instead of July 15.The monsoon will now withdraw from northwest India almost 7-14 days later but there is no change in the final withdrawal date over south India, i.e. October 15.The zone-wise monsoon forecast will be released by IMD in the last week of May or the first week of June, IMD officials said on Wednesday.IMD’s forecasts are prepared using the Statistical Ensemble Forecasting System (SEFS). Since 2012, IMD has also used the dynamical global climate forecasting system (CFS) model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-monsoon-forecast-brings-some-cheer-to-india/story-2bANQ1Vs4uxeIUKe9hwwzK.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Slow testing pipeline as big a worry as kit delay||India carried out close to 27,000 Covid-19 tests on Wednesday and added 22 new labs in the last two days, ramping up efforts to speed up a process that is crucial to determine the extent of the outbreak but has suffered from long delays due to several bottlenecks. The 26,351 samples processed on Wednesday, according to data released by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), represents a fivefold increase over the roughly 5,000 a day number at the beginning of the month. The total number of labs, including private ones, is now at 258.“We have added more labs, and since sample collection and data entry were identified as bottlenecks, we have strengthened the system of sample collection and added trained human resources to ramp up testing in a big way,” said CK Mishra, secretary, ministry of environment, who co-chairs the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for medical emergency.Also read: Covid-19 cases breach 12,000-mark in India, death toll at 414Almost as much as kits, capacity and protocols -- which have been areas of debate and concern for India right through the last month when Covid-19 cases began to rise -- speed of testing is a critical area where India may be falling behind, with a large backlog of tests awaiting results at the end of every working day. In Delhi, where 16,605 tests have been carried out, 956 are still pending. India’s testing relies at the moment on the RT-PCR process, which is the most definitive diagnostic test for the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. This involves swabbing a person for samples, which is then processed at a lab to if it matches the molecular signatures established with the virus.The process is meant to take 7-8 hours. But collecting the sample and collation of results – including accounting for all negative results as well – leads to about 24-36 hours from when a person’s samples are collected to the result reflecting in the official tally. In some cases, as the number of tests grow and testing centres get backed up, it can take up to 2-3 days for a result to get reported in certain states.Also read: Two firms begin production of antibody rapid test kits in IndiaWhen one considers that India’s cases are doubling at a rate of about six days, a lag of this nature leads to valuable time lost. “We will not know the full extent of the spread of Covid-19 unless we become more proactive in testing, instead of being reactive. Unless we test, we won’t know,” said Jacob John, professor emeritus and head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The number of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed the 12,000 mark on Wednesday, rising by 851 through the day. Quick testing is key to India’s containment strategy, according to experts, and will eventually determine when and what parts of the country are exempted from a lockdown that has halted economic activity and stranded hundreds of thousands of migrant workers.In South Korea, which has largely been seen as one of few countries to have flattened its infection curve, officials carried out 15,000 tests a day. Germany followed a similar strategy, testing 12,000 people a day.One way to speed up testing is using rapid test kits, which use a person’s blood to look for antibodies that can indicate an infection, are yet to be acquired or developed by Indian companies. Kits ordered from China have missed several deadlines after supplies were withheld due to quality checks, officials said.Two of three Indian manufacturers have begun production of the antibody-based kits after the national regulatory body for pharmaceuticals and medical devices issued manufacturing licenses. These can be deployed for pooling of samples, a batch testing strategy that can be used to do up to three times as many tests with the same number of kits.Meanwhile, in order to speed up the RT-PCR tests, the Union health ministry has designated 14 “mentor institutions” such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGI), Chandigarh, across states to handhold accredited labs in the region in carrying out the RT-PCR test. The 14 are within 12 clusters and the mentor institutions will ensure the identified labs meet NABL’s quality- and infection-control standards, and ensure the machines are run to capacity with two shifts, according to officials. The National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) provides accreditation to laboratories that meet the national accuracy, safety and quality standards.The government is also acquiring RT-PCR machines with larger capacities. “Orders have been placed for 12 RT-PCR systems that can test 1,536 samples in a single run, with the delivery expected in the first week of May. Ten of these machines will go to ICMR labs, one to NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) and one to AIIMS,” said an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official, asking not to be named.Building on the National Health Mission, of which Mishra was the mission director in his earlier role in the health ministry, the ICMR has approved the use of machines that were used to drug-resistant tuberculosis to be paired with other RT-PCR devices to act as screening test for Covid-19. This pairing will be able to test up to 1,000 reactions per run.The TB test device, Truenat, is a small battery-operated device that can be operated by health workers with basic training even at Primary Health Centres. The other devices that it will be paired include Gene-Xpert, which is widely available across India. “Gene-Xpert platform is already being used across country for sensitive multiple-drug resistant TB tests and gives foolproof results. What really works in its favour is it doesn’t need a sophisticated lab infrastructure or highly trained technicians, and it gives results in 60 minutes. The only shortcoming is it runs two to four tests in one go, depending on the machine, but it can really help reach underserved areas with low access to technology,” said Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dang’s Labs, which was among the first labs to get approved for Covid-19 testing in India.At present, officials say there are adequate number of Covid-19 kits for RT-PCR tests. Most of the labs accredited at present have placed orders varying from several thousands to hundreds of thousands, and deliveries are expected in 5-7 days, according to an ICMR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slow-testing-pipeline-as-big-a-worry-as-kit-delay/story-l1g970idAiM0SwFk743thM.html
16-04-2020||India||Centre lists curbs to be eased on April 20 amid lockdown 2.0||The Union government on Wednesday conditionally allowed industries in rural areas and economic enclaves to reopen next week, green-lighted work under the federal job guarantee scheme, and permitted daily wagers in some areas to return to work, as it sought to get the country’s economic engine chugging again and lessen the pain of millions affected by the ongoing lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. The guidelines on the restart of the economy , with a sharp rural focus, was described as a giant first step by some analysts. It comes after an initial three-week nationwide lockdown to flatten the curve of infections that ended Tuesday midnight was extended by 19 days to May 3. To be sure, none of the activities will be restarted in so-called containment zones declared by state and local administrations; district magistrates have been empowered to take decisions that work locally. Also read: Covid-19 cases breach 12,000-mark, death toll at 414No public transport including planes, trains, buses, metro rail and taxis will be available during the second phase of the lockdown, although courier services have now been allowed and will likely feed into air and rail cargo services, which were also operational during the first phase. “Select additional activities” are being allowed to “mitigate hardship to the public,” the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in its order, caveating that “these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures”. The conditional and partial opening-up was welcomed by industry and experts who saw it as striking a fine balance between easing restrictions and ensuring the pandemic doesn’t spread -- especially with local officials being allowed to act quickly and reimpose them if infections flare up or emerge. “An important redeeming feature of the new guidelines operative from April 20 is the opening up of the agricultural and rural sector including MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) activities. MGNREGA works are allowed primarily for irrigation and water conservation works. Farming operations in the fields are allowed fully for farmers and farm workers. This would help save the rabi crop to a significant degree,” DK Srivastava, the chief policy advisor, EY India, said. Also read: Two firms begin production of antibody rapid test kits in IndiaThe home ministry’s order laid down “National Directives for Covid-19 Management” that made masks compulsory in all public and workplaces; said spitting would be punishable with a fine, and banned the sale of liquor, tobacco, and chewing tobacco (gutka). The guidelines also specified social distancing and sanitation rules for workplaces and factories. The guidelines also said e-commerce companies would be allowed to operate, although it wasn’t clear whether this was merely an extension of the current situation -- most already operate, delivering essential goods -- or the delivery of non-essential goods would also be allowed. The stock markets lost all their early gains and closed down (the Sensex by 310 points at 30,379), although experts said this wasn’t because of the guidelines but global factors. Agriculture and rural sectorsActivities including food processing industries, road construction and industrial projects in rural areas will restart from April 20, as will irrigation projects, construction and other industrial projects, MHA said. The federal job guarantee scheme,the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), will restart with a focus on irrigation and water conservation works. Rural Common Service Centres (CSCs), delivering e-governance services to rural India will also be restarted.The guidelines also said that all farming-related activities will remain operational. With the harvest season on , it added that it will be business as usual in terms of procurement and that mandis (farm markets) operated by Agricultural Product Marketing Committees, satellite mandis notified by states, even direct marketing operations by states or industries to buy directly from farmers will all be allowed.“Since majority of farm practices, right from sowing, harvesting, grading, loading, cleaning, packaging etc. are done manually, an acute shortage of labourers is posing a challenge for harvesting,” said Shivendra Bajaj of the Alliance for Agri Innovation. Businesses dealing in agricultural equipment and their repair, and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of fertilizers, seeds and pesticides will go on, the guidelines said. The fisheries and dairy sector will remain operational and the government has allowed sale and marketing of tea, coffee, rubber and cashew nuts -- but with a maximum of 50% workers deployed in these plantations. Industrial activityThe MHA order allows the restart of certain manufacturing activities from Monday in areas that are not hot spots or containment zones , and in special economic zones (SEZs) and industrial townships. It also allowed export- oriented units (EoUs) to operate. The order permitted manufacturing of essential goods such as medical equipment and pharmaceutical products, but also said food processing units could operate in rural areas. It allowed the manufacture of IT hardware, packaging material, the mining of coal and other minerals, and oil exploration and refining. However, it wanted employers to arrange transport of employees to the workplace and also suggested that they make “arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible”. The order allows construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, and all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas and industrial estates. Besides, construction of renewable energy projects and in-situ construction within the municipal limits is also allowed provided workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside, it added. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president of the National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) and also of the industry body Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) , said the order permitted a “staggered reopening” of stalled construction works from April 20 with certain conditions. “The real estate industry acknowledges the positive impact this will have in handling the migrant crisis and avoid any strain further to the Covid-19 human-economic crisis,” added the Mumbai-based developer.“With this order, the economic drivers of the country will start moving again, even as we extend the lockdown. Considering the estimated loss of Rs 26,000 crore per day to the Indian economy as a result of the lockdown, this relaxation is a constructive step,” he added.Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (Ficci) president Sangita Reddy welcomed the government’s calibrated restart of the economy, but also stressed the need for a relief and stimulus package for industry. “It is now crucial to announce a relief and economic stimulus package, which protects wages, employment, and business.” Industry bodies have asked for a financial package of Rs 14 lakh crore to Rs 16 lakh crore to revive the economy, HT reported on Wednesday.Rumki Majumdar, an economist at Deloitte India said, “Allowing certain economic activities, especially in areas that are not hotspots and have low probability of turning into one, will likely help the vulnerable section of the population in sustaining their livelihood.”“However, several hot spots are also manufacturing hubs (such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi, among others), which makes it difficult to resume factory activities quickly,” Majumdar said.Urban servicesThe exhaustive guidelines for services catering to urban India offer no room for recreational activities but focus on ensuring functioning supply chains for essentials.People can use their private vehicles for emergency situations or procuring essential goods, MHA said; in some parts of the country, the use of private vehicles for this was restricted by local administrations. To be sure, they will have to practice social distancing with only two people being allowed in cars. The home ministry said all kirana shops, even roadside carts that deal with “food and groceries, hygiene items, fruits and vegetables, poultry, meat and fish and animal feed” will operate.The guideline said, “all facilities in the supply chain of essential goods, whether involved in manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through local stores, large brick and mortar stores or e-commerce companies should be allowed to operate, ensuring strict social distancing without any restriction on their timing of opening and closure.”E-commerce companies welcomed the move. “The resumption of economic activity from April 20 is a welcome step that will depend on unhindered availability of labour that is critical to deliver essential products to people across the country and ensure they can stay home safely,” a spokesperson for Amazon India said. In addition, the MHA order also allowed courier companies to function.Tighter rulesEven as restrictions are eased in some parts of the country, Covid-9 hotspots will see stricter perimeter control to ensure no unchecked inward or outward movement except for medical emergencies and maintaining law and order.The government also invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to lay down penal provisions for violations of lockdown measures. For obstructing any officials, misappropriating money or materials and for making false claims, people may face up to two years of imprisonment and fines.If someone is caught giving a false warning of any disaster, he or she may face a prison term of up to one year. Officials, too will face charges if they fail to perform their duties. The guideline also invoked section 188 of the Indian Penal Code to say that any disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant can lead to fines and one month’s jail term.A government statement said the objective of the fresh guidelines is “to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners.”It added that the government aims to ensure that “agricultural and related activities remain fully functional, the rural economy functions with maximum efficiency, employment opportunities are created for daily wage earners and other members of the labour force and select industrial activities are allowed to resume their operations with adequate safeguards and mandatory standard operating protocols (SOPs).”“ At the same time, keeping the imperative of containing the spread of Covid-19 in the country, National Directives for Covid-19 management have been laid down, which shall be enforced by the District Magistrates through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lists-curbs-to-be-eased-on-apr-20/story-sSirWzham465ZroKskkuzH.html
16-04-2020||India||With lockdown extended, anxiety grips stranded migrant workers||With the nationwide lockdown extended till May 3, distress among migrant workers continued to grow, a non-government organisation report on Wednesday said, even as the Centre said the revised guidelines were aimed at reviving the rural economy and thus providing relief to the migrant workers. On Tuesday, close to 1,100 workers came out on the roads in Mumbai and Odisha wanting to return home. Similar protests on Wednesday were reported from Surat in Gujarat, Ludhiana in Punjab and Murshidabad in West Bengal, where workers sought permission to return to their villages.Workers in several states, such as Punjab, Telangana, Haryana and Odisha, said they would start walking back home shortly as the ration they have received is about to be exhausted and they do not have any money left. Some states, such as Odisha, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday announced fresh allocations of ration for the migrant workers and reviewed supplies of essential goods in labour camps even as the migrant workers seethed over the extension of the lockdown. Most state governments assured work for them after April 20, when industrial and construction activity will be allowed.Additional Secretary in the Home Ministry, Govind Mohan, said that no movement of migrant labourers is possible till May 3 as no public transport is permitted to operate during the lockdown period. The home ministry has provided funds under state disaster relief provisions to extend facilities at relief and shelter camps for labourers and will continue to extend support, Mohan said, adding that activities allowed by the revised guidelines are focused at helping the rural economy.According to a report released by the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), a group of volunteers monitoring migrant workers stranded across states, most of the distress calls received by the group were from Maharashtra, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi. “About 28% of those who have reached out to us are originally from Jharkhand, about a quarter are from Bihar and about 13 % are from Uttar Pradesh,” the report, prepared on the basis of conversations with 11,159 workers till April 13, said.The report said that since the lockdown was enforced from March 24, over 350 government orders have been issued by the Centre and the state governments detailing relief measures, including providing shelter and cooked meals.“Despite some meaningful state orders, the workers’ testimonies present a sombre picture,” the report said. It added that among the states from where stranded labourers have requested help, Karnataka has been most prompt and Maharashtra, most patchy.Maharashtra chief minister Uddav Thackeray said that the government has provided the best possible facilities to migrant workers considering that Mumbai is a hot spot of Covid-19. Health officials from Karnataka did not respond to queries.The report also said that around 50% of those who called the network of volunteers reported that there was food left only for a day and more than two-thirds said they have not received any ration from the government. About 78% of the stranded workers said they were running out of money and have not received salaries, the report said.The report quoted migrant workers from different parts of the country saying that the situation was turning dire for them and they plan to go back to their homes and asked the state governments to pay emergency relief of Rs 7,000 to each stranded migrant worker, double PDS ration for three months and pay wages to all enrolled MGNREGA workers.Three separate incidents of migrant workers trying to walk back to their homes in other states were reported from Hyderabad. All of them were sent back. “Due to various misgivings about the lockdown, the people are deciding to take up this Herculean task of returning to their far away native places by foot,” said Cyberabad police commissioner, VC Sajjannar.In Machhiwara town, near Punjab’s Ludhiana, about 150 migrants are stuck with no wages and no means of getting back to their homes. They live in dingy one room quarters away from their families. Infuriated over not getting paid, some of them called the police yesterday. “The factory owner has to pay Rs 25,000 to me and that is lot of money for me,” said Ravinder Yadav, a worker, claiming others were also waiting to get wages. Similarly, in Sherpur Kalan, an industrial area in Ludhiana, hundreds of migrants came on the roads on Wednesday and alleged they were not being provided ration by the administration. “We are living in hell. Struggling to get food and now the landlord has asked us to vacate,” said Jaikant Kumar, 26, another worker, who belongs to Sitamarhi in Bihar.Stranded in Gurugram, workers from Bihar have sought the help from the Bihar government to ensure their return home. “We are in trouble here and want to return to our village but we can’t find any means,” said Pankaj Rishi, a construction worker . According to Bihar government estimates, around 50,000 workers from Bihar are stranded in different states, such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.Nishant Kumar Pandey, 30, resident of Pandey Tola in Muzaffarpur district, working in a cloth manufacturing unit at Ahmedabad, said he wants to return as the factory has been closed indefinitely and the landlord has asked him to vacate the house. “My wife is pregnant and she was refused medical assistance in hospital emergency barely a week ago. I don’t have much money left and want to return home as there are no avenues of earning here,” he said.In Haryana, state government officials said that the migrant workers housed in various camps have shown no interest in the state’s offer to work as farm labourers as they want to go back to their homes. “We allowed them to work if they want but they did not show any interest and said that they want to go back to their homes,” said Panipat deputy commissioner Hema Sharma. The district officials said that the labourers have been advised to remain in the camp and not to leave the camp without permission. “Without trains or buses, they cannot go to their home state. It is better for them to stay here and earn their money,” said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav.Reports of workers’ distress also came from Odisha. In Odisha, Anil Rana, a migrant worker from Jharkhand, said that his family does not have money to buy even ration and that supplies provided by Odisha government would get over in a few days. “That [ration we got] is about to get exhausted in 2-3 days. After that, what will we do?” Rana asked. In the steel city of Rourkela, Shaym Mahato and 20 other workers from Chakradharpur area of Jharkhand, are desperate to go back home as they don’t have any work. “Once the ration gets over, we will all walk back to Chakradharpur,” he said. In Uttar Pradesh, there are still about 1.25 lakh workers in 5,200 shelter homes across the state, a fortnight after the state arranged buses to take many workers from Delhi border to their villages. UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, announced that the migrants in shelter homes who have completed the stipulated quarantine period would go through health screening once again and then will be sent home with an advisory for another 14-day quarantine at their homes. Kerala has no reported unrest among migrant workers after the second phase of lockdown was announced on Tuesday.(With input from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-lockdown-extended-anxiety-grips-stranded-migrant-workers/story-9H9uVSLLp3gDFFSAq0N1LJ.html
16-04-2020||India||BIS specifications for PPE kits call for virus-resistant material||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has released the national specifications for coveralls or bodysuits that healthcare workers need to wear while tending to patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Material used for the suits must be not only fluid-resistant but virus-resistant, said a BIS document.So far, the manufacturers have been making coveralls that are only fluid-resistant , following the guidelines laid down by the Union health ministry in an 11-page document on March 24.“The personal protective equipment kits were mostly imported before the Covid-19 crisis. When there was a global shortage of the protective gear, the health ministry, along with the textile ministry, looked at various material that can be used to make the PPE kits with respect to the disease we are dealing with. Once, the material was in place, manufacturers were identified,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said at a media briefing.With the new specifications in place, manufacturers have begun a search again for materials that can be both fluid- and virus-resistant and yet are “breathable” to ensure that doctors workings during the summer months without air conditioning are comfortable.“Initially, there was no clarity on what was needed, this is a very new disease and everybody is learning as they go {along}. However, after the health ministry guidelines came out, most manufacturers started using non-woven material and laminated it to make it fluid-resistant. But this lamination means that the material is not breathable,” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD).“... a lot of fast-paced research is happening and a few companies have found some breathable fabrics that just need to be certified.” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD).Nath added: “Now, to make the coveralls viral -resistant, the seams would have to be taped, or glued, or sealed with heat; however the technology to do so is not available in India. But the machine used for sealing leather with heat or a glue developed by the Defence Research Development Organisations is being tested.”The new specifications will also help in standardising quality.“So far, all the different state governments or institutes like AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences} had different specifications for purchasing the PPE kits as there were no details mentioned in the health ministry guidelines. Now, with these specifications the manufacturers can work towards achieving a fixed standard,” said Nath.To ensure that the PPE kits are of good quality, the government has now designated at least seven laboratories that can evaluate the kits. These labs check gloves for any leakages and tensile strength. The protective clothing is checked for the seam strength, resistance to fluids, resistance to punctures and tear and resistance to microbes. The masks and head-cover respirators are checked for functioning of inhalation and exhalation valves and field of vision, among other things.Trustin Analytical Solutions in Chennai has been approved for testing gloves, and SGS India Private Limited, another company based in the same city, has been approved for testing gloves, plastic-based products, protective clothing and respirators. The Rubber Research Institute of India has also been approved for testing rubber-based materials. This is apart from the four laboratories – the South India Textile Research Association, the Defence Research and Development Establishment, Heavy Vehicles Factory, and the Small Arms factory – that had already been designated by the ministry of textiles to perform such quality checks.“Our laboratory is NABL accredited and also recognised by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as a centre for testing medical devices. For the current need in PPE, we have been asked to test medical gloves,” said Mahendran M, owner of Trustin Analytical Solutions. NABL is short National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories.A certification from these bodies ensures that the PPE kits are safe to use.“However, the implementation is patchy. The manufacturers are required to get certified from these agencies to sell their product to HLL {Lifecare Ltd}, which is the agency procuring for the central government. However, different state government follow different specifications and they do not necessarily ask for the certification,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor of the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN).This is the case in Delhi, which had floated a tender for 120,000 PPE kits through the Central Procurement Agency in March.“This tender is being given to us as a piecemeal of about 3,000-4,000 kits a day. When we had floated the tender there were very few manufacturers who had come forward, and many did not necessarily have the certification. Even the ones with good products were not able to reach the only certification agency then – SITRA – in Tamil Nadu because of the lockdown. So, we started procuring the products after checking them for fluid-resistance ourselves,” said a senior Delhi government official.To test, water was poured into the body-suit to check for leaks. For the next batch of procurement, the government will purchase kits from manufacturers that are certified, in case there are enough such manufacturers, according to the official, who requested anonymity. “It is good that there is a national standard now, we have been procuring the PPE kits locally and there are several that do not match the health ministry standards. If all the kits already come certified from the government then we will not have to worry about the quality,” said a doctor from Lok Nayak Hospital on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bis-specifications-for-ppe-kits-call-for-virus-resistant-material/story-jESWvRdeuLsuksAeMVVqSI.html
16-04-2020||India||Bengal guv seeks Central forces to ensure lockdown; sparks row||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar again got into a war of words on Wednesday after the latter suggested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to consider requisitioning central paramilitary forces to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown in the state.“Lockdown protocol has to be thoroughly implemented to ward off #coronavirus. Police and administration @MamataOfficial failing to effect 100% #SocialDistancing or curbing religious congregations be shown door. Lockdown must succeed-examine central para forces requisitioning!” Dhankhar tweeted.TMC spokesman Snehasish Chakraborty said Dhankhar, who has been at loggerheads with the state government, has no work other than trying and disturbing the state government. “The Mamata Banerjee administration is completely preoccupied with responding to the unprecedented situation... and has no time to respond to someone behaving like a Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP] worker,” said Chakraborty.There have been reports of several gatherings, especially around markets, from places like Asansol, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Kolkata. In Murshidabad, hundreds gathered on Wednesday and blocked a road demanding relief material. In North Dinajpur district, dozens took to the streets to protest against the poor quality of food grains given as relief.The West Bengal police said they were taking additional measures to avoid large gatherings of people moving out of their homes to buy essentials. Drones were being used across the state to identify crowded places and lockdown violators. The police were also using microphones to urge people to stay indoors.A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 1,174 markets have been relocated to spacious areas so that social distancing could be maintained. “Areas of 963 markets have been expanded. There still are 256 markets that remain crowded. The administration is looking for suitable alternative places.”Mamata Banerjee has repeatedly said that she wants “a strict lockdown with a humane face”.Separately, BJP lawmaker John Barla has written to Union home minister Amit Shah alleging he has been placed under house arrest. “I was out to supervise relief work and supply of essentials to the needy but the police seized all items and told me I was supposed to stay home because the lockdown also applied to me,” Barla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-seeks-central-forces-to-ensure-lockdown-sparks-row/story-vU7qUFy87e3X0EvEIT3zrO.html
16-04-2020||India||Could virus have silently infected far more than reported, asks study||Scientists are increasingly turning to daily death data to estimate the size of the Covid-19 outbreak around the world, with one such model showing India possibly saddled with a far higher number of infections than reported.The projection, by researchers from the Imperial College London, underscores how the disease multiplies silently among populations, complicating efforts to cut off its spread especially at a time when authorities need a clear picture to be able to relax lockdowns.In the seven days starting March 22, the country is estimated to have had 16,800-23,600 true infections as opposed to the 2,395 that were reported, according to the short-term forecast. According to the researchers, the projections were based on the number of deaths and predicted that fatalities in the week ending on April 11 would likely be somewhere between 119 and 567. By last Saturday, the actual number of deaths reported was 288. As of Wednesday, India’s death toll stood at 423 and the total number of cases at 12,330.“We use the reported number of deaths due to Covid-19 to make these short-term forecasts as these are likely more reliable and stable over time than reported cases,” said the authors, including the team that came up with a crucial report on March 16 estimating the trajectory of the pandemic in a now-famous effort that is seen to have compelled the United Kingdom government to take strict measures.The need to use the fatalities parameter and work backwards is based on the assumption that Covid-19 deaths are more likely to be reported than cases, which may be missed for several reasons. “One of the issues is that cases with Covid-19 can present with a range of symptoms -- some of them for example are too mild to be reported, and hence cannot be tested,” said Sangeeta Bhatia, the lead researcher on the project, in an email interview to HT. “Another factor that contributes to the variability in reporting is the limited testing capacity in each country. Related to this limitation is the decision about whom to test. In the early stages of the outbreak, India, like many other countries, was testing only travellers from affected regions or contacts of travellers,” she added. This is particular worrying for India, where the strategy to contain cases hinges on putting in force a hard lockdown in hot spot areas, and opening some of the others up to stave off further economic devastation. On March 25, India was put under the world’s biggest lockdown that will now last till at least May 3, with some relaxations planned after April 20 in areas deemed relatively safe.The premise for the projections rests on ascertaining the true number of cases first by looking at the number of deaths in the previous two weeks and the number of reported cases in the 10 days prior to that period. “If we assume that all deaths due to Covid-19 are reported, then very roughly we can look at the expected number of fatalities based on the case fatality ratio, to estimate the number of underlying cases that would result in the observed number of deaths,” Bhatia said. The ratio between reported and underlying cases can then be used to predict the number of deaths in the following week. Using these trends, the report pegged India’s disease transmission rate – the average number of people infected further by one patient – at 3.11. This means that a Covid-19 patient on average was infecting three more people before the country was put under a nationwide lockdown. The number is closer to the worst-case scenario transmission rate of 4 identified by the Indian Council of Medical Research in modelling done in February. The best-case scenario, ICMR scientists told HT last week, was 1.5.For a disease to stop spreading, the transmission rate needs to reduce to less than 1.Fatality data has been similarly used by public health experts in the United States to estimate the trajectory of the Covid-19 epidemic and predict demand for hospital resources. A model by University of Washington’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation uses daily death data to calculate hospitalisation-to-death ratios, “which then inform the model parameters used for predicting hospital bed need”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-virus-have-silently-infected-far-more-than-reported-asks-study/story-APp7KcesUk5gWXVsvkZ6KN.html
16-04-2020||India||With 41 new positive cases, Rajasthan Covid count 1,046||The number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan went up to 1,046 on Wednesday as 41 people tested positive for the disease on the day when the state government announced that offices, industrial activities will resume fully in rural and partially in urban areas from April 20.A statement from chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s office said the resumption of the industrial activity will help migrant workers get work. It added industries with residential facilities for workers will be allowed to function in urban areas. The statement said orders have been issued to resume work in government offices partially in urban areas. In rural areas, government offices will open fully to facilitate agriculture works and procurement of farm produce. The Centre on Wednesday announced industries located in the countryside will reopen from April 20 while farm activities will also resume a day after the 21-lockdown imposed to check the pandemic was extended till May 3.Rohit Singh, additional chief secretary (health), said 28 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Jaipur on Wednesday, seven each from Jodhpur and Kota and one case each from Dausa, Nagaur, Tonk, and Jhunjhunu.Singh said 147 people have so far recovered and 74 have been discharged. He added of the total 37,860 samples taken for testing in Rajasthan, 31,902 have tested negative and 4,912 were being tested.Singh said the recovery rate in the state is between 14 and 15%. It was a bit higher earlier, touching 17% on April 1. But since then, there has been a sharp rise in the number of positive cases against those who have recovered and the rate has fallen. As of April 15, it stood at 14%.Rajasthan has the fourth-highest Covid-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Till April 9, Rajasthan had 500 cases. In four days, the figure has almost doubled.In Ramganj, one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the state, 82.5% of the samples taken have tested positive. Singh said that during random sampling, 345 of 418 samples have tested positive in Ramganj. He added a large number of cases have been reported because of aggressive testing.The health department is carrying out random sampling in Ramganj, which has been divided into 30 clusters. Authorities have sealed Ramganj and barred entry and exit of people from there as the government is trying to prevent community spread of the disease. Across the state, 430 doctors and nursing staff are in quarantine or home isolation..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-41-new-positive-cases-rajasthan-covid-count-1-046/story-ZVxsJVZm1MRJd3h0GBiW5I.html
16-04-2020||India||I&B secretary writes to ministries over payment of dues to media houses||Union information & broadcasting (I&B) ministry secretary Ravi Mittal has written to his counterparts in other ministries and requested them to pay up the amount owed to media houses (for ads), citing the financial pressure they are in on account of the ongoing lockdown. Various Union government ministries owe at least Rs 400 crore to media companies. Mittal’s intervention came on April 11, days before the 21-day lockdown imposed late last month was on Tuesday extended till May 3 to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total amount, 12 ministries owe around Rs 224 crore. According to information available with HT, the letters were sent to the ministries of telecommunications, sports, youth affairs, the departments of posts, electronics and IT, and the NITI Aayog, among others.In his letters to the secretaries -- HT has seen some of the letters -- Mittal cited the media’s role in supporting the government’s efforts in dealing with the pandemic while highlighting that their “financial health” was turning from bad to worse. “Newspapers have cut down their pages to unprecedented levels with many merging weekend supplements into the main edition[s]. Despite these measures, newspapers are losing money. Similarly, the FM Radio sector is also under stress due to low advertisement and stoppage of transport,” Mittal said in his letters. Mittal underlined that it is of vital importance that all payments due to the private media sector are made to enable them to pay their employees, keep their businesses afloat and prevent layoffs. “As you would appreciate, these media houses are also supporting the government’s efforts to communicate with its citizens during the current crisis arising due to COVID-19,” he wrote.Most ministries issue advertisements through the I&B ministry’s Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) ,which was formerly known as the Department of Audio Visual Publicity. After the publication of advertisements, the BOC receives payments from the concerned ministries for disbursal.The Union health and finance ministries have pending bills worth over Rs 81 crore. Other ministries that also owe substantial money to media houses include rural development, labour, human resource development, agriculture, tourism, and road transport and highways.Mittal wrote his letter days after the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) communicated to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 24 that while newspapers were going beyond the call of duty to spread awareness in the face of the global pandemic, they were in grave danger of turning sick. “You can imagine the devastating impact of these closures on the hundreds of employees and their families as well on the larger ecosystem including suppliers, printing presses, distribution mechanisms including newspaper vendors and delivery boys, etc,” lNS said in a letter, a copy of which HT has seen.The letter cited the “triple whammy” of the coronavirus, collapsing advertising and the customs duty on newsprint and said this has led to a situation where the newspaper industry was on the brink of collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-secy-writes-to-ministries-over-payment-of-dues-to-media-houses/story-B7kpJXaOkiwrcDnhlZtQKI.html
16-04-2020||India||170 districts in ‘red zone’, govt also lists 207 areas with Covid-19 clusters||Containment zones across between a fourth and half of India’s districts will not see any easing of lockdown restrictions after April 20. A letter from India’s health secretary Preeti Sudan to the chief secretaries of states lists 170 districts classified as hot spots, or in the “red zone” . It adds that 123 of these districts have seen large outbreaks of Covid-19 infections and 47, clusters . The letter, a copy of which has been seen by HT, also lists 207 more districts where there are “clusters” of infections. All other districts are in the “green zone” . The letter, sent on Wednesday, is significant because it comes after the home ministry issued an order explaining guidelines for easing lockdown restrictions after April 20, with the explicit rider that this would not apply in containment zones. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla subsequently wrote to the chief secretaries emphasising that permitted activities would not be allowed in “containment zones within hot spots, demarcated by the states/union territories/district administrations as per guidelines of the ministry of health”. He also made it clear that the states and UTs “cannot dilute restrictions imposed” through the guidelines but “can impose stricter restrictions” depending on the local requirement of the areas. HT has reviewed a copy of the letter.States have defined containment zones within districts, ranging in size from a single building to an entire city or the district itself. While many of the containment zones are likely to be in red zones, some are also in the districts with “clusters”. That’s because most states do not have a protocol for declaring containment zones. The health ministry letter defines hot spot districts as “high caseload districts” where the number of cases double in four days or less. It asks states to review the list every Monday on the basis of the preceding week’s data. It recommends “strict containment measures” in the hot spot districts and “containment measures” in other districts reporting clusters of infections. When there are no new cases of Covid-19 in such hot spot districts for 14 days, they transition to the “orange zone” according to the letter. And if there are no cases for 14 more days, the districts in the orange zone transition to the “green zone”, it added. “In the high-risk districts, the states have been directed to strictly implement measures meant to contain large outbreaks and cluster containment. For those districts in the green zone, our effort will be directed at ensuring that the disease doesn’t spread there, for which states have been asked to go for extensive community engagement, and strict monitoring of influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) ,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.Defining for the first time what a cluster and outbreak scenario mean, the health ministry said that fewer than 15 cases make for a cluster and more than 15 cases mean it is a local outbreak.“We have also told states that besides the hot spots identified by the Centre, states which are fighting the battle at field level may declare additional districts as hot spot districts and take required action accordingly. The ministry has come out with a detailed action plan for containment measures, and states have also been asked to create a district-specific crisis management plan to actively search for cases that should include door-to-door screening and testing of symptomatic ILI (influenza-like illnesses) and SARI cases,” he added.In his letter, Sudan requested the chief secretaries to use the extended lockdown to convert the hots pots (red) to “orange, and in turn, green zones”. The letter also directed the chief secretaries to the health ministry’s containment plan, detailed on April 2.  According to the plan, a hot spot will be split into zones: a quarantine or containment zone and a buffer zone around it. For both zones, access– particularly outbound travel – will be cut off and all movement of vehicles and public transport will be halted. People will be encouraged to stay indoors for the first 28 days in both zones, the document states, adding: “based on the risk assessment and indication of successful containment operations, an approach of staggered work and market hours may be put into practice.”These measures will be paired with increased disease surveillance: more random tests on hospitalised cases, testing of all suspected cases, isolation of patients and quarantine of contacts. The ministry also said that India was doing far better than other countries in terms of checking the spread of disease. “Our recovery rate is also improving; based on data as on date, 11.41% have recovered, and this figure is increasing,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/170-districts-in-red-zone-govt-also-lists-207-areas-with-covid-19-clusters/story-lXj4g8PWb14El6yx4ktdDI.html
16-04-2020||India||Two firms begin production of antibody rapid test kits in India||New Delhi Two of the three Indian manufacturers of antibody-based Rapid Test Kits (RTKs) for Covid-19 have begun production after the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the national regulatory body for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, issued manufacturing licenses.The move comes at a time when the RTKs that the Indian government ordered from China and which were supposed to arrive first by April 5, then April 9 and finally by Wednesday, have still not reached.Earlier this month, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) validated samples of RTKs manufactured by three companies, Vanguard Diagnostics in New Delhi, the state-owned HLL Lifecare Limited in Kerala and Voxtur Bio Limited in Gujarat, following which they applied for, and received, their manufacturing licenses. While HLL and Voxtur have begun production — the former expects to deliver its first batch of 100,000 RTKs by April 20 — Vanguard aims to start production within three weeks.These kits are in great demand because unlike the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests currently in use, which take up to five hours to throw up a result, RTKs provide results in 30 minutes. However, ICMR’s protocol requires a confirmatory RT-PCR test to back up a negative RTK result. Public sector company HLL Lifecare Limited, known for its production of popular condom brand Nirodh, began producing RTKs in its Manesar, Haryana plant on April 14. It aims to ready its first batch of 100,000 kits by April 20.“We have just started [manufacturing the kits] after receiving the approval from CDSCO on Monday [April 13]. We have the capacity to produce 100,000 testing kits in a week. We will be supplying directly to the ICMR,” a senior executive at the company said on condition of anonymity. .The executive added that some of the material needed to manufacture the RTKs is imported from the US. “As of now we are comfortably placed in terms of stock… We are trying to scale up but there are several logistical issues. We import our raw material, but not from China. We import raw material from a US company.” “We have started production. We are planning to make 25,000 kits a day,” E A Subramanian, director of technical operations of the HLL Lifecare added.Surat-based Voxtur Bio Ltd is using indigenously manufactured raw material to develop the kits. “We have got nothing to do with China or any other country; we are manufacturing the kits and the raw material required to develop the kits indigenously. We have the capacity to produce 10 million kits a month, and we can double it if required. But we have to look for vendors, distributors and manage other logistics, so it takes about 10-12 days to start the production from the day you get the licence,” said Khushroo Pastakia, CEO and managing director, Voxtur.He did not specify the quantities of kits currently under production.Vanguard is putting processes in place to produce RTKs in large numbers. “We haven’t started manufacturing yet as we are internally getting ready for production. If all goes well then we should be able to start production in the next two to three weeks. There’s a lot of demand for rapid test kits, and everyone is working hard to ensure that the kits are produced in India. In my opinion, during the next few weeks many other manufacturers will also be ready,” said Veena Kohli, CEO of Vanguard Diagnostics Limited said.The list of manufacturers is a dynamic one: the CDSCO provides licenses as and when the ICMR validates sample kits. In all, ICMR has validated 13 RTKs, of which four are made by Indian manufacturers. This includes antibody test kits of Indian vendors with Chinese suppliers. Chennai-based CPC Diagnostics received the go ahead from both ICMR and CDSCO to import Chemi Luminescence Immuno Assay or CLIA-based antibody detection kits, which are not the same as RTKs, but close — the CLIA kit also requires a specific instrument to conduct the antibody test. These kits, which CPC has been sourcing from YHLO, a Shenzen, China based company, are also used to perform other kinds of tests, including fertility and thyroid tests , and thus several accredited labs in the country already possess them, a company spokesperson said. “By using this system a laboratory can test 100 samples per hour,” he added. The company expects to receive the supply of the CLIA-based antibody test kits this week. The order was placed at least two weeks ago, and the delay is due to a number of factors the spokesperson said. “The government of India has been following due process in validating and approving kits. This process takes time. The restriction on air traffic has been a major reason for delay of receiving test kits and sending them for approval. This factor will continue to delay supplies. Currently the world demand being large it will be difficult for us to obtain the entire quantity of kits we require in a short period.” China recently restricted export of its supplies of antibody test kits to a few companies following quality control concerns raised by different European countries.Mumbai-based Lab Care, which has a manufacturing facility in Gujarat also received ICMR approval for its RTK, but it is yet to receive its manufacturing license. “We have applied for a manufacturing license, and expect to receive it within 10 days,” said Ravi Chadha, director, Lab Care. Chadha said the company can make between 125,000 to 150,000 kits every day. Lab Care imports its raw material from China, and finding new suppliers would involve new ICMR approvals. What’s more, it cannot stock raw material till it receives its manufacturing license. “For the Chinese to dispatch raw material is a task given the current situation. And even once the raw material is sent from China to Delhi , transporting that to the manufacturing unit will be a challenge,” he said.With inputs from Snehal Vivienne Fernandes and Dhamini Ratnam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-firms-begin-production-of-antibody-rapid-test-kits-in-india/story-zSj1RKKKFKwKAKTl7VlifJ.html
16-04-2020||India||Only 2 people allowed in private cars on essential run||Private vehicles will be allowed on the roads in emergency situations provided they aren’t carrying more than one passenger, who will be seated in the back. Two-wheelers will be allowed to ply, but without anyone riding pillion, the home ministry said in guidelines released on Wednesday for the extended Covid-19 lockdown. “These specific norms will come into effect from April 20. In some parts of Delhi/NCR these rules were being implemented. There will be strict checking on the number of passengers in a car. As the guidelines clearly state, only one more person will be allowed. It will be enforced across all states,” a senior government official said. Before Wednesday’s notification, there had been no guidelines for private vehicles plying during medical emergencies; they have been allowed on the road in exigencies and for picking up essential supplies.The guidelines will not be applicable to areas within a Covid-19 containment zone, where all traffic will be prohibited, the official said on condition of anonymity.Special flights ferrying medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives and catering to hospital support services will also be allowed during the lockdown lasting until May 3. “So far, we are only operating cargo flights; the ministry will be working with the home ministry to cater for any special flights for medical personnel,” a civil aviation ministry official said.Movement of all trucks and other cargo vehicles, with two drivers and one helper, subject to the drivers carrying valid driving licenses; will be allowed. Empty trucks and other goods vehicle will be allowed to ply after the delivery of goods, or for pick-up of goods.Vehicles used by e-commerce companies and courier services will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions if they are used in the transport of essential goods.All passenger flights, trains and metro rail services have been suspended by the Centre until May 3. Only cargo operations by land, sea and air have been allowed since the announcement of the lockdown on March 24 which took effect the following day. “Movement of staff and contractual labour for operations of railways, airports/ air carriers, seaports/ ships/ vessels, landports and ICDs is allowed on passes being issued by the local authority on the basis of authorizations issued by the respective designated authority of the railways, airports, seaports, landports and ICDs,” the guidelines state.The ministry of civil aviation has launched a service called “Lifeline Udan” for transport of medical cargo across the country. So far, 277 flight have been operated. To step up cargo operations, Indian Railways, in addition to running freight trains for supplies of essential commodities, has also begun parcel trains to increase supply of essential items like medical supplies, medical equipment and groceries in small parcel sizes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-2-people-allowed-in-private-cars-on-essential-run/story-3sBm1uQH7FhUlSh1exzK6N.html
16-04-2020||India||Amendment to Factories Act to extend work hours unlikely: Officials||A recommendation by senior civil servants to extend the work hours of employees at companies selling essential foods and groceries to reduce their staff requirement is unlikely to be implemented immediately, officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Government top brass, while accepting most of the suggestions by the empowered group of secretaries, is unlikely to consider amendments proposed to the Factories Act at this juncture because of multiple reasons.The note of the secretaries, recommending 12-hour shifts in factories, said: “The additional 4 hours a day will be paid as overtime subject to an overtime limit of 24 hours per week...This would allow {factories} to run the majority of operations for 6 days with a reduction of close to 33% of people passing through the facility on a daily basis.”Officials said the proposal hasn’t moved forward because the government wants to focus primarily on the rejuvenation of the agri and rural sector. A senior official also added that the proposal is not under consideration as any move to amend the Factories Act when thousands of workers are stuck in heir homes because of the lockdown for the coronavirus disease and living through uncertain times will send a wrong political signal.“The focus should be to give opportunities to as many workers as possible,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amendment-to-factories-act-to-extend-work-hrs-unlikely-officials/story-CSuGFA7IajUKudzVAYmNWJ.html
16-04-2020||India||In relief to truckers, govt opens highway repair shops, dhabas||Truck repair shops and eateries located alongside highways will be allowed to reopen to serve truck drivers stuck across state border since the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went underway on March 25, providing a degree of relief to transporters, who on Wednesday sought an economic relief package.The ministry of home affairs on Wednesday issued guidelines to the effect, coming to the rescue of truckers stranded en route because of strict enforcement of the lockdown although cargo vehicles carrying essential supplies have been exempted from the restrictions. The closure of truck repairers and eateries has proved to be an additional inconvenience.Movement of all trucks and other goods carriers, with two drivers and one helper, subject to the drivers carrying a valid driving license, will be allowed, the guidelines said, a day after the lockdown was extended until May 3. Empty trucks will be allowed to ply after delivery of goods or for picking up goods.Following the release of the home ministry guidelines, transporters reached out to the government, seeking an economic relief package to bring back workers and resolve supply chain hurdles.They also sought clarity on the opening of booking offices and warehouses for loading and unloading goods.“We welcome the fresh guidelines as allowing the movement of all goods carriers will ease some pressure on the sector, especially for those whose vehicles loaded with non-essential goods that are stranded.. But there are still many challenges. There is no clarity on opening of booking offices, godowns, factories and warehouses and unless that is resolved it will remain a challenge to unload loaded goods and book goods,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of the All India Motor Transport Congress.“The transport sector is one of the worst affected sectors with {the proportion of} idle vehicles reaching above 90%. More than 20 crore people are directly and indirectly dependent on this sector. The government needs to give immediate stimulus for this sector so that it continues to drive the economy,” Atwal said.Transporters have sought a social security cover of Rs 15,000 per month from the Centre for workers engaged in the supply chain. They have also sought loans at low rate of interest for working capital.“Amid the prevailing uncertainty, the next two quarters would be extremely critical and nightmarish for the road transport sector as poor consumption will lead to weak demand and hence less transportation activity. It will take about six or more months to revive production and consumption in the country and to get transportation activity to reach an average level. Social Security for the people engaged in the supply chain has been a long pending demand..,” Singh said.The Centre is also considering a demand for providing a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for those engaged in the supply chain. “A decision on the demand for insurance cover will be taken soon,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity.According to fleet management firm LocoNav, the daily average movement of trucks and distance covered has dropped to 20% during the lockdown. “We are hopeful of it recovering marginally now after the MHA guidelines. Depending on the drivers and availability of labour we are hoping supply movement picks up to 40% now,” said Shridhar Gupta ,co- founder, LocoNav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-relief-to-truckers-govt-opens-highway-repair-shops-dhabas/story-XGuG3yuEbNWPZpIYziUIZM.html
16-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Bengal allows jute mills to operate with 15% labour, industry says unsustainable||The West Bengal government on Wednesday decided to allow the jute industry to operate with 15 per cent of its regular workforce during the lockdown after several requests from the Centre.Industry captains, however, said that most mills would be unwilling to start operations because working with 15 per cent of the workforce would mean higher losses than keeping the mills shut. They also apprehend law and order problem among workers over choosing this small number from among them.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “I have received a call from union textile minister Smriti Irani and also from Maharashtra and Telangana, requesting that the mills be allowed to operate. The harvest season in our state has approached too. If we don’t allow operations now, plastic may take up jute’s place.”Follow coronavirus latest updates here.However, while Irani in a letter to the chief minister on April 13 had requested to allow at least 18 jute mills – the letter had also named the 18 mills identified by the ministry – with 25 per cent of their regular workforce, Banerjee on Wednesday allowed all mills to operate.“It will be injustice to allow only 18 mills to operate. So, we are allowing all the mills, with 15 per cent of their regular workforce on alternative days, given that they maintain all protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks and use of hand sanitizers,” the chief minister said.The mills have been shut since the lockdown was announced last month.Bengal has 60 jute mills that directly employ about 200,000 people. Mills on average employ 3,000 people. Hastings Jute Mill in Hooghly district, for example, has 4,338 workers on its roll.Industry captains said running mills with only 15 per cent of the workforce is not sustainable. “We are waiting for the written communication from the state government but we can say that mills would run into losses if they are to work with only these much of the workers, as the tariff for our main produce gunny bags is fixed,” said Raghavendra Gupta, chairman of Indian Jute Mills Association. According to the owner of a jute mill, 15 per cent workforce is required only for maintenance purpose. “The cost of running the mills and paying wages would be far higher than the income from the produces, as very little amount of production would ultimately take place,” said a jute mill owner who did not want to be identified. Another mill owner said, “Nearly 80 per cent of a mills’ workforce live in the vicinity. Choosing only 15 per cent from among them could lead to law and order troubles.” A senior labour department official, however, ruled out the apprehension of law and order problem. “When chief minister said ‘every alternate day’, she meant the workforce, not functioning of the mills. So, in effect, 30 per cent of the workers would be engaged, each getting work every alternate day.” Earlier, after the Centre had received requests from the governments of Punjab and Telangana as well as FCI for urging Bengal to let the mills start operation immediately, E K Majhi, additional secretary in the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution wrote to West Bengal chief secretary, stating that “It is of utmost importance that jute mills immediately resume their operations for manufacturing/dispatch of jute bales to meet the requirements of the State Procurement Agencies/FCI.”“I shall, therefore, earnestly request your indulgence to direct jute mills to immediately start manufacturing/supply of jute bales so that during the peak procurement period, procurement operations of government are not disrupted due to a shortage of jute bags,” the letter said.Bengal had then turned down the Centre’s request, with chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, saying that the state would not act on the basis of a letter from the textile ministry when the lockdown was announced by the Union home ministry.On Wednesday, the state government also allowed brick kilns to function with 15 per cent of the workforce, work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guaranty Act, work for housing scheme for the poor and small industrial clusters ‘on case to case basis’. The government has already allowed the tea gardens to operate with 15 per cent of the workforce. Banerjee said that in every sector workers will have to follow social distancing and use masks and hand sanitisers.According to the state’s bulletin published on Wednesday, the number of active Covid-19 cases stood as 137. The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MHFW) put the cumulative number of people testing positive for Covid at 213. Seven persons have died and 37 have recovered or have been released, the MHFW said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-bengal-allows-jute-mills-to-operate-with-15-labour-industry-says-unsustainable/story-l3tftAHir9rZ9ig7xsEDXI.html
16-04-2020||India||Elusive 4G internet adds to lockdown woes of J&K students||At a time when the education department has started online classes for students across Jammu and Kashmir since March 26, high-speed 4G internet remains elusive across the Union territory.The 4G service was snapped here on August 4 last year, a day before the BJP-led central government had revoked Article 370.On January 24 this year, the UT administration had restored internet connectivity, but with “obsolete and archaic” 2G network.The Supreme Court had on April 9 asked the J&K administration and Centre to respond to a plea seeking directions to restore 4G internet in the UT, in view of the prevailing pandemic.However, many students in Jammu and Srinagar told HT over the phone that the low-speed 2G network was playing a spoilsport in their e-studies.“Though there is no substitute to classroom teaching where concepts are clarified and understood in a better way, 2G network is adding to our woes,” said Madhu Gupta, a student of a private school in Jammu city.She added, “Schools have been sending assignments on e-care portals, but the slow-paced 2G network renders us helpless and sulking.”Rupin Gupta, another student from the city, said, “Not everyone has a broadband facility at home and majority of the people are relying on mobile internet. Jammu region is constantly being punished by the BJP government for no fault of its people.”Furqan Ali, a 23 year old youth from Srinagar, said that 2G network was a cruel joke on millions of students across the UT. “The administration gives us lame excuses that restoration of 4G network may lead to terror attacks, and keeps denying the law abiding citizens their fundamental rights. Not everyone is a terrorist in J&K,” he remarked.School education department director Anuradha Gupta said that on March 26, a day after the lockdown began, they switched over to other modes of communication like online classes, TV, radio, conference calls etc for keeping the schoolchildren abreast with their studies. “Schools heads and teachers were also roped in to help the students using these modes,” she added.Meanwhile, the home department has decided to continue 2G internet services in the UT till April 27. TThe 2G mobile internet services has been extended in Jammu and Kashmir till April 27 for postpaid and only verified prepaid SIM, according to an order issued by the home department secretary Shaleen Kabra.“The postpaid SIM card holders shall continue to be provided access to the internet but these services shall not be made available on prepaid SIM cards unless verified as per the norms applicable for postpaid connections,” the order said.The order attributed the decision of not restoring 4G internet to “social media applications that are used for the circulation of photographs of terrorists of proscribed terror organisations, mobilising crowds and spike in terror attacks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elusive-4g-internet-adds-to-lockdown-woes-of-j-k-students/story-ZPiCNcjvXGd6qjU0Y5SuVO.html
16-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu dairy farmers face uncertainty in lockdown||In the highly competitive milk industry where it is common for private companies to woo farmers at higher prices than the government-fixed rate, the new normal for S Arokyasamy, secretary of Vetri, a dairy Farmer Producer Company (FPC) in Krishnagiri district, is a distinct loss of advantage. In the past 10 days, Vetri has struggled to find buyers for the 1300 litres of milk produced daily by its 160-member farmers. Many of Vetri’s clients — a bulk of which are small dairy shops, hotels, restaurants, factory canteens and colleges — have shut shop because of the lockdown that’s now extended to May 3. In fact, nearly half of the 20.6 million litres of milk produced each day by the state’s 2.5 million dairy farmers is bought by the unorganised sector, like Vetri’s clients and even milkmen who supply non pasteurised milk to households. Co-operatives and private sector companies buy close to 37% of it. Unlike vegetable farmers, dairy farmers do not have the option of delaying the harvest or storing it for a day or two given the perishability of milk, which is why getting a good rate for their product is essential. Quite like the commodities market, prices fluctuate daily. And the season has just begun.“Summer is usually the most profitable period for us as demand skyrockets. That’s when private companies pay a significant premium. Now, with most private companies shut, our only option is to sell at whatever price the companies offer. On top of that the price of cattle feed has increased during the lockdown. It’s a double whammy for us,” Arokyasamy said.The price of cattle feed like gram husk has gone up by a third in the lockdown and now sells at Rs 1250 per quintal; steep for diary farmers who haven’t even been able to make a sale.However, not everyone’s having a bad season. The state owned Aavin — a brand run by the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation (TCMPF) — has ramped up procurement at Rs 31 per litre, the rate fixed by the state, and has also added close to 25,000 more farmers into their network comprising 210 cooperatives. TCMPF has increased its daily procurement by up to 7% or roughly 200,000 litres, according to K Gopal, secretary, animal husbandry, Tamil Nadu. The government now buys close to 3.5 million litres a day. “The government policy is to ensure that neither the farmers nor consumers get affected during the crisis. The dairy development department is creating hundreds of new village co-operative societies and enlisting as many farmer members as we can in double quick time,” Gopal said.Earlier private players would lure farmers away from state co-operatives by paying them anywhere between Rs 5-8 a litre more than Aavin. Now, they don’t have to. Milky Mist, an Erode-based dairy firm and the country’s largest producer of cheese and paneer, has increased procurement by 50% to 600,000 litres a day with its supplier network ballooning from 47,000 farmers to 60,000 in just a few days during the lockdown. Earlier, they would procure milk at a rate at least Rs 2-3 higher than the government rate. Milky Mist now buys milk at Rs 31 a litre, benchmarked to Aavin’s price. Founded by T Sathish Kumar, a 44-year-old first generation entrepreneur in 2018, the company doesn’t sell milk. It sells value-added products such as cheddar, cottage and mozzarella cheese that have a long shelf life. Thus, it can afford to buy milk in vast quantities at prices lower than usual. It also has the capacity to process one million litres of milk a day. “We can absorb additional supplies because all our logistics infrastructure such as refrigerated tankers are owned by us. With grocery shops delivering at consumers’ doorsteps efficiently in the state, we are witnessing a big spike in home consumption demand,” said Kumar. Aavin cannot lower its procurement price like private players, but because it is owned by the government it has an advantage others don’t possess in the lockdown. All its outlets and parlours are open for trade as usual. In the absence of competition, its milk sales have increased by 150,000 litres a day, and the household consumption of value-added products such as palkova, a milk-based sweetmeat, butter and paneer have shot up. Aavin is using the opportunity to expand into the suburbs of Chennai’s satellite towns — a delivery van now visits at least 15 new suburbs.“Since private companies have abandoned farmers, we have filled the vacuum. This is a hugely competitive market. The private players with huge advertising and marketing budgets, and the ability to pay higher procurement prices ate into our market share. Now, we are using this as an opportunity to expand our market,” said S Vallalar, managing director, Aavin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tamil-nadu-dairy-farmers-milked-dry-in-lockdown/story-MuiIUa6akVi4tAAqYMCmoL.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nagaland records first Covid-19 positive case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nagaland records first Covid-19 positive case; patient admitted in AssamNagaland recorded its first case of Covid-19 with a patient admitted in Assam’s Guwahati testing positive for the coronavirus on Sunday.Read MoreCoronavirus in India: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihoodA day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of striking a balance between lives and the world, the government intensified its effort to find the policy mix to implement this framework. This included the process of finalising guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions, and restarting certain economic activities once the three-week lockdown ends on April 14.Read More‘Didn’t go to his village, for the sake of the city’In the fight against the contagious coronavirus disease, some people have been tirelessly putting themselves at risk, working round the clock to keep the wheels of life moving. One such person is vegetable vendor Dhananjay Gupta who hawks his wares in the residential neighbourhood of Green Park in south Delhi . People peep out their windows and greet him from the balconies when he arrives, loudly announcing what the has for sale.Read More‘I sketch a lot these days, it takes my mind away from negative thoughts’Top athletes are devising their own ways of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Yashasvi Jaiswal, the talented opener from Mumbai who was the top run-scorer and player of the tournament in the recently-concluded ICC U-19 World Cup in South Africa, says he sketches a lot.Read MoreJanhvi Kapoor performs Aishwarya Rai’s Salaam in throwback videoJanhvi Kapoor has been missing her dance classes as she remains confined to her residence amid lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak, but hinted that she can practise at home as well. The actor shared a video of her performing to the song Salaam from Aishwarya Rai’s film Umrao Jaan.Read MoreApple shares more details of its Covid-19 contact tracing techApple and Google last week announced it is working together to develop contact tracing technology for Covid-19. This will be rolled out in two stages with the first one launching in May. Apple has now shared more details with The Verge on how the contact tracing tech will work.Read More‘NHS saved my life’: UK PM Boris Johnson after being discharged UK Prime Minister was discharged from hospital on Sunday. Boris Johnson had contracted Covid-19, & been hospitalised on April 5. He had also spent some time in the ICU when his condition worsened. UK has reported over 78,000 Covid-19 cases so far, as per WHO. UK has had over 9,000 deaths due to the Coronavirus disease so far. Watch the full video for more.Flotsam, jetsam: Unusual treasures found on the beachFrom ‘Lego Spills’ to thousands of floating rubber duckys, Rachel Lopez writes about the many ‘treasures’ the sea washes onto the shore.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nagaland-records-first-covid-19-positive-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gGP5tphoXXqwPxKspmMHdN.html
16-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: May this Easter give us strength to overcome Covid-19, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘May this Easter give us added strength to overcome Covid-19’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday wished the country on Easter, hoping the occasion “gives us strength to overcome coronavirus disease Covid-19”.Read MoreOne in every 25 Covid-19 patients in Delhi is a health care workerOne in every 25 people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi is a health care worker, with at least 42 doctors, nurses or hospital staff infected, according to data from the state health department — a statistic that once again highlights the risks faced by front-line responders and concerns over adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) kits.Read More‘My boys are scared, but I cannot say no to work; it needs meIn the fight against the contagious Covid-19, public servants have been working round the clock, sometimes even breaking the clock, to keep the wheels of the government moving. Delhi resident Ranjita Vimal, an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) is one such individual. Every day the 40-year-old turns down her teenaged sons’ plea asking her not to go to work.Read MoreCommunication is key in this war against the virus | OpinionCommunication with family and friends alleviates loneliness for those alone in isolation, and for those with some company, it relieves the strain of living in close proximity day after day. This strain must be partially responsible for the rise in domestic violence that the British police have been reporting since the lockdown started. Communication strengthens our mutual resolve to fight the virus, writes Mark Tully.Read MoreCSK physio lifts lid on ‘determined’ MS Dhoni’s World Cup preparationsChennai Super Kings’ physio Tommy Simsek has revealed that skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni is ‘determined’ to seal a spot in India’s squad for ICC T20 World Cup later this year.Read MoreBamfaad review: Aditya Rawal and Shalini Pandey’s romance implodesIn his directorial debut, Bamfaad, Ranjan Chandel manages to capture the old-world charm of Allahabad - not Prayagraj, but Ilahabad -- as the locals would say. It is the perfect setting for dramatic young love, but Aditya Rawal and Shalini Pandey’s romance is not quite the explosive and heady passion that it promises to be.Read MoreEaster Sunday: Google adds Easter egg to Search, Easter bunny to 3D animals collectionEaster Sunday is being celebrated a little differently this year with people indoors due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Google, as expected, has something for Easter Sunday where it has added virtual Easter eggs for searches related to it.Read More Delicious, delightful meals to enjoy with your friends and family this EasterA traditional Easter meal includes dishes such as lamb pie, classic devilled eggs, au gratin potatoes, Easter breakfast casserole, hot cross buns and more. In India, an Easter spread usually features popular regional dishes along with traditional European treats.Read MoreDelhi: Fire in shelter home, pelting reported near Kashmere Gate amid lockdownA major fire broke out at a shelter home in the national capital of New Delhi. A shelter home near Kashmere Gate went up in flames. No casualties were reported in the mishap. Meanwhile, reports suggested stone pelting at the spot. Watch the video for more detailsTelangana to promote students from Class 1 to 9 of all public, private schoolsTelangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao announced that students from Class 1 to 9 of all public and private schools in the state will be promoted to the next class.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-may-this-easter-give-us-added-strength-to-overcome-covid-19-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8NRJrk68h81Z4FNGYjVIQI.html
