17-04-2020||India||Telangana, Andhra together register over 100 positive Covid-19 cases in a single day||The two Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh together reported more than 100 positive Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall combined number of cases in both states to over 1300.There were 66 new positive cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh reported 38 new cases. The total number of cases in Telangana went up to 766 and in Andhra Pradesh to 572. There were no new deaths from any part of the Telugu states – the toll continues to remain at 18 in Telangana and 14 in Andhra.According to a bulletin from the Telangana medical and health department, as many as 186 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals so far, whereas the bulletin from the Andhra Pradesh government said 35 patients have recovered from the disease till now.In Telangana, the capital city of Hyderabad accounts for the maximum number of positive cases – 286, besides 131 patients already discharged. Suryapet district is in second place with 44 positive cases, followed by 42 in Nizamabad (besides 16 discharged). As many as 33 cases were reported in Vikarabad, 21 in Warangal (Urban), 19 in Jogulamba, 18 in Ranga Reddy and 17 in Nirmal.The Telangana government has appealed to the people to reach out and report to the nearest government health facility in case they had travelled to Markaz, Delhi or had contacted any person who had travelled to Delhi’s Nizamuddin.In Andhra Pradesh, Guntur and Kurnool accounted for 126 cases each, followed by 64 in Nellore, 42 in Prakasam, 34 in West Godavari, 28 in Chittoor, 26 in Anantapur and 20 in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-together-register-over-100-positive-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day/story-WVhh3RyVpqQ4GKe9EHQu7H.html
17-04-2020||India||Bengal: Second BJP MP booked under Disaster Act||West Bengal Police have booked a second Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP under sections of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disrupting the administration’s work during the Covid-19 lockdown. On Friday, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee administration for obstructing parliamentarians from carrying out their duties. Dhankhar said this “major misconduct is under scrutiny for exemplary action” and tagged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in his tweet. Alipurduars MP John Barla, who on April 14 had written to Union home minister Amit Shah, alleging that he had been put under ‘house arrest’, was booked under Section 51 of the DMA (punishment for obstruction) and Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). The FIR against Barla has been lodged at Birpara police station in Alipurduars district. On April 14, police in Bankura district had booked BJP MP Subhas Sarkar under sections 54 of DMA, 188 and 501 (1)(b) of the IPC, for allegedly spreading alarming and fake news. Party MP Arjun Singh, too, has alleged that the state administration did not allow him to carry out relief work for the people in need. Responding to this series of incidents, Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on Friday, “Concerned at politically motivated actions meted out to MPs @Drsubhassarkar @johnbarlabjp @ArjunsinghWB @RajuBistaBJP by police and administration @MamataOfficial in overzealous mode Flagged issue @loksabhaspeaker. This major misconduct is under scrutiny for exemplary action.”“Those so engaged are in for serious consequences. Such political alignment will not be overlooked. State officials must disable political affinity,” Dhankhar wrote in the following tweet.Earlier during the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while addressing the media, had said that some people were playing politics even during the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-second-bjp-mp-booked-under-disaster-act/story-Yl8hWHqgBC5TK8AwHyA6jM.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 15 new cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi; total count at slum is 101||At least 15 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi on Friday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the Mumbai slum to 101. According to latest data that came in on Friday evening, 10 Covid-19 patients have died in Dharavi so far.A, 62-year-old man was declared dead at Sion Hospital on Friday. Three new cases each were found in the Matunga labour camp, Muslim Nagarand, Indira Nagar, two at Social Nagar and one each at Dr Baliga Nagar, Laxmi chawl, Janata society and Sarvoday Society on Friday, a BMC official said.Of the total number of cases, 21 cases were recorded in Muslim Nagar, followed by 18 in Mukund Nagar and 10 in Social Nagar.On Thursday, Dharavi saw its highest spike in the number of coronavirus-positive patients, with 26 new cases. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, following which there has been a rapid surge in the number of positive cases, which may soon pose a grim challenge for civic authorities. Coronavirus cases are climbing steadily in the area and there are fears that the number of cases could be higher as many people with symptoms may not have been tested yet.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North Ward said. “Till date we have screened 33,000 patients and marked 34 containment zones with six red zones. We are screening almost all high risk and low risk contacts of the patients. We are working on a target basis hence the numbers of patients are increasing.”The slums in Dharavi are spread over an area of more than 240 hectares and house around 8.5 lakh residents. With a population density of 66,000 people per square kilometre, it is one of the most congested areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-15-new-cases-emerge-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-total-count-at-slum-is-101/story-mTu4YgB1gRVjCM7qpteWoL.html
17-04-2020||India||Violating lockdown norms for 1,700km, 49 migrants reach Maharajganj||Forty-nine migrant workers, all residents of Maharajganj district in Uttar Pradesh, travelled around 1,700 km in a truck from Pune to their native place Kolhui in the district, blatantly flouting the nationwide lockdown norms that is in force since March 25.Superintendent of police, Maharajganj, Rohit Singh Sajwan said over phone that during checking on the highway on Friday morning, policemen saw a moving truck covered with tarpaulin. The truck had a Maharashtra number and a slip pasted on the windscreen wherein it was written ‘Essential Services’.On suspicion, the policemen stopped it at barrier and asked the driver to remove the tarpaulin and, to their surprise, found 49 migrant workers seated inside, Sajwan said. The policemen then informed senior officers about the truck and the migrants.The police seized the truck and arrested the driver while the migrants were quarantined in the nearby Bhagirathpur Inter College.The police have also lodged an FIR against the owner of the truck and informed the Maharashtra police about the incident. A probe has been ordered as to how the truck moved from distant Pune to Maharajganj during the lockdown, Sajwan said.Forty-eight migrant labourers are natives of Badhara Shivnath, Jamhurakala Belwa, Gujarwaliya, Baikniha, Chapwa and Mainyahwa villages in Maharajganj district while one labourer is a resident of a village bordering Nepal.“The migrants wanted to be sent to their respective villages but the police team took them to the quarantine facility. They were served food and given medicines,” said station house officer Ram Sahay Chauhan.The migrants had left Pune for Maharajganj on April 14 night crossing Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and several districts of UP before they reached Maharajganj on Friday morning. A migrant labour named Shiv said they worked in a factory in Pune. During the lockdown period they managed to live on their meagre savings and food till April 14. When the lockdown was extended till May 3, they decided to leave for home. They contacted their factory owner, who provided the truck to transport them to their villages, he said.The migrants said around Rs 3 lakh was spent on the truck fare, fuel, food and other items that they have to pay back to the owner once they return to Pune after the lockdown, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violating-lockdown-norms-for-1-700km-49-migrants-reach-maharajganj/story-WWT8UtcF7YXKdHxIs4KmFK.html
17-04-2020||India||Delhi registers 67 new Covid-19 cases, capital’s count climbs to 1,707||Delhi on Friday reported 67 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 1,707.The Delhi government health bulletin indicated that of the 67 fresh cases, 11 have contact history with other patients. Among the coronavirus patients in Delhi, at least 83 have foreign travel history and around 353 have contact history with patients who had tested positive for the disease earlier.A total of four deaths have been reported and 21 people have been discharged after being cured.The national capital has registered 42 deaths so far.No cases have been reported ‘Under Special Operations’. Till date, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases ‘Under Special Operations’ stands at 1,080.Of the total number of cases, 1,592 are active cases in the national capital. 72 persons have been discharged after treatment and one person has migrated. With 1,076 new cases and 32 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total number of coronavirus positive patients climbed to 13,835 including 11,616 active cases, 1,766 cured/discharged/migrated, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data revealed on Friday.In India, since the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus at least 452 people have died after being infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-registers-67-new-covid-19-cases-capital-s-count-climbs-to-1-707/story-KpkAHaNezMo72oWMP3WraN.html
17-04-2020||India||In Bengal, another BJP MP booked under Disaster Management Act; guv fumes||The West Bengal Police booked a second Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP on Friday under certain sections of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005 and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disrupting the administration’s work during the Covid-19 lockdown. Significantly on Friday, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee administration for obstructing parliamentarians from carrying out their duties. Dhankhar said that this “major misconduct is under scrutiny for exemplary action” and tagged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in his tweet. Alipurduar MP John Barla, who on April 14 had written to union home minister Amit Shah alleging that he had been put under ‘house arrest’, was booked under section 51 of the DMA (punishment for obstruction) and section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). The FIR against Barla has been lodged at Birpara police station in Alipurduar district. On April 14, police in Bankura district had booked BJP MP Subhas Sarkar under sections 54 of DMA, 188 and 501 (1) (b) of the IPC, for allegedly spreading false rumours. Party MP Arjun Singh, too, has alleged that the state administration did not allow him to carry out relief work for people in need. Responding to this series of incidents, Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on Friday, “Concerned at politically motivated actions meted out to MPs @Drsubhassarkar @johnbarlabjp @ArjunsinghWB @RajuBistaBJP by police and administration. @MamataOfficial in overzealous mode Flagged issue @loksabhaspeaker. This major misconduct is under scrutiny for exemplary action”.“Those so engaged are in for serious consequences. Such political alignment will not be overlooked. State officials must disable political affinity,” Dhankhar wrote in the following tweet.Earlier during the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while addressing the media, had said that some people were playing politics even during a crisis.On April 15, Barla had written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah alleging that he has been put under ‘house arrest’ by the district administration.On Friday, Barla wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging mismanagement in the distribution of ration and relief material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-another-bjp-mp-booked-under-disaster-management-act-guv-fumes/story-DYIWqhmHmo2pjDEsa5e7ZM.html
17-04-2020||India||Rohingya back on MHA radar, this time over Covid-19 infection from Tablighi||The Union home ministry has told all states to track down Rohingya reportedly over concerns that many of them attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz or had come in contact with them.In a message to all state police chiefs, the Home Ministry on Thursday said there were multiple reports about contacts between the Rohingya and the Tablighi Jamaat workers from parts of the country.The Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its central Delhi headquarters has been the country’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot. In Delhi, over a 1,000 people - either evacuated or their contacts -- have tested positive to the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes the coronavirus disease.Across the country, nearly 26,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts were placed under quarantine at state-run facilities when the Islamic religious sect finally allowed authorities last month to evacuate its followers.Also read: ED slaps money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat chiefIn a letter sent to all state chief secretaries, Director Generals of Police and Delhi Police Commissioner, reviewed by HT, the MHA told the states that “Rohingya Muslims and their contacts need to be screened for Covid-19. Accordingly, necessary measures may be taken in this regard on priority”.“It has been reported that Rohingya Muslims have attended ‘ijltemas’ (largest annual Islamic congregation organized by Tablighi Jamaat – March 13 to 15) and other religious congregations of Tablighi Jamaat and there is a possibility of their contradicting Covid-19.”The ministry wants the states to trace Rohingya who attended the Tablighi Jamaat activities as well as their contacts on “priority”.“Rohingyas residing in camps in Hyderabad, Telangana had attended Tablighi Jamaat ijtema at Mewat, Haryana and had visited Nizamuddin Markaz at New Delhi.Also read: Bangladesh coast guard rescues 396 Rohingya from drifting boat; 32 deadSimilarly, Rohingyas living in Shram Vihar, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi who had gone for TJ activities, have not returned to their camps,” the home ministry communication said.It added that the “presence of Rohingya Muslims after attending Tablighi Jamaat work” has also been reported from Derabassi, Punjab and Jammu area.According to an estimate by the government, there are around 40,000 Rohingyas in camps alone across several states in India. Only about 17,500 of them are registered as refugees with the office of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).The government has repeatedly insisted that the Rohingya are illegal immigrants, even those registered with the UN refugee agency, and would be deported.India is not a signatory to the international accord on refugees.India has deported a couple of groups of Rohingya. But the Supreme Court is still hearing a petition that challenged this approach. Before the Covid-19 pandemic forced the Supreme Court to stop hearings, a UN Special Rapporteur had, in January, asked the court to let her assist the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-wants-rohingya-screened-for-covid-19-after-tablighi-jamaat-link-emerges/story-af1tHOVqd9Cf8p3QdQcjwO.html
17-04-2020||India||Without timely lockdown, Covid-19 cases in India may have hit 8 lakh: Consulate in Toronto||India is taking its experience in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, to the world and asserting that without the lockdown, India may have faced 8.2 lakh cases of coronavirus infection instead of the current load of approximately 11,000.India’s Consulate in Toronto released this data to media in Canada including those serving the diaspora community, among a number of other presentations relating to the country’s effort in minimising the impact of Covid-19.In an accompanying letter, India’s Consul General in Toronto Apoorva Srivastava said, “The massive lockdown in India has produced results. Our modelling estimates posit that without the lockdown, India could have had up to 820,000 cases by April 15. With the lockdown, we have limited these to around 11,000 cases and have managed to contain 80 per cent of the cases to just 78 districts in India.”Explaining why this information package was being distributed at this time, she added in a letter accompanying the documents, “We are sharing our experience of how we are managing the threat in a country of 1.3 billion people with our friends and partners.”The cases that would have been recorded by April 15 without a lockdown or containment measures would have matched Italy’s progression, and containment measures alone without a lockdown may have led to 1.2 lakh cases, as per a projection taking peak growth rate before the lockdown.Interestingly, the 20-page presentation also underlines the role of super spreaders in compounding the crisis in India. One slide is named ‘Steep Rise in cases due to Tablighi Jamaat Incident’.The presentation also points out that screening and isolation of passengers started in India on January 18, 12 days prior to the first COVID-19 case being reported in the country.It also shows that India imposed a partial lockdown after 52 days and at Stage II, with 451 active cases, as against other countries like the United States and Italy, which did so mostly at Stage III, that of community outbreak. The complete lockdown came 55 days after the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/without-timely-lockdown-covid-19-cases-in-india-may-have-hit-8-lakh-consulate-in-toronto/story-HU5Iq99IBjFqLYezxhh3qO.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: MHA extends visa for foreigners stranded in India till May 3||With country under second lockdown and international flights under suspension till May 3, the ministry of home affairs has decided to extend the suspension of all existing visas granted to foreigners, except to those belonging to diplomatic, official, UN/international organizations, employment and project categories as well as extend the visa services on Gratis basis to all foreigners stranded in India. The union ministry has further directed that all incoming passenger traffic into India through any of the 107 Immigration Check Posts shall remain suspended till May 3. “However, no such restriction would apply to vehicles, planes, ships, conveyance, trains etc. carrying any goods and supplies whether essential or non-essential. Their crew, sailor, driver, helper, cleaner etc. shall be subjected to thorough medical screening for COVID-19,” it stated. On consular access to foreigners stranded in India, MHA had earlier granted consular services on gratis basis to foreign nationals, presently residing in India due to travel restrictions in the context of COVID-19 outbreak till 30th April. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAfter considering the matter, on Friday, it has been decided to extend the period of providing the following consular services by the Office of Foreigners Regional Registration Officers/ Foreigners Registration Officers to foreign nationals, presently stranded in India.“Regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation, of such foreign nationals who have been stranded in India because of spread of COVID-19 in many parts of the world and also due to travel restrictions imposed by the Indian authorities and whose visas have expired or would be expiring during the period from February 1, 2020 to May 3, 2020, would be extended till midnight of May 3, 2020 on ‘GRATIS’ basis, after making online application by the foreigner,” said a statement by MHA. “Exit to such foreign nationals, if so requested by them during this period, will also be granted to them upto 14 days beyond May 3 without levy of overstay penalty,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-mha-extends-visa-for-foreigners-stranded-in-india/story-tNQm6MpUVp7b8OWK08uCzO.html
17-04-2020||India||How a cleaner became Covid-19 wards’ waste collector in Odisha||Three days after Odisha’s second Covid-19 positive patient — a 19-year-old youth studying in the United Kingdom — was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Sanjay Dehury got a call from his boss.The 21-year-old used to drive vehicles in marriage processions till he joined a company that outsourced workers for cleaning assignments. In October 2019, he began to work at AIIMS Bhubaneshwar as part of the hospital’s 250-member housekeeping staff. On March 23, shortly after Odisha had gone into lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Manoj Sahoo, facility manager of Golden Hospitality Limited — the company hired to clean the hospital — gave him a new task to do. He requested Dehury to collect biomedical waste (blood, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, needles and syringes kept in bags from the wards) and drive it to the disposal centre inside the hospital complex. Sahoo made a similar request to 18 other employees; 10 said yes initially, but in the end, only two agreed to do the work.“The other housekeeping staff got scared and said there was a possibility of getting infected. The first day I reported for duty, I became very nervous as a few friends among the housekeeping staff asked me not to come. I did not report for duty for the next two days. But on the third day I thought if I do not go then someone else would do it. So I joined duty,” said Dehury, who lives with his father and brother in a village on the outskirts of the city.Like other hospital staff, Dehury requires a lockdown pass to travel to AIIMS. Every day he travels by his two-wheeler to AIIMS.In a non-pandemic world, transportation of biomedical waste requires a great deal of care. It must never be transported directly by hand due to risk of accidental injury from incorrectly disposed sharp items, or of transmission of blood-borne diseases. Hospital wards usually possess three colour-coded bins for different categories of waste, lined by corresponding colour-coded bags that are bio-degradable, leak proof and have a monogram of biohazard symbol. In the case of coronavirus-specific waste, the precautions are stricter given what we know about the virus: that it can stay on some surfaces for long, and still remain infectious. Guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board for handling biomedical waste of Covid-19 patients state that two bags are to be used for the collection of waste to ensure adequate strength and no leaks.Each morning, Dehury dons his Personal Protective Equipment comprising a coverall, hat, gloves, goggles, N95 mask, footwears and boot cover, before he goes up to the ward. A dedicated bin, labelled ‘Covid-19’, is kept in the storage room that can only be handled by authorised staff like Dehury. Dehury then enters the highly-infectious isolation ward to pick up the soiled linen.“After loading the colour coded bags onto a battery-operated vehicle, I drive it off to the biomedical waste facility where the vehicle is first washed with sodium hypochlorite solution.” At the site, Dehury also discards his own PPE, but keeps the N-95 mask on. “While the rest of the PPE are disposed of everyday, the mask is reused after disinfection,” he said.Until recently, there were two patients in the Covid ward, including a 72-year-old man who died last week. Another 60-year-old patient from Bhubaneswar who was critical, is now stable and likely to be discharged soon as his test results have now returned negative.Additional medical superintendent of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Pravas Tripathy said Dehury makes him proud. “Many of the housekeeping staff were scared of catching the infection and we had a hard time in making them understand that there is little risk (if they follow the precautions),” he said.Dehury earns Rs 12,000 a month and while a hospital official said that there were plans to “give a financial incentive to people like Dehury to keep them motivated,” nothing has materialised as yet. The hospital has converted one multi-storied hostel inside the campus to house all staff engaged in the Covid ward where 6-7 staff nurses and other attendants are staying. Dehury was given an offer to stay, but he chose to stay with his family.After returning home at the end of his duty hours, he dips his clothes in dettol liquid and hot water. He then takes bath in soap and warm water. After having his meal, he heads to the verandah. “We have just one room. So if I sleep in the room, my father and brother sleep outside. So at times I sleep in the verandah while they sleep inside to maintain maximum distance,” he said.In the tight quarters of his house in Suanga Nuasahi village, home to at least 300-odd people, it is difficult to maintain social distancing — one of the foremost requirements to prevent the spread of infection. Even the other residents of his village are trying to keep their distance from him and his family.Soon after he began working as a biomedical waste collector, a photo in which he wore the coverall and mask began to circulate on WhatsApp. “After some friends in the village saw the photograph, villagers pressured me to not report for duty. I simply asked them if any of them were infected by Covid-19 virus, who would look after them? The villagers agreed but asked me to not mingle with other youth in the village. My house is at one end of the village and so it does not affect me. Earlier I used to play cricket with my friends. Now I no longer do that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-cleaner-became-covid-19-wards-waste-collector-in-odisha/story-Yr9W17jPH2huJFVOj4y0UL.html
17-04-2020||India||In relief to small businesses, tax refunds worth Rs 5204 cr released in 10 days: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Friday said that income tax refunds to nearly 8.2 lakh small businesses (proprietors, firms, corporates and trusts) worth Rs 5,204 crore have been issued since April 8, 2020. The Board said these income tax refunds would help MSMEs to carry on their business activities without pay cuts of employees or layoffs in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The CBDT said that following the Union government’s decision on April 8, the income tax department has till date issued nearly 14 lakh refunds up to Rs 5 lakh each in order to help taxpayers deal with the current situation. With its focus on providing relief to small businesses in the MSME sector, CBDT will further issue refunds to the tune of Rs 7,760 crore soon..The Board on Friday reiterated its request that in 1.74 lakh cases, responses are awaited from taxpayers regarding reconciliation with their outstanding tax demand for which a reminder email has been sent asking them to respond within 7 days so that the refund can be processed earliest. Taxpayers can respond online through the taxpayer e-filing account on www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in.After providing relief to smaller taxpayers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, the government may also extend the benefit of accelerated tax refunds to large taxpayers and companies that are also looking at fiscal incentives from the Centre to have enough liquidity to survive the current crisis. On April 8, the government had announced that it has directed the income tax department to clear all pending income tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh immediately to benefit around 14 lakh taxpayers. It also decided to issue all pending GST and Customs refunds to provide relief to around 1 lakh business entities. The total refund to be granted under the scheme was estimated at Rs 18,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-relief-to-small-businesses-tax-refunds-worth-rs-5204-cr-released-in-10-days-cbdt/story-ossx0o5B2wGQNOdGZlbckJ.html
17-04-2020||India||Containment operations to be scaled down if no secondary Covid-19 case for 4 weeks: Govt||Containment operations will be scaled down if no secondary positive case of COVID-19 is reported from a quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days, the Union Health Ministry said. According to the ministry’s “Updated containment plan for large outbreaks COVID-19”, a containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed to be over 28 days from the date the last case in that zone tests negative. The closing of the surveillance for the clusters could be independent of one another provided there is no geographic continuity between clusters. However the surveillance will continue for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). States shall ensure that all required steps are taken to contain clusters within the large outbreak and chain of transmission is broken, it said. The document stated that in India also, clusters and large outbreaks have been noted in parts of the country and unless they are contained in time, the risk of further spread remains very high. Large number of cases has been reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Centre has declared 170 hotspots ---123 hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 hotspot districts with clusters. Besides, it has identified 207 non-hotspot districts with clusters. In a bid to utilize the extended lockdown period to the maximum extent to contain the spread of coronavirus, states have been asked by the ministry to classify districts witnessing higher number of cases or high growth rate as hotspots, districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots, and those which have reported no cases as green zones. According to the Health Ministry’s document, “containment for large outbreaks through geographic quarantine strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission” of COVID-19. In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. Geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of COVID-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous based on the distribution of cases and contacts. According to the plan, the authorities will do extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in containment zone, test all suspect cases and high-risk contacts, isolate all suspect or confirmed cases, implement social distancing measures and intensive risk communication as part of the cluster containment strategy. For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the documents stated that the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it. Geographic quarantine and containment strategy will include defining the area of operation, active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and SARI cases and operationalising surge capacities created for isolation (COVID-19 hospitals/blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect or confirmed cases. It will also include implementation of social distancing measures with strict perimeter control, providing chemoprophylaxis with hydroxychloroquine to all asymptomatic healthcare workers and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and further intensification of risk communication through audio, social and visual media. “The objective of this containment plan is to stop the chain of transmission thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19,” the ministry said. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 420 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 13,387 on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, according to a PTI tally based on reports from the states, the total number of cases was 13,201 while 1,594 patients had recovered. The death toll stood at 444. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/containment-operations-to-be-scaled-down-if-no-secondary-covid-19-case-for-4-weeks-govt/story-OyFXBX7dlhGFWxfpwWrfKL.html
17-04-2020||India||Virat Kohli haircut inspires Telangana’s KTR. His sister has a hilarious response||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state Information Technology minister KT Rama Rao’s answer to his follower on the social media evoked hilarious responses from the Twitterati.What added to the fun was a witty comment from his sister and former Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha on her brother’s reply.One of KTR’s followers, Sharath Chandra posted a message on Twitter seeking to know whether the Telangana government would open barber shops after April 20, when some of the relaxations announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi would come into force.“@KTRTRS Sir a sincere query: Any thoughts on opening barber shops or salons post 20 Apr? My wife is eager to try her hand on haircut and if that happens, I have a strong feeling I’ll need to stay home even after the lockdown is lifted,” Sharath tweeted.The minister pointed out how cricketer Virat Kohli had shown the solution for such problems. “Hey, when Virat Kohli could let his wife style his hair, why don’t you?”The reply evoked a response from KTR’s followers who, too, posted funny messages. “Sir, what about singles then?” asked a follower. “Sir, every wife is not similar to Anushka Sharma,” said another.“In that case, #Modi ji should give another task to all women in India to try new haircuts on their husbands. We are eager to see the results of #Lockdown after that,” was another funny comment.However, it was KTR’s sister Kavitha who outwitted her brother and his followers. ““Annayya .. Bhabi ki kuda chance isthunnava (Brother, are you giving such chance to my sister-in-law as well)?!” she commented.Kavitha’s funny comment earned her a lot of applause. “Super Question Akka (sister),” said one of her followers.“Amid Coronavirus Pandemic, KCR’s family is giving us some hilarious moments,” commented another. “Ma’am Crazzyyyyy,” posted another follower.’And there was a suggestion, too. “Hope after this question, he might be thinking of giving approval to open barber shops now,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-haircut-query-led-to-twitter-banter-between-ktr-his-sister-kavitha/story-eouCYGDiho3VDEtRrejpjL.html
17-04-2020||India||India working with global partners to develop vaccines to fight Covid-19: Health Ministry||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Friday said that India is working with global partners so that effective vaccines can be developed to fight against COVID-19.“We are also working on viral sequencing and vaccine development. India is working with global partners so that effective vaccines can be developed to fight against COVID-19. It is a time-consuming effort. We are trying to speed up these processes,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health and Family Welfare said here during the daily briefing on COVID-19.“Compared to other countries we are doing good. We need to improve our efforts further,” he added.He said that the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) labs are developing indigenous designs for PPEs, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, and other ancillary support devices.“CSIR labs are working on indigenous manufacturing of rapid testing kits and rapid antibody kits. We will be able to make 10 lakh kits/month of each type by May,” he added.Aggarwal said that the average growth rate factor, which is calculated as a proportion of the number of cases of a day compared to the previous day, is witnessing a decline of 40 per cent.“We have been witnessing an average growth factor at 1.2 since April 1 which stood at 2.1 (average) between March 15- March 31. Hence, there is 40 per cent decline in average growth factor even as we increased COVID-19 testings,” he saidAggarwal informed that a total of 1,749 people have been cured, which is equal to 13.6 per cent of the cases.“With 1,007 fresh cases of coronavirus reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country has reached 13,387. A total of 23 new deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours,” added Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-with-global-partners-to-develop-vaccines-to-fight-covid-19-health-ministry/story-KolfOwD85y1frUTBourwGP.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Trace Rohingyas who attended Tablighi Jamaat, screen for Covid-19’: Govt||With close to 26,000 members and contacts of Tablighi Jamaat already under quarantine across the country, the ministry of home affairs has now found that Rohingya Muslims spread in different regions too attended its activities last month and several of them are missing.The union ministry has asked all the state governments and chiefs of police to trace the Rohingya Muslims who attended the Tabhlighi Jamaat activities as well as their contacts on “priority”.In a letter sent to all state chief secretaries, Director Generals of Police and Delhi Police Commissioner, reviewed by HT, the MHA stated – “It has been reported that Rohingya Muslis have attended ‘ijtemas’ (largest annual Islamic congregation organized by Tablighi Jamaat – March 13 to 15) and other religious congregations of Tablighi Jamaat and there is a possibility of their contracting Covid-19.”The ministry informed the states that “Rohingyas residing in camps in Hyderabad, Telangana had attended Tablighi Jamaat ijtema at Mewat, Haryana and had visited Nizamuddin Markaz at New Delhi. Similarly, Rohingyas living in Shram Vihar, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi who had gone for TJ activities, have not returned to their camps”.It further stated that presence of Rohingya Muslims after attending Tablighi Jamaat work has also been reported from Derabassi, Punjab and Jammu area.According to an estimate by the government, there are around 40,000 Rohingyas living in camps across several states in India while 17,500 of them are registered as refugees with the office of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).The MHA, in its notification dated April 15, asked states that “Rohingya Muslims and their contacts need to be screened for Covid-19. Accordingly, necessary measures may be taken in this regard on priority”.A senior official who didn’t wish to be named said – “Tablighi Jamaat has already been the biggest hotspot for Covid-19 in India so far and if Rohingyas who attended it living in camps across states are also affected, then it will be a bigger problem.”According to a reply by the MHA in Lok Sabha in June last year, “The MHA has held a number of meetings and video conferences at various levels and has impressed upon the state governments and other stakeholders to identify illegal migrants including Rohingyas, watch their movements and cancel any Indian documents such as PAN cards, aadhar cards, driving licenses, ration cards etc. fraudulently obtained by them.”The government has officially taken a stand, even before the Supreme Court, that Rohingyas pose a security threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-trace-rohingyas-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-4xAgkLgyNE35aIv2ItGo1N.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala reports one solitary case, 78,980 under observation||Moving towards flattening the coronavirus graph in the state, Kerala on Friday reported only a single Covid-19 positive case, said the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. At least 10 people were discharged and the number of people under observation also came down to 78,980.The lone positive case was reported from Kozhikode district in north Kerala. Out of 395 positive cases in the state 255 have discharged and in one week more than 50,000 were taken out of the observation list, the CM’s office said.At one point the number of people under observation was around 2 lakh. In one week 32 positive cases were reported in the state but the number of people discharged was 131.“The situation is well under control now. But it doesn’t mean we have to lift restrictions. We have to continue our surveillance and vigil,” said CM Pinarayi Vijayan in a statement.Kerala was the first to report a coronavirus case in the county in January, when a China-returned medical student tested positive. But the state’s track, trace and treat method has paid it rich dividends. Currently, 140 people are in hospitals and going by the present trend their numbers will dip to 100 by next week, health officials said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-reports-one-solitary-case-78-980-under-observation/story-wynekQ5xwH58vQPwzDqhkI.html
17-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports 3 new Covid-19 cases, 9-month-old tests positive||Uttarakhand reported three new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Friday, including a doctor from a military hospital in Dehradun and a nine-month-old baby, as the total count of active cases in the hill state went up to 31, state health department officials said.The third Covid-19 positive patient is from Nainital district, they added.Dr. Dinesh Chauhan, additional chief medical officer, Dehradun, and the nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, said that a doctor from the military hospital in Dehradun and a nine-month-old baby tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.“The baby and the doctor have been shifted to an isolation ward in Government Doon Medical College Hospital. The baby’s father had tested positive earlier and his entire family had been quarantined. The baby’s family lives in Bhagat Singh Colony in Dehradun, which is a containment zone in the district. The baby tested positive on Friday, while his other family members have tested negative,” said Dr. Chauhan. Dr. Chauhan said that the staff and the patients who came in contact with the doctor are being traced and they would be quarantined at the earliest.Dr. Anurag Agarwal, Uttarakhand’s nodal officer for Covid-19 and an employee at the Government Doon Medical College Hospital, said that the doctors are charting out a treatment plan for the infected baby.“The baby was always at high risk, as his father had earlier tested Covid-19 positive. The baby doesn’t have the immunity of an adult. We need to ensure that he isn’t exposed to any other infection and can be on the road to recovery at the earliest,” Dr Agarwal said.Earlier this week, on Tuesday, two persons from in Haridwar district, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi held between March 13 and 15, tested Covid-19 positive.All Covid-19 positive cases reported from Uttarakhand since April 2 are linked Jamaat attendees. On April 6, four Jamaat attendees from Dehradun and Almora had tested Covid-19 positive.Similarly, on April 8, four persons, including two Jamaat attendees and two of their close contacts, tested Covid-19 positive in Haridwar and Nainital districts.So far, nine Covid-19 patients from Uttarakhand have recovered and discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/u-khand-reports-3-new-covid-19-cases-9-month-old-tests-positive/story-0i4zKdfJ0dHNbxqI2jVp5O.html
17-04-2020||India||Karnataka hints at allowing tech firms to start limited operations from Monday||The Karnataka government indicated on Friday that information technology and bio-technology companies could be allowed to start limited operations from Monday.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with representatives of companies, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said while the lockdown would continue, technology firms could start operations after April 20 with 50% of employees coming in on alternate days on the condition that all steps are taken to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus.His remarks came against the backdrop of Karnataka recording a substantial increase in Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day. According to state primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar, 44 new cases - the largest single day jump - were reported since Thursday.Karnataka exports $40 billion in technology services, and the sector is the largest employer in the state’s organised sector.Narayan said employees of tech firms wouldn’t require special passes. “I doubt whether there would be the pass culture after April 20. Anyway, there is no public transport, no metro, no buses. Only one person can travel on two-wheelers, and there are limits on how many can travel in a car,” he said.“If the technology companies want, we can provide sanitised public transport buses.”Narayan said representatives of IT companies had assured him that hygiene norms, wearing of masks, use of sanitisers, social distancing and other government directives would be strictly implemented.“They have said they will undertake screening and testing, as well as other responsibilities,” he said, adding the economy couldn’t be permanently shut.However, chief minister BS Yediyurappa, speaking at a different media interaction, sounded a more cautious note and said the matter of allowing the technology industry to resume operations was under consideration. A decision will be made over the next couple of days based on the Centre’s guidelines, he added.Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar said the 44 new Covid-19 cases had taken the state’s cumulative total to 359. This follows 38 cases on Thursday and 19 cases on Wednesday.The 359 cases include 13 deaths and 88 people who were discharged after being treated.Briefing the media, Kumar acknowledged the trend was worrisome but said Karnataka had done well when compared to the national figures.Kumar said the average number of tests had increased from 500 a day to 2,000 a day. The Centre has dispatched 12,400 rapid testing kits imported from China to the state. The state government has fixed a price of Rs 2,250 for each test by a private hospital, Kumar said.Asked about the violation of the lockdown in Kalburgi during a temple chariot pulling ceremony for which hundreds had gathered, Kumar said no decision had been made on conducting mass tests there.An expert committee of doctors advising and guiding the state government said earlier on Friday that early detection and treatment were key to ensuring public health. The panel said on an average, people were coming in for treatment four day after the first symptoms appeared. The committee appealed to people to come in earlier.The state has also sought clearance from the Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct plasma therapy, which is considered effective in treating Covid-19.In a separate development, police carried out a mild lathi charge at Savanur in Haveri district after a large number of people gathered for Friday prayers in spite of the Wakf board’s appeal not to do so.Three men drowned while swimming in Tungabhadra river in Bellary district in violation of the lockdown. A case was registered in Huvina Hadagali police station and a search was launched to retrieve their bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-hints-at-allowing-tech-firms-to-start-limited-operations-from-monday/story-qZ00Jki64Za4nD7U829dOL.html
17-04-2020||India||Lockdown, hailstorms and insects push mango farmers in Bengal’s Malda to the brink||Come April, and all of India eagerly awaits the arrival of the first mangoes of the season. However, due to their inability to spray pesticides in a timely manner during the lockdown and hailstorms, which destroyed a sizeable part of Bengal’s annual mango yield, mango farmers in the state’s Malda district are staring at substantial losses this year. And if the lockdown is extended beyond May 3 - when harvesting is due to begin, they say their losses will spiral astronomically because they will be unable to ship their yield in time.Spread over 31,000 hectares, Malda’s orchards produce more than 250 varieties of India’s cherished fruit -half the state’s annual yield - which are shipped to Kolkata, other Bengal districts and some states like Assam. There are about 400,000 people directly or indirectly involved in the production and trade of mangoes in the district.“Initially, this appeared to be a good year for production. But because farmers couldn’t spray insecticides due to the lockdown, part of the crop has been ruined, “ said President of Malda Mango Merchants Association, Ujjal Saha.Mango farmer Jakir Mollah of Bamongola is a desolate man. “A huge quantity of our fruit dropped off the trees during recent hailstorms, and we couldn’t even collect them in time because of the lockdown. Now, we have no idea how we will sell the final harvest.”Mango merchants’ association president, Ujjal Saha, explains that this is the time of year, when thousands of labourers make wooden crates to ship the mangoes. “But since labourers could not carry out this task this year, we don’t know how we will ship the fruit. And once harvesting starts, there won’t be time to assemble the boxes,” he said. “We may be compelled to use ordinary baskets,” he added.Saha warns that the business will suffer losses to the tune of several crore rupees, if the lockdown is extended beyond May 3. “Usually the production hovers around 3.5 lakh metric tons. This year it may come down to 1.5 to 2 lakh metric tons. The business will suffer,” he said.Bengal’s mango farmers were initially enthused by reports that the postal department was helping their counterparts in another state to deliver their yield to customers.“We heard that mango farmers in Karnataka are being helped by the postal department to ship their harvest. But it appears impossible to replicate that model in Malda. We cannot depend on the usual procedures of the postal department. Being perishable items, mangoes cannot be stored for long, so shipping needs to be fast. If there is delay because of the postal department, we will suffer,” said Saha. Deputy director (in charge) of Malda’s horticulture department, Babai Das, too, dismissed the likelihood of the postal department coming to the rescue of Malda’s beleaguered farmers. “So far, we don’t have any plan to seek help from them. We are aware that our farmers have suffered because of the lockdown. We are now issuing passes to them, so that they can visit their orchards and spray insecticide.”Bengal’s chief post-master general, Gautam Bhattacharya, would still like to help. “In a similar situation about two decades ago, the postal department did help Malda’s mango farmers. And we are ready to do so again this time. However, we usually ship small quantities, so using trucks to ship on a commercial scale is always cheaper.”Bhattacharya concedes that perishable good like mangoes may suffer because the railway’s parcel vans are not temperature-controlled. “Moreover, given the the present circumstances, deliveries may be delayed. Usually products like these are shipped to other states on passenger flights. But even those are not operating right now.”Once a major exporter to the western states and foreign countries, Malda farmers say that varieties from Maharashtra, the Alphonso in particular, have taken over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hailstorms-and-insects-push-mango-farmers-in-bengal-s-malda-to-the-brink/story-C5yiTGQSwpixUHiWjn1BxJ.html
17-04-2020||India||Imran Khan hits mute on Saarc Covid-19 pledge, India sends $1.7 mn relief||India, which had pledged $10 million to help other South Asian countries tackle the Covid-19 pandemic last month, has already delivered medicines and other relief material worth $1.7 million, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.India has used its Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund to send drugs, medical supplies and machines to Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Maldives and Sri Lanka. This amount of $1.7 million does not include the transportation of the relief commodities, which has, in some sectors, translated into 2-3 times the value of the relief material as New Delhi chartered flights to quickly reach the material to their destination.Bangladesh’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, the other regional leader to have started delivering on her $1.5 million promise, dispatched a shipload of relief material to Maldives this week.Also watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: GovtPrime Minister Narendra Modi had during a video conference of heads of government of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation member countries on March 15 proposed voluntary contributions to help others in the region.PM Modi, when he proposed the fund, had committed to spend $ 10 million, followed by Sri Lanka ($5 million) and then Bangladesh ($1.5 million). In all, except Pakistan, the fund has firm commitments of $18.8 million.Imran Khan had absented himself from the video conference. Islamabad was, instead, represented by its de facto health minister Zafar Mirza.Zafar Mirza, whose performance as Pakistan’s key man to tackle the coronavirus pandemic had recently come in for sharp criticism from its Supreme Court, had also created a flutter at the March 15 Saarc conference when he raised Kashmir at this discussion.The idea of setting up the fund, as the external affairs ministry later explained, was that each country sets aside a certain amount of money that it would spend to help each other. “It is for each SAARC Member State to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments,” foreign ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, had said.Pakistan’s commitment to spend $3 million on other countries was followed by a rider that their fund should be channelled via the SAARC secretariat based in Kathmandu.Diplomats based in the SAARC secretariat in Kathmandu and other officials told Hindustan Times that they had not received information from Islamabad about a single dollar being spent towards coronavirus mitigation efforts by Pakistan.“Maybe, Islamabad is still waiting for the distribution modalities to be worked out by the SAARC secretariat,” said a senior official based in Kathmandu, a trifle derisively.The official also confirmed that “no such modalities, as sought by Pakistan for the fund had been worked out, and no such formal fund had to be created”.It is not clear why Pakistan hasn’t delivered on its pledge. But Pakistan is in a precarious financial situation due to the pandemic. Khan had put out a video appeal this week that asked the international community to give developing countries debt relief.On its part, New Delhi has supplied hydroxychloroquine tablets, paracetamol, active pharmaceutical ingredients, personal protection equipment, ventilators and masks to Saarc countries. Officials recall how PM Modi had insisted that the first countries to receive medical supplies would be Saarc countries, then Indo-Pacific countries apart from other countries that urgently needed the medicinesBangladesh, so far, is the only other Saarc country to have come to the rescue of a neighbour. On April 15, Bangladesh sent a ship carrying 100 metric tons of food and medical material to Maldives.According to available data, Bangladesh supplied 20,000 personal protection equipment, 900 goggles, 5,000 hand sanitizers and 80 tons of food items and essential medicines to Maldives.Bangladesh has also supplied 12,000 hand sanitizers to the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-spends-1-7-million-from-saarc-covid-19-fund-imran-khan-is-again-awol/story-A7zuJGOQeRb91uJphN4ESM.html
17-04-2020||India||Meghalaya zooms from 0 to 9 coronavirus cases, all traced to one family||Till Sunday, Meghalaya was a rare state with no Covid-19 cases. However, in the next four days, the state recorded nine cases, including one death. Strikingly, all the cases were from one family.The first case surfaced on Monday evening when a prominent doctor, John L Sailo Ryntathiang, was found positive. The news of the 69-year-old founder of Shillong-based Bethany Hospitals surprised many as the doctor didn’t have any recent travel history.It was quickly surmised that he could have got infected from his son-in-law, a pilot with Air India who had returned from New York to Delhi on March 16 and reached Shillong on March 24. He spent the next 14 days in home quarantine under observation and was asymptomatic.The initial suspicions couldn’t be substantiated as two tests on the son-in-law came out negative. The state administration quickly sealed Bethany Hospital, placed nearly 2,000 primary and secondary contacts of the first patient in quarantine and started tests on them.But even before the results could arrive, Ryntathiang passed away in the early hours of Wednesday. Later in the day, six others, family members and helpers of the doctor, were found positive.The state administration grappling with the fast changing situation faced another one related to last rites of the doctor—the first Covid-19 fatality in the state.Worried that the virus could spread, residents in Jhalupara refused to allow use of the electric crematorium there. Residents in Nongpoh, where Bethany Hospital has a branch and the doctor had a house, also denied permission to bury the body.Finally, the state government was able to bury the doctor’s body at the cemetery of Riatsamthiah Presbyterian Church in the Lawmali area of Shillong on Thursday afternoon---after a day’s delay.“Such incidents are a blot on the society’s consciousness and of great concern to all of us irrespective of party, religion and region. There is an urgent need to educate the people and remove misconceptions on Covid-19,” Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said in a Facebook post about the Shillong incident.The state government is also facing flak for its handling of the situation related to the first patient. “The state government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that we are able to tackle the situation. There are challenges but what is important is to be able to rectify and improve on the different shortcomings and challenges that we face,” chief minister Conrad Sangma tweeted after the burial.Later on Thursday night, two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state—both patients were family members of the first patient. According to a release issued by the Sampath Kumar, commissioner and secretary (health) on Thursday night, 50 medical staff members of the Bethany Hospital have been identified as “high-risk contacts” and tests would be conducted on them.The Meghalaya government is yet to zero in on the person who is responsible for infecting the first patient.“We tried to establish if the deceased doctor had contracted the virus from his son-in-law. But there is nothing to indicate that since the sample tests of the son-in-law have come out negative thrice,” health minister AL Hek said in Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-zooms-from-0-to-9-coronavirus-cases-all-traced-to-one-family/story-GuJfOy8qfDXIwbeXCQLRmJ.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre asks states to list all registered doctors||The Medical Council of India (MCI) has written to state councils to compile a list of doctors registered with them as part of an exercise to take stock of human resources available to treat Covid-19 patients.The letter, sent to state councils last week by MCI’s board of governors, sought an updated list of registered medical practitioners and their contact details.“The Medical Council of India has been entrusted for ensuring availability of registered medical practitioners (registered under the Indian Medical Council Act 1956/State Medical Council Acts) for tackling Covid-19 pandemic. It is requested to share the updated list of registered medical practitioners available in your medical council…,” said the directive to the state councils.Also watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: GovtApart from the name and registration number of each doctor, the state councils have also been asked to provide mobile phone numbers, email IDs and contact addresses.“This information should be sent to the MCI as early as possible, in view of the prevalent situation. This information will be further shared with the government authorities for their use, when required,” the letter said.After receiving the MCI’s directive, states councils have started compiling the data. Girish Tyagi, member of the Delhi Medical Council, said: “We are working on compiling the list. Once a medical practitioner registers, the name stays for at least five years in the state register, and some of them are PG students from other states who return to their respective state after their education is over.“We need to weed out those names from the list, and with skeletal staff at our disposal right now, it might take a little longer to segregate those who are still practising in Delhi.”India has 1.1 million allopathic doctors registered with the Board of Governors, State Medical Councils, and Medical Council as of December 2019.“Assuming 80% availability, it is estimated that around 9.26 lakh doctors may be actually available for active service,” said minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey in the Lok Sabha.For a population of 1.36 billion, this makes the doctor-population ratio 1:1,457, lower than the WHO’s recommended norm of 1:1,000.For people in rural areas completely dependent on government hospitals and clinics, the government allopathic doctor-patient ratio is 1:10,926.With Covid-19 cases rising, the government is gearing up to upgrade infrastructure and add to the human resource pool to deal with the situation.Another directive sent to all state chief secretaries by the Union health ministry last week was for using the services of ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialists or postgraduate trainees for collecting samples for Covid-19 testing, as many states are facing a manpower shortage for collecting samples.“You are aware that the country is in the midst of an unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19. One of the key components of our strategy to combat this outbreak is contact tracing and collection of nose and throat swab samples of potentially infected persons. There is an urgent need of trained and qualified personnel to collect these samples and the number of such persons needs to be augmented significantly,” said the health ministry’s directive.“All States/UTs are, therefore, requested to organise collection of Covid-19 case samples by using the services of ENT specialists and residents. The services of these professionals working in all government and private medical colleges of the states may be drafted for this purpose,” the directive added.A health ministry official, on condition of anonymity, said: “While the labs are enough, there was felt a shortage of trained people to collect samples. The experts discussed the matter and thought of using ENT specialists for the purpose as they already are trained in handling diseases of the nose and throat. The states have passed on the instructions to all medical institutions in this regard, and the process of involving specialists has begun.”Experts said roping in trained people for the job will help.“It is definitely a good idea as ENTs are more skilled to do the job. The problem is bigger in remote areas, where involving them should surely help,” said NN Mathur, ENT professor and former principal of Vardhman Mahavir Medical College (Safdarjung Hospital).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-asks-states-to-list-all-registered-doctors/story-KBQeMnUHOBH6wcv6Y4d1rI.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Congress asks Delhi govt to waive off power, water charges||The Congress on Friday urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to waive off fixed power charges and water bills for all establishments that have been closed because of the Covid-19 lockdown.In a 10-point charter of demands, the party also demanded the Delhi government shouldn’t charge school fees from students, and pay salaries to teachers in aided schools and MSME workers.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken insisted that migrants and daily wage workers should be given incentives and the government should proactively take steps to help those in distress in Delhi because of the Covid-19 crisis.Addressing a news conference through video conference, Maken sought standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be notified for delivery workers in the national capital to stop the spread of the virus through them.All 89 quarantined people who came in contact with a pizza delivery boy, feared to be infected with the coronavirus, should be immediately tested, he said.Maken pointed out the delivery boy was sent back by several hospitals without being tested. He said testing should be ramped up in the national capital, and asked if Delhi had entered the community transmission stage since 135 people have been kept under investigation.Migrants, being the backbone of any city, should immediately be given Rs 7,500 a month to help them cope with the crisis and make them feel safe in Delhi and other towns, he added.Maken also demanded provision of free rations for two months to the poor and vulnerable, advance payment of pensions to senior citizens and widows, and risk allowance to sanitation and frontline health workers.He also sought an unemployment allowance of Rs 5,000 for the unemployed in the national capital.Maken attacked the Delhi government for giving the go-ahead to private schools to charge one month’s tuition fee and said the state should bear a major part of expenses on the salaries of teachers.“It is wrong to ask private schools to take a month’s fee. How will the parents pay the fee when there is a lockdown? The Delhi government should pay 75% of expenses borne on teachers’ salaries so that these schools get relief and waive three months’ fees,” added Maken.Earlier in the day, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia announced that no private school in the national capital could hike its fees or charge anything from parents other than one month’s tuition fee.Maken also claimed 55 health workers in Delhi had tested positive for the coronavirus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-congress-asks-delhi-govt-to-waive-off-power-water-charges/story-r6ZBT4mfB0IM8ah0L4vN7L.html
17-04-2020||India||To drop red zone tag, Bhubaneswar begins collecting 5000 samples for Covid-19 tests||Keen to get Bhubaneswar out of the Red Zone by April 20, the Odisha government on Friday announced that 5000 samples would be collected from the Covid-19 hotspots of Bhubaneswar beginning today.Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the 5000 samples would be collected from people with vulnerabilities to Covid-19 in an intensive drive to find out the exact spread of the virus in the Odisha capital with 1-million plus population. So far, Bhubaneswar has accounted for 46 of the 60 positive cases in Odisha resulting in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare tagging Khurda district among the 170 Covid-19 hotspot districts.Also watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: GovtTripathy said the testing of 5000 samples in Bhubaneswar may be one of the biggest in terms of samples per million population if compared to cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Pune. “We are trying to bring all available RT-PCR machines in the state to Bhubaneswar and increase the testing capacities of all the 6 Covid-19 laboratories in the state including 3 in Bhubaneswar. The testing will be ramped up several times over,” he said.Officials said the testing in campaign mode is in line with PM Modi’s provision of easing restrictions in areas with no Covid-19 cases from April 20. Of the 7577 samples tested in Odisha so far, Bhubaneswar alone has accounted for 1958 samples, around 38 per cent of the total samples. With 46 cases, Bhubaneswar’s positive to samples tested ratio is 2.4 per cent.Odisha has been posting encouraging results since the last 2 days with 1940 samples collected from different parts of the state testing negative. Of the 60 positive cases, 19 have been discharged.The samples to be collected through static and mobile camps would be taken by technicians wearing PPEs on a four-tier priority basis from people based on the risk level. The top priority groups would be people with SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) and healthcare workers deployed at Covid-19 hotspots. Police personnel, sanitation workers and other Covid-19 workers belong to the second tier. The third priority category has senior citizens with co-morbidity conditions like diabetes and hypertension and some samples will be collected at random.“We are seeing that people in the priority group are reluctant to give samples. If anyone in Bhubaneswar is in the priority list, then they should come to camps voluntarily. Or else we may have to use force,” the chief secretary said, appealing to all RWAs and puja committee members to help in the sample collection. To carry out the increased testing, Bhubaneswar has been divided into three zones in which senior officers would be put as Covid-19 observers.The government also announced that spitting in public places would now be a compoundable offence and violators will be penalized. “While a Rs 200 fine will be collected from each violator in the first 3 times thereafter the violator will be slapped with a Rs 500 fine. The block extension officer, additional tehsildar, ASI police and municipality ward officer will be assigned to enforce the rule,” he said.In another move, officials said the Centre is planning to collect random samples from a population of 10,000 in all districts unaffected by Covid-19 to get an epidemiological estimate of the spread of the disease and ways to prevent it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-drop-red-zone-tag-bhubaneswar-begins-collecting-5000-samples-for-covid-19-tests/story-gSf4o2yjGxPIwLkuMeLucI.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Community transmission threat looms, no crowding in markets’: Bengal CM||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, apprehending community transmission in the state, on Friday urged people to avoid crowding the markets and hinted at stricter implementation of lockdown rules to combat coronavirus. Over the last three days, 63 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. The state’s cumulative figure of Covid-19 positive cases rose from 69 on April 4 to 255 on April 16, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.“The prospect of community transmission looms large if we do not implement the lockdown strictly. I don’t want to see crowds in the markets. Armed police personnel will also be deployed in markets if necessary,” she said on Friday. Also watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: GovtThe CM said that every market must have hand sanitisers for people to use before they step in. The administration has relocated most of the markets to spacious areas nearby over the past three days. There was a significant change in the chief minister’s approach. The chief minister had so long been insisting that the state would have a ‘lockdown with a humane face’ and instructed the police not to indulge in excesses.However, on Friday, she said, “Whoever breaks lockdown will face legal action. We will land in great danger if the lockdown is not strictly followed.”She also took a dig at governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, though without naming him, for seeking central paramilitary forces to enforce lockdown in Bengal. Incidentally, Dhankhar on April 15 had written in a social media post that the state should requisition central forces, a demand that was later supported by Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary Rahul Sinha, among others.On Friday, the chief minister said, “Some people are seeking central paramilitary forces for the sake of petty politics. Why should we need central forces when the state police are doing so well?”BJP leaders, however, attributed the chief minister’s toughening of stand to their effort in putting pressure on the state government. “The Centre had warned the state. The governor had raised an alarm. We have been persistently raising the issue. All these factors have led to her waking up from a slumber,” said BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh. Banerjee also flagged the issue of infiltration through the Bangladesh border and said, “People keep entering through the borders with Bangladesh in 24-Parganas. It must be ensured that no one enters through the border with Bangladesh.” The Border Security Force (BSF), however, said that the border has remained entirely sealed. “We are maintaining a strict vigil and there has been no case of infiltration from Bangladesh,” said S S Guleria, spokesperson of BSF South Bengal Frontier.She said that the situation in Howrah district “is ultra-sensitive” and that some wards in Kolkata are also ‘red zones’. “No one will be allowed to enter or move out of red zones,” said the chief minister. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said that 81% of the state’s Covid-19 positive cases are from urban areas, especially urban Howrah and northern and central part of Kolkata.Banerjee has fixed targets for three weeks for the state and district administrations to bring back red zones into green zones.“Kolkata and Howrah, will have to come back to the orange zone within 14 days and then in another seven days to the green zone. Kolkata and Howrah are a challenge for us,” she added. She also warned the top brass of some districts which presently have very few or no cases that she would not spare them if there is any outbreak in their districts.The state, however, has allowed inter-district movement from Friday. Commenting on this, the chief minister said, “Even though there is still no inter-state movement of migrant workers, inter-district movement has started from Friday. So we have to take special care,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-threat-looms-don-t-want-people-in-markets-bengal-cm/story-cz6X3t2ohymStxH4CxQQVO.html
17-04-2020||India||How the Covid-19 crisis may be delaying 5 key cases in Supreme Court||The Covid-19 lockdown has affected the functioning of courts across the country. Most courts are only taking up extremely urgent cases (which directly and immediately impact liberty and livelihood of people) and these are heard through video conference.The Supreme Court too has been functioning in a limited way since March 23. This has led to a delay in the hearing of crucial cases such as those listed below:Citizenship (Amendment) ActOne of the most important cases before the Supreme Court that has been delayed is the challenge to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). More than 150 petitions on this issue are pending in the top court. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices BR Gavai and Surya Kant had issued notice to the central government on December 18, but refused to stay the operation of the law, a prayer the court said would be considered later.The case was last heard on February 18, when the court granted time to the central government to file its response. The Centre, in its response on March 17, said the CAA is intended to tackle religious persecution in specific countries and won’t affect the rights of any Indian citizens.Also watch | COVID-19 | Doubling rate reduced since lockdown, growth factor down 40%: GovtSenior counsel and Congress leader Kapil Sibal mentioned the matter on March 5, requesting the court to hear arguments on an interim prayer to stay the law.Bobde asked Sibal to mention the matter after the Holi vacation, which lasted from March 9 to 14. But the court didn’t function in a full-fledged manner after the vacation because of the Covid-19 crisis.The case, according to the Supreme Court’s website, is scheduled to be listed on April 21. However, this in all likelihood may not happen due to the lockdown.Article 370The challenge to the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, related to the special status of Jammu and Kashmir is another case pending in the apex court.The court is hearing at least 23 petitions challenging the Central government’s August 2019 decision to scrap Kashmir’s special status.Article 370 stated the Constitution and laws made by the Parliament can be applied to Kashmir only with the concurrence of the government of Jammu and Kashmir. After the scrapping of Article 370, Kashmir was divided into the two union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir.The hearing of the matter started on December 10 before a bench headed by justice NV Ramana and comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, R Subhash Reddy, BR Gavai and Surya Kant.The matter was last listed on March 2, when a five-judge Constitution bench, in a 42-page judgment, declined to refer the case to a larger bench of seven judges. It hasn’t been heard after that.Rights vs Faith (Sabarimala case)Another important case, slated for hearing in March, was the legal questions on the entry of women into Sabarimala temple in Kerala and other gender-related matters in Islam and Zoroastrianism.Chief Justice Bobde said in open court on March 5 the matter would be heard by a nine-judge bench from March 16.But the court functioned only in a restricted manner in the week of March 16 and the case wasn’t taken up. Subsequently, the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 and the court went into complete shutdown. The review petitions challenging the Supreme Court’s 2018 judgment permitting entry of women into Sabarimala temple will be decided on the basis of the outcome of the case before the nine-judge bench.Use of money bill routeThe contentious issue of the government adopting the money bill route to get laws passed in Parliament too is pending in the Supreme Court.This crucial case has to be heard by a bench of seven judges though there is no clarity on when it will be taken up.A money bill originates in Lok Sabha, and once passed there by a simple majority, is sent to the Rajya Sabha for its recommendations. These recommendations on money bills aren’t binding on the Lok Sabha, which may choose to reject it.The government, which doesn’t have a majority in Rajya Sabha, has used the money bill route on more than one occasion to pass contentious laws.In a challenge to the Finance Act 2017, passed as a money bill, a five-judge bench of the court held on November 13, 2019 that its earlier judgment in the Aadhaar case approving the money bill route needs to be reconsidered. It, therefore, referred the issue to a bench of seven judges.The decision in this case could impact several laws, including the Aadhaar Act passed by the Parliament as a money bill.Creamy layerThe “creamy layer” controversy is another case awaiting hearing by the top court.The Central government has urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its 2018 judgment in the case of Jarnail Singh, in which the court ruled the principle of creamy layer, previously applicable to Other Backward Castes (OBCs), should be applied to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for reservation in promotions.Creamy layer is the term used to describe better-off individuals among OBCs ineligible for reservations according to the Mandal Commission’s provisions. It is determined based on economic parameters.For OBCs, the creamy layer is households with an annual income in excess of Rs 8 lakh a year.The centre is against the application of this principle to SC and ST communities on the ground that they have been discriminated against for centuries and should get reservation benefits despite economic advancement.The case is slated to be listed on April 21 according to the Supreme Court’s website, though that is unlikely to happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-covid-19-crisis-may-be-delaying-5-key-cases-in-supreme-court/story-qF2gsyFsyPNZ3NCK1NGcXP.html
17-04-2020||India||Sikkim teen evicted from Bengal home over ‘regular flu’: Bhaichung Bhutia||An 18-year-old woman from Sikkim was evicted from her rented accommodation in West Bengal’s Siliguri town despite only suffering from “regular flu”, former Indian football captain Bhaichung Bhutia alleged in a police complaint.Bhutia, who hails from Sikkim, filed the complaint at Pradhan Nagar police station in Siliguri on Thursday night. He alleged landlord Hiren Dey evicted Athena Limboo, who belongs to Dikchu in Sikkim, on April 2.Limboo was suffering from “regular flu” and this was confirmed by a doctor, Bhutia said. He added there should be zero tolerance for such cases of discrimination.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIn a statement issued after filing the police complaint, Bhutia said, “She was asked to leave her rented room in Pradhan Nagar, Siliguri, when she had fever. She was left outside her house for three to four hours with no help. The doctor, in writing, informed that it was only the regular flu.” Bhutia further alleged in the complaint that Limboo was asked to return by the landlord on April 14 but was denied entry to the rented accommodation. “She was asked to pay the rent and leave,” Bhutia alleged.Dey said, “Three women were staying together as tenants in my house. After the lockdown was announced, all of them left. One of them came back after 15 days. I asked her to return after the lockdown was over. She left but came back with some people and wanted to enter the premises forcibly. I called the police and she left with her belongings.”Limboo said she was a fan of Bhutia and decided to seek his help after getting his contact details from friends. She said she had been admitted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) with flu for a day.NBMCH is the main hospital for Covid-19 cases in north Bengal, and has its own sample testing facility. Biswajit Ghosal, the inspector in-charge of Pradhan Nagar police station, said, “I asked the landlord to allow the woman to return to the building. We are looking into the matter.”Limboo said she had been provided shelter at the Paharia Bhawan run by Gorkhaland Territorial Administration at Matigara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-teen-evicted-from-bengal-home-over-regular-flu-bhaichung-bhutia/story-nkxe94fV6Eeq48tM3jJNtI.html
17-04-2020||India||MHA allows collection, processing of forest produce, plantation of spices||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed the collection, harvesting, and processing of minor forest produce (MFP) and non-timber forest produce (NTFP) by Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities and forest dwellers. It has also allowed plantation of bamboo, coconut, areca nut, cocoa, and spices. Their harvest, processing, packaging, sale, and marketing have also been allowed.MFP and NTFPs include bamboo, canes, fodder, leaves, gum, wax, dyes, resins and many forms of food including nuts and wild fruits, honey, lac, and tusser. The MHA exempted these activities on Friday while exercising its powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which has been in force because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown till May 3 to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. But those working in tribal areas maintain that the order has come late because the MFP season is almost over.“The most important season for the sale of MFP and NTFPs is April to May when important produce like sal seeds, mahua and tendu leaves are harvested. We are getting reports that tribals stored their produce but couldn’t sell. The government will now have to facilitate procurement and sale of forest produce because forest dwellers are in dire straits because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown. They should also be compensated for their losses,” said Tushar Dash, a member of the Community Forest Rights Learning and Advocacy (CFR-LA) group.There are around 200 million tribal and forest dwellers, who come under the purview of The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, according to CFR-LA’s analysis.“Unfortunately the lockdown period has coincided with the NTFP collection period when around 10 million people in Odisha and over 200 million people across the country collect NTFPs like tendu, mahua, siali and sal leaves to sell in the local market for their basic needs. These three-four months cater to their needs up to winter and particularly during monsoon when there are no employment opportunities. They will need immediate help,” said Chitta Ranjan Pani, an Odisha-based researcher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-allows-collection-processing-of-forest-produce-plantation-of-spices/story-Aocv7r2FGfTIdQZNP3HNvK.html
17-04-2020||India||Link between spitting and disease transmission is overstated: Professor Ross Coomber||The government has banned spitting in public places and it is now a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which transmits through respiratory droplets released from nose and mouth.Spitting has been associated with spreading disease, particularly tuberculosis (TB), for over a century. In 1896, New York City passed the first anti-spitting legislation based on public health grounds.More recently, in 2011, a councillor in London said “banning spitting (in the borough of) Enfield will help combat TB, which has been on the increase in London”. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageLately, it has been linked with the spread of HIV that causes AIDS, hepatitis B&C that cause jaundice and liver damage, or herpes, with hundreds of cases worldwide where prosecution for assault was brought, or partially so, on this basis.Several states such as Delhi, Goa, Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Haryana, Nagaland and Assam, and cities like Mumbai have banned smokeless chewing tobacco like paan and gutka, and spitting in public places, with some introducing the ban to stop the spread of Covid-19.But does spitting really spread disease? Professor Ross Coomber, the head of department of sociology, social policy and criminology, University of Liverpool, the United Kingdom (UK), who has extensively studied spitting practices in Asia, including both India and China, believes that the promulgated public health risks are commonly exaggerated, relatively unproven and promote what in reality is a public nuisance but has become a public health hazard.Why do people spit? Is it a habit particular to Asia, or is it also prevalent in other regions of the world?Spitting varies in prevalence around the world, but historically it was extremely prevalent in most countries. The Asian region does appear to be where the greater levels of prevalence occur, as a region. People spit for many reasons but the normal reasons -- divorced from customs or a particular culture, sealing contracts, showing determination in sport, showing contempt, warding off evil, etc; -- would be to clear their throats/lungs in the same way that many people blow into their handkerchiefs in the West or to do so habitually. How are spitting behaviours different in India, than, say, China?In India, I observed two primary types - habitual ‘functional’ spitting by men and women, young and old who ‘just spat’ often not forcefully but just ridding of saliva but also spitting related to the widely-used chewed paan and gutka, which is a heady mix of cultural activities, fashion, need (if choosing not to swallow), and tradition.In China, it was almost exclusively functional but also louder and more forceful. Arguably, the everyday spitting in both countries is mostly accepted and largely unseen except by those that oppose it.In South Korea, it was almost exclusively combined with smoking and smokers would often draw on a cigarette, inhale and then spit.Does spitting spread disease? What do research studies say?Current research evidence shows that saliva, and thus spittle, although capable of containing viruses and other pathogens, is not considered a bodily fluid through which diseases such as HIV, hepatitis A, B and C are transmitted largely due to the low-level that pathogens are found in saliva. There is almost no evidence to show that public spitting is, in reality, a significant contributor to disease or virus spread as opposed to the assumption that it is because saliva can contain disease/or viruses.In terms of a hierarchy of risk for the transmission of TB, the disease most commonly associated with spitting, the strongest evidence for transmission, however, is elsewhere. As far as the available research suggests, direct close-range coughing or breathing; hand-to-hand touching; kissing (although even mouth-to-mouth resuscitation carries low risk); directly touching pathogen-contaminated surfaces such as handrails, doorknobs and so on; and close living and/or working with others in poorly ventilated rooms carry the most significant transmission risks.Are there any estimates for how many people spit? Has the subject been studied enough?Studies on spitting -- even epidemiological studies -- are rare/thin on the ground. Yes, more systematic studies would be helpful. There are only anecdotal estimates of people spitting and I think there is some Chinese reporting on counting from before the Olympics were held there. I would argue and the evidence suggests (in relation to TB, at least, as the size and virulence of transmittable pathogens vary between diseases) that the link between spitting and disease transmission is historically exaggerated and overstated, particularly with spitting downwards to the ground and is as much a morally/civility based concern as it is a health issue. The campaigns against spitting have a long history of being as much driven by morality as health. A zero-risk approach, of course, would suggest not spitting or sneezing or coughing or even breathing directly in the vicinity of others. The Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 is found in throat swabs and spreads through droplets. Do you believe stopping spitting will stop its spread?Social distancing and sensible all-round behaviour (washing hands etc.) are probably the most important. It seems sensible to suggest that not forcefully projecting bodily fluids into the air should be behaviour but I would suggest that spitting to the ground is not the same as spitting into the air, which happens rarely. It is probably best and sensible to stop all projectile bodily emissions in the current context, whenever possible.How difficult is it for people to change behaviours and stop after a lifetime of spitting?I would suggest it will be very difficult for some but not all. We are all being asked to change our behaviours in many ways. It might be more difficult for those that regularly or even compulsively chew paan or gutka that contain nicotine, tobacco and other addictive substances, such as stimulants. There will a desire and need to chew those substances that will be toughest to break and the spitting will then follow that continued behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/link-between-spitting-and-disease-transmission-is-overstated-professor-ross-coomber/story-kkxhiiKKdUaCBkihVb7QkM.html
17-04-2020||India||Maharashtra govt orders landlords to not evict tenants, delay rent by 3 months||The Maharashtra government on Friday ordered landlords to delay rent collection by at least three months and to not evict tenants from their properties during that period as the nation battles the coronavirus pandemic. There is also a countrywide lockdown in place till May 3 to halt the spread of deadly coronavirus infection.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases. These states, together with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, account for more than 60% of total number of cases in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his appeal to the nation, urged citizens to be sensitive to people who work with them in their businesses. He also advised them not to sack people working for them. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has asked all guardian ministers to ensure smooth distribution of food grains to the poor during the covid-19 lockdown so that the government is not defamed unnecessarily.Earlier today, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a series of measures to infuse liquidity in the system and provide relief to borrowers amid the crisis.To begin with, RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points — from 4% to 3.75% — encouraging banks to “deploy surplus funds” and lend more, a move that will in turn result in cash in the hands of the borrower. According to a Bloomberg report, India’s economy may be heading for its first full-year contraction in more than four decades amid extended lockdown to contain the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharastra-govt-orders-landlords-to-not-evict-tenants-delay-rent-by-3-months/story-6UvpR7PG773CeqhoaLBO8N.html
17-04-2020||India||Quarantine eating made easy||With the entire country under lockdown, most of us are grappling with household chores, cooking and most importantly working from home, leaving us with no time and energy to invest in cooking a decent meal. Options of ordering in food are dwindling every passing day and one feels close to helpless when it comes to cooking. Even for the ones who love and can cook, we are now in a situation where we need to be mindful of our pantry resources and not indulge in fancy 50-ingredient meals. Making the most of the basic ingredients at hand, one needs to also ensure we whip up something healthy so as to not fall in the rut of binge-eating unhealthy snacks.So, to solve all your gastronomical dilemmas, chefs have shared some healthy, easy, quick recipes that require minimal ingredients and still churn delicious meals. Take your pick from the versatile Rava Uttapam to the decadent Market Fish.Herb Roasted Chicken Whole chicken with bone, 2tbsp smoked paprika, ¼ cup chopped garlic, 2tbsp olive oil, 2tbsp regular oil, 1tbsp fresh thyme, 1tbsp oregano, ½tbsp pepper powderMethod:Mix all ingredients in a bowl, except for the chickenRub the marination onto the whole chicken and set aside for 1-2 hours.Then, cook the chicken in microwave for 35 minutes covered and 10 minutes uncovered, to get that golden brown exterior.Rava UttapamIngredients ½cup curd, ½ cup water, 1cup semolina, 1tbsp rice flour, 1chopped green chilli, 1tbsp chopped coriander, salt to taste, 2tbsp oil Method:- In a bowl mix curd & water- Add semolina, rice flour, green chilli and mix well. Keep a side for 15 minutes - Grease a microwavable plate oil and pour the batter, spreading it evenly.- Microwave for one minute 30 seconds.- Turn upside down and microwave for another 30 seconds.- Garnish with chopped coriander.Market FishIngredients:4c pieces of fish of choice, boneless, 1/2tbsp smoked paprika, 2tbsp chopped garlic, 2tbsp olive oil, 1tbsp lemon juice, 1/2tbsp saltMethod:Mix all ingredients, except the fish, in a bowl. Rub the mixture on the fish to marinate for 30 to 35 minutesThe, cook the fish in a microwave till evenly cooked Sweet potato – Indian StyleIngredients2-3 sweet potatoes, 1tbsp cumin, 1/2tbsp turmeric powder, 1/2 tbsp coriander powder, 1tbsp red chilli powder, 1tbsp olive oilMethod:Mix all the ingredients in a microwaveable dish.Cook in microwave for 8 to 10 minutes.Chef Ishijyot Surri, Executive Chef, SJI Hospitality Private LimitedBeetroot Carrot Ginger Juice Ingredients:180gm carrots, 170gm beetroot, 180gm peeled apple, 2tbsp ginger, 2tbsp lemon juiceMethod:Cut the vegetables and apple and blend it till it becomes a thick smoothiePour it into a glass and serve with a thin slice of lime at the side Gudiya Chadha, owner, All Elements Café||https://www.hindustantimes.com/quarantine-eating-made-easy/story-7YWKthcSV7CEhzc2kYV64M.html
17-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In lockdown, 250 UP buses to bring home 7,000 students from Rajasthan’s Kota and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In lockdown, 250 UP buses to bring home 7,000 students from Rajasthan’s KotaThe Uttar Pradesh government is sending 250 buses to bring back 7,000 students stranded in the coaching hub of Rajasthan’s Kota due to Covid-19 lockdown.The move came after the “#sendusbackhome” campaign of the coaching students started trending on Twitter two days ago. Read more. After lockdown, Covid-19 case doubling rate dipped from 3 to 6.2 days: GovtIndia’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases has taken a dip and currently stands at 6.2 days instead of the earlier three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. After the nationwide lockdown of 21 days and the subsequent extension, the doubling rate has gone from 3 to 6.2 days at the national level, according to health ministry data. Read more. From reverse repo rate to dividend move: Understanding RBI’s announcementsThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a series of measures on Friday to infuse liquidity in the system and provide relief to borrowers amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.To begin with, RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points — from 4% to 3.75% — encouraging banks to “deploy surplus funds” and lend more, a move that will in turn result in cash in the hands of the borrower. Read more. ‘It felt like Ram Rajya’: Rs 500 notes lay on street, no one dared to pick themAbout a dozen people watched from a safe distance as three Rs 500 notes lay right outside a house. For several minutes, no one dared to touch the currencies. Then someone dialled the police.The fear among many people that currency notes could be carriers of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) resulted in a peculiar situation in North Delhi’s Lawrence Road on Wednesday afternoon. Read more. Maharashtra: Parents can complain against schools charging fees amidst lockdownParents from across the state can now complain to the district education officers if schools insist on paying fees during the lockdown period. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced the decision in a tweet on Friday afternoon. Read more. Plane lands in the middle of busy highway, people continue driving. WatchCommuters on a Quebec highway were greeted with a surreal sight today morning and a video of the incident has left netizens amazed too. A small plane made an emergency landing right in the middle of the highway.In the video, the small plane hovers above the street and eventually lands amid the oncoming traffic. Shared on Twitter, the video is surprising and thrilling in equal parts. Read more. Life in the times of Covid: Some hobbies so you don’t lose your mindCovid-19 has affected over 180 countries around the world and most populations have been placed under mandatory lockdown. According to a recent study published in Lancet Journal, the novel coronavirus could have a “profound” effect on people’s mental health, now and in the future as well. Read more. ‘Like the way he goes by’ - Glenn McGrath names his favourite fast bowlerThe game of cricket has been predominantly dominated by batsmen, who get a lot more plaudits than the bowlers. However, the appreciation has increased a lot in recent times for fast bowlers.In the past, there were several pacers like Glenn McGrath, Curtly Ambrose, Shaun Pollock, Wasim Akram, Shoaib Akhtar who sent shivers around the batting line ups of the world. Read more. COVID-19 Delhi updates: Trials for plasma therapy, 62 new cases, death toll 3861 new COVID-19 cases have been recorded in Delhi on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 1640. 6 people also succumbed to the virus on Thursday taking the death toll to 38. Meanwhile, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has said that the Centre has given the nod to start trials for plasma enrichment therapy and added that this will begin in the next three to four days. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-lockdown-250-up-buses-to-bring-home-7-000-students-from-rajasthan-s-kota-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QlWDHCSOoVINtUhtwYcJCL.html
17-04-2020||India||In lockdown, 250 UP buses to bring home 7,000 students from Rajasthan’s Kota||The Uttar Pradesh government is sending 250 buses to bring back 7,000 students stranded in the coaching hub of Rajasthan’s Kota due to Covid-19 lockdown.The move came after the “#sendusbackhome” campaign of the coaching students started trending on Twitter two days ago. “The Uttar Pradesh state government has sent around 250 buses from UP that will reach Kota tonight (17 April), ” Divisional Commissioner, Kota, LN Soni, told HT.The buses with coaching students will depart from Kota to UP tomorrow morning, he said.The officer added that covid-19 screening of all the students of UP will be done prior to sending them home. Ritik Babu, an IIT-JEE aspirant from Jhansi, said: “I am feeling relieved as my family and I were concerned about each other during covid-19 lockdown”.“Finally, I will now be able to meet my family,” he said.Another student Suman Sahni, from Ballia, said: “I completed my course a month ago, but I decided to stay in Kota for further preparation. Suddenly, due to lockdown I could not return home”.“I was missing my family as I was alone here in Kota,” he said.Bihar had objected to Kota administration’s decision of making passes for students to return to their home states. Later, the Kota administration stopped making passes due to which over 30,000 students were stuck there. Around 10,000 students have already returned to their home states.Several students from other states, except UP, are in waiting mode as their governments have yet to decide on bringing them back.There are around 6,500 students of Bihar, 4,000 from Madhya Pradesh, around 3,000 from Jharkhand, 2,000 from Haryana, another 2,000 from Maharashtra, and 1,000 students from North East and around 1,000 students from West Bengal, said Naveen Maheshwari, Director of Allen Career Institute in Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-250-up-buses-to-bring-home-7-000-students-from-rajasthan-s-kota/story-qgn6IcfvRSMtQj38noSwyM.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis threatens survival of F&B industry||To ensure that there is no overcrowding, as a precaution to resist the spreading of the novel coronavirus, Section 144 was imposed in all cities of Maharashtra from Monday, March 23. This seemed to be the final blow to the already crumbling state of the restaurant industry in Mumbai. Ever since the city’s first positive case was reported, there seemed to be a decrease in the number of diners. “There was a 50% fall in demand in the initial stages of the outbreak,” says Mihir Desai, founder and owner of Corum Hospitality Pvt Ltd. Annie Bafna, owner, The Nutcracker, says initially people were taking care and staying home but were comfortable with ordering food online. “However, as the crisis has grown we can see the impact on deliveries as well, where people are opting to eat at home. We saw a fall of 50% in delivery orders in the past week,” she adds.While most restaurants opted to shut down before the announcement was made on Monday, now that entire city is on lockdown, and restaurants shut indefinitely, owners are worried about the very survival of eateries. “Hospitality can’t work from home. There are some that might not be able to reopen again. It’s going to have a much longer impact than just 2 weeks of shutting. The restaurant industry will suffer for months together,” frets Aakriti Agarwal, chief executive officer and co-owner, Thirsty City 127.Riyaaz Amlani, managing director of Impresario Entertainment & Hospitality Pvt. Ltd and former president, NRAI, feels “the very survival of the restaurant industry is being called into question not just in India, but across the world”. “.The F&B industry has not seen anything like this in recent memory. There’s no doubt that the impact is going to be extremely severe. The restaurant industry is in complete lockdown currently, which means there are no revenues coming in. If the government steps in immediately, then we can actually curtail losses in the short term.”In lieu of the thought, the NRAI has reportedly written to the Finance Minister requesting help from the government in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The association has demanded some pay to cover marginal employees working in this sector, deferment of all statutory dues at the central and state level, restoration of the input tax credit on GST and moratorium on bank loans.“What we have sought on the immediate basis are essentially the measures that can spare us cash flows to support our employees, our marginal farmers and small-time suppliers during the times of such unprecedented crisis. As we fight a grim battle for our mere survival, what we seek right now is some help from the Government to ensure that kitchen fires continue to burn in the households of our employee,” said Anurag Katriar, president of NRAI and executive director of deGustibus Hospitality.In the face of such a crisis, however, the owners haven’t forgotten the crux of the issue. Arjun Raj Kher, brand head of Hitchki and Bayroute, says, “Looking at the current scenario, what people are going through is much more serious and they need all the support. Though these are testing times for the industry, it is secondary amid the circumstances. However, we will definitely need the support from the government once everything is under control. Right now, what is more important that we fight back together and ensure that everyone in the country is safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/covid-19-crisis-threatens-survival-of-f-b-industry/story-fArzLlkdK81bbaqJqKSTMK.html
17-04-2020||India||IISc comes up with an affordable two-step method to scale up RT-PCR testing||Shanmukha Innovations, a start-up from the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc), is in the process of validating a new two-step method for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing that can help India scale up molecular testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.The RT-PCR test amplifies the virus’ genetic material (RNA) from throat swabs of the patients, converts it to DNA, amplifies it and checks it for designated markers to see whether it is SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.The method devised by the IISc team uses two machines, which are cheaper and readily available in India, instead of one to conduct the test. A thermal-cycler is used to amplify the genetic material machine, while a fluorescence reader is used to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2.India is conducting around 25,000 RT-PCR tests a day. The daily testing figures are likely to go up, as the much-awaited consignment of 500,000 rapid blood-based antibody test kits arrived from China on Thursday. India has also started manufacturing its own antibody kits.“RT-PCR is the golden standard of tests, as it can detect the presence of the virus in the body from day one. But there are very few RT-PCR machines available in the country. They are also expensive. Our method uses a thermal cycler, which is more readily available in biology laboratories,” said Arun B, director, Shanmukha Innovations.At IISc, there are about 30 RT-PCR machines, as compared to 200 thermal cyclers. There are about 186 government laboratories with the RT-PCR machines that have now been approved for Covid-19 tests.The fluorescence reader – the second machine needed for the testing -- is also available in several academic labs or can be manufactured at a lower cost.“The fluorescence readers are used to measuring the DNA in samples and are available at several academic laboratories. It can also be manufactured at an estimated cost of Rs 1 lakh as opposed to about Rs 15 or Rs 20 lakh, which an RT-PCR machine costs. We have been working with this method for other diseases such as malaria and Kala-azar, now we need to validate the workflow for Covid-19,” said Arun.Shanmukha Innovations is collaborating with the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute to test round 100 samples using the traditional RT-PCR test and their two-step method to assess whether the results are as accurate. The team already has two prototypes.“Once validated, the manufacturing can happen within six weeks,” he said.The start-up is also working on a mobile laboratory – with bio-safety level (BSL) II – that can cut down on the testing time. “We have a few vans donated to us under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. We are working on these vans. We are fitting these vans with equipment and restructuring as a BSL II lab. Currently, there is at least a three-day lag between the time a sample is collected and a patient receives his report because all the samples have to be sent to the designated laboratories. Instead, we can now take the vans to the Covid-19 hotspots and conduct the tests directly on the spot. Around 12 samples can be processed within three hours,” said Arun.Each van is likely to cost around Rs 45 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iisc-comes-up-with-an-affordable-two-step-method-to-scale-up-rt-pcr-testing/story-xBzTKyjilgEldPRouoHp6O.html
17-04-2020||India||After lockdown, Covid-19 case doubling rate dipped from 3 to 6.2 days: Govt||India’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases has taken a dip and currently stands at 6.2 days instead of the earlier three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. “Before lockdown, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases was about 3 days, but according to data in the past 7 days, the doubling rate of cases now stands at 6.2 days. Doubling rate in 19 states and union territories are even lower than average doubling rate,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said at the daily news briefing.ALSO READ | Covid-19 cases in India climb to 13,387, death toll at 437“The doubling rate is lower than the national level in 19 states and union territories. Kerala, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Puducherry, Delhi, Bihar, Odisha, TN, Andhra Pradesh, UP, Punjab, Assam, Tripura all have low doubling rates of coronavirus cases,” Aggarwal added.After the nationwide lockdown of 21 days and the subsequent extension, the doubling rate has gone from 3 to 6.2 days at the national level, according to health ministry data.“The ratio between Covid-19 patients who have recovered and deaths stands at 80:20 in the country, which is higher than that of several other countries suffering due to the health crisis,” the health ministry official said.The health ministry official said that 13.6 per cent of those infected have recovered so far from the highly contagious disease.“A total of 1,749 people have been cured, which is equal to 13.6 per cent of the total number of cases. With 1,007 fresh cases of coronavirus reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the country has reached 13,835. A total of 23 new deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours,” he added..“We have been witnessing an average growth factor of 1.2 since April 1, which stood at 2.1 (average) between March 15 to March 31. So there is a 40% decline in average growth factor as we increased our Covid-19 testing,” Aggarwal said.According to ministry officials, the decline is the result of increased testing, including that of patients suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI).India has so far reported 1,007 fresh cases of coronavirus and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-doubling-rate-takes-a-dip-cases-now-double-in-6-2-days/story-42TcUo4kjnMuNmNJCNbS5N.html
17-04-2020||India||Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy’s son marries amid lockdown||Videos posted on social media purportedly showed dozens of people present at a farmhouse in Karnataka for the marriage of former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy’s son, despite appeals not to gather at the venue in view of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.Nikhil Kumaraswamy, the son of the former chief minister and grandson of former prime minister and Janata Dal-Secular chief HD Deve Gowda, married Revathi, the grand-niece of former Congress minister M Krishnappa, at a ceremony in a farmhouse on the Bengaluru-Mysore highway in Ramanagara district, a JD-S stronghold.A video released by ANI news agency featured a large video screen that showed a sizeable number of people present during the wedding rituals. Reports from Bengaluru said the media was barred from the area around the wedding venue, though more than three dozen cars were seen going to the site. #WATCH Karnataka: Nikhil Kumarswamy, son of former Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy, tied the knot with Revathi, the grand-niece of former Congress Minister for Housing M Krishnappa, today in Ramnagar. (Video source: anonymous wedding guest) pic.twitter.com/5DH9fjNshQHowever, members of the JD-S, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, contended only the “first circle of family members” from the groom and bride’s side were present at the event.A JD-S leader, who too didn’t want to be identified, told Hindustan Times: “Even party members weren’t present and it was strictly a family affair. Social distancing was practised to ensure everybody remained safe.”JD-S legislator TA Sharavana told PTI that lockdown norms weren’t flouted. “There were only eight people on the stage to perform rituals as against the claim that people crowded the venue,” he said.Public gatherings and the presence of large crowds at events such as weddings have been barred under the guidelines for the nationwide lockdown till May 3.Karnataka’s deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan told the media: “I have sought a report from Ramanagara’s deputy commissioner. I will speak to the superintendent of police. We need to take action, otherwise it will be a complete mockery of the system.”Nikhil Kumaraswamy has acted in a few movies and is also president of the Yuva Janata Dal-Secular. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mandya seat but lost.Before the lockdown was imposed, the Kumaraswamy family had planned a grand wedding at a custom built mandap on the Bengaluru-Mysore highway. Nearly 500,000 people had been expected to attend the wedding at that time, primarily from Ramanagara and Chennapatna constituency, represented in the state assembly by HD Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha.The former chief minister has indicated that, as and when the situation permits, the family could organise a public function so that constituents and well-wishers can bless the couple. Leaders from different political parties, including chief minister BS Yediyurappa, conveyed their blessings and wishes to the newly married couple.In a video message earlier this week, HD Kumaraswamy had appealed to JD-S workers, relatives and well-wishers not to visit the wedding venue. He said the marriage was planned at the family’s home but was moved to Ramanagara as social distancing norms would be a challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-cm-kumaraswamy-s-son-marries-amid-lockdown/story-BLCgJujJHIOE15iHDO6isO.html
17-04-2020||India||Villager killed, another hurt in crossfire between Maoists, security forces||A villager was killed and another sustained bullet injuries in crossfire between security personnel and Maoists in Bijapur district on Friday.The injured villager was admitted to a district hospital and his condition is believed to be stable.According to the police, the incident took place on Friday morning when the security forces were out for an anti-Maoist operation.Officials said that a joint team of CRPF and the state police launched an operation on Thursday night following a tip-off regarding Maoists’ movement. When the team reached the forest near Otkalpada village, the encounter with Maoists began.“The Maoists managed to escape during the encounter and when the firing stopped two villagers were found injured in the jungle. The two villagers- Dubbak Anna and Yalam Dharmaiyya sustained bullet injuries during the cross fire and were rushed to hospital,” Inspector General of Police (IG) Bastar Sunderraj P said.The IG further added that Anna died in the hospital while Dharmaiyya’s condition is stable.“The whole area has been cordoned off and a search is on,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villager-killed-another-hurt-in-crossfire-between-maoists-security-forces/story-4ivBJsvOaeETSGJknZROnO.html
17-04-2020||India||Mumbai’s pay-and-use toilets will be free for users until Covid-19 lockdown||The pay-and-use toilets in Mumbai will be free for the public until the lockdown restrictions are in place till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities decided on Friday.The BMC authorities said the relief would help the stranded migrant workers in the city, who have no source of income since the initial 21-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced on March 25 and further extended for another 19 days till May 3.“We have instructed all public toilet facilities not to charge any money from the users. This relief will continue till May 3 to help the stranded people in the city,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.Mumbai has around 8,500 public toilets, which are run by BMC and charitable organisations. They charge between Rs 2 and Rs 5 for one-time use. Over one million people in the city are estimated to use these facilities. The footfall at pay-and-use toilets have come down by over 80% because of the ongoing lockdown, the BMC official said.At present, homeless migrant workers are the only users of these facilities. “I have lost my job because of the lockdown. I have only Rs 100 on me. I can’t afford to use the pay-and-use toilet for more than once a week when I pay Rs 5 to take a bath,” said a labourer from West Bengal Malda’s district, who is living in a slum in Bandra (East).Human rights activists have praised the BMC’s decision. It is the responsibility of the civic authorities to make arrangements for the basic necessities of the stranded workers amid the Covid-19 outbreak, they said.“Thousands of workers have lost their work due to the lockdown. It is a responsible act by the BMC, as it has waived off the fee for public toilets,” said Robert D’Souza, a human rights activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-pay-and-use-toilets-will-be-free-for-users-until-the-lockdown/story-B53XXX75bL26XLx1YzQz3K.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 casts shadow on opening of Badrinath, Kedarnath; Uttarakhand govt trying to bring priests back||The Uttarakhand government has initiated efforts to bring the chief priests of Kedarnath and Badrinath stuck outside the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown to preside over the opening of the temples. The state government has decided to open Kedarnath on April 29 and Badrinath on April 30 and the priests are supposed to be present at the opening ceremony.However, it has also asked authorities concerned to nominate other priests as replacement of the chief priests in case they are not in a position to be present on the occasion. The chief priests (called rawal) of Kedarnath is in Maharashtra and that of Badrinath in Kerala.“In case of Kedarnath and Badrinath, the priests who conduct the rituals for the opening of portals are outside the state. We spoke to home ministry that these priests be allowed to come to the state. The home ministry has agreed they will be allowed to come to Uttarakhand by car. If they come, they will be quarantined for 14 days,” said Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government.But even after their return, the rawals will have to mandatorily remain in 14-day quarantine, due to which they will have to skip the opening ceremony.Kaushik said in case of Badrinath shrine, the Tehri royal family (considered its custodians) will be empowered to change the date of the opening the portal or nominate somebody for opening the portal.Similarly, the Badrinath-Kedarnath Temple Committee has also been asked to nominate another priest as a temporary replacement for the Kedarnath rawal if he is not in a position to make it to the temple on schedule.Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh told news agency PTI that this has been done three or four times in the past also amid unusual circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-opening-of-badrinath-kedarnath-uttarakhand-govt-trying-to-bring-priests-back/story-KxWrfLKqBtPKAKXcw8YoZI.html
17-04-2020||India||Bengal to ramp up testing; people with no Covid-19 symptoms to be screened||Amid allegations that not enough tests are being conducted to detect Covid-19 patients in West Bengal and the number of infections increasing steadily everyday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s government has finally decided to expand testing to include even asymptomatic people, or those showing no symptoms of the virus“Swab samples [to] be taken for all symptomatic contacts, and all asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case as per Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and in clusters and quarantine centres, as deemed fit by the local administration,” said a directive issued by the state government.The step is a part of the state government’s 11-point containment and treatment strategy for high-risk spots announced on Monday. Only symptomatic patients were to be tested under the strategy, which was amended on Thursday to include even asymptomatic people who may be carrying the virus.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“This is a huge step taken by the state government. We doctors have been banging our head against the wall for this for the last 10 days. It is because a lockdown and policing alone cannot bring desired results. We need to ramp up our tests. We need to go for random sampling. Tests, tests and more tests ae the need of the hour because we need to identify asymptomatic carriers and confine them,” said Kunal Sarkar, a cardiologist. Around 12,200 people are now under observation in 582 institutional quarantine centres run by the state. They are likely to be tested, said a top official at the state health department.“Earlier the ICMR had suggested that only symptomatic patients need to be tested. Now with ICMR coming up with new guidelines, we have also issued fresh guidelines. The state has also placed requisition for 50,000 rapid antibody testing kits. We will start the rapid test as soon as the kits arrive,” the official added.West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress government has been drawing flak for allegedly not conducting enough tests.Only 3,811 tests have been conducted in Bengal, with a population of around 100 million, compared to 56,673 tests in Maharashtra, 21,384 in Uttar Pradesh and 17,650 in Madhya Pradesh.Till date, at least 205 persons have tested positive for the virus in Bengal out of whom 10 have died. Allegations have surfaced that a few other patients who died Covid-19 hadn’t been included in the toll; the state government says that they had comorbid conditions that may have been responsible for their deaths. The state has set up a panel of doctors to look into such deaths before declaring whether they died of Covid-19 or other ailments. The latest directive, expanding testing to asymptomatic people, didn’t silence critics. the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that t was another attempt to suppress numbers.“Health minister Mamata Banerjee continues assault on Doctor’s rights, proscribes them from prescribing Covid tests! How is it that a doctor treating a Covid patient can neither decide on the test nor write reasons for death but local admin or some random committee can?” tweeted Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s information technology cell.The health department offered no immediate clarification. Repeated calls and messages to top officials in the department elicited no response .The Union government has identified Kolkata and Howrah as red zones – where the number of cases could easily double within four days. The state administration has started a house-to-house survey in high-risk containment areas to trace Covid-19 suspects who need to be quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-ramp-up-testing-people-with-no-symptoms-to-be-screened/story-yFs0s4zwaiXFcc025Q4aJP.html
17-04-2020||India||About 1,000 soldiers take special train for border duty amid lockdown||A special train with approximately 950 Army personnel, who have finished their training at key centres such as Bengaluru, Secunderabad, Gopalpur and Belgaum and need to be moved for their deployment in operational areas in North India, started from Bengaluru on Friday.All personnel have undergone mandatory quarantine period and are medically fit. The train is scheduled to reach Jammu on April 20. Earlier this week, the Centre gave its nod for the running of two special trains to be deployed for the Indian Army personnel citing national security consideration, according to officials aware of the development.“To meet the operational requirements for Northern and Eastern borders, two military special trains are planned to be run. These are: Bangalore - Belgaum- Secunderabad - Ambala- Jammu on 17 April 20. And Bangalore - Belgaum- Secunderabad - Gopalpur - Howrah - NJP - Guwahati on 18 April 20,” a senior official had said.“This will enable decongestion of Category A and B training establishments at Bengaluru, Belgaum, Secundrabad & Gopalpur as well assist in op preparedness of active formations deployed in the borders,” he added.The railways has ensured all possible precautions for Covid-19, like disinfection of platforms and bogies, detailed briefing of the personnel, instructions pasted outside and inside the bogies, establishment of sanitisation tunnel and following social distancing norms and screening of passengers.All passenger train services and domestic and international flights have been suspended since the nationwide 21-day lockdown came into effect from March 25 and further extended by another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The Indian Railways is only running freight and parcel trains for an uninterrupted supply of essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-1-000-soldiers-take-special-train-for-border-duty-amid-lockdown/story-gWl4LkGQcXYrqjTnTz413I.html
17-04-2020||India||Rs 500 notes lay on Delhi street, no one touches due to coronavirus fear||About a dozen people watched from a safe distance as three Rs 500 notes lay right outside a house. For several minutes, no one dared to touch the currencies. Then someone dialled the police. The fear among many people that currency notes could be carriers of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) resulted in a peculiar situation in North Delhi’s Lawrence Road on Wednesday afternoon.It all began around 1.15pm when someone noticed three soiled notes lying outside a house. Soon, there were a host of curious onlookers and no one to claim the unattended cash.A call was made to the Keshavpuram police station at 1.27pm. A police team arrived at the spot, but they too didn’t want to take chances. “We cordoned off the street and sent the onlookers into their homes. One of us wore hand gloves to pick up the notes. We then sprayed them with sanitizer and packed them in an envelope,” said a senior police officer.The police asked around, but didn’t find anyone who would claim the cash. The residents of the house outside which the currencies were found too did not claim them. “No one had picked the money off the street. No one would claim it either. It felt like Ram Rajya,” said the officer.But the suspense over the notes ended soon after the policemen returned to the police station. “A woman, Charanjeet Kaur, visited the police station to claim that the notes belonged to her,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west). Kaur, a 49-year-old teacher at a government school in nearby Shakurpur, told the police that the notes were a part of a sum of Rs 10,000 she had withdrawn from an ATM in RG City Centre, a mall in Keshavpuram. “Afraid that the notes could be carrying the virus, she had washed them with sanitizer and put them on a table in the balcony of her second floor house to dry. The wind may have blown away three of them,” said DCP Arya.Kaur had remained unaware of the drama when the police had landed outside her house. It was only when she walked out to her balcony, that she got to know of the missing notes and the drama that had unfolded. The police asked her to produce the other notes she had withdrawn. “The notes found on the street were of the same series as the other notes with her. We gave back the currencies to her,” said the DCP. Though studies indicated that the virus, transmitted through droplets, could be passed on even from dried surfaces to humans, there is not enough scientific evidence on how long it survives on currency notes.Earlier, some residents of Saharsa in Bihar had found currency notes scattered outside their homes. The currencies were accompanied by notes which said, “I have come with Corona. Accept this note, otherwise I’ll harass everyone”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-500-notes-lay-on-delhi-street-no-one-touches-due-to-coronavirus-fear/story-KnJLVHtselZnK4DbLjFK4H.html
17-04-2020||India||Security forces surround attackers who killed SPO in Kishtwar||A gunbattle has broken out between security forces and the suspected terrorists who killed a special police officer and critically injured his colleague in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kishtwar district early this week, officials said.On Monday, the suspects attacked the SPOs with axes in Tander village and escaped into the jungle. The police had been on their trail since and located them on Friday. Additional security forces were rushed and a gunbattle ensued, a police officer said, adding details would be made available later.The attackers have been identified as local residents Ashiq Hussain, a rape accused who was released on bail from Kishtwar Central Jail three weeks ago, and Basharat Hussain. The official said the two are believed to have joined the terrorist ranks and carried out the attack to lay their hands on their weapons.This was the first terror attack in Kishtwar district this year.Kishtwar was rocked by a series of terrorist attacks in November 2018, when it saw its first terror attack in over a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-surround-attackers-who-killed-spo-in-kishtwar/story-ikVtH6GJ65OYRvrFMN3YfO.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Indian victims in UK: doctor, grocer, Uber driver||Britain’s health officials do not disclose names or ethnicities of those succumbing to coronavirus, but individual stories behind the statistics are emerging: of the Indian-origin grocer who delivered supplies to a hospital, only to pass away in it days later.Or that of Uber driver Rajesh Jayaseelan, 45, who moved to the UK from Bengaluru 10 years ago: he drove to Heathrow to collect a passenger, showed symptoms soon after, and died in the Northwick Park Hospital on April 11.Raj Aggarwal, 51, dropped off groceries for medical staff at the Glenfield Hospital in Leicester, continued to support local causes through the crisis, but passed away after a short battle with the virus on April 9. Krishnasamy Chiyamalan, another retailer in the city, died a week earlier.Kin of those afflicted are unable to be around them in their dying moments, as hospital visits are prohibited due to the likelihood of the infection spreading, adding to their anxiety and grief. London boroughs with large populations of Indian origin have a high incidence of the virus.Also counted among the nearly 14,000 dead in UK are Jitendra Kumar Rathod, a ‘greatly respected’ doctor in Wales; Pooja Sharma, a pharmacist in east Sussex, and her father Sudhir Sharma, an immigration officer at Heathrow.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab reflected concern over statistics concealing individual stories behind them during the daily briefing on virus-related developments in Downing Street on Thursday.He said: “Every time I come to this lectern, and I read out the grim toll of people who have so sadly passed away. I walk away from here, and I think about what their sons and their daughters must be going through right now”.“Their brothers and sisters. Their grandchildren. All the loved ones left with their unbearable, long-term, grief. It makes me and it makes this government focus even harder on what we must do”.Initial hospital data suggests that the minority non-white people in the UK constitute 35 per cent among those in critical care hospitals, prompting an inquiry. Most of the medical staff who died in recent days are non-white.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-indian-victims-in-uk-doctor-grocer-uber-driver/story-kvmntSuUGNYDGDJMV69WDI.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rate of patient recovery in top coronavirus-affected states in India||The number of coronavirus cases in the country is over 13,000, however, patients recovering from the deadly contagion are also rising across the country. On Friday, nearly 13% of the total Covid-19 patients in the country were reported either cured of the virus or discharged from the hospital. The number of recoveries has gone up from last week’s 8%.Highest cases of coronavirus recoveries come from Maharashtra and Kerala. Nearly 10% of cases in Maharashtra have beaten the deadly contagion (300 patients). Maharashtra has reported more than 3,000 coronavirus cases so far.Of Delhi’s 1,640 cases, 51 have made a recovery which is around 3%. This is also because of the fact that the national capital witnessed a sudden surge in its Covid-19 cases after scores of jamaatis, who attended a religious gathering at Nizamuddin’s Markaz in March, tested positive of the virus. Delhi accounts for one of the highest coronavirus death tolls in the country after states such Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. As many as 38 people have died here. In Tamil Nadu, which has the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country, 180 people have recovered out of a total 1267 cases which roughly comes to 14%. The rate of recovery is low in Madhya Pradesh where just 64 of 1120 coronavirus cases have made a recovery, which nearly barely 6%. Rajasthan has around 14.5% of its total coronavirus patients recovering from the virus - 164 patients of total 1131 cases. Gujarat has reported nearly 8% of its coronavirus cases recover. 73 people of total 930 patients have defeated the contagion.When it comes to Covid-19 fatalities, just four Indian cities account for over 50% of coronavirus deaths. Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Indore are cities that have seen the maximum coronavirus-related deaths in the past week. Indore in Madhya Pradesh has emerged as one of the top Covid-19 hotspots with around 300 new cases on Thursday. The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Friday rose to 13,387. The figure includes 11,201 active cases, 1,748 cases of recoveries and 437 coronavirus fatalities.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mere-3-patients-recover-in-delhi-lowest-among-top-coronavirus-hit-states/story-iR2Cpdq7aIVQ9Z0bad4nuL.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Srinagar sanitation workers ‘unsung heroes’ in fight against coronavirus||Last month when Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) worker Irfan Shabir received a call from his supervisor that he would be part of a team to sanitise the home of a Covid-19 positive patient, his heart skipped a beat. Of the nine-member team, he was among the two youths, both in their 20s, who had to hold the chemical sprayers and enter the room of the house in the city outskirts. Though he was provided a personal protection equipment kit the fear was palpable. Before leaving for the task, he called his mother and asked her to pray for him.At the site, Shabir had to thoroughly spray the chemical. Apart from the house, they had to disinfect the surrounding houses in the 90 yards diameter. “I was scared but what else was the option,” said Shabir.Since then he has been regularly involved in door-to-door sanitisation in different areas of the city.Around 5,000 workers of SMC have been carrying out the decontamination and sanitation of the city and spraying some 50,000 litres of the chemical mixture on a daily basis to sanitise various public places and institutions to contain the further spread of deadly coronavirus.Around 70% of these workers are not permanently employed and have been working on a daily wage or consolidated basis like Shabir earns ₹6,700 a month. While many officials and health workers involved in fighting the pandemic have been amplifying their presence through the use of social media, most of these sanitation workers have been going on silently doing their work.“We are doing a very risky job. People are in their homes and we are out in the field, fighting,” said 29-year-old Sajad Ahmad, who during normal days would collect sanitation fee for SMC.On some occasions, these workers have faced the wrath of angry people and even the police. On Wednesday, Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu alleged that the Jammu and Kashmir Police thrashed some of the sanitation workers and posted a clip on social media where policemen could be seen thrashing employees of the Srinagar municipal corporation somewhere in the city.Owing to the lockdown, there aren’t many options for the workers. When the things were normal many workers also used to work part-time jobs apart from the SMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-srinagar-sanitation-workers-unsung-heroes-in-fight-against-coronavirus/story-xT0nIJCj4np9xiYd7MfvEJ.html
17-04-2020||India||IAF’s brand-new Apache chopper has a glitch, lands in Punjab village||An Apache AH-64E attack helicopter of the Indian Air Force on Friday made a precautionary landing at a village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. The members on board the aircraft are said to be safe. “On 17 April , an Apache helicopter of the IAF got airborne from Pathankot Airbase. The helicopter, after approx 1 hour of flying had indications of a critical failure and carried out a safe landing west of Indora, Punjab. The captain of the aircraft took correct and prompt actions to recover the helicopter safely. Crew on board the helicopter are safe and there has been no damage to any property. The aircraft will be recovered after necessary rectification,” the IAF said in a statement.This is the first incident involving the latest helicopters imported by the IAF from the United States.India inked a $ 1.1-billion deal with US defence giant Boeing in September 2015 for 22 Apaches. These choppers are being split in two squadrons, with one based at Pathankot and the other at Jorhat.Armed with fire-and-forget Hellfire missiles, an Apache can track up to 128 targets a minute and prioritise threats. The missiles equip the gunships with heavy anti-armour capabilities.The Indian Army is also buying six Apache attack helicopters in a deal worth $930 million. The army will deploy attack helicopters for the first time. The six army Apaches are being bought as a follow-on option to the 2015 IAF contract.Since 2008, India has bought or ordered military equipment worth more than $15 billion from the US, including C-130J special operations planes, C-17 transport aircraft, P-8I submarine hunter planes, Harpoon missiles, helicopters, and M777 howitzers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apache-attack-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-in-punjab-village/story-MzsyRxUzYaztHWjPOf2xAO.html
17-04-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 cases now at 1169, govt says rise in numbers due to more testing||Rajasthan reported 38 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday morning, with the highest number of infected in Jodhpur, taking the state’s tally to 1169, state health department data showed.Jodhpur had 18 Covid-19 cases, Tonk six, Jaipur five, Kota four, Nagaur two and Jhunjhunu, Ajmer and Jhalawar reported one each, according to news agency ANI.As Jodhpur saw a spike in cases of the coronavirus disease, the Bharatiya Janata Party has said the situation was grave in Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s constituency.Follow live updates on coronavirus hereThe opposition party’s state unit president Satish Poonia had said on Thursday said the situation in Jodhpur was not under control and pointed that the collector has requested deployment of troops of the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).“The district collector has written on April 12 to the BSF IG and CRPF DIG requesting deployment of the BSF or CRPF or else the situation will spiral out of control. But the government has hidden the letter,” Poonia said during a video conference with reporters.The collector had said in the letter, of which HT has a copy, to BSF and CRPF that to maintain law and order and ensure compliance of the curfew imposed in the wake of a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city the forces should provide one company each.The government, however, accused the BJP of misleading people and that the situation was under control in Jodhpur.Cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the chief minister is himself monitoring the situation. “The lockdown is being strictly imposed and adhered to. The government is working hard to ensure we succeed in this fight against Covid-19. The situation is under control and will further improve,” he said.Health minister Raghu Sharma also said that the situation is under control and the number of cases has risen because of more testing.“The BJP should appreciate the work being done by doctors, health workers, police and not demoralise them,” Sharma said.Before Jodhpur, Jaipur emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspot district in Rajasthan, accounting for almost one-third of the state’s total cases. And in Jaipur, Ramganj area has become a hotspot for the infection after a 45-year-old resident of Ramganj, who returned from Oman on March 12, was identifies as a super spreader. He was asked by health officials to stay in home quarantine but continued to meet people and even offered prayers at a local mosque.He tested positive on March 26 and curfew was imposed in Ramganj, a crowded neighbourhood with a population of nearly 500,000.Ramcharan Bohra, Jaipur’s MP, has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, accusing the Rajasthan government of following a policy of appeasement which he said has led to the situation going out of control.Bohra said the state government did not take stringent measures and the graph of positive cases from Ramganj kept increasing rapidly. He claimed Congress MLAs from Ramganj area were putting pressure on the administration to provide ration only to a particular community which has angered the locals.He said the government was forcing the local administration and police to relax curfew norms for a particular community which led to people moving out of Ramganj and spreading the virus to other areas in Jaipur.Rajasthan with 12 of its 33 districts features in the list of top five states in terms of the number of hot spot districts. Others are Tamil Nadu with 22 of its 37 districts in the ‘red zone’, Maharashtra with 14 of its 36, Uttar Pradesh with 13 of 75, and Andhra Pradesh with 11 of 13 districts.India reported 724 new Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-covid-19-cases-now-at-1169-govt-says-rise-in-numbers-due-to-more-testing/story-0IzTkJSYFQsUgbcl50gGpM.html
17-04-2020||India||Maharashtra: No new Covid-19 positive cases recorded today so far, total tally 3,202||Maharashtra did not record a single coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive case on Friday morning, as the total count remained the same in the state at 3,202 cases.On Thursday, the state recorded 286 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, as overall fatalities rose to 194.Mumbai is still the most affected city in the country as far as Covid-19 positive cases are concerned. The city recorded 177 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday and the total number of cases rose to 2,073. So far, Mumbai has reported 117 Covid-19 related deaths, according to the state health ministry’s data.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe number of Covid-19 positive cases in Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, has tripled in the past five days, from 28 cases on April 11 to 86 on April 16, and the death toll has also risen from four to nine during this period, the health ministry said. On Thursday, Dharavi saw its biggest spike, as 26 new Covid-19 cases were reported, including 11 from Muslim Nagar and one each from Janata Society, Suryoday Society, Shiv Shakti Nagar, besides other areas, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities said. A 58-year-old man from Dharavi’s Laxmi Chawl, who had tested Covid-19 positive last week, died on Thursday.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that about 51,000 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far. “Of the 51,000 samples, over 24,000 have been tested in Mumbai alone,” Tope said. “We have a total of 30 Covid-19 testing laboratories in the state, including 15 government and another 15 private labs. Soon, six more testing labs will be added to this list,” he said.“We are increasing our capacity of labs so that the time lapse between sample collection and test result can be minimised,” he added.Maharashtra government has also sought the Centre’s permission to conduct pool testing for Covid-19 patients amid a spike in the number of cases for the better part of this week, except Friday. “We’ve been conducting rapid testing so far. Now, we have sought the permission of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a Central government-run body, to conduct pool testing,” Tope said. This would help the state government to test more people in less time, he added. “The state government has already sought the Centre’s permission for starting clinical trials of plasma therapy and BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) vaccine administered to newborns and children to prevent tuberculosis for treating Covid-19 patients,” Tope said.State industries minister Subhash Desai said that plans are afoot to begin industrial operations in some districts, which have been declared as Green Zone, as no Covid-19 cases have been reported there to date. “We are preparing a proposal to begin industrial operations in some of the districts that come under the Green Zone category while adhering to the Centre’s guidelines for the second phase of the lockdown restrictions that are in place till May 3. The industrial units will be allowed to resume their operations in strict compliance with the standing operating procedures laid down by the state government,” he said.Maharashtra is also planning to increase its workforce in government offices to 33% from next week. The state’s senior officials held discussions via video-conference on Thursday on the Centre’s guidelines on the easing of lockdown restrictions in some of the areas that are least affected by the viral outbreak.Meanwhile, a case was registered against a man for allegedly assaulting a woman police personnel who was on duty at Kalyan taluka in Thane district to enforce the ongoing lockdown restrictions, the police said on Friday.A woman police naik, who was posted at Mharal village in Thane district, spotted the accused driving a car in a rash manner, an official said.When the official intercepted the vehicle, the accused abused and manhandled her, during which she sustained injuries, he said.The accused was charged under Sections 353 (assaulting a public servant) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and no arrest has been made in the case so far, he said.(Additional reporting by agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-no-new-covid-19-positive-cases-recorded-today-so-far-total-tally-3-202/story-rwOkyYjUYXD0VKiAP0WIzH.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update- Record 20.3 crore people watched PM Modi’s address on lockdown 2.0: BARC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address extending the lockdown by 19 days was watched by a record 203 million across the country on television, exceeding previous records held by him, the BARC said on Thursday.Even though a record number of people have downloaded the contact tracing Aarogya Setu app, only a tenth of those are using the app, market research agency AC Nielsen said.Modi has had four telecasts to the nation since the pandemic began in India and the addresses have given calls including the one-day ‘Janta’ curfew, declaration of the lockdown, cheering the medical fraternity by banging plates and lighting lamps.The previous record on viewership was 193 million for the second address when he declared the 21-day lockdown.The fourth address on Tuesday, where Modi extended the lockdown by 19-days in a 25-minute speech, was telecast by 199 broadcasters and generated nearly 4 billion viewing minutes, which is also a record, Broadcast Audience Research Council’s chief executive Sunil Lulla told reporters.The council reported that the overall TV consumption in the week to April 12 has gone up 38 per cent when compared to the pre-COVID period.Lulla hinted that it is primarily driven by national broadcaster Doordarshan, which has outsmarted the private sector channels by launching its classic shows like Ramayan and Mahabharat and added that the general entertainment channels as a category grew only because of DD.However, on the flip side, this growth in the number of eyeballs has been accompanied by a downfall in advertising and the data for the reporting week said the overall time had decreased by 26 per cent.Lulla attributed the fall to the lockdown, pointing out that with no consumption happening or deemed to happen till May 3, advertisers are not forthcoming.Meanwhile, on the same call, market researcher AC Nielsen, which studies trends on select universe of Android phones, said that despite breaching records on downloads, the state-pushed Aarogya Setu app is being used by only 10 per cent people.Nielsen’s Dolly Jha said that smartphone users continue to be very concerned about the COVID-19 pandemic, and added that over 40 per cent searches on Google were on topics related to the virus. Apart from that 8 per cent of people are frequently visiting websites dedicated for the pandemic, with an increased interest being shown by males, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-record-20-3-crore-people-watched-pm-modi-s-address-on-lockdown-2-0-barc/story-YFYdLYW2kSS9YcbNVGb0YK.html
17-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to allow industrial and agricultural activities from April 20||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday evening decided that it will allow industrial and agricultural activities in the state from April 20 amid the coronavirus lockdown. It also made wearing of face masks compulsory in public places and banned the sale of liquor and tobacco products in the state.These decisions were taken in the meeting of the ministers and senior officials at the residence of the Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. The meeting went on for two and a half hours on Thursday evening.Giving details of the decisions taken during the meeting, Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government said decisions were taken in line with the guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday regarding lockdown 2.0.Kaushik said industries will be allowed to operate in the state in rural areas and industrial estates after April 20 but they will have to seek permission from the state government either online or directly and will have to abide by the guidelines issued by the Centre.He said industrial units will have to seek permission from the respective district magistrates and also inform them from where they are getting labour.Kaushik said agriculture activities will also be allowed in the state with farmers following social distancing norms. “We have set up 201 centres for procurement of wheat and set a target of buying 2 lakh metric tonnes for which payment will be made at the earliest”, he said.For marriages and last ritesKaushik said marriage ceremonies will be allowed in the state with certain conditions like the number of wedding guests should be limited to five and the ceremony has to be held inside homes. “In case of last rites, not more than 20 people will be allowed to participate. People will have to take permission for marriage ceremonies and participation in last rites from district magistrates of their respective districts”, he saidSecretariat and office of the legislative assembly Kaushik said the state secretariat and office of legislative assembly will be opened from Friday, adding that these offices will be sanitised first. He said that ministers also can sit in their offices from Friday.The minister said online education and e-commerce will be allowed in the state. “But all coaching institutes, educational institutions, hotels, autos, taxis, cinemas, malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, theatres, bars, will remain closed. No religious, social or political gatherings will be allowed during the lockdown period”, he said.On hotspots On ‘red’ zones and hotspots declared by the Centre, Kaushik said no permissions will be given in such areas. He said in hotspots, containment zones will be demarcated by the district administrations. According to the Centre’s list of 170 districts classified as hotspots, or in the ‘red’ zone, Dehradun has been listed as hotspot district with a large outbreak, while Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar have been listed as hotspot districts with clusters. Haridwar, Almora, Pauri Garhwal have been listed under non-hotspot districts reporting casesNo leniency in lockdown Kaushik said there will be no leniency in lockdown in the districts that have not reported any positive Covid-19 case. He said Section 144 of CrPC will be in force in the entire state prohibiting assembly of more than 5 persons.Earlier, the state government had proposed to divide 13 districts into two categories - districts that have not reported a single positive Covid-19 case prior to April 14, and those that had reported positive cases preceding April 14.So far, Uttarakhand has reported 37 Covid-19 positive cases. Of these 37 cases, only two positive cases have been reported from hilly areas including Almora and Pauri Garhwal.On sheltering jamaatis Kaushik said so far 513 jamaatis have been identified who have come from other states to Uttarakhand, while those who have gone from here to attend jamaats in other states and have come back number around 910. “All these 1423 jamaatis have been identified and quarantined. After the ultimatum, 182 jamaatis have so far presented themselves before the administration for quarantine. The state government has also decided that if jamaatis who are still hiding, don’t come forward, then the state government will take action against those also sheltering them under the same charges (attempt to murder or murder)”, he said.On stranded Kedarnath and Badrinath priests The portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines are scheduled to be opened on April 26, while the portals of Kedarnath shrine are set to open on April 29 and portals of Badrinath on April 30. The chief priest of Kedarnath shrine is stranded in Maharashtra due to the lockdown, while the priest of Badrinath shrine is stranded in Kerala.In case of Char Dham pilgrimages, Kaushik said for Yamunotri and Gangotri there is no issue of priests stranded outside the state. “However in case of Kedarnath and Badrinath, the priests who conduct the rituals for the opening of portals are outside the state. We spoke to the home ministry that these priests be allowed to come to the state. The home ministry has agreed they will be allowed to come to Uttarakhand by car. If they come, they will be quarantined for 14 days”, he said.Kaushik said in case of Badrinath shrine, Tehri royal family will be empowered to change the date of the opening of the portal or nominate somebody for its opening.Road construction to be allowedKaushik said road construction operations will be allowed with local labourers outside civic body limits. He said permission related to the procurement of raw materials for such constructions will be sought from the Centre in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-allow-industrial-and-agricultural-activities-from-april-20/story-GLyOBHJFtw4sPQDzWoh7MO.html
17-04-2020||India||RBI’s steps will improve credit supply, help small businesses, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the steps taken by the Reserve Bank of India and said it will “greatly enhance liquidity” and help lift the farmers and the poor.“Today’s announcements by @RBIwill greatly enhance liquidity and improve credit supply. These steps would help our small businesses, MSMEs, farmers and the poor. It will also help all states by increasing WMA limits,” tweeted PM Modi, shortly after the RBI governor’s address.Earlier this morning, the RBI cut the reverse repo rate and announced a slew of measures including re-finance window of Rs 50,000 crore and targeted long term repo auction of similar amount to deal with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.Das assured that the RBI will use all instruments at its disposal to deal with the challenges posed by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, depending on the evolving situation.Also Watch l RBI cuts reverse repo rate by 25 bps, expects 7.4% GDP growth in 2021-22 Governor Shaktikanta Das said there are a few slivers of brightness amidst the encircling gloom and hoped that India will stage a sharp V-shaped recovery in 2021-22 as projected by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).The allowed non-bank financial companies to extend the date for commencement of commercial operations (DCCO) for loans given to commercial real estate by additional one year without considering it as restructuring. Currently, the RBI has permitted banks to extend the DCCO in respect of loans to commercial real estate projects delayed for reasons beyond the control of promoters by additional one year, over and above the one-year extension permitted in normal course, without treating the same as restructuring.“It has now been decided to extend a similar treatment to loans given by NBFCs to commercial real estate,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said while addressing the media via video conference. The move will provide relief to non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) as well as the real estate sector, he said.Softening inflation, Das said would make available more policy space to the central bank to address risks to the growth going forward.He further said that by April 10, pre-monsoon kharif sowing had begun strongly, with acreage of paddy – the principal kharif crop – up by 37 per cent in comparison with the last season.States such as West Bengal, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh are leading in sowing activity despite the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-s-steps-will-improve-credit-supply-help-small-businesses-says-pm-modi/story-QfRMYEyoCXADU3H32HaOBL.html
17-04-2020||India||‘India exporting medicines while Pak…’: Army Chief’s stinging takedown of Islamabad||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday condemned the relentless ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir, saying the whole world is battling the coronavirus pandemic but the neighbouring country has not stopped stirring trouble.Gen MM Naravane is on a two-day visit to the region to review the security situation amid the national lockdown and an unusual spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan army.This is the army chief’s first visit to a forward area after the lockdown was imposed to break the chain of coronavirus infections. He will return to Delhi on Friday.“It is very unfortunate that at a time when the whole world and India is fighting the menace of this pandemic, our neighbour continues to foment trouble for us,” Gen Naravane said while speaking to ANI.“While we are busy not only helping our own citizens but the rest of the world by sending medical teams and exporting medicines, on the other hand, Pakistan is only exporting terror. This doesn’t augur well,” he added.The five commandos, as well as five terrorists, were killed on April 5 when the troops prevented the group from sneaking into the Kashmir Valley from Keran sector.The army had said on April 10 that it destroyed launch pads and ammunition dumps in Kupwara’s Keran sector across the LoC in retaliation to the ceasefire violation.The army had targeted Pakistani positions with artillery guns and caused severe damage to Pakistani army posts, terror launch pads and an ammunition dump in a response to an unprovoked ceasefire violation.India has already lodged protests with Pakistan for the killing of a woman and two children in firing by Pakistani forces in Jammu and Kashmir.India in the demarche over the Kashmir violation condemned in the strongest possible terms the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians that had led to the killing of Shamima Begum, 35, and Javid Ahmad Khan, 17, residents of Reddi Chokibal and eight-year-old Zeeshan Bashir of Kupwara’s Tumna village.The demarche underlined that Pakistani forces continue to resort to unprovoked firing and ceasefire violations and asked Islamabad to probe such heinous crimes against civilians, people familiar with the developments had said.The Pakistan army has carried out more ceasefire violations during January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years.Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1144 times between January and March, with the highest number of violations (411) recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally. The Pakistan army violated the ceasefire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 for the period January to March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-fighting-covid-19-pakistan-is-only-exporting-terror-says-army-chief/story-YVINlgRrzy0zM40adQwZeN.html
17-04-2020||India||US helps India with $5.9 million for Covid-19, RBI announces slew of measures: 10 points||Coronavirus cases in the country are inching toward the 13,500-mark. On Friday, the Ministry of Health updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 13387 which includes 11201 active cases, 1748 recoveries and 437 fatalities.India seems to have reported a jump in the number of patients recovering from novel coronavirus. As much as 13% of Covid-19 patients have recovered so far. The number of recoveries has gone up from last week’s 8%.On Friday, India entered the third day of the extended lockdown which will come to an end on May 3.Here are the top developments:1. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday gave an address and made key announcements amid the coronavirus crisis. 2. “The policy repo rate remains unchanged at 4.4 per cent, and the marginal standing facility rate and the bank rate remain unchanged at 4.65 per cent,” the RBI governor said.3. Das said the RBI sees retail inflation falling below its targeted 4 per cent by the second half of the current fiscal year.4. Das announced a 30 per cent increase in the ways and means advances limit to aid state governments in tackling the coronavirus crisis.Watch | RBI cuts reverse repo rate by 25 bps, expects 7.4% GDP growth in 2021-225. According to the RBI, vehicle production and sales declined sharply in March amid the coronavirus lockdown. Das said that electricity consumption across the country has seen a dip.6. Das said banks shall be exempted from making dividend payment in the light of financial difficulties posed by the coronavirus crisis.7. The US State Department has said that America has helped India with nearly $5.9 million in health assistance to battle the spread of Covid-19. 8. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has said that private schools will not be allowed to increase fees during the coronavirus lockdown. They can only charge the tuition fee until schools reopen.9. Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has emerged as Covid-19 hotspot with around 300 cases surfacing in a single day. 10. Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the country’s largest pension fund manager EPFO has disbursed around Rs 946.49 crore. In just 15 days, around 3.3 lakh claims for voluntary withdrawals have been processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-helps-india-with-5-9-million-for-covid-19-rbi-announces-slew-of-measures-10-points/story-kKSqrK8a2WMcamRiQR1qoI.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Kumaraswamy’s son marries Congress leader’s daughter, reports say more than 100 in attendance||Nikhil Kumaraswamy, son of former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy, married Revathi, the grand-niece of former Congress Minister for Housing and one of the richest politicians in the state, M Krishnappa, on Friday.News agency ANI reported that more than 100 people participated in the marriage ceremony held at Kumaraswamy’s farmhouse in Kethaganahally, Ramanagara.There were around 50-60 members from former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda’s family and more than 30 people participated from Revathi’s family, reported ANI. #WATCH Karnataka: Nikhil Kumarswamy, son of former Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy, tied the knot with Revathi, the grand-niece of former Congress Minister for Housing M Krishnappa, today in Ramnagar. (Video source: anonymous wedding guest) pic.twitter.com/5DH9fjNshQThis comes in the middle of a nationwide lockdown which has been imposed to deal with the coronavirus threat.Kumaraswamy had shifted the wedding venue to the farmhouse due to the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. He had vowed follow all the norms to check the spread of the virus and drastically reduced the number of guests.Karnataka’s Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan had said on Thursday that action will be taken against Kumaraswamy “without a second thought” if guidelines are not followed during his son Nikhil’s wedding.“Kumaraswamy has made a public statement that guidelines will be followed. He is a people representative. He’s in public life for a long time. He should abide by guidelines. Since he’s in responsible position for a long time, he was Chief Minister of Karnataka, he’s also an MLA from Ramnagar, so guidelines must be followed in his son’s marriage as per the rules amid Covid-19 scare. After the marriage there must not be any excuses, he can’t say that people came without invitation,” Narayan had said.Nikhil Kumaraswamy has acted in a couple of movies in the lead role and is also the president of the youth wing of Janata Dal (Secular) whose national president is his grandfather and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda.Nikhil had contested and lost the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mandya seat.Before the lockdown was imposed the Kumaraswamy family was planning a big event at a customised marriage mandap on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway. Nearly five lakh people were expected to attend the event primarily from the Ramanagara and Chennapatna constituency represented in the assembly by Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha.The former chief minister later said that as and when the situation permits they may hold a public event so that constituents and well wishers could bless the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-kumaraswamy-s-son-marries-congress-leader-s-daughter-reports-say-more-than-100-in-attendance/story-iagF74SGWLP9ylsVDbNEON.html
17-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China revises Wuhan Covid numbers, deaths go up by nearly 40% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China revises Wuhan Covid numbers, deaths go up by nearly 40%China on Friday revised upwards by nearly 1,300 deaths Covid-19 fatalities in the first pandemic epicentre, the city of Wuhan, where the virus first emerged in late last year. Read more Mistaken for thieves, 3 lynched to death by 200-strong mob in Maharashtra’s PalgharThree unidentified people were lynched to death by a 200-strong mob of tribals in Maharashtra’s Palghar district late on Thursday night, police said, in the second such attack within three days. Read more Chhattisgarh: Three more Covid-19 cases reported today, total active cases rose to 13Chhattisgarh on Friday reported three new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, from Korba district’s Katghora town, including two women, as the total count of active cases in the state rose to 13. Read moreUS-Russian space crew lands in Kazakhstan amid Covid-19 pandemicA US -Russian space crew landed safely Friday in the steppes of Kazakhstan, greeted with extra precautions amid the coronavirus pandemic.Following a stint on the International Space Station, NASA astronauts Jessica Meir and Andrew Morgan and Russian Oleg Skripochka touched down as scheduled at 11:16 a.m. Read more Four More Shots Please Season 2 review: Sayani Gupta, Kirti Kulhari’s show is a frothy drink for easy lockdown entertainmentA few episodes into the new season of Four More Shots Please, a heartbroken man tells the heartbreaker woman, ‘Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.’ Fits my assessment of this series quite well. Read more Dressing down: Pantsuits, embellishments and sheer, the era of extravagance is overThe global coronavirus pandemic hasn’t spare anyone and anything for that matter. The impact is not only on the economy and politics but the social and cultural spectrum is also suffering and struggling to be relevant right now. Read more Realme Narzo 10, 10A to launch in India on April 21: Here’s all you need to knowRealme CEO Madhav Sheth on Friday announced that the company will showcase its new smartphone series “Narzo” in India on April 21. Realme will host an online event to reveal the phones. Read more Corona Heroes: PM Modi is proud of this 74-year-old man. After knowing what he did, you’ll be tooPeople from all corners of the country are taking part in the fight against coronavirus in their own ways. They are the silent corona heroes who are making sure that they stand beside those in need. Just like this 74-year-old pensioner whose deeds have earned him all the praise from people, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read more Watch: US President Donald Trump lays out a 3-phase plan to reopen economy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-revises-wuhan-covid-numbers-deaths-go-up-by-nearly-40-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qpCJuKQ11suWOmINMt96UI.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Private schools in Delhi to not hike fees during lockdown’: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government on Friday asked private schools in the city not to charge parents any fee component other than tuition fees till the reopening of the institutes that are closed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the lockdown prompted by it.At a press conference, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said private schools will not be allowed to increase fees without the government’s permission, while asking these institutes not to charge three months’ tuition fees at a time.“We have got several complaints about schools hiking fees and also levying charges for transport, which is not even being utilised during the lockdown...Schools also cannot charge beyond the tuition fee,” Sisodia said.Watch | Delhi govt warns private schools over fee hike, issues guidelines for lockdown He said the rule will be applicable to all schools, irrespective of if an institute is built on government land or private land.“No school can charge three months’ tuition fee (at a time), the fee has to be collected monthly,” he said.Sisodia also said private schools cannot deny students access to online classes in case parents are not able to pay fees during the lockdown, which has brought the economy to a standstill.Though schools and colleges are closed, they are allowed to conduct online classes to stick to the academic calendar.An umbrella group of around 400 private schools partly welcomed the Delhi government’s directive. “We agree with the government’s decision of not charging transport fee during the lockdown. And also, schools are in agreement with the payment of the fees on a monthly basis,” said SK Bhattacharya, president of The Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognised Schools in Delhi.“However, we don’t agree with the decision of not charging the annual amount because majority of the schools have fixed expenditures that cannot be met without the annual charges. We can also take the annual charges in instalments,” he said. The annual fee is a sum schools charge parents over and above the tuition fee, and generally use it for the maintenance of electricity, water and other essentials on the campus. While majority of schools charge it once a year, some take the payment half-yearly or quarterly. Soon after Sisodia’s press conference, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) issued a notice to this effect to private schools, directing them not to charge parents any other component than the tuition fee.“No fee, except tuition fee, shall be charged from parents, till further orders. Heads of the schools shall not demand and collect tuition fees from parents on a quarterly basis. The fee shall be collected on a monthly basis,” the order said.“The schools shall, in no case, deny access to online education to any student who is unable to pay fees due to financial crises arising out of ongoing lockdown,” it said. DoE further asked schools not to revise the fee structure in the 2020-21 session till further orders.All private schools are asked not to stop the salaries of their teaching and non-teaching staff members in the name of the unavailability of funds. “Arrange the funds in case any shortfalls from the society or trust running the school,” the DoE order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-schools-in-delhi-to-not-hike-fees-during-lockdown-manish-sisodia/story-KSUQelYH25qOD1n0arNs8N.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Hounded by social stigma’: Kerala family dubbed ‘super spreader’ on Covid-19 fight||A family of non-resident Indians (NRIs) in Kerala, which contracted coronavirus disease Covid-19, has said that it was a “big mistake” on their part to not follow the advice to remain in home quarantine.The family, who lives in Italy, came to their home in Kerala’s Ranni on February 29 on a three-week leave and attended many functions before testing positive for Covid-19 a week later.“We did a big mistake. It was unintentional and borne out of ignorance. Many cursed us. Some of our family members even said we will not come alive from the hospital,” said 26-year-old Rijo Moncy, who works in Italy.They were dubbed “super spreader” after Pathanamthitta, a hilly district in central Kerala which Ranni is part of, was declared a Covid-19 hotspot. One hundred eighty two passengers who travelled with them from Qatar were also quarantined and Moncy’s 94-year-old grandfather and 88-year-old grandmother tested positive. “My father literally collapsed when he heard my grandparents were also transmitted. He needed rigorous counselling to come out of the shock and infamy,” said Moncy, narrating the initial days of isolation in Kottayam medical college hospital. More than the virus, the stigma and guilt hounded them.They were vilified and were targeted by trolls online, who wanted them to be flogged publicly. “We three were together at the hospital. After initial shock and counselling, my parents took to spirituality reading Bible throughout the day. I was allowed to use my mobile but I stopped checking social media to avoid a barrage of criticism and bad news from other parts of the world which upset me. At one point I thought it is difficult to come out,” Moncy explained. The family spent 25 days of isolation at the hospital.“At times I used to watch news on my phone. But all channels bombarded worst news on virus and that made me more nervous. The counsellors advised me to watch movie clips and hear songs. I was particular not to show my nervousness or worries before my parents because they were banking on me heavily,” he said, adding that he enjoyed comic strips most.Moncy said the family thought it will face a vindictive treatment at the hospital too, but they were mistaken.He gave full credit to the medical team of the Kottayam medical college hospital and termed it as one of the best medical care facilities in the world. “They nursed us back to life. Their mental support was very crucial. Health Minister K K Shailaja called us personally and consoled us a couple of times. Suffering from many medical complications I never expected my grandparents will be back. It is a medical wonder,” said Rijo, who works in a pharmaceutical firm in Venice. His parents have been living in Italy for the last 20 years and visit their aged parents once in two years.While treating Moncy’s grandparents, one of the nurses of the medical college hospital - Reshma Mohandas - turned positive. “They behaved like little children. We also considered them like that only. Since both of them had some hearing problem I had to be very close,” Mohandas said, adding that she was just doing her duty.“After the nurse fell ill it aggravated our concerns. But none of the medical fraternity blamed and they treated us like family members. We owe our lives to them. We have seen hospitals in Italy and many other European countries but I feel Kerala’s facilities and care were more than what is offered there,” he said, adding that his family members turned emotional while leaving the hospital.Moncy said when they left Italy in end of February, the situation was not that serious and they got tested before taking flight in Venice. He feels they might have contracted the virus either from Venice airport or on Venice-Doha flight.“The situation in Italy is really serious now. My parents are Italian citizens. We will to go back once things are settled. We are really grateful to our country and the state,” said Moncy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hounded-by-social-stigma-kerala-family-dubbed-super-spreader-on-covid-19-fight/story-GQoWKEKdIp0VPIFiQPHJ7J.html
17-04-2020||India||No Covid positive cases in 2 days, Odisha officials say curve may be flattening||Odisha hasn’t recorded any new Coronavirus infections among 1,940 samples tested in the past two days, leading officials to believe that the state’s curve for the spread of Covid-19 is beginning to flatten.The state’s six Covid-19 laboratories tested 1,197 samples on Wednesday, the highest number for a single day, and another 843 samples were tested on Thursday. The bulk of the tests were done using the Cobas 6800 machine at the Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar.Officials said the lack of new infections among almost 2,000 samples indicated the spread of the virus was limited to a few clusters in Odisha.The director of the National Health Mission, Shalini Pandit, said that of the 1,940 samples tested, a bulk came from districts outside Khurda, which is among the 170 “red zones” in the country. Khurda alone has accounted for 46 of the 60 positive cases in Odisha.Also read: Covid-19 cases in India climb to 13,387, death toll at 437“The sample base had a good mix of tribal and non-tribal districts of the entire state. Since the samples from high-risk districts like the tribal areas have not tested positive, there is little possibility of getting more cases from there,” Pandit said.She noted there were no positive cases from tribal-dominated districts such as Malkangiri and Bolangir, where none of the 500-odd samples produced a positive result.With just 60 positive cases from 7,577 samples tested so far, Odisha has the lowest ratio (0.007) of positive cases to samples in the country. Kerala, which has recorded 394 positive cases so far, has higher ratio of 0.022.Officials, however, said the state couldn’t afford to be complacent.Also read: Nearly 13% of Covid-19 patients recover across India, up from last week’s 8%Development commissioner Suresh Mohapatra said: “Though a majority of samples tested so far are negative in the state, we should not be happy thinking that the Coronavirus is defeated. We plan to conduct 2,000 to 3,000 tests a day. We will be confident only after conducting tests on a large scale.” Odisha’s health minister Naba Das said that to scale up testing, the state will soon start “pool testing” of samples of suspected cases. Under this method, multiple swab samples are pooled together and tested.Pool testing is done in areas with low prevalence of infections (positivity rate of less than 2%). According to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s advisory on pool testing algorithm, “polymerase chain reaction” screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple samples is done. In case a pool tests positive, then each sample is individually tested. The Cobas 6800 machine, one of only two such machines in India, does real-time RT-PCR tests and can handle more than 700 samples in six hours.Meanwhile, the director of public health, Ajit Kumar Mohanty, told reporters the state has already started random tests in 21 districts that haven’t been affected by the virus.Of Odisha’s 30 districts, Covid-19 cases have been reported from only nine. Mohanty said one person in every 10,000 in each district will be tested.Epidemiologists, however, said Odisha needs to follow the Kerala model of more tests till it can safely claim to have flattened the curve.“As of now it’s very difficult to predict (about flattening the curve). Unless tested, the undetected asymptomatic cases will cause more harm as they would be spreading continuously for a long period,” said Nalini Kanta Tripathy, a community medicine specialist at PGIEMR in Chandigarh.In a separate development, chief secretary Asit Tripathy asked officials to inform people in six containment zones in Bhubaneswar – Surya Nagar, Bomikhal, Satya Nagar, Sunarpada and Kapila Prasad – about the availability of essential items.“The decision to disseminate information in the containment zones was taken after we found out people were in the dark over all that is happening around them. Also, loudspeakers should be used to update information,” said Asit Tripathy. “People with disabilities, those living alone, pregnant women and aged persons should be given priority in these clusters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-positive-cases-in-2-days-odisha-officials-say-curve-may-be-flattening/story-9nnpelyABxd2eNoMuE4uHO.html
17-04-2020||India||Mistaken for thieves, 3 lynched to death by 200-strong mob in Maharashtra’s Palghar||Three unidentified people were lynched to death by a 200-strong mob of tribals in Maharashtra’s Palghar district late on Thursday night, police said, in the second such attack within three days. Police in Kasa detained 30 people on Friday morning though no arrest has been made so far. According to the police, the mob mistook the occupants of the Ecco van to be thieves and lynched them to death.Anandrao Kale, an assistant police inspector (API) with Kasa police station, said the van was coming from Nashik when it was stopped by the irate mob near Gadhchinchale village on Dabhadi-Khanwel road.Kale said the mob started to question the passengers and pulled them out of the van and started beating them. The driver managed to call the police and a team rushed to the spot, said Kale. “The mob was strong and we tried to save the passengers but it also targeted us and started to pelt stones while beating them and as a result, the trio succumbed to their injuries,” the API said.“We rushed them to the Kasa government hospital but were declared dead before admission,” Kale said, adding they were waiting for the post mortem report. The police official said they have registered cases under section 188 (disobedience), section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act,1897, against the detained people.“We will arrest them shortly,” said Kale.Three days ago, four personnel of Kasa Police, including API Kale, were injured and the SUV of a skin specialist Dr Vishwas Walwi of Thane was destroyed at Saarni village by a mob.At least 250 people had attacked them when Dr Walwi was returning home after distributing food grains and conducting a small door-to-door thermal screening of tribals. Fifteen people were arrested in connection with the incident and kept in police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mistaken-for-thieves-3-lynched-to-death-by-200-strong-mob-in-maharashtra-s-palghar/story-k0RXVlIqPrNTLVuSDNPstM.html
17-04-2020||India||Nearly 13% of Covid-19 patients recover across India, up from last week’s 8%||While the number of coronavirus cases near 13,500 in the country, statistics indicate a positive trend in the number of patients recovering from novel coronavirus across the nation. On Friday, as per the figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the disease or have been discharged stood at 1748. This is nearly 13% of the total 13387 coronavirus cases in the country. Last Saturday, of the total 7,447 coronavirus cases in the country, 642 patients were reported to have recovered from the deadly contagion. The figure roughly amounted to nearly 8% of the Covid-19 cases. A week later, the number of recoveries have gone up from 8% to 13%. Highest cases of coronavirus recoveries come from Maharashtra which also has the maximum number of coronavirus cases in the country. With over 3000 Covid-19 cases, the state accounts for 300 patients who have recovered or have been discharged. Kerala closely follows with the second-highest number of patients recovering from coronavirus. So far, 245 patients here have beaten the disease.Telangana and Tamil Nadu have seen 186 and 180 Covid-19 patients recover from the virus respectively. Meanwhile, Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases. These states, together with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, account for more than 60% of total number of cases in the country.India entered the third day of the extended lockdown phase on Friday. The lockdown will come to an end on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-13-of-covid-19-patients-recover-across-india-up-from-last-week-s-8/story-in3LczqGAW1sXQYTXkOS1I.html
17-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Three more Covid-19 cases reported today, total active cases rose to 13||Chhattisgarh on Friday reported three new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, from Korba district’s Katghora town, including two women, as the total count of active cases in the state rose to 13.The state health authorities have discharged 23 Covid-19 patients so far after they recovered from the viral outbreak.“Three new patients, who tested Covid-19 positive, were admitted to AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), Raipur, late Thursday night. All of them belong to Korba district’s Katghora town,” said SS Sharma, public relations officer (PRO), AIIMS, Raipur.Katghora, which is located around 200 kilometres away from the state capital Raipur, has emerged as Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 hotspot, as 27 cases have been reported from the town to date.Earlier, a 16-year-old boy was the first person to contract SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, from a Tablighi Jamaat follower, who had attended the Islamic sect’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi held between March 13 and 15, on April 4. Another 26 from the same locality tested Covid-19 positive over the last one week.Around 1,450 people in Katghora, which has a population of around 2,500, have been tested for Covid-19 so far, a state health department official said. The testing in the core area has been completed and from Saturday random sampling would be carried out in the other wards of the town, he added.“Altogether, 1,000 sampling will be done from Saturday for three days. The results will determine how many more sampling needed to be done,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-three-more-covid-19-cases-reported-today-total-active-cases-rose-to-13/story-faGe1fPkhBwykyDgjliFNO.html
17-04-2020||India||List of new activities exempted by govt from lockdown restrictions||The government on Friday exempted more services from Covid-19 lockdown, in a fresh set of guidelines released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).These exemptions include activities in farming/plantation, construction and banking sectors.In plantation, collection, harvesting of minor forest produce, non-timber forest produce by Scheduled Tribes and forest dwellers; and harvesting, processing, packaging, sale and marketing of bamboo, coconut, arecanut, cocoa and spices plantation have been allowed.Non-banking financial institutions, housing finance and micro finance institutions with minimum staff have been allowed to function during lockdown which has been extended till May 3.Finally, construction activities in rural areas, water supply, sanitation, and laying of power, telecom lines have also been exempted from the lockdown by the MHA order.The lockdown was extended after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in hi address to the nation on April 14 - the last day pf phase 1 of lockdown - that stringent measures are needed to break the cycle of infection. He also urged people to follow social distancing norms, asked state governments to ensure lockdown is followed, announced some relaxation and warned that if rate of infection doesn’t stop, the government will be forced to withdraw these exemptions.A detailed list of exemptions was released a day after the Prime Minister’s address in which the government conditionally allowed industries in rural areas and economic enclaves to reopen next week, green-lighted work under the federal job guarantee scheme, and permitted daily wagers in some areas to return to work.The guidelines were aimed at restarting the country’s economic engine and lessen the pain of millions affected by the ongoing lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19.The guidelines on the restart of the economy , with a sharp rural focus, was described as a giant first step by some analysts.No public transport including planes, trains, buses, metro rail and taxis will be available during the second phase of the lockdown, which will last for 19 days, although courier services have now been allowed and will likely feed into air and rail cargo services, which were also operational during the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-new-activities-exempted-by-govt-from-lockdown-restrictions/story-ctJkbMVJeQ38Sm6TJOhgcM.html
17-04-2020||India||Give up 30% of 3-month salary, Punjab government urges staffers amid Covid-19 crisis||With the state staring at a revenue loss to the tune of Rs 22,000 crore during the financial year 2020-21 because of the coronavirus pandemic, the Punjab government on Thursday urged all the state employees to contribute up to 30% of their salaries to the CM Relief Fund to help it tide over the crisis.Chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh appealed to all government employees and those of public sector undertakings, local bodies, boards and corporations to take voluntary cuts in their pay and allowances for three months to help the state meet the unprecedented contingency. “Grade A and B employees should contribute 30%, grade C should contribute 20% and grade D should contribute 10% of their monthly emoluments for April, May and June 2020 to the CM’s Relief Fund,” he said.The chief secretary’s appeal came after a meeting of a cabinet sub-committee headed by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take stock of the fiscal implications of the coronavirus-induced curfew in the state. “All the ministers have also voluntarily decided to donate their full salaries for the next three months to the CM’s Relief Fund,” said an official spokesperson.Earlier, state finance minister Manpreet Badal informed the meeting that of the Rs 88,000 crore revenue receipts estimated by the state during the financial year 2020-21, only Rs 66000 crore would now be generated in the light of the curfew/lockdown, losing revenue of Rs 22,000 crore. With GST collections to be much lower during the year and the Centre yet to clear a significant amount of the state’s pending GST arrears, things would continue to worsen in the coming months, he warned.The spokesperson said the meeting discussed several measures to mop up revenue in the prevailing situation that was likely to continue for another couple of quarters at least. The CM also urged the committee members to look at innovative measures to tackle the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-up-30-of-3-month-salary-punjab-government-urges-staffers-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-ihOaT0NjppADdhgsqdueuK.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Financial landscape has deteriorated but light shines through,’ says RBI Governor: 10 points||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das made an address on Friday at a time when the country battles the coronavirus pandemic. Das began his address by expressing his gratitude towards those in the frontline of helping the country battle the coronavirus pandemic. Das said he thought it was necessary for the RBI to convey its approach to the wider audience. “The RBI has been monitoring the situation very closely and we have been coming up with certain announcements every second or third day,” Das said. He said that banks and financial institutions have risen to the occasion.Das quoted ‘father of the nation’ Mahatma Gandhi and said that light and hope persists amid death and darkness. “Since March 27, 2020, when I spoke to you last, the macroeconomic and financial landscape has deteriorated in some areas but light shines through in some areas,” Das stated.“Slivers of brightness encircle the gloom,” Das said.Here are the top announcements made by Das in his address:1. It has been decided to reduce the fixed reverse repo rate under liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) by 25 basis points from 4% to 3.75%, with immediate effect.2. Banks not to make any further dividend payout in view of financial difficulties arising from Covid-19.3. 90-day NPA norm not to apply on moratorium granted on existing loans by banks.4. RBI will announce new measures to maintain adequate liquidity, facilitate bank credit flow, ease financial stress.Watch | RBI cuts reverse repo rate by 25 bps, expects 7.4% GDP growth in 2021-225. On April 14, International Monetary Fund (IMF) released its global growth projections revealing that in 2020, the global economy is expected to plunge into the worst recession since ‘The Great Depression’.6. The IMF’s economic councillor has estimated the cumulative loss to global GDP over 2020-21 at around $9 trillion which is greater than the economies of Japan and Germany combined. 7. India is among the handful of countries that is projected to cling on to somewhat tenuously to positive growth at 1.9%. This is the highest growth rate among the G20e economies as estimated by the IMF. 8. International Monetary Fund projects sizable reshaped recoveries, close to 9 percentage points for the global GDP. India is expected to post a sharp turnaround & resume its pre-covid, pre-slowdown trajectory by growing at 7.4% in 2020-21.9. Contraction in exports in March 2020 at 34.6%, turned out to be much more severe than during the Global Financial Crisis. However, amidst all this, the level of Forex Exchange Reserves which we have continues to be robust.10. It has been decided to provide special refinance facilities for an amount of Rs 50,000 crores to National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development, Small Industries Development Bank of India, and National Housing Bank to enable them to meet sectoral credit needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-landscape-has-deteriorated-but-light-shines-through-says-rbi-governor-10-points/story-wuvTYGZH8xEQF3zWRvCEfP.html
17-04-2020||India||‘In the midst of darkness light persists’: RBI governor quotes Mahatma Gandhi||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday quoted Mahatma Gandhi as he made a statement for the second time during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections.The RBI governor quoted from Mahatma Gandhi’s speech in October 1931 in London’s Kingsley Hall to focus on what the central bank is doing in its fight against the coronavirus disease.“…in the midst of death life persists, in the midst of untruth truth persists, in the midst of darkness light persists,” he said.He also thanked the RBI staff and others who have been on the frontline of India’s fight against the coronavirus infection.“Today, humanity faces perhaps the trial of its time as Covid-19 grips the world with its deadly embrace. Everywhere as also in India, the mission is to do whatever to takes to prevent the epidemiological curve from steeping any further,” Das said.“In this kind of environment Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been very proactive and has been monitoring the situation very closely,” he said.“Human spirit is ignited by the resolve to curb the pandemic. It is during our darkest moments that we must focus on the light,” he said.Das had announced a rate cut of 75 basis points in his previous address on March 27.The RBI governor had also announced a three-month moratorium on term loans whose instalments are due between March 1 and May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-midst-of-darkness-light-persists-rbi-governor-quotes-mahatma-gandhi/story-uuRCVLemvkMyxjtmUViTnO.html
17-04-2020||India||From watching movie ‘Virus’ to studying Epidemic Act, IAS trainees gear up for Covid-19 crisis||From watching Virus, a Malayalam film on the 2018 Nipah virus outbreak, to understanding the Epidemic Diseases Act, the next batch of IAS officers graduating from the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration is gearing up to fight Covid-19. The 182 officers currently at the academy are expected to join as trainee assistant collectors in districts across the country next month, provided the government lifts the lockdown, said an official at the academy.The Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers will complete their course on May 8. The Centre for Disaster Management recalibrated its course to instruct these officers about ways to tackle the outbreak.“The online course in the academy is focusing on the legal ecosystem around Covid-19, such as extant rules [for] national disasters with a special focus on procedure,” said academy director Sanjeev Chopra. A two-hour introductory session for this was held on the academy’s e-learning platform, GYAAN, on Thursday.“The session was mostly about the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA),” a trainee officer of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre said. “It was conducted by our faculty members, some of whom have experience on the ground of having handled disasters in Tamil Nadu and other states.” The trainee officer said Covid-19 is a nascent case study, though mitigation of the disease can be similar to other natural disasters. “We are still discovering things about Covid-19 but many steps taken for mitigation of disasters like floods can help here as well,” the trainee officer added. A second trainee officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre said information about laws will help them with their work in the districts. “The DM Act, for instance, tells us about the exact responsibilities of a DM and SDM,” he said. “We learnt we could requisition helicopters for delivering rations and ask private companies to provide equipment and human resources, if needed.”The second officer added that Covid-19 has no precedent and the officers will have to “improvise” when they start work. “The provisions apply in general to disasters, we will have to see how to use them to fight Covid-19,” he said.“We learnt how to make relief camps, ensure sanitation and ensure no discrimination happens. We can extend these to tackle the present migrant worker crisis.” Another academy official said: “There are certain disasters that need an immediate response, such as floods. Others, like the pandemic, require a standardised response. These are the best practices needed to help reduce infections.”As a run-up to Thursday’s introductory session, the batch was asked to watch documentaries and films such as Virus and 93 Days, a Nigerian movie on Ebola. “The idea is to make them familiar with how countries across the world have dealt with epidemics,” the academy official said. “Sub-divisional magistrates and sub-divisional officers are generally involved in disaster management in normal times as well. The district magistrate is the disaster management authority at the district level.”The batch was provided access to documents and modules on how districts and state governments and the Central government are tackling the pandemic. “Whether it’s understanding the concept of an incident response team or making sure different departments coordinate seamlessly, they will be in a better position to administer [after] this module,” said the official. Inter-departmental coordination is being stressed. “Coronavirus has been declared a disaster by the government, so it automatically falls under the ambit of the course,” the official added. “We are also explaining coordination, such as working with police, the railway department, or others to ensure vulnerable groups and migrants don’t suffer.”A second official said disaster management was always an integral part of the course, but extra attention is being paid to it this year. “We have increased our focus on the National Disaster Management Act, State Disaster Management Act, epidemic Act and State Disaster Response Fund to help prepare the officers for their forthcoming assignment,” the second official said. “We are trying to help them understand and solve supply chain problems and ease the migrant crisis.”This official added that along with three classes a day, the trainees were asked to do book reviews on various subjects to help broaden their horizons. “Those who haven’t studied Hindi as a first language have to review a book in Hindi, others who are literature graduates have to review books on economy. The academy wants to help them expand their oeuvre.”The second official added an online concurrent assessment is being conducted on the material provided on Covid-19.The second trainee officer said while constant online assessment is being conducted, the trainees are also likely be tested on Covid-19 once the module is completed this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-watching-the-movie-virus-to-studying-the-epidemic-act-ias-trainees-gear-up-for-covid-19-crisis/story-RtPWmLFOzxWCFqrE1T8kRP.html
17-04-2020||India||Over 60% of patients come from 5 states, cases near 13,500 in India: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Friday rose to 13,387. The figure includes 11,201 active cases, 1,748 cases of recoveries and 437 coronavirus fatalities. The national Covid-19 tally was updated by the Ministry of Health on Friday morning. Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases. These states, together with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, account for more than 60% of total number of cases in the country. Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients.MaharashtraWith 3,205 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 194 deaths so far while 300 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,640 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 38 people have died from the infection while 51 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1,267. Tamil Nadu has seen 180 recoveries and 15 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1,131 on Friday. The state has reported three fatalities, and 164 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1,120 positive cases of coronavirus. 53 people have died from Covid-19 here while 64 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh805 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 74 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 13 have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 930 coronavirus cases and 73 recoveries so far. 36 people have died from the infection in the state.Telangana700 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 186 people have made a recovery from the virus while 18 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 534 positive Covid-19 patients and 20 cases of recovery. 14 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 395 coronavirus cases on Friday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 245 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 315 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths. 82 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 314. Four people have died from the infection while 38 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 205 and 186 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 13 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 43 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 27 in Punjab.255 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 10 deaths and 51 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 60 Covid-19 positive patients, 19 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 80 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 37 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 5 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 37 coronavirus patients, 9 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 9 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 33 cases of coronavirus and 23 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, 6 patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 35 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 28 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported seven cases and one death.Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. The Prime Minister said that though India took timely steps to control the spread of novel coronavirus, there is an urgent need to scale up efforts to ensure no new hotspots emerge.India entered the third day of the extended lockdown phase on Friday. The lockdown will come to an end on May 3. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-deaths-in-mp-delhi-gujarat-after-maharashtra-cases-near-13-500-in-india-covid-19-state-tally/story-gogX4NIVFDyBkVvTOE86xJ.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in India climb to 13,387, death toll at 437||India reported 724 new Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Friday morning.The ministry’s website showed at 8am that there were 11,201 active cases, 1748 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals and 427 Covid-19 related fatalities.Maharashtra inched toward the 4000 mark with 3205 active cases, 300 people who have been cured or discharged and 194 deaths. Delhi has 1729 coronavirus infections, out of which 1640 are active cases, 51 cured and 38 deaths.Tamil Nadu, which accounts for most ‘red zones’, has the third-highest number of cases at 1462. There are 1267 infected people in the southern state, which has also reported 15 Covid-19 deaths.Government data shows the 170 districts across the country which have been identified as coronavirus disease hotspots are home to about 37% of India’s population and Tamil Nadu has 22 of its 37 districts in the ‘red zone’.Also read: Why India should do random testingHowever, the Centre’s conditional relaxations amid a nationwide lockdown to fight the coronavirus outbreak to focus on providing relief to the rural sector and daily wage labourers to kick-start sections of the economy from April 20 will not be applicable to these hotspot districts. The hotspots, where nearly 453 million of India’s 1.21 billion citizens live, account for about 23% of the over 730-odd districts and are spread across 29% of the geographical area of the country, an analysis based on Census 2011 data shows.Also read: What you need to know todayTen of Delhi’s 11 districts and 14 of Maharashtra’s 36 districts feature in the list sent to the district authorities by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan.Meanwhile, India has begun trials using the antibody-rich blood of patients cured of the coronavirus disease, with doctors turning to a pool of people who have recovered from the infection to test their antibodies as a potential cure for those fighting the disease.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.Apart from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at least two hospitals have applied to test the effectiveness of the therapy in Delhi, The protocols have been defined for these tests.Also read: Calls for free ration grow as migrants fight hungerThe Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, an autonomous Delhi government hospital, has already received approval to conduct the trials. The private Max Hospital is awaiting approval to launch the trials.The coronavirus tracker of the Johns Hopkins University shows that Covid-19 cases across the world stand at 2,157,108 and there have been 144,047 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-india-climb-to-13-387-death-toll-at-437/story-crckuSMrY6JfpkaB45WCRO.html
17-04-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Shopian||Two militants were killed during a gunbattle with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday, police said, in another such incident in the region.The encounter started early in the morning after a cordon and search operation was launched by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) along with 44 Rashtriya Rifles and Special Operation Group (SOG) on Thursday night in Dairoo of Shopian district. A police official said the search operation following specific information about the presence of terrorists turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired upon security forces, who retaliated.The two terrorists were killed in the ensuing gunfight, the official said, adding their identity and group affiliation is being ascertained.This is one of the many encounters that have taken place in Kashmir since the 21-day lockdown was clamped across the country to break the chain of Covid-19 infections.Many terrorists have been killed in these gunfights this month. Police claimed to have killed 23-year-old Jaish-e-Mohammed commander in Sopore, who was active since 2018, earlier in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir-s-shopian-district/story-CVUEjQqO8rPC6SIGM0X8YK.html
17-04-2020||India||After a day’s delay overs protests by residents, Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 victim laid to rest||Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 victim was buried on Thursday afternoon after opposition by local residents over fears that the coronavirus disease will spread delayed the final rites by a day.Sixty-nine-year-old John L Sailo Ryntathiang, the managing director of Shillong-based Bethany Hospital and the state’s first Covid-19 patient, died on Wednesday morning.“The burial took place at the graveyard of Riatsamthiah Presbyterian Church with adherence to all safety protocols. It went off smoothly,” Meghalaya health minister AL Hek said while speaking to HT over the phone from Shillong.Also read: What you need to know todayOn Wednesday, authorities in Shillong had a tough time managing residents at several localities who refused to allow Ryntathiang’s last rites to take place citing safety concerns.The first plan of the administration was to cremate the body at the electric crematorium at Jhalupara. But that couldn’t happen as hundreds of residents came out to the streets opposing the move and police personnel had to be deployed to manage the situation.Since the deceased doctor had a farm-house in Nongpoh, around 50km away from Shillong, the administration also considered burying the body there.Also read: India begins controlled trials of plasma therapyBut that move also had to be shelved after the local Dorbar Shnong, a Khasi institution comprising local residents, decided in a meeting not to allow the burial to take place.As news of the opposition by residents spread, some villages and churches came forward and agreed to allow the last rites of the doctor to take place. Finally, the health authorities decided on the small church cemetery at Lawmali in Shillong.Meghalaya has nine Covid-19 patients to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-day-s-delay-overs-protests-by-residents-meghalaya-s-first-covid-19-victim-laid-to-rest/story-Ws4fFGraTIYWJuBTzHWZ0O.html
17-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India begins controlled trials of plasma therapy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India begins controlled trials of plasma therapyTrials using the antibody-rich blood of patients cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have begun, with doctors turning to a pool of 1,600 people in India who have recovered from the infection to test their antibodies as a potential cure for those fighting the disease. Read more Bengal BJP MP booked under Disaster Management Act, another alleges ‘house arrest’The police in Bankura district of West Bengal has booked Bankura’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Subhas Sarkar under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, for allegedly spreading false alarms. Read moreOdisha tops forest fire incidents in the country for a weekWith daytime temperatures breaching over 40 degrees Celsius in around a dozen places in the state since last week, Odisha has topped the list of states in the country concerning forest fires in the last one week. Read moreAfter WHO row, US is probing China lab linkUS President Donald Trump’s administration is urging an investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, saying that the US doesn’t rule out that it came from a laboratory researching bats in Wuhan. Read more‘Hope cricket resumes as soon as possible’The Covid-19 pandemic has made us face a difficult time. Especially as an athlete, because we are used to a busy life—we’re always training, travelling and playing matches. Read more Sussanne Khan’s sister Farah Khan Ali tests negative for Covid-19 after staff member tested positiveJewellery designer Farah Khan Ali has tested negative for the coronavirus. She got the tests done after an in-house staff member had tested positive for the virus earlier this week. Read more Google, SpaceX to NASA: Top companies, government agencies that banned ZoomAs quickly as Zoom’s popularity rose, so did its security woes. Ever since Zoom’s skeleton of privacy and security issues were out, the company has been trying to fix its mistakes. Read more Online dating’s new lockdown norms: Are the rules changing? The first date is so exciting: hair smoothed down, skin glowing, big smiles as both sides see each other and settle down… before the laptop. Sadly, that’s what it’s come to, in lockdown. Video rendezvous, virtual romances, and endless social distancing. Read more Watch| Coronavirus: 106-year-old beats disease, cheered by hospital staff in UK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-begins-controlled-trials-of-plasma-therapy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sK4GXwfDUYouMdITVdqbnI.html
17-04-2020||India||Bengal BJP MP booked under Disaster Management Act, another alleges ‘house arrest’||The police in Bankura district of West Bengal has booked Bankura’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Subhas Sarkar under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, for allegedly spreading false alarms.Another MP, Alipurduars’ John Barla, has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah alleging that he has been put under ‘house arrest’ by the district administration.While the administration remained tightlipped over the issue, police’s action against Sarkar comes after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s warning on April 15 that people spreading misinformation around Covid-19 would have to face legal action.Sarkar, who is a doctor, has been booked under section 54 of DMA that deals with punishment for whoever ‘makes or circulates a false alarm or warning as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic’. He has also been booked under section 505 (1) (b) of and 188 of the IPC. The case was registered at Bankura police station on April 14. Section 505 (1)(b) pertains to “Whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public.” Section 188 deals with the ‘disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant’.Criticising the role of the administration, Sarkar said, “I raised the issue of two bodies being secretly buried. Fortunately, none of them tested positive. But the secrecy and the manner in which the burial took place itself caused panic among the people of the district.”Sarkar wrote these things on social media on April 13 and the issue was later raised by other BJP leaders, including the party’s IT cell’s national head, Amit Malviya. Meanwhile, John Barla, who wrote to Amit Shah on April 15, alleged on Thursday that a team of 40 policemen were guarding his residence to ensure he could not move out.“The administration is facilitating Trinamool Congress workers and leaders in distributing relief material but when I went out to offer relief to those in need they seized all the materials and brought me back home. This is a gross injustice,” Barla said.BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Singh Bista, too, issued a press statement condemning how Barla had been disallowed to move out of his residence.Another BJP MP, Arjun Singh of Barrackpore, alleged on Thursday that the police blocked his way to a place where he was going to provide relief material. “While on the way to distribution of food packets and other necessities, I have been detained by police at Amdanga under my LS constituency,” Singh alleged in a tweet on Thursday.However, the party’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee distributed relief material within her constituency without facing any trouble.While the administration remained tightlipped, senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and state food minister Jyoti Priya Mallick said that BJP leaders were trying to create trouble at a time the government was focussed on strict implementation of coronavirus lockdown and ensuring that relief reached every household in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bengal-bjp-mp-booked-under-disaster-management-act-another-alleges-house-arrest/story-wMY8UnUIoAXao5cMJIb7dP.html
17-04-2020||India||Indore emerges as Covid-19 hotspot, nearly 300 cases recorded in a single day||The number of cases of Covid-19 is rising rapidly in Madhya Pradesh, and leading the tally is Indore, which is one of the worst-affected districts in the country.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Indore alone reached 842, with 298 cases being reported between Wednesday and Thursday, according to news agency ANI which quoted state health officials.With this, the deadly Sars-CoV-2 virus has expanded its fotprint to 26 out of 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh.For Indore, there was more scare as currency notes worth Rs 6,480 were found scattered on the street in the city’s Hira Nagar area, reported ANI.Soon after receiving the information on Wednesday, Station House Officer (SHO), Hira Nagar, Rajeev Singh Bhadoria seized the currency notes after getting them sanitised. There is a fear that this was done deliberately to spread the deadly virus.“Someone’s currency notes might have fallen or maybe someone has intentionally thrown them. The investigation is underway,” said Bhadoria.With 361 persons testing positive on Thursday, the number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh climbed to 1,299, news agency PTI reported quoting state health officials.The disease has claimed the lives of 63 people in the state, according to state health officials. Of these, 47 are in Indore alone.In state capital Bhopal, 29 more cases were reported, which took the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the city to 196, officials said.With 17 more persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the number of cases in Khandwa has gone up to 33, fourth highest in state after Indore, Bhopal and Khargone, said health officials.So far, 65 patients have recovered and returned home, the officials said.The health officials also said that 405 containment areas have been declared across the affected cities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-nearly-300-cases-recorded-in-a-single-day/story-w7Tu4hvrMXFwilw9Ofa1DP.html
17-04-2020||India||Tiger carcass found at Assam’s Kaziranga National Park, infighting suspected||Authorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park found the carcass of a Royal Bengal Tiger inside the park on Thursday.“The carcass was recovered near Mihibeel in the Kohora range of the park. It is suspected that death was due to old age and infighting,” P Sivakumar, director of the park informed.According to reports, forest guards saw the body on Wednesday evening. A post mortem of the carcass was conducted and funeral of the tiger done at spot in presence of forest officials and veterinarians.Kaziranga, which is the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos, is home to a total of 121 Royal Bengal Tigers.Though it is peak tourist season, all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in Assam have been closed since March 16 as a precautionary measure against spread of Covid-19.Assam has recorded 35 cases of Covid-19, according to Union health ministry data on Friday. One person has died due to the disease in the state.Two people from Morigaon tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Both are secondary contacts of Nizamuddin Markaz attendees, said Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.As per the latest information by the Union health ministry, India’s coronavirus tally reached 13,387 on Friday. Of these, 11,201 patients are active, and 1,748 cured/discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-carcass-found-at-assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-infighting-suspected/story-qgzE62aQ935nE1sv9OL8xN.html
17-04-2020||India||Odisha tops forest fire incidents in the country for a week||With daytime temperatures breaching over 40 degrees Celsius in around a dozen places in the state since last week, Odisha has topped the list of states in the country concerning forest fires in the last one week.According to the Forest Survey of India’s (FSI), fire alerts issued based on the SNPP (Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership)-VIIRS (Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite) sensor, at least 3531 fires were recorded in Odisha, the highest in the country between April 9 and 16. Maharashtra with 3203 fires in that period was at the second spot followed by Madhya Pradesh with 2472 fires.Though fire incidents in Odisha are quite less this year compared to the same period last year, the numbers are slowly rising. Between 9 and 16 April 2019, Odisha recorded 4429 fire spots while the same for the previous year was 682. As per the FSI portal, Odisha recorded 14388 forest fires in 2019-20 while in 2018-19 there were 4490 fire spots.Since the second week of March, the number of forest fires in Odisha has been steadily going up from 144 in the second week to over 500 in the week of April 9-16. On Tuesday, one of the biggest forest fires was seen at Panhala hill near Dhenkanal town of Odisha as forest department personnel struggled to douse the fire. The fire spread to other areas of the forest atop the hill adding to the miseries of the wildlife there as well as people living around. Panhala hill is regarded as a wall of protection for Dhenkanal town.“This year’s forest fires have not been as bad when compared with that of last year, the sudden rise in fire spots indicates the threats that we are about to face. Had ground-level forest officials been on the field, the fire squads on the ground would have been more alert to contain fires. But as top officials of the state forest department are now in Bhubaneswar due to the coronavirus lockdown, there is not much action on the ground,” said Biswajit Mohanty, secretary of the Wildlife Society of Odisha, a leading environmental NGO. “The first one hour is critical to control it before it develops into an inferno,” he said.As per the FSI, Odisha had a forest cover of 51,619 sq km, of which 6,970 sq km is very dense forest and 21,552 sq km is moderately dense. Around 23,097 sq km is open forest. According to the FSI, 2.82% of Odisha’s total forest cover has been categorised as “extremely fire-prone”; 7.73% as “very highly fire-prone”; 13.32% as “highly fire-prone”; 19.96% as “moderately fire-prone”; and 56.17% as “less fire-prone”.Odisha forest department officials, however, said the ground level staff are busy extinguishing fires on the ground. “This year, the situation is not as bad as last year except for forest divisions like Rayagada, Baliguda and Boudh. Podu cultivation in these areas has been the main reason for the rise in the forest fires. Our officials are there on the ground trying to contain the fire. They are uploading the details on a mobile app after putting out the fires. We have a satellite monitoring system and the alerts issued by the FSI are shared with people deployed at the beat level,” said Sandeep Tripathi, Odisha’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tops-forest-fire-incidents-in-the-country-for-a-week/story-ISvteNoiikKYooF2NtZNNI.html
17-04-2020||India||Rapid testing kits arrive, stimulus hopes rise: Covid-19 news today||The much-awaited Rapid Testing Kits, which use antibody-based blood tests for Covid-19, arrived in New Delhi on Thursday morning after missing their third deadline by a day, and will likely be used to test for the coronavirus disease in areas with no or few cases, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Meanwhile, expectations for a relief and stimulus package for individuals and businesses rose after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reviewed the Covid-19 impact on the Indian economy and the ongoing national lockdown aimed at limiting its spread.Rapid kits finally arrive to test Covid-19 immunityThe kits will be used to test people with fever, cough, and shortness of breath in 325 districts that are currently unaffected, starting with those that are in states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, explained the official, who asked not to be named. This will be the first mass testing exercise in these districts.Read MorePM Modi, FM Nirmala Sitharaman meet with stimulus in pipelineThe meeting between the PM and the finance minister comes against the backdrop of demands by industry bodies of a package anywhere between ~14 lakh crore and ~16 lakh crore to revive the economy. There’s been little economic activity since the lockdown was declared on March 25. There has been some easing of restrictions since, and more will be eased on April 20, especially for manufacturing facilities in economic enclaves and businesses focused on rural India, but the lockdown is to continue till May 3.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe trajectory of Covid-19 infections in India is very different from that in any other country. It’s slower; there haven’t been too many deaths; and, at least anecdotally, the proportion of patients requiring ventilator support is lower than that in many other countries. It isn’t clear why. Nor is it clear that this trend will continue.Read MoreFirms rush to meet new PPE normsThe Bureau of Indian Standards’ newly-released list of national specifications for coveralls or body-suits worn by Covid-19 healthcare workers has left some government approved manufacturers scrambling for material that would pass the new tests, even as government-approved laboratories rejected thousands of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that were donated by China.Read MoreOne-third of India lives in red zones, Tamil Nadu leads the listThe 170 districts identified as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots across the country are home to about 37% of India’s population, with Tamil Nadu accounting for the most “red zones” – 22 of its 37 districts – among the states, according to the government’s data.Read MoreIndia begins controlled trials of plasma therapyTrials using the antibody-rich blood of patients cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have begun, with doctors turning to a pool of 1,600 people in India who have recovered from the infection to test their antibodies as a potential cure for those fighting the disease.Read MoreAirlines told to give full refund for ticketsThe Centre on Thursday ordered domestic and foreign airlines to refund passengers in full for bookings on flights that have been suspended during the extended coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown until May 3 .Read MoreTyping error makes man Covid-19 positive in UP’s AmrohaAuthorities on Tuesday rushed six ambulances to Nauganva in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha to quarantine eight members of a 68-year-old man’s family and to track down those, who may have in contact with him, after he was wrongly declared Covid-19 positive because of a typographical error, officials said.Read MoreVirus spread will decelerate due to lockdown: Niti Aayog memberThe rate of spread of Sars-Cov-2, the virus responsible for the coronavirus disease, has slowed sharply in the past month and will decelerate further as a result of the nationwide lockdown, according to Dr Vinod Paul, a member of the government policy think tank NITI Aayog, who heads the empowered group overseeing the Covid-19 medical emergency management plan.Read MoreHydroxychloroquine to be supplied to 55 nationsThe Indian government has so far approved the supply of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, either as commercial sales or as grants, to 55 countries as part of the efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the development said on Thursday.Read MoreCovid crisis temporary brake, it will improve: Prakash JavadekarThe coronavirus crisis will be just a temporary “brake”, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, said, explaining that the government is trying to save lives even as it keeps an eye on the economy. From April 20, many sectors will open up, providing livelihoods to many, he added in an interview to Hindustan Times. Read MoreAfter WHO row, US is probing China lab linkUS President Donald Trump’s administration is urging an investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, saying that the US doesn’t rule out that it came from a laboratory researching bats in Wuhan. China’s foreign ministry hit back saying the World Health Organization (WHO) has said there is no evidence that the coronavirus was made in a lab.Read MoreYour voice may be able to tell if you have CovidThe rush to understand, predict and head off the Covid-19 outbreak has prompted technology researchers to deploy artificial intelligence to create tools that can determine whether people are infected by analysing the sound of their cough, the way they speak or even breathe.Read MorePatients start infection spread before symptoms set in: StudyPeople with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) start infecting others two to three days before they develop symptoms of fever and cough, according to a study from China which suggests effective outbreak containment must include contact tracing of people who have been exposed to positive cases two to three days before their symptoms first appeared.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-kits-arrive-stimulus-hopes-rise-covid-19-news-today/story-UOCxIUitWlXoRIfUdGiWKI.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Stranded people to get financial aid from CM relief fund, announces Arunachal govt||The Arunachal Pradesh government on Thursday announced financial assistance to people from the state stranded in other parts of the country due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.The state cabinet took the decision at a meeting done through video-conferencing to ensure “safety protocol through social distancing”.“It was decided that an amount of Rs 3,500 will be disbursed to all persons of Arunachal Pradesh stranded outside the state for sustenance during the lockdown period,” said a release issued by Chief Minister Pema Khandu’s office.The financial assistance, to be provided from the chief minister’s relief fund, will be disbursed by deputy commissioners of districts in consultation with local MLAs and other stakeholders.The amount will be transferred through direct bank transfer to the accounts of those eligible to receive assistance or through UPI “after due diligence and verification”.Those stranded outside the state and in need of assistance have been asked to contact their authorities of their home districts or their local MLAs.Meanwhile, Khandu on Thursday said that first positive Covid-19 case in the state has tested negative twice.He took to Twitter and wrote, “The first positive COVID-19 case of Arunachal Pradesh has tested negative (twice) after conducting 3rd and 4th test consecutive. The number of positive case in the state is now 0.” The man from Medo village in Lohit district had tested positive on April 1 and 7 last after two tests conducted with decrease in viral load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-stranded-people-to-get-financial-aid-from-cm-relief-fund-announces-arunachal-govt/story-GObw8tgFtaG6reNncxQZZP.html
17-04-2020||India||Offer Ramzan prayers at home, don’t hold Iftar parties during lockdown: Muslims urged||Muslims across the country have been urged to offer prayers at home instead of going to mosques during Ramzan and follow the rules of the nationwide lockdown in place to break the chain of coronavirus infections.Jamia Nizamia, one of the oldest Islamic seminaries in India, has said in a release that ulemas and muftis from all schools of thought have urged the community to offer Taraweeh, special Ramzan prayers at night, and break their fasts in the evening with Iftar at home.“They are also requested not to host or attend Iftar parties and give away the only so saved to the poor and the needy for their basic needs,” the seminary said in the release.“Further, the Ulemas and Muftis have appealed to the people to follow the instructions given by the government to observe the lockdown. They should also follow the advice of health and medical experts and observe preventive measures, especially social distancing, strictly,” it said.Muslims have also been asked not to hold gatherings for Taraweeh and recitation of the Quran.“In the Shariah, responsibilities and duties are assigned and at the same time, exceptions and concessions are given during extraordinary circumstances. Offering Tawareeh is Sunna and here, too, exceptions are allowed,” it said.The Islamic Centre of India had also issued an advisory on Monday, asking Muslims to adhere to the lockdown rules during Ramzan.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s (AIMIM’s) Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted the Jamia Nizamia’s release and issued an appeal for Muslims all across the country.“In a statement from Jamia Nizamia, Hyderabad Muftis & Ulemas of all Schools of Thought have appealed that taraweeh be offered at home during the coming month of #Ramzan. Of course, these guidelines do not just apply to Telangana & AP, they are to be strictly followed across India,” Asaduddin Owaisi wrote.The holy month of Ramzan is likely to begin from April 24 or April 25 subject to sighting of the crescent moon.Muslims observe fasting for about 30 days during Ramzan and do not eat or drink from dawn to dusk. They eat a pre-dawn meal, sehri, and break their day-long fast with Iftar in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offer-ramzan-prayers-at-home-don-t-hold-iftar-parties-during-lockdown-muslims-urged/story-8q8EMCznsltxh5he0IqgMP.html
17-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 2-year-old girl among 10 new Covid-19 cases in Bihar; total 80 cases in state||Bihar saw a spurt in fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday with 10 people including a two-year-old girl testing positive for the dreaded novel coronavirus, taking the total count of positive cases to 80 in the state, a top official said.The child was among six persons from Munger district’s Jamalpur sub division who tested positive. All of them were related to a 60-year-old patient, health department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said.In addition to the girl, the Munger cases include three women aged between 20 and 55 years and two men, aged 38 and 40 years, he added.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With a total of 14 cases, including six recoveries and a death, Munger is now the second worst-affected district of the state after Siwan where 29 people have tested positive so far.Two men, aged 35 and 67 years, and hailing from Buxar district, have also tested positive, the principal secretary said.Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir said, “The two had on March 30 returned home after taking part in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Asansol, West Bengal where they are believed to have picked up the contagion from infected delegates”.Notably, the Islamic organisation, which has its headquarters at Nizamuddin in Delhi, has been blamed for a large number of coronavirus cases across the country.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Jamaat had held a congregation at its headquarters in the first half of March, which was attended by hundreds of participants from abroad and some of them were suspected to have carried the infection.Besides, a 60-year-old man in Patna, who came in touch with a Covid-19 patient with travel history to Dubai, and a 35-year-old man from Vaishali district had tested positive late on Wednesday night.The Vaishali patient has no travel history and is admitted to AIIMS, Patna for multiple illnesses. His samples were sent for testing when he developed respiratory distress, the official said.After he tested positive, his village in Raghopur block of Vaishali and a private hospital in the state capital where he underwent treatment before being taken to AIIMS have been sealed by the respective district administrations.Those with whom he has been known to come in contact have been kept in isolation wards, the official added.Meanwhile, the state government embarked on an extensive door-to-door screening programme on the lines of the pulse polio campaign of the 1980s.The screening programme was reviewed on its inaugural day at a high-level meeting chaired here by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Out of 38 districts in the state, 13 have reported Covid-19 cases. Gopalganj, which had reported three cases and Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur and Saran accounting for one case each are now left with no active case.The health department’s principal secretary said Bihar’s recovery rate was better than all states except Kerala and Chhattisgarh and its mortality rate was significantly lower than the national average.He also underscored “every day, on an average, 1,900 people die in Bihar in natural course. Let’s not confuse all deaths with Covid-19. We need to be careful and vigilant”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-2-year-old-girl-among-10-new-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-total-80-cases-in-state/story-AJwbgVYnX4oY4wNyeB9nDN.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: How Manipur govt is helping its people in need||After launching a website to reach out to people from the state stranded in other parts of the country since the nationwide lockdown to tackle the outbreak of Covid-19 came into force, the government of Manipur is now offering assistance. Manipur Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh tweeted, “We are helping our people who are stranded and stuck outside the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Upto now, 3,771 stranded people outside the state have been provided Rs 2000 each. We will provide the same to the remaining 10,000-12,000 persons within 2-3 days. During a video conference on April 11, the chief minister had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take action against racial slurs and harassment that people of the Northeastern region are facing in different parts of the country, amid the coronavirus crisis. He also appealed to other chief ministers to take care of the 30,000 Manipuri people who are stranded outside the state because of the lockdown.Meanwhile, Principal Secretary and current resident commissioner in New Delhi, PK Singh, distributed dry ration to students and other Manipuris stranded in the national capital. A total of about 700 students and other stranded Manipuris in Delhi-NCR have received packets containing pulses, potatoes, cooking oil, masks and sanitisers. Singh said that all items were being sourced through voluntary contributions. The IAS officer said that information, including contact details of those in need, has been collected and that the intention is to distribute the packets to at least 4,000-5,000 people in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-how-manipur-govt-is-helping-its-people-in-need/story-GMQvIGopObtTUMQD0rGhxN.html
17-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: US provides nearly $5.9 million in health assistance to India on Covid-19||The United States has provided nearly $5.9 million in health assistance to India to slow the spread of Covid-19, the State Department said Thursday.The amount is being used to help India hinder the spread of the disease by providing care for the affected, disseminating essential public health messages to communities and strengthen case-finding and surveillance, the State Department said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe assistance is also being used to mobilize innovative financing mechanisms for emergency preparedness and response to this pandemic.“This builds on a foundation of nearly $2.8 billion in total assistance, which includes more than USD1.4 billion in health assistance, the United States has provided to India over the last 20 years,” it said in a update of the US efforts in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.The State Department and the US Agency for International Development have now committed nearly$508 million in emergency health, humanitarian, and economic assistance.Also read| Patients start infection spread before symptoms set in: StudyThis is on top of the funding the US has already provide to multilateral and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that are helping communities around the world deal with the pandemic. In South Asia, America’s Covid-19 assistance has gone to Afghanistan (USD18 million), Bangladesh ($9.6 million), Bhutan ($500,000), Nepal ($1.8 million), Pakistan ($9.4 million) and Sri Lanka ($1.3 million). Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-us-provides-nearly-5-9-million-in-health-assistance-to-india-on-covid-19/story-oJI4UenkSqXdSF8ox9nxZN.html
17-04-2020||India||Why India should do random testing||The testing numbers in India in relation to population have been very low by international standards, but so far the same has also been true for the total number of infections as compared to several western nations. So, the question emerges, are testing numbers accurately representing the spread of Covid-19 in the country?The number of cases in India has been rising almost consistently in proportion with the rising number of tests. This means that the more number of tests that have been conducted, the more positive cases we have found. But using purely testing numbers to study the consistency of India’s testing strategy has drawbacks. It is crucial to also look at the total number of tests performed for every confirmed case. This can show how India’s strict testing protocols may have influenced the numbers so they don’t give a clear indication of the spread of the disease and may have left swathes of people out of the testing umbrella.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-india-should-do-random-testing/story-wsabliInz3QRUxDPNOPvqN.html
17-04-2020||India||‘Make donation to CM relief fund part of CSR’: West Bengal FM Amit Mitra||The West Bengal government has urged the central government to allow contributions made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or the State Relief Fund for Covid-19 as a corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure. In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said that confusion was created among business establishments after the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) in an April 10 circular, detailing the frequently asked questions (FAQs) on CSR, said contributions to CM’s relief fund or the state relief fund for Covid-19 relief do not qualify for CSR but those to the PM-CARES fund and the State Disaster Management Authority do. In the letter, which has been viewed by HT, Mitra said that the MCA had in its March 23 circular stated that “spending of CSR funds for Covid-19 is eligible CSR activity.”“May I point out that the circular no 10/2020 dtd. 23.3.20 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, clearly stated that ‘Spending of CSR funds for Covid-19 is eligible CSR activity’. Therefore we were confident that the contributions to the Fund will qualify as CSR activity for businesses Unfortunately, a huge confusion has arisen among companies after the issuance of the FAQ,” he said.The letter added that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee raised the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference on April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-donation-to-cm-relief-fund-part-of-csr-west-bengal-fm-amit-mitra/story-40y4IpLKWZoFWMaamkyiiO.html
17-04-2020||India||EPFO withdrawals cross Rs 900 crore||In just 15 days, country’s largest pension fund manager EPFO has disbursed an amount of Rs 946.49 crore and processed 3.3 lakh claims for voluntary withdrawals, underlining a rush for liquidity among the salaried class.On March 28, the EPFO opened a special window for withdrawal from the EPF Scheme to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic, as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) package to provide a timely relief to the working class of the nation.Since the program started, Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has processed 3.31 lakh claims disbursing an amount of Rs 946.49 crore, said an official note. In addition, Rs 284 crore have been distributed by the exempted PF Trusts under this scheme, notable among them being TCS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/epfo-withdrawals-cross-rs-900-crore/story-UMNr0zTXfIXlMpYuynccyK.html
17-04-2020||India||Govt eases renewal dates for health, motor policies||Payments for the renewal of health and motor vehicle insurance policies, due in the lockdown period of April 15 to May 3, can now be paid on or before May 15, 2020, a finance ministry notification said.“With a view to mitigate hardship to policyholders whose health & motor (third party) insurance policies are due for renewal during lockdown, the government has issued notification allowing policyholders to make payments on or before 15.05.2020 towards renewal of their policies,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s office tweeted on Thursday.This decision is taken to ensure continuity of policies and hassle-free claims payments to policyholders during the grace period, it said.“The policy holders whose motor vehicle third party insurance policies fall due for renewal during the period on and from March 25, 2020 up to May 3, 2020 and who are unable to make payment of their renewal premium on time in view of the prevailing situation in the country as a result of coronavirus disease, are allowed to make such payment for renewal of policies to their insurers on or before May 15, 2020 to ensure continuity of the statutory motor vehicle third party insurance cover from the date on which the policy falls due for renewal, so that any valid claim triggered during the grace period can be paid,” said a notification issued by the department of financial services (DFS), an arm of the finance ministry.A similar amendment has been made in the laws related to renewal of health policies, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eases-renewal-dates-for-health-motor-policies/story-W13CmFAXyVDIa3PtXnzh2O.html
17-04-2020||India||Several parts of India hotter than usual already: IMD||Several parts of the country are recording maximum temperatures of above 40 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department’s heat bulletin on Thursday. These include Vidarbha, Marathwada, west and Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh and west Uttar Pradesh.Some states are recording maximum temperatures as high as five degrees above normal, such as Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, parts of Saurashtra and Kutch, at a few places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. The maximum temperature is about three degrees above normal in the northeastern states, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, and Tamil Nadu, among others.The highest maximum temperature on Wednesday was at Akola in the Vidarbha region at 43.4 degrees C. “These regions in central and west India are climatologically prone to heat in this period. There are also clear skies and no weather systems affecting these places,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-parts-of-india-hotter-than-usual-already-imd/story-wO9YzuToEzgShGGZihPEYL.html
17-04-2020||India||Army chief reviews security situation in Kashmir as LoC violations spike||Amid tensions in north Kashmir’s Kupwara sector on the Line of Control after a series of ceasefire violations and the killing of five para commandos and three civilians, Army chief General MM Naravane on Thursday arrived in Kashmir on a two-day visit to review the security situation in the region.The army chief, besides reviewing the situation in Kashmir was also briefed about the latest security situation on the LoC, especially in north Kashmir.The five commandos, as well as five militants, were killed on April 5 when the troops prevented a group of militants from sneaking into Valley from Keran sector. On April 10, the army said it destroyed launch pads and ammunition dumps in Keran sector in retaliation to the ceasefire violation.Army spokesperson Rajesh Kalia said the army chief, who was accompanied by the Northern Army Commander, Lt Gen YK Joshi and Chinar Corps Commander, Lt Gen BS Raju, also visited formations and units in the area on Thursday. “He was briefed by the Chinar Corps Commander at Badami Bagh Cantonment on the overall situation pertaining to the Line of Control and the hinterland.’’Kalia said that while interacting with jawans, Naravane argued that it was the dawn of a new era of development, peace and prosperity in Kashmir, and applauded them for their morale and motivation. The spokesman said the army chief also reiterated the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges at all time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-reviews-security-situation-in-kashmir-as-loc-violations-spike/story-sglr5wRWD9Y4CtIfgcCIeO.html
17-04-2020||India||Institute claims test kit breakthrough||A Trivandrum-based research institution under the Union science and technology ministry said on Thursday that it had developed a substitute diagnostic kit for Covid-19 that was less expensive and more accurate than the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (reverse transcriptase- polymerase chain reaction) test to determine if a person has been infected by the virus.Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) director Dr Asha Kishore said it was the first substitute for the PCR (or RT-PCR) test and it was a path-breaking development at a time the country is struggling with mounting cases of the coronavirus disease.“Validation of our kit was done by the National Institute of Virology centre in Alappuzha, as directed by the Indian Council of Medical Research {ICMR}. It is cheaper, faster and maintains international standards. Now ICMR can include it in the list of approved tests in the country. Distinction between negative and positive graphs was superior to the standard PCR {test},” she said.SCTIMST said Dr Anoop Thekkuveettil, a senior scientist of the biomedical technology wing of the Institute and scientist-in -charge of the division of molecular medicine under the department of applied biology, and his team developed the kit in three weeks.Scientists at the Thiruvananthapuram-based institute said the testing kit, called Chitra Gene LAMP N, was highly confirmatory for the diagnosis of Covid-19 and detected the N gene of Sars- CoV 2, the virus that causes Covid-19, using the reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid (RT-LAMP) technique.This will be one of world’s first few, if not the first, confirmatory diagnostic tests for the N gene of Sars-CoV-2 using the RT-LAMP technique, they said.The test kit, which is specific to the virus’s N gene, can detect two regions of the gene which will ensure that the test does not fail even if one region of the viral gene undergoes mutation during its current spread. The new kit allows confirmation in one test without the need for a screening test.Dr. Kishore said in new kit takes 10 minutes for the gene detection test and the sample-to-result time is less than two hours. At least 30 samples can be tested in a single batch in a single machine and the lower waiting time will allow a large number of samples to be tested each day in a single machine in multiple shifts. The time taken for the traditional PCR or RT-PCR test is between five and six hours, said scientists.The testing facility can be set up even in the labs of district hospitals with limited facilities and trained technicians. The results can be read from the machine from a change in the fluorescence level. The new device for LAMP testing costs Rs 2.5 lakh and the test kit for two regions of the N gene( including RNA extraction) will be less than Rs 1,000; an RT-PCR machine costs. Rs 15-40 lakh and the PCR kit test between Rs 1,900 and 2500, scientists said.The institute said it will waive licence fee to encourage industry to take up its technology for mass production to meet India’s immediate needs. The Institute said it will invite expressions of interest from companies for transfer of technology to start large-scale production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/institute-claims-test-kit-breakthrough/story-CbltGn9jmOREi0OXL1KCxO.html
17-04-2020||India||Less is more: Lockdown teaches sustainable habits for survival||In the words of Paul Hawken, the renowned American environmentalist and author, the first rule of sustainability is to align with natural forces or at least not try to defy them. If only the second half of his statement had resonated sufficiently with the masses!The scare of Covid-19 has entrusted us with accountability. The lockdown, almost inadvertently, has roused our consciousness about consumption. Suddenly, urban indulgent imps have become unwilling to consume more than what’s needed. With basic options at hand and a fickle future ahead, we are always looking to save, preserve, upcycle and innovate. Is sustainability no more a lifestyle choice? Is it now a survival strategy or at least, an exercise we are willing to consider? DIY from scratch“We are living in unusual times, times we weren’t prepared for. And look how we have realised our capacity! The fact that we CAN make do with essentials is being absorbed now,” says Rhea Chhabria, eco-preneur, SuckIn. “Currently, you can’t order in a cake. Bakeries are shut so, if you want to celebrate with a cake, you have to bake one. As a result, you avoid the extra packaging, nylon ribbons and a plastic knife -- all of which would have gone into the bin the following day,” Rhea elaborates. SuckIn produces reusable, lead-free and easy-to-clean stainless steel and bamboo straws. She says the curfew has given her time to think up DIY tricks to work around junk. “A couple of sling bags were lying in my wardrobe for years. Had the malls been open, I would have donated these and bought a new bag,” she guiltily admits. Rhea threw in bright colours on her old bags to bring them back in use.Make wonders with wasteGauri Agarwal, founder, Skilled Samaritan, says values at work are no different from values at home. “Working with underprivileged rural communities in northern India has given me an edge in curtailing waste. Except for the internet and gadgets, social distancing has taken us back to the nineties. We are home and spending time with our families. The contagion and need for sanitisation make us carry personal bottles and boxes to a store. These are habits worth living by,” she says. Gauri goes on to explain how the dire situation has made mankind slow down; shops are shut, delivery services are disrupted and we can’t buy things out of fancy. We are inculcating a healthy and responsible way of life. “My team of rural women make charpoys with salvaged textile and industrial waste. They weave plastic waste into handbags and seats. Since I am home constantly and want the space to look inviting, I am redoing nooks with old products. Even when the curfew is lifted, people can use plastic containers or paint tubs as planters and grow their own vegetables,” Gauri signs off.From skin to seed, eat it allHave you walked into your kitchen in the recent past and been cautious about using items in the larder? Chef Arina Suchde, a mixologist who practises sustainable cooking, says one must be watchful. “Now, is the time to learn how to use every part of a fruit or vegetable. We can’t go out as often and hence, we are required to plan meals that stick to the zero or reduced waste policy. We tend to throw away coriander stems when the non-woody ones can be cleaned, chopped and used in some stock or dimsum sauce; they add a nice flavour. The watermelon is our go-to summer fruit, as it keeps the body hydrated. But what about the white part? The white part mimics the taste of a raw papaya or cucumber and is rich in nutrients. After peeling off the green skin, it can be cut in pieces and cooked or can be grated into salads,” she adds. As per Arina, a tenable routine should be put in place even if we are not battling tough times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/less-is-more-lockdown-teaches-sustainable-habits-for-survival/story-JrO3NcaaBzlMmHh4QGUnxL.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The celebrations can wait.This column has pointed out, more than once, that the trajectory of Covid-19 infections in India is very different from that in any other country. It’s slower; there haven’t been too many deaths; and, at least anecdotally, the proportion of patients requiring ventilator support is lower than that in many other countries.It isn’t clear why. Nor is it clear that this trend will continue (this writer’s hope is that it will).The relatively low number of cases in India — again, as this column has pointed out; when you write a column every day for 30 days, there’s bound to be a bit of repetition — can’t entirely be explained by the country’s low testing. But that stroke of fortune — till science can explain, it is just that — is no excuse not to test more.India has tested 203 people per million of its population. This is lower than even Brazil (296), it is definitely lower than the US (9,866), the UK (6,152), Italy (18,481) and Spain (19,896). A comparative chart put out by the government says that at the time India crossed 5,000 infections and then, 10,000 infections, it had carried out more tests (in absolute terms) than the US, UK, and Italy. That just means that we haven’t learnt from their mistakes. India has been a clear laggard when it comes to testing, just as it has been a leader when it comes to enforcing a lockdown, something that is certain to flatten the curve of infections and also delay the peak.Maharashtra’s aggressive testing, of those at high-risk of infections, is perhaps one reason why the state has the highest number of cases in India — minus a super-event such as the Tablighi Jamaat’s gathering in New Delhi that is responsible for 68% of the city-state’s cases. Since testing resources, like other resources, will always be scarce in India, the protocol will always be skewed towards those at high risk — which will, in turn, mean that at least in the initial phases of testing, states that test more will show more cases. Maharashtra’s testing stands at 504 per million of its population as of Thursday.India will test more in the coming weeks, though, not just in the so-called hot spots and containment zones writhing hot spots but also in what the health ministry describes as green zones -- parts of the country that have seen either no infections or an insignificant number of them. These tests will be done using rapid testing kits (RTKs) that screen for antibodies and will provide crucial information on the actual spread of Covid-19 in India.India has defined a protocol for these tests. A negative test may require a quarantine followed by another antibody test, or an immediate RT-PCR test. A positive test may require isolation and treatment. But countries such as Italy and the UK that want to use the test to decide who gets to return to work will need to do it differently. That’s because of a concept in probability called Bayes’ theorem.Tests for many diseases are defined in terms of sensitivity (probability of an infected person testing positive) and specificity (probability of an uninfected person testing negative). Assuming a sensitivity of 99% and a specificity of 98% (very high, but lower than ICMR’s requirement of 100% on each, or a USFDA certification), and a situation where 10% of the population is infected, it turns out that the probability of a person who tests positive being infected is (drumroll here), not 99% but only 84.61%. This is because the probability is calculated the other way around in this case — starting from a positive test.I will avoid going into the details because I don’t want to make this column any more geeky, but this is the reason why many people worry about using antibody tests as a basis of deciding who gets to be declared immune. Imagine: a person tests positive and thinks she is immune because she is infected; she is declared eligible to return to work; but according to Bayes’ theorem there is only a 84.61% channel of her being infected (and that too only if the test is very good). Many tests have sensitivity and specificity ratings in the mid-90s. The probability that someone who tests positive is actually infected falls sharply in these. I was first pointed in this direction by the erudite twitter feed of Taal Levi, an associate professor of the College of Agricultural Sciences, Oregon State University (@taaltree).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-OfYzQ3cBVDYLcVSPPd9WHL.html
17-04-2020||India||Your voice may be able to tell if you have Covid||The rush to understand, predict and head off the Covid-19 outbreak has prompted technology researchers to deploy artificial intelligence to create tools that can determine whether people are infected by analysing the sound of their cough, the way they speak or even breathe.Currently, most of these efforts are at a stage in which the researchers are gathering data – speech and coughing recordings paired with information whether someone has an infection. These are then fed to AI algorithms – specifically deep learning and machine learning programmes.“Since the voice production mechanism is so complex and dependent on cognitive abilities, any factor that affects your body or your mind will reflect in your voice. The changes can be in fractions of seconds -- what we call “micro” signatures, that are not audible to the untrained listener, but nevertheless present,” said Rita Singh, a computer sciences research professor at the Carnegie Mellon University, whose team created the Covid Voice Detector.The changes, added Singh in a video-call, carry “a surprising amount of information that can be linked to physiological factors”. “Any condition affecting the lungs or the respiratory system – as has been established in the cases of Covid-19 infections -- has a palpable effect on voice. Moreover, the cough of a Covid patient is also distinct from a healthy person’s,” she added.“The tool is basically a self-learning system that is now trying to learn signatures of a Covid infection that shows up in voice, not just in cough,” Singh said, adding that more data it is fed, the more it understands the signatures.At the core of the tool is a computer programme patented by Singh and used extensively in voice profiling work by law enforcement in United States, according to a homeland security research agency.A similar effort has been launched by researchers at the University of Cambridge. The Covid-19 Sounds app, available as a Chrome or Firefox plugin for now, is at present building a crowdsourced data set.“Having spoken to doctors, one of the most common things they have noticed about patients with the virus is the way they catch their breath when they’re speaking, as well as a dry cough, and the intervals of their breathing patterns,” said professor Cecilia Mascolo from Cambridge’s department of computer science and technology in an article published by the university.A third such initiative is being carried out by Mumbai-based Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence. Launched on April 7, Wadhwani’s Cough Against Covid mobile application asks users to record the sound of their coughing and share an image of a test result if they are positive.For such efforts to work, the quality and the accuracy of data is crucial. “Such a system needs to be thoroughly vetted by the medical community and thoroughly tested. It must have near-zero false positives and zero false negatives. This is impossible to achieve in a short run, so our goal is tempered down to being able to return more conservative factoids from voice that may still be helpful to everyone,” Singh said.As the disease brings much of the planet to a halt, scientists and health experts have called for technology to play a bigger part in tackling the pandemic – which has grown too quickly for conventional containment tools to have an effect.Software giants such as Apple and Google are working on a mobile phone-based contact tracing tool, a technology that several nations – including India with the Aarogya Setu app – have already deployed on their own.Apart from AI and proximity-estimating tools meant to trace contacts, researchers are also looking at internet-of-things (IOT) devices such as smart thermometers. “A company called Kinsa comes up with heat maps of fever prevalence. Such tools can be useful in identifying large outbreaks that health authorities can respond to and direct testing and containment resources if need be,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of biostatistics at the University of Michigan.The efforts also present a challenge for privacy, since connected device data, personal audio recordings, location histories and health records need to be protected from profiteering and surveillance.India’s Aarogya Setu app has been criticised by privacy advocates for collecting too much data, the use of which is governed by privacy policies that, they say, lacks transparency and accountability. The developers and the government of India have rejected the concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-voice-may-be-able-to-tell-if-you-have-covid/story-wmPxMjWsxDTAobUwMQwk3K.html
17-04-2020||India||Band Swaarag has released a fun song on Covid-19 to reduce the stress||Indo-Western fusion band Swaraag has decided to use this time of lockdown productively. They have come up with a fun song to reduce the stress that has been bothering people due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The song titled Ja Ja Re Corona Virus has a Rajasthani folk touch to it and the video of the song has been shot at home.The lyrics of the song which say haath dhote dhote haath laal hogaye hai, corona se bachao is a fun take on the corona scare. “We have been listening to the news and instructions that say wash your hands regularly, don’t be part of large groups, etc. Now, we are artistes and we are used to being in large groups and practising, and our songs represent Indian culture, so until we make a mahaul, we don’t find peace. Therefore, when we were given such restrictions it was difficult to get used to them, so this song came out of those discussions and that pain which we have represented in a fun way in our song,” says Asif Khan, lead singer of Swaarag.4 members of the otherwise seven-piece band have made this song and shot it in their home with whatever limited resources were available to them. “Since there were no professional videographers available due to the lockdown, we thought let’s shoot the video of this song on our phones since everything is possible on phones nowadays. We did face problems like lighting and quality of production but it turned out fine. We made a little space in our small room and shot whatever best we could. The audience has liked it but the video could have been shot better,” adds Mohammad Seif Ali, who plays the tabla in the band.On their routine during the lockdown, Asif says, “Of course, we have been asked to stay at home and we should, but since we are not used to this, bore toh ho hi jaate hai. Everyday, we brothers take music lessons from our dad, we go live on social media, we have dedicated some time to yoga, meditation, some time to riyaaz and we spend some time with family as well. So that’s the routine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/band-swaarag-has-released-a-fun-song-on-covid-19-to-reduce-the-stress/story-NPf5EZpWdlrekUC6E0tJZL.html
17-04-2020||India||Rapid kits finally arrive to test Covid-19 immunity||The much-awaited Rapid Testing Kits, or RTKs, which use antibody-based blood tests for Covid-19, arrived in New Delhi at 11.30am on Thursday after missing their third deadline by a day, and will likely be used to test for coronavirus disease in areas with no or few cases -- the health ministry’s green zones -- according to an official at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The kits will be used to test people with fever, cough, and shortness of breath in 325 districts that are currently unaffected, starting with those that are in states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, explained the official, who asked not to be named. This will be the first mass testing exercise in these districts.“Many states have started dedicated fever clinics; and the samples for rapid testing could either be lifted of people visiting those clinics or cases our front-line workers identify after screening,” added this person.The move will significantly widen testing for Covid-19 in the country, which currently tests around 203 people per million, with most tests restricted to health care workers treating Covid-19 patients, travellers who may have visited countries with a significant number of infections, and people who may have come in contact, directly or indirectly, with an infected person. Much of the testing is also happening in so-called containment areas which are themselves within hot spot districts with either outbreaks or clusters (called red zones by the health ministry) or districts that are not hot spots but with clusters. There are 170 hot spot districts and 207 other districts with clusters. According to the health ministry, all other districts are in the green zone. There are around 730 districts in India.ICMR guidelines say antibody test should be run after seven days of illness, as it takes at least five to seven days for antibodies to develop after contracting an infection.“An antibody test is not suited for diagnostic purposes but it is a useful surveillance tool for epidemiological studies,” said the ICMR official. Put otherwise, it is a quick and easy way to understand the extent to which the disease has spread.“These kits are not for early diagnosis as their sensitivity and specificity is lower than RT-PCR tests; it can be used for surveillance purposes, to periodically spot disease trends; to collect data on whether there is an old infection in a section of population or if it is a recent infection. whether the spread is increasing or being successfully contained in places that are termed as hot spots etc,” Dr RR Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said at a news briefing on Thursday.And since it is cheaper than RT-PCR, it can easily be deployed for mass testing, if required.The consignment has 500,000 antibody testing kits and 100,000 RNA extraction kits. Of the 500,000, 300,000 are from Guangzhou Wondfo and another 200,000 from Zhuhai Livzon. The RNA extraction kits are supplied by MGI Shenzhen.The flight carrying the supplies finally landed in Delhi at around 11.30am on Thursday.After clearing customs, the kits have been moved to ICMR’s main depot at the National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR) in Dwarka, which is one of the two main ICMR depots where the orders placed with different suppliers are being received and stored in the cold container unit.“We have created 16 depots across the country for the storage of these kits, from where the supply is distributed regionally. We have just received the kits and the logistics are being worked out at the moment. We can make use of flights and also transport them by road to nearby places,” said the ICMR official.The stock is being initially distributed to 6 regional depots in Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Dibrugarh, Bhopal, and Hyderabad, and later to other 10 depots. The supplies are likely to depart Delhi by Friday.According to people familiar with the mater who asked not to be named, India pulled diplomatic strings after the Chinese suppliers missed three deadlines. Demand for the RTKs, which some countries hope to be able to use to decide who is immune and can therefore return to work, has soared. And the Chinese government has tightened its export policies after a large number of kits failing quality tests in other countries, causing some amount of embarrassment to Beijing.“We have been emphasising on having the National Medical Product Administration, China, approval for all items being imported from China. It’s a sort of quality assurance certificate from the Chinese government, and we are rejecting anything that is not certified ,” a second ICMR official said on condition of anonymity.The Indian embassy in Beijing tweeted that “it is important to ensure product quality as well as reasonable and stable prices”. It called on China’s National Medical Products Administration to expedite registration of Chinese firms, especially those with export orders and already licenced by Indian regulatory bodies.The external affairs ministry is also working to obtain testing kits from other countries. “Firm quotations have been obtained from companies in Canada, France, Malaysia, the UK and the US. We have also obtained leads from companies in Germany and Japan,” an official familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Experts say that India’s decision to introduce antibody testing kits could be a game-changer in its fight against Covid-19.“Rapid testing needs to be ramped up for the country to be able to get back to normalcy. If we want to cover maximum people who have symptoms to know the disease burden, then rapid testing is the solution as it is quicker and cheaper, and helps in achieving the ultimate goal of public health care testing,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.“However, the quality of kits plays a crucial role. It is also a good way of picking infections when we know most of those infected will not show symptoms or depict mild symptoms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-kits-finally-arrive-to-test-covid-19-immunity/story-ksBNFO4OtunByDP8ceZ2PJ.html
17-04-2020||India||A majority of Jaipur’s Covid-19 cases have links to Ramganj superspreader: Collector||Jaipur has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspot district in Rajasthan, accounting for almost one-third of the state’s total cases. The district administration has devised a new strategy of containment. In an interview to Hindustan Times, District Collector Joga Ram elaborates on the interventions and talks about the superspreader. Here are a few excerpts from the interview:Q: As Covid-19 cases in Jaipur continue to rise, the obvious question is – how many have been caused by the Ramganj superspreader?A: Mohd Mubarak from Ramganj is responsible for at least 232 cases, directly and indirectly. His two friends, Hanif and Iqbal, who were infected by him, spread it further. According to our records, Mubarak’s direct contacts gave way to 94 cases and the remaining spread through Hanif and Iqbal. Mubarak was discharged from SMS Hospital on April 2 and shifted to RUHS [Rajasthan University of Health Sciences] for quarantine. Some of his relatives are also with him there.Q: Why has the famous Bhilwara model of containment failed in Jaipur?A: Bhilwara and Jaipur are two different worlds. Just for an understanding, Jaipur’s population is 20 times that of Bhilwara’s population. In Jaipur, there are around 8,00,000 people in the walled city area alone. In Jaipur, one issue was quantum and density of population and the second issue was sociological – we faced resistance from people during sampling and when we tried to put them in government quarantine facilities.Q: What did you do to overcome this resistance?A: We distributed around 1,00,000 pamphlets with information about why testing was important and how it is done. Then we engaged religious leaders and clerics to record video messages and circulated them on WhatsApp groups. The religious leaders also made announcements on loudspeakers that people should cooperate with medical teams. Local representatives and officers of a particular faith also convinced people. After that we started aggressive testing and the high number of cases could be because of mass testing which was done.Q: Is it also true that people from the walled city were reluctant to go to government quarantine centres?A: Yes, there was resistance over that, too. But gradually people understood that isolation was for their own good. As of Wednesday evening, there are 1,500 people under home isolation and 980 in institutional quarantine.Q: How many samples have you tested?A: We have tested about 8,000 samples so far, which is the highest in the state. Testing happened at three levels: one was of symptomatic cases; second was at health centres where suspected cases voluntarily came forward; and the third was for academic purpose where we picked 30 samples each from 30 clusters. From Wednesday, we have also started random sampling outside the walled city area. 10 teams are on the move, picking up samples from all parts of the city, and 10 are static.Q: What is the latest containment strategy?A: We have identified an area of 1km by 1km in the walled city which is responsible for most of Jaipur’s cases. Mubarak’s house is also in this area. By 1pm on April 15, this area accounted for 395 cases. (The total in Jaipur is 468). This is the area that needs to be managed. On Wednesday, we sealed this area completely – no movement, no exemptions. We will get everything delivered to people’s doorstep but no one will be allowed to move in or move out. There are narrow and congested lanes that have been barricaded. The entire area has been divided into 13 clusters. Q: Will the people in this area not be allowed to go out even for ration?A: No. There’s a complete shutdown. There are around 8,000 households in this area and we have given each of them two kits of dry ration free of cost. Each kit contains 5 kg wheat flour, 1kg rice, 1 kg daal, 1 kg salt, half litre cooking oil, 500 grams each of chilli powder and turmeric powder, one soap, one 180 ml bottle of sanitiser and masks for each member of the family. With two kits, people won’t need to step out. For vegetables and milk, we will organise home delivery on e-rickshaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-majority-of-jaipur-s-covid-19-cases-have-links-to-ramganj-superspreader-collector/story-sBZ74GNKc0R1R75Tgax1KK.html
17-04-2020||India||Odisha cancer patient refused entry in the house by landlord due to Covid-19 scare||The surging fears and stigma over coronavirus forced a 60-year-old cancer patient in coastal Odisha town of Balasore to spend over 8 hours outside his rented home after the landlord refused to let him and his family enter the house.Suresh Sharma, diagnosed with throat cancer, had travelled from Balasore’s Sahadevkhunta area to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar on April 14 to consult with the doctors following some complications. After taking due permissions from the district administration, Sharma had travelled to Bhubaneswar with his wife and two sons. However, they were denied entry by the house owner Laxmidhar Bhuyan, a serving colonel in Indian Army as the Sharmas were travelling from Bhubaneswar, a Covid-19 hotspot with over 30 cases.“My parents and my two brothers (37-year-old and 25-year-old) were not allowed entry inside the rented house as the house owner said they should spend 14 days in quarantine before entering. My father needs special meals every hour, yet he had to skip his meals and had to sit outside the rented home between 12.30 pm and 8 pm today. The house owner was stubborn not to allow him and my family members entry,” said Asha Sharma, daughter of the cancer patient.The district administration led by Balasore additional district magistrate Sambit Kumar Nayak arrived at the spot to reason with the house owner to let him enter, but he did not see reason till the deputy Superintendent of police Manoj Rout spoke to him over phone. “The house owner agreed to let Sharma and his wife enter the house, but did not allow his two sons. He has asked the two sons to be on quarantine for 14 days,” said Rout.The incident came three days after people in Sundargarh district did not allow cremation of a 50-year-old tribal woman who had died of tuberculosis suspecting her death due to coronavirus. On the morning of April 13, Shanti Tanti (50) of Kumarmunda in Sundargarh district succumbed to tuberculosis at VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR) in western Odisha district of Sambalpur. As her daily wager husband Suresh Tanti did not have enough cash to hire an ambulance to take the body to native place, three young doctors of the hospital - senior resident doctor Shankar Ramchandani and post graduate students Tushar Behera and Rajesh Meher – came forward and crowd-funded Rs 4,600 for the ambulance charge.However when the body of the woman reached Kumarmunda after travelling 220 km, villagers refused to allow the body to enter the village limits alleging that the tribal woman had died of Coronavirus and her body could be source of infection. The man returned with the body of her wife, but still could not cremate the body at public crematorium as he did not Aadhaar card of the deceased.“The man was already in the throes of the biggest tragedy of his life and then people were further stigmatising him. No one was willing to understand that when government medical college has allowed a body to be cremated in village, the death is surely not due to Covid-19. As doctors, we could not sit silent and went to crematorium. In our presence, the body was cremated,” said Dr. Ramchandani.In a similar incident, the body of a pregnant woman of Mayurbhanj district who died soon after delivering a boy was not allowed entry by villagers who suspected her to be have died of Coronavirus. Sunita Baske, a tribal woman from Mayurbhanj working as treasury officer was admitted to a nursing home in Soro block of Balasore after she underwent labour pains on Wednesday. Baske however died in the nursing home soon after giving birth to a baby boy.However, when Ramchandra Hansdah, the husband of the deceased was planning to take the body back to Mayurbhanj, the villagers asked him not to come alleging that she has died of Coronavirus. “The villagers threatened me with social ostracisation if I came there with my wife’s body. As there was no other way, I cremated my wife’s body at Soro with the help of local lawyers’ association,” said Hansdah.Lst week, an ambulance driver of Kalahandi district who had driven a Covid19 patient from the district to Cuttack was not allowed entry by people in his village. The ambulance was sanitised and then Sethi had worn the necessary personal protective equipments, yet the villagers were insistent of not allowing him entry. He is now staying ina government quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cancer-patient-refused-entry-in-the-house-by-landlord-due-to-covid-19-scare/story-OZxT5BX7JSy7nRo2PleXqM.html
17-04-2020||India||MP pollution control board asks Reliance firm to pay Rs 10 cr for dyke breach||The Madhya Pradesh pollution control board on Thursday sought interim relief of Rs 10 crore from Reliance’s Sasan Power Limited, holding it responsible for the April 10 breach in its fly ash dyke resulting in the death of five people in the state’s Singrauli, 780 kms north-east of Bhopal. The money, the board said, should be deposited within a fortnight and asked the company to start remedial and restoration work within 14 days.In a letter written on April 13, the board warned that if the measures as directed by it are not taken up within the stipulated timeframe “the industry shall be closed down” and shall not restart production till further orders.The board also warned that in case of non-compliance of the order “the concerned authorities shall disconnect the water supply, electricity supply and other facilities available to the industry with immediate effect”.Six people including a woman and her two children, and a man and his son went missing and two women sustained injuries after a fly ash dyke of the Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project developed a breach on April 10 evening.According to district collector of Singrauli, KVS Chaudhary, bodies of five of the six people have been recovered so far.Chaudhary said on Thursday, “Rs 10 lakh each was paid to the next of kin of the dead apart from compensation for the houses damaged. The company has also offered jobs to the next of kin of the deceased. Survey of agricultural land damaged due to fly ash has also been done. The money will be deposited in the bank accounts of the farmers from tomorrow.”The MPPCB in its April 13 letter said, “…Whereas industry started filling the low lying area with fly ash in the slurry form which was found to be a violation of the conditions of permissions and therefore a show cause notice was given to the industry vide letter dated March 30, 2019 indicating the violation being done by the industry along with suitable warning.”The board said, “…due to the above violations done by the industry and due to indiscriminate and uncontrolled discharge of ash slurry against the conditions of the permission of low lying area filling and against the condition of consent, the breakage of illegally constructed bund wall took place resulting in the overflow of fly ash slurry which has caused damage to the environment, agriculture, property, and lives of human and cattle. A large quantity of fly ash is suspected to have reached the Govind Vallabh Pant reservoir thereby affecting the water quality, tank capacity, and the life of aquatic flora and fauna is also at stake.”The board has asked the company inter alia to take up repair and restoration work immediately; and to depute an institute of national repute to assess the quantum of environmental damage. It has also told the company to submit a time bound action plan and to assess the design and structural safety of the ash dyke of the industry situated near village Harrhawa.Environment expert and advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey said, “The board’s letter has corroborated my charges that it was the company which was responsible for the incident and loss of life. It was the third such incident in the region within a year but unfortunately the government and its agencies don’t take exemplary action to deter others from being involved in such negligence.” When contacted AK Singh, chief executive officer of Sasan Power Ltd, said, “We have got 15 days time. There is an entire team involved. We are discussing it. We will take advice of technical experts too and then we will decide how to go ahead.” Earlier, in its response when the incident had taken place the company had said, “We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan Power Plant. The break in ash dump yard wall pushed the water leading to break in the boundary wall affecting some thatched houses and minor land parcel. We are investigating the reasons underlying the incident. Power Plant operations continue as the relief and restoration work is not affected by the same. We are closely working with locals and the district administration in relief and restoration work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-pollution-control-board-asks-reliance-firm-to-pay-rs-10-cr-for-dyke-breach/story-W4ujhRrcjuegnGkIZ8ZvqK.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra becomes first state with more than 3,000 infections||With around a fourth of the total cases in the country, Maharashtra on Thursday has become the first state to cross 3,000 Covid-19 cases. The number of infected people in Mumbai rose over 2,000 with 177 new cases. The state government has claimed that there was a drop in the rate of doubling of the cases and increase in recovery of Covid-19 patients. The state government has also started planning to relax the lockdown restrictions in about half of its districts from next week by allowing the industrial operations and within district movements.A total of 286people tested positive on Thursday taking Maharashtra’s tally to 3,202, while deaths of seven more patients took the number of casualties to 194. Among those who died, four were from Mumbai while three were from Pune. Four of them were above 60 years of age while the others were above 40. Six had underlying ailments including diabetes, heart ailment, asthma and high blood pressure, the state health department said in a statement.The number of positive cases reached 2,063 in Mumbai which remains the most affected city in India. The health department said it has conducted 56,673 tests at various public and private facilities till date. Of them 52,762 people tested negative. Maharashtra currently has 297 active containment zones. A total of 5,664 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 20.50 lakh people. Three hundred patients have been discharged from the hospitals after their recovery from the infection, 71,076 people in the state are home quarantined, while 6,108 are under institutional quarantine.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the rate of the doubling of cases has improved to 5.5 days from 2 and 3.5 days a few days ago. “We expect to improve it further. It is true that the mortality rate in the state is high at 7%, but it is due to the co-morbidity among the patients. 83% deaths are related to underlying ailments such diabetes, and ailments related to heart and kidney. We have also formed a task force of experts to suggest measures to minimize death rate and clinical management of Covid-19 patients who are critically ill,” he said.He added that the percentage of the patients being discharged after the successful recovery from the Covid-19 infection has increased. “Our focus on expediting the recovery has been reaping fruits as the rate of discharging patients has increased. 300 patients have been discharged so far,” he said. The minister said six more labs are expected to be added in the existing count of 36 laboratories for testing samples for coronavirus. “We are expecting the approval from the ICMR to our proposal of pool testing rapid testing,” he said. He said that all 1400 people from Maharashtra, who had attended international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, have been traced, quarantined and tested.“Only 50 of them are Covid-19 positive, the rest are kept in quarantine facilities,” he said.The state government is also planning to relax the lockdown restriction in the state from April 20. The relaxation will, however, be in the non-affected areas and limited only to the essential services, industries and agriculture sector by strict following of the lockdown norms. Tope clarified that no public gathering will be allowed or educational institutions such as school and colleges will be allowed to function.The state government is also planning to increase the workforce in government offices to 33%. In a video conference on Thursday, top level officials held discussion on the guidelines by the central government. “Based on the notification issued by the Centre, we have already included a few auxiliary sectors in exempted essential activities. The districts with no Covid-19 patients or less than 15 patients can have more relaxation from the lockdown restrictions,” said an official on condition of anonymity.There are seven districts with no positive patients and four other districts whose rural parts are unaffected. These districts will get maximum relief though all the activities will be released within the district boundaries which have been sealed. The districts with less than 15 patients are expected to get relief in the unaffected areas. However the most affected areas, mostly governed by municipal corporation will continue with the lockdown with its strict implementation, said the official.Industries minister Subhash Desai said that the state government was considering allowing industrial operations in at least 20 districts which have either no case or very few cases from April 20. “Following the Centre’s guidelines for the second phase of lockdown and by using our own powers we are preparing a proposal to begin industrial operations in some districts. The industrial units following the standard operating procedures (SOP) and making arrangements for their employees would be allowed to begin operations,” he said. The minister said that the industrial units will have to make arrangements for the shelter and transportation of the workers. According to officials, the state government has planned to begin operations of at least 60% MSMEs by month end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-becomes-first-state-with-more-than-3-000-infections/story-uIiQ7jUHdtWKWJPr7E858N.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19 stimulus package to revive economy could be 2%-4% of GDP: Official||Expectations for a relief and stimulus package for individuals and businesses rose after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed on Thursday, in a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the impact on the Indian economy of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the ongoing national lockdown aimed at limiting its spread. HT learns that chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian is putting together the package. People familiar with the matter said that the stimulus would be announced shortly, but none of the officials HT spoke to could give an exact date.The meeting between the PM and the finance minister comes against the backdrop of demands by industry bodies of a package anywhere between Rs 14 lakh crore and Rs 16 lakh crore to revive the economy. There’s been little economic activity since the lockdown was declared on March 25. There has been some easing of restrictions since, and more will be eased on April 20, especially for manufacturing facilities in economic enclaves and businesses focused on rural India, but the lockdown is to continue till May 3. Two people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the package will cover the farm sector, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and large businesses. There could also be something in it for individual taxpayers, said a third person, adding that the size of the package could be anything between 2% and 4% of the GDP. That will work out between Rs 5 lakh crore and Rs 7.5 lakh crore. None of the three wished to be identified. It is almost ready, the third person said, but given that the situation is “dynamic”, bits are being added to it all the time. There is complete recognition of the need for “big relief”, this person added , a sort of “new deal”, a reference to the US plan to exit the Great Depression.The first person said there will be complementary monetary measures by the Reserve Bank of India to help companies. Late last month, RBI infused an additional Rs 3.74 lakh crore of liquidity into the system and said it would do “whatever it takes” to handle the crisis. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana on March 26 that included food security and cash payments to the vulnerable sections of society. But there’s been no announcement of a larger package. “Government needs to announce a large fiscal package for affected industries and sectors which are at high and medium risk,” State Bank of India (SBI) said in its research report Ecowrap. Experts say that economic activity in India will decline by at least 50% in the 40 days of the lockdown (till May 3) -- a loss of around $137 billion. With supply chains broken, even the lifting will not help things return to normal, they added. The International Monetary Fund has said India will grow by 1.9% in 2020 (calendar year), a number that looks positively cheerful when compared with Barclay’s assessment of 0% and Nomura’s that it will shrink by 0.5%. According to Niranjan Hiranandani, president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry, companies want government to expeditiously clear its dues to them -- Rs 2.2 lakh crore is owed to fertiliser companies alone, he explained -- and temporarily cut GST on all products by half to boost demand. The government is working towards clearing all vendor dues, two of the three people said. The first official said RBI could lower policy rates by another 100 basis points to infuse liquidity and some moratorium from repayments for both personal and corporate loans. “There is a demand for further easing of monetary policy from stakeholders. Inflationary pressure is also lower. Theoretically, there is a possibility, but a decision on this matter will only be taken by the central bank,” he said. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point. RBI last month advanced its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting to help the country’s financial system tide over the coronavirus disease pandemic and on March 27 sharply reduced the policy rate by 75 basis points to 4.4%. One of the immediate issues is to provide relief to daily wagers, the first person said. “But that is expected to be resolved to a large extent with agricultural and industrial activities (outside the municipal limits) will start from April 21. But, farmers will require faster procurement, and small industries that employee workers in large number would require financial support to restart their business. A fund can be created to support them.”On April 9, HT reported that the government was considering creating a fund with a corpus between Rs 50,000 crore and Rs 75,000 crore to help small industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-fm-meet-with-stimulus-in-pipeline/story-g8gSET8RkzCwAjPnuJnAgP.html
17-04-2020||India||Hyderabad art auction raises Rs 5 lakh for Covid fight||An art gallery in Hyderabad raised Rs 5 lakh for relief work related to the coronavirus epidemic that has already infected over 13,000 persons across the country. At 8am on Tuesday, a charity auction involving 35 original artworks of 27 Hyderabad-based artists went live on Kalakriti gallery’s website. Titled Art in Isolation, the auction is expected to close on April 17, following which the amount may undergo further revision. While online auctions and art sales, and even online viewing of art works is not a new phenomenon, this is the first time that the gallery has sold any work of art online, promoter Rekha Lahoti said. All proceeds of the auction will go to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. As on Thursday evening, 20 works had been sold and at least 40 art lovers had bid on works made by a range of artists working across media, including Thota Vaikuntam, Fawad Tamkanat, Laxman Aelay and Nirmala Biluka, among others.While Vaikuntam, a National Award winner, is known for his paintings that depict the Telangana rural idiom, Tamkanat, the son of famous Urdu poet Shaz Tamkanat, is also renowned as a printmaker. Aelay was already a well known book illustrator in the Telugu literary circles before he trained professionally as an artist, while Biluka is a professor of art as well as a curator.“In all, 35 paintings of different sizes with a base price range of Rs 10,000 to Rs 380,000, had been put up in the virtual gallery for the art enthusiasts to go through and participate in the auction,” Lahoti said.Shivarama Chary’s chrome plated fiberglass sculptures were also put up for auction.After the online tour — designed as though the viewer were standing inside a white cube and seeing the works on a wall — the buyer could click on a work, enter personal information, and place a bid. The estimate included the base (or minimum) price as well as the market price of the work. For instance, A Rajeshwara Rao’s Kohinoor Hai Kya, an 36”x30” acrylic on canvas has a base price of Rs 120,000 and a market price of Rs 225,000. His work, a riff on courtly miniatures but in a larger format and with a more modern female subject, sold for Rs 125,000 in the auction.“All the sale proceedings of the e-auction will go to the Telangana chief minister’s relief fund. The buyers can issue cheques directly to the fund. Neither the artist nor the gallery will charge anything,” Aelay, one of the artists whose work is in the auction, said.The gallery has also chosen to eschew the buyer’s premium, Lahoti said. The buyer’s premium is a percentage of the hammer (or final) price that a winning bidder additionally pays in an auction.“It is a good initiative by the Telangana artists to contribute their might for a noble cause by auctioning their paintings. They have shown that artists, too, have a responsibility towards society,” Hanumantha Rao Devulapalli, another popular artist from Hyderabad, who conducted exhibitions in Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi.The artworks will be sent to the eventual owners once the lockdown is lifted.(With inputs from Dhamini Ratnam)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyd-art-auction-raises-5-lakh-for-covid-fight/story-hxHrefuxGTf0qi2NMpjqCP.html
17-04-2020||India||17 arrested for sending migrant labourers to UP and Bihar in ambulance||At midnight, Wednesday, two ambulances stopped at the police picket at Vatika Chowk in Gurugram’s Sohna road.There were five people in each; one of the five was on a stretcher, and an IV drip was attached to his hand; the other four said they were with the sick person; the same hospital had issued documents to both patients who, to close the loop, were suffering from the same aliment. And that’s how the Gurugram police unearthed a racket that has been ferrying migrant workers to their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in ambulances in violation of the ongoing national lockdown. The operation was the brainchild of Suresh Kumar from Adampur in Hisar district, who also goes by the sobriquet Doctor, although, as can be expected, he isn’t one. The 10 people being ferried in the two ambulances were migrant workers; they had paid Rs 9000 each (half in advance) to go home to Khandsa in Champaran, Bihar, almost 1200 km from Gurugram. The policemen manning the picket tried calling the numbers of the hospital as mentioned in the documents but found out that these weren’t in use. “We brought all of them to the police station and questioned them individually. They revealed that they contacted a doctor in a private hospital who demanded Rs 9,000 from each person to send them home in an ambulance,” said Mukesh Kumar, station house officer, Badshahpur police stationPreet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the interrogation led the police to Suresh KumarIt turns out that the 10 men worked in different export houses and were all tailors. The national lockdown, declared on March 25 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease , and extended by 19 days to May 3 on Tuesday, had forced their units to close. Jobless, the men waited it out during the first phase of the lockdown and then decided to escape home. Kumar was working in a hospital in Sector 10 A for the last three years -- as manager, not a doctor. He was arrested on Thursday. He confessed that he used a network of ambulances to send labourers home -- after figuring out that this was a good way to make money during the lockdown. “Suresh Kumar has already sent a few ambulances to Lucknow, Agra, Bhagalpur, Gopalganj and Champaran in the last 20 days. He and the ambulance owners used to split the money,” said SHO Mukesh Kumar.The police have recovered medical prescription pads, a rubber stamp of a hospital identified as Halson hospital, which closed a few months ago (it was on Basai Road in Old Gurugram) according to Kumar.Sixteen suspects -- four ambulance drivers, 10 migrants and two contractors -- were produced before the duty magistrate and were sent to 14-day judicial custody. Suresh Kumar will be produced in court on Friday, the police said.Sangwan said the police are questioning Kumar because they suspect his involvement in a drugs racket that stretched from Gurugram to Bihar. Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said ambulances attached to the mortuary in Gurugram are under the scanner and all the ambulances crossing borders will be thoroughly checked and calls made to hospitals concerned. “Anyone found involved in any illegal activity will be booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code,” he said.A case under sections 120 B(conspiracy), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (Forgery of valuable security), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Badshahpur police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-arrested-for-sending-migrant-labourers-to-up-and-bihar-in-ambulance/story-aAdhfaV3yCPFQdqzQwqPjM.html
17-04-2020||India||Airlines told to give full refund for tickets booked during lockdown till May 3||The Centre on Thursday ordered domestic and foreign airlines to refund passengers in full for bookings on flights that have been suspended during the extended coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown until May 3 . An advisory by the government sent to the airlines said the refunds were for meant for passengers who had booked flights until May 3 during the first phase of the lockdown, from March 25 until April 14. Senior civil aviation ministry officials said the order does not apply to passengers who had booked flights prior to the lockdown. “There were several distress cases that we got {to know} of passengers who had booked flights from April 15 onward thinking the lockdown would be lifted and our priority was to address those cases. The second issue was of passengers who had booked in the first lockdown during the same period,” a senior ministry official said requesting anonymity.“For example, there were several cases where airlines were still taking bookings despite India’s lockdown orders, . which we said will not be allowed and they will have to pay the passengers back in full,” the official added.The advisory issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MOCA) said airlines have to refund the full amount collected from passengers without levying any cancellation charge.“Substantial number of travelers eager to move from the places where they were have booked tickets for the travel after the end of the lockdown period ie from April 15 onward. Currently, the Government has further extended the lockdown period up to May 3, 2020, with the ban continuing on operation of all domestic and international flights,” the advisory said. “MOCA acknowledges the unusual situation that has arisen due to the lockdown being imposed to contain the further spread of COVID-19 and its consequential effect on the air passengers and airlines.,” it added. Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) was instructed to monitor the airlines’ compliance with the order. “A circular has been issued by the ministry of civil aviation for guidance and strict compliance of domestic and foreign airline operators engaged in domestic and international air travel in India,” DGCA said. The advisory came after a meeting was chaired by the civil aviation minister with CEOs of private airlines Wednesday to discuss the issue of refunds for flights cancelled during the lockdown period. “Airlines have reiterated that advance bookings for flights will not be stopped,” another senior official said. IndiGo, India’s largest airline by passengers carried, on April 14 announced it will resume flight operations from May 4 in a phased manner. “We will begin operations for domestic only and then gradually ramp it up further, to commence operations on some international routes as well. Our singular focus will be on ensuring the health of our customers and our employees,” Ronojoy Dutta, chief executive officer of IndiGo, said. Meanwhile, Indian Railways cancelled advance booking for all trains. The transporter said no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed until further orders although the facility of online cancellations will remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-told-to-give-full-refund-for-tickets/story-Tskj5gqx1MGQ7X77YXjXrN.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid crisis temporary brake, it will improve: Prakash Javadekar||The coronavirus crisis will be just a temporary “brake”, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, said, explaining that the government is trying to save lives even as it keeps an eye on the economy. From April 20, many sectors will open up, providing livelihoods to many, he added in an interview to Hindustan Times. Edited excerpts: The world is in the grip of the coronavirus disease. Lives and livelihoods are at stake. How do you view the situation?This is a global crisis of which no one had an inkling. So the world was caught unawares. Many countries fumbled on imposing a lockdown . Now, not just WHO [World Health Organization] but the entire world acknowledges that India imposed a strict lockdown and also effectively communicated -- what is social distancing, washing hands and wearing of masks. We have also worked to ensure that livelihoods are not lost. From April 20, there will again be work opportunities. Some people have carried out negative propaganda. Facts were twisted to create rumours -- that there was a hospital with separation of patients on religious basis or other such. We have worked to quash those rumoursYou mentioned fake news. How do you view the problem of fake news, especially on platforms such as WhatsApp? A lot of misinformation is carried on these platforms. We are a democratic country. These platforms, WhatsApp and others, work independently and are encrypted. We only have the Information Technology law of 2000 regarding these platforms. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad deals with this sector. In such cases, we have also referred instances to them for appropriate action. We will follow up and see what they do. One of the problems which has flared up again (after the extension of the lockdown) is that of migrant workers. They came in search of livelihoods but are stuck in other states. Many of them want to return.I actually don’t want to comment on this, but people must understand the size of the problem.If two to four crore people travel from one state to another that what would be the state of affairs? If there is even one infected person in a train or a bus, who will guarantee the safety of the others? Now, from April 20, work is also starting in many sectors. So, (it is) better to go back to work and earn. The district administrations are also helping them.As the Prime Minister has said that we need Jaan [life]and Jahan [world]. We need life and also work. If we don’t have life then what is work, and if there is no work then life will be difficult. Therefore, from April 20 you will see many major industries restart…in rural areas; work related to highways, agriculture, food processing will begin. I have full faith that daily wagers who could not work for 20-21 days because of the lockdown will see a different situation.In Mumbai’s Bandra, a crowd of migrants gathered especially at a time when the focus is on social distancing. The incident also saw an FIR against a journalist for a report that allegedly caused this. As I&B minister, how do you see this situation?First of all what happened in Bandra, where so many people who were not even carrying bags, gathered. Was it because someone had promised food or someone had incited them? Nineteen (other) people have even been arrested. There will be investigation and the facts will be known. The media, especially the print media, has been hit hard because of the lockdown -- in terms of both advertising revenue but also circulation. As I&B minister, what are your views on this?I am also worried, I have submitted a note to my party about the situation. The issue is because of some superstitions, blind faith or some WhatsApp message, people have stopped buying newspapers. They think it will give them the virus and the distribution chain has got affected. I think that is the situation. All of us have to come together to dispel such doubts. There is a problem. The media’s job is to create awareness on this. Government is also very proactive on this. But any industry or business factors in profits and losses. I am sure there will not be any retrenchment, not only in media, but in any sector. Because people will be required when India rises again.As the heavy industries minister, are you planning any steps that may boost the industry?We have readied a mechanism to push e-vehicles, frame one and frame two. I reviewed it yesterday and planning something. The working of the auto sector is related to another ministries but we also work keeping it in mind. Overall, I believe this is a temporary brake. Things will improve. The country that manages to save its people will move ahead. There are concerns that the fight against Covid-19 is getting polarized, especially over the Nizamuudin congregation incident.I don’t think that people are divided. People are united and I don’t think they are viewing it from a religious prism. There was an incident of negligence and the country has seen the consequences. That is also a reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-temporary-brake-it-will-improve-prakash-javadekar/story-nqsMaQ4DdLcpjOQIQiQHjK.html
17-04-2020||India||In containment zones, WhatsApp groups are the new lifelines||A 10-metre lane, barricaded on both ends and crammed with buildings populated by nearly 160 families, in east Delhi’s Kishan Kunj, is a coronavirus containment zone. And a WhatsApp group – ‘GALI no. 4’ – is its lifeline.On Thursday, a police head constable, seated close to one of the barricades, could be seen diligently going through his WhatsApp messages and scribbling on his notepad.“WhatsApp has turned out to be a useful resource in these containment zones, in terms of ensuring delivery of essentials to residents,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday after a review meeting on containment zones in the city.Delhi currently has 60 such no-go zones.HT visited the permissible peripheries of four containment zones on Thursday and found that the same WhatsApp-enabled system was being followed in all four areas. Messaging groups have been created and one member from each family make up the members. The administrators are police officers, officials from the subdivisional magistrate’s office, and at least one office-bearer of the local residents’ welfare association (RWA).Throughout the day, the containment zones witness a slew of measures being taken under a drafted protocol. They include periodic sanitisation drives, police patrolling, door-to-door health checks and test sample collections for individuals with cold or flu-like symptoms. Amid all that, residents keep making lists of essential items – food, fruits, milk, vegetables, and groceries – as and when they remember it. They then post these on the groups, an official said.This leads to Step 2: A police personnel or government official makes a note of the lists and alerts vendors on how much provisions to bring. Then, a group of vendors, who have been assigned certain time slots by officials, arrive at the barricades with their carts. Through the same WhatsApp groups, residents are asked to come to the barricades in groups of two or three, in order to ensure social distancing, and collect the essentials after making payment. The barricades define the limits of life in a lockdown-- no one is allowed to physically cross them.“Earlier, we were receiving a lot of complaints about people in containment zones not being able to get essentials. A containment zone should not be perceived as a punishment zone. It is for people’s own safety. That is why a standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding WhatsApp groups and how they are to be administered was floated through the subdivisional magistrates earlier this week,” a senior government official said.He further said complaints have reduced and in several containment zones, no fresh case has been reported since they were sealed. Containment zones in Kishan Kunj, Vasundhara Enclave, Dilshad Garden and Khichripur have emerged as model zones under the Delhi government’s operation SHIELD.“SHIELD” is an acronym for “Sealing, Home Quarantine, Isolation and Tracking, Essential Supply, Local Sanitisation and Door-To-Door Checking”.“The instructions were clear. One cannot enforce containment without ensuring that residents get all essentials regularly. We are doing our best,” Arun Mishra, district magistrate, east Delhi, said.South district follows a slightly different protocol. Retailers have also been included in the WhatsApp groups so that officials do not have to make notes. The retailers drop the order at the collection point. But there is an added responsibility --- municipal workers and government officials have to ensure 100% doorstep delivery beyond that point and collect the money in case of cash payments.“This strategy is to ensure nobody comes out of their homes at any cost. Not even till the barricades. WhatsApp groups have made our task much easier,” B M Mishra, district magistrate, south Delhi, said.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, called it a good strategy. “Isolation and social distancing are must under the current circumstances and they have to be strictly followed in the containment zones to prevent any possible spread of the virus. These are vulnerable areas which demand innovative ways to make lives easier for residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-containment-zones-whatsapp-groups-are-the-new-lifelines/story-gHBGTnqN1ySQLsAxEB8IWJ.html
17-04-2020||India||Having success in containment due to cooperation of people: Kerala finance minister||The Centre on Wednesday issued guidelines regarding the activities that will be allowed from April 20 to restart the economy amid the extended lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. Kerala’s finance minister Isaac Thomas spoke to Hindustan Times  about the guidelines. Edited excerpts:How do you see the guidelines?There was no option other than extending the lockdown. After the three-week [lockdown], relaxations have been given primarily to the agrarian sector, which is very welcome. But I am worried that this [lockdown] extension comes without an extension of the Central government’s hand to the people... Three weeks have passed [and] for a majority Indians, all savings would have been exhausted by now. So you need a large scale income transfer. They [Centre] are totally mum about it. The central government is thinking about restarting MGNREGS [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme] work while maintaining social distancing norms. That is fine. But why cannot the government think of putting in half of last year’s earnings of MGNREGS workers into their [bank] accounts? If they do not want to give this for free, make them advance payments. This would not amount to additional expenditure. There is absolutely no thinking like that. Take, for example, small scale manufacturers and shops. [Over] three weeks... most of the items inside these shops would have been spoiled.. They should give them a day for cleaning and seeing what can be salvaged. The shops were shut all of a sudden and for so long. You cannot allow them to waste... condiments etc...[and] should be allowed to distribute [them]. There should be empathy. You demand from people seven or eight things to do but you do not give them anything in return. Do you agree the guidelines, which conditionally allow industries in rural areas, will help labourers and migrants? I would like to ask India’s salaried people that suppose your one-month salary is not paid, what would you do? We are so carefree... but just imagine that they [daily wagers] have spent three weeks with no income. They have to start. But how? ...it will take another month before anything happens. The minimum they [the Centre] could do is give them some income.In Kerala, we are very serious about it. We face budget constraints but we have provided Rs 8,500 [pension money in advance] each to 5.5 million [socially and economically backward] people. The rest who did not get any money, we are providing Rs 1,000 each. It is a big amount for us. But it is one of the reasons that people are cooperating with the government and we are having such success in [Covid-19] containment. How have we succeeded? That is because of the cooperation of the people. Everyone who is [Covid-19] positive, you trace everyone, you test them all. All this cannot be done without the cooperation of the people. Their morale is very important. Therefore, in this fight, you have to take people along. If you are taking any lesson from Kerala, this is the most important.What are your views about the continued bar on the sale of liquor?I am not going to protest against that. A few days after the lockdown, we found it very difficult to curtail the crowds outside liquor shops and therefore it is the right decision. How are you been handling migrant workers, who have been moving around and mistreated in parts of the country?There is a real problem everywhere. In Kerala, we conducted a survey and the government is providing food if they do not have it. ...3,000 migrant labourers wanted to go back to Kolkata [from Kerala]... a bus was hired and they were sent all the way with food and medicine. I think that is the standard Kerala will be looking at. I know what we have done is not sufficient but we will try harder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/having-success-in-containment-due-to-cooperation-of-people-kerala-finance-minister/story-RhhYF5LWczfiqhAeUimZRP.html
17-04-2020||India||Virus spread will decelerate due to lockdown: Niti Aayog member||The rate of spread of Sars-Cov-2, the virus responsible for the coronavirus disease, has slowed sharply in the past month and will decelerate further as a result of the nationwide lockdown, according to Dr Vinod Paul, a member of the government policy think tank NITI Aayog, who heads the empowered group overseeing the Covid-19 medical emergency management plan. The number of infections is now doubling every week, compared to 3.5. days in the second week of March, said Dr. Paul, who predicted that it will soon reach 10 days.“We are seeing a flattening of the curve and let us hope it stays that way,’’ he told Hindustan Times, “From infection rates being similar to Italy’s around March 13, it is now moving towards doubling every 10 days.”The first death of a Covid-19 patient in India was reported on March 12 and the number of infections were 74 at the time.According to Dr. Paul, who along with home secretary Ajay Bhalla has been part of the task force to decide the lockdown period and how to emerge from it, that’s when measures such as social distancing were announced, some states shut down selected areas and educational institutions started closing.“We see the impact of this with an inflection point on March 23,’’ said Dr. Paul. `”From doubling every 3.5 days, it then improved to doubling every five days by March 29.’’In the next few days, India’s infection rate again quickened.”That’s because of the entire Tablighi Jamaat incident which gave us a scare for the next few days,’’ he said. Hundreds of Covid-19 positive cases started emerging from among people who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat’s mid-March congregation at the Islamic missionary group’s Markaz headquarters in Nizamuddin , which has since emerged as India’s biggest coronavirus hotspot,By March 29, India had 1,013 Covid-19 cases, but the daily increase over the next couple of days rose. Dr Paul said it was back on a positive downward curve by April 4 when the doubling rate of infections started easing towards the current seven days.“The good news is that we are yet to see the full impact of the lockdown and the extended lockdown so we should be seeing the situation improve much, much more. Let’s hope it stays that way,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-spread-will-decelerate-due-to-lockdown-niti-aayog-member/story-5d1glxqk3SaAz2OF5MFBIN.html
17-04-2020||India||Zoom ‘not a safe platform’: MHA in new guidelines||The ministry of home affairs issued an advisory on Thursday stating that videoconferencing application, Zoom, is “not a safe platform” for users and issued a set of guidelines for private individuals if they wish to continue using the app.The MHA advisory comes after the national cyber security agency, Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in), cautioned that the app, which has become a popular medium of communication amid the ongoing lockdown, was vulnerable to cyber attacks.The government has advised private individuals to prevent unauthorized entry in the conference room and guard against DoS (Denial-of-Service) attack by restricting user entry through passwords and access grant.“Most of the settings can be done by login into users zoom account at website, or installed application at PC/Laptop/Phone and also during conduct of conference. However certain settings are possible through certain mode/channel only. For example, lock meeting can be enabled by administrator only when the meeting has started,” the advisory states.In its earlier advisories on March 30 and April 6, CERT-in had stated that an unguarded usage of the application will make one vulnerable to information leak.“Insecure usage of the platform may allow cyber criminals to access sensitive information such as meeting details and conversation,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoom-not-a-safe-platform-mha-in-new-guidelines/story-7ixrg1yIYtCzh7xK5bKV7J.html
17-04-2020||India||One-third of India lives in red zones, Tamil Nadu leads the list||The 170 districts identified as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots across the country are home to about 37% of India’s population, with Tamil Nadu accounting for the most “red zones” – 22 of its 37 districts – among the states, according to the government’s data.On Wednesday, the Union health ministry declared 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) as hot spots – areas where the numbers of Covid-19 infections are high. The Centre told the states that there was no hot spot district in 11 states and UTs..The Covid-19 hot spots account for about 23% of the 730-odd districts in India and are spread across 29% of the geographical area of the country, an analysis based on Census 2011 data showed.Going by official data, nearly 453 million of India’s 1.21 billion citizens live in the hot spots, where life has come to a standstill, with authorities imposing stringent curbs and allowing inward and outward movement for essential personnel alone.Ten of Delhi’s 11 districts and 14 of Maharashtra’s 36 districts feature in the list sent to the district authorities by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan. While 87% (or about 14.5 million people) of Delhi’s population reside in its hot spot districts, the corresponding number for Maharashtra stands at 60% (or about 66.9 million).Both districts in Mumbai (Mumbai and Mumbai Suburban) and the neighbouring Thane district have been classified as hot spots. Over 20 million people live in these three districts.The conditional relaxations India has announced with a sharp focus on the rural sector and daily wage labourers to kick-start sections of the economy during the lockdown will not be applicable to these hot spot districts.Among all states – other than Chandigarh, whose only district is a hot spot – Andhra Pradesh has the highest share of population living in such districts – nearly 90% (or about 44.3 million). The 11 hot spot districts in Andhra Pradesh (out of total 13) comprise 92% of the state’s geographical area.Apart from Tamil Nadu, other states that feature in the list of top five states in terms of the number of hot spot districts are Maharashtra (14 of its total 36), Uttar Pradesh (13 of 75), Rajasthan (12 of 33) and Andhra Pradesh (11 of 13).Overall, there are 10 states and UTs where a majority of the population lives in hot spot districts. These are Chandigarh (100%), Andhra Pradesh (90%), Delhi (87%), Tamil Nadu (80%), Telangana (66%), Andaman and Nicobar (63%), Maharashtra (60%), Himachal Pradesh (53%), Jammu and Kashmir (53%) and Ladakh (51%).In Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Madhya Pradesh, less than 20% of the population live in hot spot districts.On the other hand, there is no hot spot district in eight states (Goa and all states of northeast India, other than Assam) and three Union Territories (Puducherry, Lakshadweep, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu).The health ministry letter says containment measures in the hot spot districts will be considered over and these areas will become green zones (free from Covid-19) if they do not report any case for 28 days since the last negative result. A review of the hot spot list will be held every Monday. That means the next assessment will take place on April 20, the day the relaxations come to place.The government defines hot spot districts as “high caseload districts” where the number of cases doubles in four days or less. The Centre has further segregated the 170 hot spots into two parts – those with large outbreaks (123) and those with clusters (47). In addition to the 170 red zones, India has 207 non-hot spot districts with clusters of casesAccording to the government’s plan, a hot spot will be split into zones: a quarantine or containment zone (broadly, the epicentre of an infection and an area around it) and a buffer zone (an area around the containment zone). Guidelines for red zones are stricter than those governing areas outside them during the lockdown.Subhash Salunkhe, a public health expert in Maharashtra, says the measures taken by the government for hot spots areas are an important intervention to contain the coronavirus spread.“The whole idea is to contain the spread and that’s how measures are planned…If not today, people will be able to see the results in the coming days wherever they (the government’s guidelines) are followed effectively,” Salunke, the head of a state government panel for the prevention of communicable diseases, says.(with inputs from HTC in Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-third-of-india-lives-in-red-zones-tn-leads-the-list/story-9Fu7VrMHlzd9s50wXsr8SP.html
17-04-2020||India||DRDO to test PPE at Delhi facility now||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on personal protective equipment (PPE) from Gwalior to New Delhi to cut down delays and ensure faster delivery of the safety gear to healthcare workers battling Covid-19, the defence ministry said in a statement on Thursday.At a time when the country is facing a shortage of PPE kits, the testing facility has been shifted from Gwalior-based Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE) to the Delhi-based Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS). “The facility at INMAS is fully operational for testing and evaluation of body suits and masks. More than 50 batches of these items have already been tested at the laboratory,” the ministry said.The DRDE specialises in developing detection and protection technologies against biological and chemical agents. The statement said the Gwalior laboratory will now test only masks received by HLL Healthcare Limited from foreign countries before they are distributed to various agencies.PPE kits are sent to DRDO for testing by HLL Lifecare, which is the government’s nodal agency for medical procurement. The kits are distributed to various agencies only after they pass stringent quality tests. A PPE kit contains a full-body suit, masks, goggles, gloves, and shoe covers.Conducting tests on PPE kits is a challenging task and there can be no room for error as it’s about the safety of healthcare workers, said a senior official familiar with the DRDO’s testing procedures.“Our procedure is quite elaborate and includes synthetic blood penetration test and pressure testing at various levels to ensure that the suits can provide protection to the wearers. In testing, we look for the weakest link which is usually the seams. The safety of healthcare workers is crucial in the fight against coronavirus,” he said. Pressure testing of PPE suits is done at six different levels.Another official said that the DRDO does not certify samples received from HLL Lifecare for testing as “passed” or “failed”. “We only list out the technical parameters of the PPE kits and send it back to HLL Lifecare Limited. After that, it is for them to decide,” he said. The DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease. It has developed several products to combat the pandemic including ventilators, PPE kits, large area sanitization solutions and Covid-19 sample collection kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-test-ppe-at-delhi-facility-now/story-dViPqLx4yNGgak8scyDBcK.html
17-04-2020||India||Firms rush to meet new PPE norms||The Bureau of Indian Standards’ newly-released list of national specifications for coveralls or body-suits worn by Covid-19 healthcare workers has left some government approved manufacturers scrambling for material that would pass the new tests, even as government-approved laboratories rejected thousands of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that were donated by China.Recently, thousands of PPE items among the 170,000 donated by China — world’s main supplier — failed the safety tests at the government-approved laboratories, two high-ranking officials confirmed to the Hindustan Times.“Yes, some of the samples of PPE kits from the imported lot did fail the safety tests,” an official from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Gwalior said. The kits, which arrived in India on April 5, were sent there for stipulated quality check.“About a week ago, China realized after complaints that some of their PPE kits were faulty. So they listed 4-5 firms that were making quality kits. We are now ordering only from them. The number of dodgy kits were not too significant,” an official of the empowered group on imports confirmed.PPE kits include coveralls or full body suits, gloves, masks, head-cover respirators, goggles or face shields, and foot covers, among other elements. According to SITRA, India domestically produces 50,000 PPE kits (coveralls) daily, at present. However, till the beginning of this week, India faced a shortage of 15 million units, according to union textile ministry officials. It is unclear how the BIS guidelines will impact the shortage.In an effort to standardise the quality of PPE kits, the BIS on April 14 released a specification document that said that the material used for coveralls must be fluid-resistant as well as virus-resistant. So far, the manufacturers have been making coveralls that are only fluid-resistant as per the guidelines laid down by the union health ministry in an 11-page document on March 24. However, on Thursday, the list was taken down from the website of the BIS leading to speculation on whether the guidelines would undergo further revision.“We were initially about to start our production with fluid-resistant materials, but we stopped even before we began because there were talks of viral-barrier suits. Now the challenge is availability of the raw material and the taping machines,” said Dr GSK Velu, chairman and managing director, Trivitron Group, one of the 81 manufacturers approved by SITRA.“India does not have materials to make viral barrier suits. Instead, most companies are now laminating the coverall material and looking at sealing the seams to make the suits fluid and viral resistant. However, this is like wearing a raincoat in a non-AC ward, you can imagine the discomfort,” said Dr Ghanshyam Das Agarwal, chief managing director of G Surgiwear, a company that is looking to make products that are of certification level.“The higher standard specifications released by the BIS are in a developing stage. Our feedback has already been sent through the official channels, so I cannot comment. But, it is likely that the specifications will be changed,” said Vijaya Shankara from Shree Hari Healthcare, an approved manufacturer.According to Velu, while his company has been able to source material for viral-barrier body suits, and the manufacturing has begun, it will take at least a week for the kits to reach the market as the product will need to undergo certification.Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD) said that rather than import PPE kits, the government should import raw material, and other such critical material that’s missing in manufacturers’ supply chains.“It is better to import critical missing raw material fabric for PPE that’s breathable and yet is fluid and viral resistant, rather than importing plane loads of PPE Kits,” Nath said. “Breathability should be a bigger concern. Government should instead allow suits made of GSM 50 non-woven material, which will not pass the current test but are breathable and can provide 95 to 98% protection,” Agarwal added.“It is good that there is a national standard now, we have been procuring the PPE kits locally and there are several that do not match the health ministry standards. If all the kits already come certified from the government then we will not have to worry about the quality,” a doctor treating Covid-19 patients in New Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital, who did not wish to divulge his identity, said.The issue of sub-standard PPE kits has been raised in multiple states. On Thursday, for instance, the director general of medical education (DGME) in Uttar Pradesh wrote a letter to medical colleges warning them against using substandard kits, after several complaints emerged from different Covid-19 hospitals. The kits were supplied by the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited. “If you receive any sub-standard PPE kit or other medical items, do not use them. Return them straight away. Purchase good quality items from other sources and inform the DGME office about it,” Dr KK Gupta’s letter stated.There are at least seven government designated private and public laboratories to check different items of PPE kits, including the DRDO and Coimbatore-based South India Textile Research Association (SITRA).SITRA conducts checks for synthetic blood penetration (if blood will seep through the fabric), moisture vapour transmission (whether the fabric will allow moisture to pass between layers), weight test (grams per sq metre or GSM of the fabric), seam test and fabric strength.A SITRA official told Hindustan Times that their laboratory also has the capacity to conduct dry and wet virus resistant tests on the fabric, but it was not carrying them out because there were no such directives from the government till now.Other government approved testing laboratories include Trustin Analytical Solutions in Chennai that tests gloves, Chennai-based SGS India Private Limited that tests gloves, plastic-based products, protective clothing and respirators, the Rubber Research Institute of India, which tests rubber-based materials, and the Heavy Vehicles factory, and the Small Arms factory.(With inputs from Amrita Madhukalya and Gaurav Saigal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firms-rush-to-meet-new-ppe-norms/story-reb7yr2XuepWeUXF4DJBNI.html
17-04-2020||India||Centre has no plans to bring back Indians abroad now||The Indian government currently has no plans to repatriate thousands of citizens stranded around the world because of Covid-19-related restrictions, and people familiar with developments reiterated the administration’s advice that they should “stay put” where they are.The people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a total of 3,336 Indians had tested positive for Covid-19 in 53 countries, while 25 Indians had died of the disease. No further details were immediately available.There are no official figures for Indian citizens stranded in different countries but several estimates have put the number in the thousands. There have been reports of scores of Indians stranded in airports in countries such as Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Even before the government imposed a lockdown in March, the external affairs ministry had advised Indians around the world, including thousands of students, to stay put till travel restrictions are withdrawn. The nationwide lockdown has been extended till May 3.“Our advice has always been that you stay put, times are difficult. It’s a matter of having patience. They should contact the Indian missions wherever they are, and seek their help, support and guidance,” one of the people cited above said.“To the extent possible, our missions have reached out to a large number of people and are trying to solve their problems. These are difficult times, we need the understanding of our people that this too will pass,” the person added.In several countries, the people said, the Indian missions have taken the support of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and OCI card-holders to provide support to the stranded Indians. This support has included providing meals and rations to the Indians.The people also ruled out the possibility of bringing back the Indians who had tested positive for Covid-19, saying their movement increased the risk of spreading the coronavirus.“We have to very careful dealing with such cases as the nature of the virus is such that it spreads very fast. For that reason, we’ve been advising those who tested positive should stay put, get all the support they can get locally, including medical support,” said one of the people cited above.“If they start moving to another country or coming back to India, there are chances of spreading the virus. Fortunately, the recovery rate has been good in countries where the Indians tested positive,” the person added.More than 250 Indians, a majority of them pilgrims from Kashmir, had tested positive in the holy city of Qom in Iran last month. They are currently being treated in special facilities created in Qom.Indian envoys have reached out to the sick Indians and worked with local governments to ensure they get the best possible care, the people said.“We hope once they recover, they will hopefully be able to come back and join their loved ones,” a second person said.Indian authorities have also facilitated the evacuation of some 35,000 nationals of 48 countries who were stranded in India, the people said. This included the citizens of Australia, France, Germany, Israel, Russia, the US, and the UK.The repatriation of 186 Pakistanis is also being facilitated following a request from the Pakistani mission in New Delhi. Forty-one Pakistanis, who came to India as pilgrims or for medical care and were stranded in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, returned via the Wagah-Attari border crossing on Thursday.The external affairs ministry’s 24x7 Covid-19 control room has also fielded 18,000 emails and 5,000 phone calls and addressed 2,000 public grievances, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-no-plans-to-bring-back-indians-abroad-now/story-lvT0fpRF8eQGeoqUIqTXAI.html
17-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh tally crosses 1000, 226 new cases||Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday blamed the state’s previous Congress government, which lost power last month, for leaving Madhya Pradesh ill-equipped to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and for as many as 94 health department officials and employees contracting the disease.“The previous government did not make any preparations for fighting Covid-19. It seems the health department staff was also not given any training. That is why the health department staff got infected. I have ordered an inquiry and action will be taken,” he said.The state reported 226 new Covid-19 cases since Wednesday, which took the tally of such patients in Madhya Pradesh to 1,164. The state has reported 55 fatalities while 65 people have recovered, according to the state health department.Four Indian Administrative officers are among the 94 health department employees tested positive for Covid-19.Chouhan said the testing capacity has been enhanced significantly. “We are looking for each and every positive case and treating them. There may be many more patients in Bhopal and Indore but the good news is that many people are recovering fast.”Indore accounted for 707 of the 1,164 cases and 39 deaths. Bhopal has reported 196 cases while Khandwa 33.Police in Indore were planning using geofencing, a location-based app, to keep a track of the people under quarantine. Officials said restricting people to the quarantine centres was a major challenge for the administration and the police.On Wednesday night, eight people, including five Covid-19 patients, fed from a quarantine centre. Three of them were traced later. Inspector general of police (Indore) Vivek Sharma said three major Covid-19 hotspots have emerged in Indore and police were keeping a close watch on these areas with the help of control rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-tally-crosses-1k-226-new-cases/story-jmnkbi6ooytKUZoSqiJnRN.html
17-04-2020||India||India begins controlled trials of plasma therapy||Trials using the antibody-rich blood of patients cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have begun, with doctors turning to a pool of 1,600 people in India who have recovered from the infection to test their antibodies as a potential cure for those fighting the disease.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma -- which contains the virus-fighting antibodies – from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.Apart from the Indian Council of Medical Research – India’s apex health research body – at least two hospitals have applied to test the effectiveness of the therapy in Delhi, the protocols for which have been established . The Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, an autonomous Delhi government hospital, has already received approval to conduct the trials. The private Max Hospital is awaiting approval to launch the trials.“As the same product will be tested across the centres, the approvals are being given to hospitals that conform with the ICMR protocols so that uniform and comparable data is generated from across centres,” said an official from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the apex drug regulator.When the virus enters the human body, the immune system creates an antibody to fight it. This antibody remains in a person even after the virus has cleared out of their system. In the absence of other drugs, experts say that using these antibodies from recovered patients can offer a reprieve to severely ill Covid-19 patients.“Now, there are over 1,000 people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the country and their blood plasma can be used to treat those who are critical. The antibodies from the recovered person will theoretically help the critical patients in fighting the infection. This is done for other viral illnesses as well,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary SciencesThe therapy would be given only to patients in a critical condition -- those with a respiratory rate higher than 30 breaths per minute (the normal is 18-20 breaths per minute), have oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or have infiltrates like pus in the lungs. As for donors, only health individuals – with no comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, or heart disease and less than 60 years of age – who have recovered from the infection would be selected.“There are anecdotal evidences to say that Covid-19 patients on plasma therapy have recovered in other countries. However, we need to ensure that the therapy is given to people who are at high risk before they are on a ventilator. This is because the antibodies can prevent the progression of the disease by reducing the viral load, it cannot heal the lungs and the other organs. So, if a person already has lung damage and is in multi-organ failure then the therapy will not be useful,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.For the treatment, a plasmapheresis machine is used to derive plasma from the blood, which is then administered to the patients with severe infection. This method is, however, not new and is used for the treatment of several other diseases.And experts feel that not giving the treatment to half the patients under randomised control trial is unethical. “Plasma therapy is already being used for three categories of ailments – one is viral infection such as hepatitis or even chicken pox that can be severe in immuno-compromised patients; two, it is done for autoimmune disorders, and three, conditions like haemophilia in which the people receive proteins other than antibodies – like factor 8 in this case – through plasma therapy,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.“When it is an already established procedure, why should it not be administered to all the patients who are very sick?. Not giving it to half the patients in need is actually an ethical problem, I feel,” he said.In a randomised control trial, which is suggested by the ICMR, half the patients receive the plasma and the other half receive a placebo. This helps the doctors in determining whether people on therapy do better than those not on it.A recently published report on a trial in China showed an improvement in the clinical conditions of 10 people who received the therapy. “All symptoms in the 10 patients, especially fever, cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, disappeared or largely improved within 1 day to 3 day upon Convalescent Plasma transfusion,” the study published in PNAS Journal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-controlled-trials-of-plasma-therapy/story-DGzgsCMku7BRqWmy9stlLP.html
17-04-2020||India||Typing error makes man Covid-19 positive in UP’s Amroha||Authorities on Tuesday rushed six ambulances to Nauganva in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha to quarantine eight members of a 68-year-old man’s family and to track down those, who may have in contact with him, after he was wrongly declared Covid-19 positive because of a typographical error, officials said.The error was detected on Wedensday and by that time the man had spent seven days in isolation. His family members were put under quarantine in Amroha district hospital. They were allowed to go home on Wednesday after the error was confirmed.Dr Umar Farooq, the in-charge of Nauganva’s Public Health Centre, said the man was referred to Moradabad district hospital, where he was admitted on April 6, since he had fever apart from sore throat and cold. He added the man’s blood sample was sent for testing to the Aligarh Medical College, where all samples related to Covid-19 are being tested.“When the test report came, we were told by medical officials in Moradabad that the man was Civid-19 positive,” Farooq said. He added it was then that rushed the ambulances. “We screened all eight family members but found them negative on Tuesday.”Farooq said when they sought confirmation from Moradabad’s chief medical officer, Dr M C Garg, on Wednesday, they were told the man’s name had been wrongly been added to the list of Covid-19 patients.“The earlier report had, by mistake, mentioned that the patient was Covid-19 positive,” said Garg. He added it was because of a misprint by the lab in Aligarh. Amroha CMO Megh Singh said the man was confirmed Covid-19 negative and he along with all his family members were discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/typing-error-makes-man-covid-in-up-s-amroha/story-zkMFl08sdksUS9tiQAVufP.html
17-04-2020||India||Bengal HC hears plea for testing data||A division bench of Calcutta high court chief justice T B N Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee on Thursday heard a petition that seeks data from the West Bengal government on the number of people tested for Covid-19 and the number of fatalities. The bench, before which the state government submitted a report, will hear both sides on Friday.The petition was filed on April 6 by Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Fuad Halim, who is a practising doctor.“The main contention of the petition is that the West Bengal government is not following the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of the government of India on testing, data sharing and safety precautions,” Halim’s lawyer and former Kolkata mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said. The hearing was held through video conferencing in keeping with safety norms during the lockdown. Bharatiya Janata Party state secretary Ritesh Tiwari and a doctor ,who wrote separate letters to the chief justice, demanding the court’s intervention and seeking the same data, were also made parties to the hearing.“In my petition, I raised several issues, including the unclear status of the Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata which the state government earlier said would be turned into the country’s biggest hospital for Covid-19 cases with more than 3,000 beds. The government is not saying what happened after that announcement,” Halim told HT.Some wards at Medical College and Hospital are shut down at present. Two days ago, a woman who recently gave birth and was admitted in the maternity ward, tested positive for Covid-19. The other patients in the maternity ward were shifted and sent to quarantine along with some doctors and medical staff. “The court has asked the government to declare the status on tests being down on people, the number of people who tested positive and those who died. The court also wants to know whether medical staff are being provided with personal protection equipment {PPE} etc,” said Halim.The Bengal government has come under criticism in recent weeks as, unlike other states in India, it is against outright linking deaths of people with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, heart ailments and kidney disease to Covid-19 even if they have been infected by the virus. According to experts, such conditions make the disease deadlier. Such deaths are being treated as results of co-morbidity in which a person suffers from one or more conditions in addition to the infection.Last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “We have formed a committee of five doctors who will decide the actual cause of death. They are the experts, I am not. We do not want to create panic among people. Please trust the doctors.”Referring to the other conditions listed by the government, Banerjee said, “People suffering from some chronic diseases are infected easily (by Covid-19).”HT earlier reported that the government issued an order on April 5, in which doctors signing death certificates have been asked to fill a form which is being reviewed by the panel of five doctors before a death is attributed to Covid-19. There are 24 test reports, including those for scrub typhus, CT scan of the thorax, and dengue, malaria, urea, creatinine, blood, urine, CPK (enzymes in blood to diagnose a heart attack) and procalcitonin (substance in blood produced by bacterial infection) that doctors signing death certificates have been asked to attach.Meanwhile, the state government said three more deaths caused by Covid-19 had been confirmed taking the toll to 10, while 24 new cases were detected . Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said Kolkata and Howrah figured in the ‘red zone’ earmarked by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-hc-hears-plea-for-testing-data/story-LsgGA6866wDHjCipfq5sWK.html
17-04-2020||India||State hospitals await approval to conduct plasma treatment||Hospitals across the country are preparing for and awaiting necessary permissions for conducting convalescent plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients that will involve drawing of antibody-rich blood of the disease survivors to treat the sick. The therapy has shown promise in treating Covid-19 patients, American journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences reported last week.“A person in Delhi has been removed from ventilator support after the plasma therapy,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, referring to the improvement in the condition of a man after the therapy at a Delhi hospital. “It is good news from first such experiment.” Kejriwal said the success of the experiment will be known after he is fully cured.In Mumbai, BYL Nair Hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal said they have collected blood from a patient, who has recovered from coronavirus even as protocol for the therapy is to be finalised with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s help.Kerala was among the first states to announce the treatment through the therapy and is waiting the permissions. Sree Chithira Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) has been named as the nodal agency for harvesting plasma from cured patients in the state. “We have done our work and are waiting for hospitals to carry out clinical tests. Usually, the therapy is done in cases of severely affected patients. In Kerala, we have no such patients. This may be one of the reasons for the delay besides the customary permissions,” said SCTIMST director Dr Asha Kishore. Officials in West Bengal, which announced the use of the therapy last week, said the state government was seeking approvals for setting up a plasma bank to store blood of cured Covid-19 patients. “We are exploring options on how to introduce this concept at the earliest. In China, they have got some results and in the USA, too, tests are going on...,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and convenor of an eight-member advisory board formed by CM Mamata Banerjee.In Telangana, the state government-run Gandhi Hospital (Hyderabad) said it was making infrastructural arrangements for experimenting with the therapy. Dr Sravan Kumar, the hospital superintendent, said the state has given consent to the doctors for taking up the therapy. “First, we need to take up clinical trials and see how they work. Only after they prove successful, we can take up the exercise. It will take another two weeks for the doctors at the hospital to do the clinical trials,” Kumar said. Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has sent a proposal to the ICMR volunteering to be made the nodal centre for the therapy. “We have a majority of patients admitted to and have treated them too. Since the protocols of plasma therapy are already being followed in other procedures, we can be the nodal centre for plasma therapy,” said Prof Tuliak Chandra, the head of transfusion medicine department at the KGMU. She said one of the patients treated for coronavirus at the KGMU three weeks back could be the first volunteer for plasma collection.Officials of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh governments and Chandigarh said they have begun the work for seeking nod for conducting the therapy. “...A trial is being considered in Kerala first and trials will be done across the country. As and when trials are permitted, we will definitely implement the same as we have a large number of patients who have been treated successfully,” said a Karnataka official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-hospitals-await-approval-to-conduct-plasma-treatment/story-drboPJnfxyFc2qfJkMMZuI.html
17-04-2020||India||Experts warn of ‘profound’ mental health toll||Covid-19 will have a profound impact on the mental health of vulnerable groups such as front-line healthcare workers, persons with existing mental illnesses and patients of the lethal viral disease, according to a paper authored by 24 experts and published by the journal, Lancet Psychiatry.About half of zoonotic virus epidemics (diseases that are transferred from animals to humans) are caused by neurotropic viruses, which are capable of infecting nerve cells and tend to invade the central nervous system, according to the paper published on April 15. Both the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) that broke out in 2003 and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) of 2012 are neurotropic and neurotoxic, causing mental and neurological disorders, it said.Not much evidence exists on what kind of neurological impact SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, will have, but researchers found that it has a receptor binding domain structure similar to SARS-CoV and probably also shares the latter’s neurotropism and neurotoxicity.The paper, authored by a panel of scientists convened by the UK Academy of Medical Sciences and the mental health research charity MQ Mental Health, quoted a study of 214 patients in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the original epicentre of Covid-19, of whom 36% had nervous system problems. A sub-group within them with severe respiratory disease experienced an increased frequency of nervous problems, including dizziness, headache, loss of smell or anosmia, loss of taste or ageusia, muscle pain and weakness and cerebrovascular complications.The panel also flagged stress among healthcare workers and the need for screening them. They come in close contact with the virus, death and dying at close quarters while making challenging decisions. Surveys conducted by researchers in the UK also found that the fear of contracting Covid-19 ranked lower than social isolation and loneliness associated with anxiety, depression and suicide. In India, the Bengaluru-based National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) launched a mental health helpline for Covid 19 suspects/patients on March 29. Data from the calls it received is still being compiled, but Dr BN Gangadhar, director of NIMHANS, said there had been many distress calls by people who wanted to know how they could avoid contracting the disease.Many have also called in with very practical problems that NIMANS is not the right authority to address, Dr. Gangadhar said.“The calls ranged from ‘my son has a mental health issue, how can I continue his treatment?’ [to] ‘I have no work, how do I spend time?’ [to] ‘We have lots of farm produce what do I do with it?’ [to] ‘Is there a train I can catch to go back home?’ Etc. We did address the behavioural issues-related queries but people had practical queries too,” he said over the phone.On the neurotoxic effects of Covid 19, Dr. Gangadhar said: “It can have an influence on the central nervous system but it is too early to predict of what nature, We have to study more patients.”Gangadhar recommended that those with existing mental health issues connect with NIMHANS or doctors trained by the institute over a helpline or social media, Front-line health workers should also call on the same helpline (080-46110007); they can also access a yoga programme run by NIMHANS through a weblink at 9 am and 11 am.NIMHANS is getting in touch with its 2,500 patients due for follow-up consultations by calling them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-warn-of-profound-mental-health-toll/story-7iDs6q9WtD3nUOQwG8Di0J.html
17-04-2020||India||Hydroxychloroquine to be supplied to 55 nations||The Indian government has so far approved the supply of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, either as commercial sales or as grants, to 55 countries as part of the efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the development said on Thursday.India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, initially banned exports of the drug on March 25 and further tightened rules on April 4 to bar exports from special economic zones (SEZs), where such bans don’t apply. The rules were partially eased to allow the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol after meeting domestic requirements.“Supplies to 55 countries have been approved so far, including commercial sales to 21 countries, while the rest will get small quantities as grants,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“India has come to be recognised as a reliable global supplier of medicines during this humanitarian crisis, and we have reached out to many countries,” the person said.Several countries in India’s immediate and extended neighbourhood, such as the Maldives, Mauritius and Seychelles, have been provided the drug as part of grants. Several of these countries are dependent on India’s pharmaceutical industry to meet their needs.The exports were allowed only after a stock-taking by an empowered committee comprising representatives of the department of pharmaceuticals, the health and external affairs ministries, Indian Council of Medical Research, and the drug controller.“We have to meet domestic requirements, create a buffer over and above that and the surplus can be exported,” a second person said.There were 13 countries, including the US, Brazil and Israel, in the first list of nations for which exports were approved and most of the supplies had been despatched. Supplies are currently being sent to countries that were on a second list, the people said.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) was on a third list of countries that was approved on Wednesday and the West Asian state is currently completing the paperwork for the exports, the people added.More requests for hydroxychloroquine are expected and will be put up to the empowered committee. “It is now more or less a well-oiled system that is able to take decisions fairly quickly after assessing domestic requirements,” the second person said.Among the 55 countries for which exports have been approved are neighbouring states such as Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Myanmar, African countries such as Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia, Niger, Mali and the Republic of Congo, and European nations such as France, the Netherlands and the UK.Other countries for which exports have been cleared are Armenia, Kazakhstan, Ecuador, Jamaica, Syria, Ukraine, Oman, Colombia and the Bahamas.Meanwhile, India supplied half-a-million hydroxychloroquine tablets and 12 tonnes of life-saving medicines to Mauritius late on Wednesday.This was the first consignment of Covid-19-related medical supplies provided to Mauritius, whose vice prime minister, Leela Devi Dookun-Luchoomun, received the consignment ferried by a special Air India cargo flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hydroxychloroquine-to-be-supplied-to-55-nations/story-yTrsGIQze9iPns7GDbMnOP.html
17-04-2020||India||Ensure food, safety, shelter, to migrants: Centre to states||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday asked state governments to ensure adequate arrangements are put in place to ensure safety, shelter and food security for migrant workers, thousands of whom have been stranded en route to their home towns and villages in an exodus from the cities after the enforcement of the coronavirus disease lockdown on March 25.Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh announced additional direct cash benefits amid reports of distress among the workers, who came out onto the streets in Mumbai and the states of Odisha, Gujarat, Punjab and West Bengal this week, demanding that they be allowed to return home. The lockdown was extended until May 3 on April 14. Gauba, the country’s top civil servant, asked all state chief secretaries on Thursday to ensure adequate arrangements are made for the migrants, mainly daily-wage labourers left without work after the lockdown came into force last month. He asked states to appoint district collectors as nodal officers responsible for coordinating arrangements for the migrant workers. “Each camp (for migrants) should be put [under the] charge of a senior officer,” Gauba said in a directive to state governments.The Supreme Court last week ordered that adequate medical facilities and proper arrangements for food, clean drinking water and sanitation be ensured for migrant workers at relief camps across the country. Following this directive, the home ministry asked all states to implement welfare measures for migrant workers.In Bhopal, an official of the government’s public relations department said the state government had deposited Rs 1,000 each in the bank accounts of these workers and distributed essential items to them.Last week, the government said it would give Rs 1,000 each to about 7,000 migrants from 22 states who are stranded in MP..Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has appointed seven Indian Administrative Service officers to ensure help to migrants from Madhya Pradesh who are stranded in other states, an official statement said. The CM asked MPs and MLAs to prepare a list of stranded workers from their areas and submit the lists to the government, the statement said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday said migrant workers who stay back in relief camps until the lockdown period would be given financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each when they leave after completing their quarantine.The amount would be useful to the migrant workers to reach home after the quarantine. “This will encourage the migrant workers to stay put in the quarantine camps till the lockdown is lifted,” an official familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity .In several parts of the state, people who have been put in the quarantine camps have been leaving to try and reach their towns and villages, frustrated by the extension of lockdown. Government officials informed the CM that an amount of Rs 850 had been spent on each person put up at quarantine centres, including Rs 500on food, a bed and blanket, Rs 50 on sanitation and Rs 300 on transport. The measures were announced as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday warned of social unrest unless the government acts quickly to provide relief to migrant workers. “It is important to have a strategy to deal with this crisis. The government needs to act on it quickly otherwise there will be social unrest in the country. You have to respond quickly and be compassionate while addressing the issue. I have told Congress chief ministers that they need to handle this situation with extreme care and gentleness,” Gandhi told a press conference in New Delhi.A senior government official, who didn’t wish to be named, said once some manufacturing plans restart and other business activities resume after April 20, some migrant labourers who were heading home may stay back and join work.The federal home ministry said it was monitoring on a daily basis violation of lockdown measures including congregations of people and opening of shops and commercial establishments. State police forces have been asked to take action against the violators under the Disaster Management Act, MHA officials said.Incidents of violence against health workers engaged in surveillance and enforcement of quarantine measures are also being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-food-safety-shelter-to-migrants-centre-to-states/story-r2T7LFMAVE4jvrWk0t6pvO.html
17-04-2020||India||Patients start infection spread before symptoms set in: Study||People with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) start infecting others two to three days before they develop symptoms of fever and cough, according to a study from China which suggests effective outbreak containment must include contact tracing of people who have been exposed to positive cases two to three days before their symptoms first appeared.Infectiousness declined significantly eight days after symptoms appear, but 44% people got infected by people with no visible signs of illness, according to a study from Hong Kong published in Nature Medicine on April 15.Earlier studies have found presymptomatic transmission at a higher 48% in Singapore and 62% in Tianjin, China, which led epidemiologists to focus on undetected cases with mild or no symptoms who are not screened or tested for Covid-19.The new study from China found contagiousness started 2.3 days before symptoms began and peaked 0.7 days before symptoms appeared. Virus production was the highest at the start of the symptoms and started slowly declining after one week.“Since India’s testing is primarily based on symptomatic positive cases, it is imperative now to widen the criteria for testing by systematic sampling in clusters and hotspots. Tracking the disease will be a huge challenge if half the population of confirmed cases has transmitted in the pre-symptomatic phase,” said Dr Ramana Dhara, professor of public health, Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.The most common signs and symptoms of Covid-19 are cough, fever or chills, and shortness of breath, with around one in four people developing gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, the study found.Contact tracing must include pre-symptomatic contacts. “For a reproductive number of 2.5, contact tracing and isolation alone are less likely to be successful if more than 30% of transmission occurred before symptom onset, unless more than 90% of the contacts can be traced. This is more likely to be achievable if the definition of contacts covers two to three days prior to symptom onset of the index case, as has been done in Hong Kong and mainland China since late February,” said study lead author, Eric HY Lau, from the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, School of Public Health, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.Covid-19 is highly infectious, with a basic reproductive number of 2.2 to 2.5. Patients produce thousands to millions of viruses in their noses and throats, about 1,000 times as much virus as produced in Sars patients, till eight days after infection. Even people who don’t develop symptoms can produce enough virus to infect others, according to a small study from Germany published last month in medRxiv, which prints yet to be peer-reviewed studies.A modelling study done using clinical data from 26,000 lab-confirmed cases in Wuhan, China, said there were 37,400 undetected infections in the province, with most of these unreported cases being people with mild or no symptoms but who were contagious. The study, done in China and the US, was published in medRxiv in early March.“An increasing number of infected people cannot be linked to known Covid-19 cases or travel to hotspots, which indicates asymptomatic transmission. Presymptomatic transmission reduces the effectiveness of control measures, such as isolation, contact tracing and quarantine, which is why we need hand hygiene, use of face masks by everyone, social isolation and lockdowns to stop the spread,” said a union ministry of health and family welfare official, requesting anonymity.But lockdowns are not enough. “In India, housing is also an important factor because of the challenge in maintaining physical distance. Mask use is mandatory in Telangana, for example, but I have seen many people not wearing it or maintaining distance in streets, markets etc,” said Dr Dhara.Countries with active case finding have a higher proportion of presymptomatic transmission because even asymptomatic people are tested and the positive cases and their contacts are quickly isolated and quarantined, which helps prevent spread.While Covid-19 infectiousness declines significantly after eight days of the symptom appearing, the virus can be detected for a median of 20 days in some patients, and up to 37 days among survivors. “The results support our findings that the infectiousness profile may more closely resemble that of influenza than of Sars,” said the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patients-start-infection-spread-before-symptoms-set-in-study/story-zocsrH61PeyVLT8vxPYEwN.html
17-04-2020||India||Calls for free ration grow as migrants fight hunger||letters@hindustantimes.comNew Delhi: The Union government has allowed charities and states to buy extra stocks of federally held foodgrains at a reserve but cheaper-than-market price as several migrant workers battle a food crisis.The federally run Food Corporation of India has reserved a price of ₹20 and ₹22 per kg of wheat and rice for stock sale outside the public distribution system (PDS), while the regular market prices ranges between ₹32-₹40 a kg and ₹40-45 a kg for common varieties of wheat and rice. Sales outside the PDS network were earlier available to only registered bulk purchasers and states through online bidding under a federal provision called the ‘open-market-sales scheme’. Now states as well as NGOs can buy grains and offer them for free or at no profit-no-loss basis to the poor, especially those outside the PDS system. For instance, charities can use the grains to run community kitchens during the lockdown. Activists are, however, campaigning for universal free ration for everyone who needs it, pointing to growing distress for several internal migrants, especially in cities, who are virtually outside the country’s public (grains) distribution network. Several migrant workers were stranded after a 21-day countrywide lockdown was imposed from March 25, and has been extended till May 3, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Subsidised grains are only available to beneficiaries who have eligible ration cards. “Most migrants in cities either don’t have it or have it with their families back in their home states,” said Deepa Sinha, who teaches in Delhi’s Ambedkar University. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gharib Kalyan Yojana, a relief package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, eligible beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act would get 5kg of free grains per person, beyond their usual monthly ration quota of a similar quantity. Two-thirds of the population is officially covered under the scheme. India’s state-held food stocks stood at nearly 75 million tonnes on April 1, while the requirement of emergency stocks, which vary seasonally, is an average 22 million tonnes. The FCI has shipped out a record 3.74 Million Metric Tonnes of food grains stocks from the surplus states during the current lockdown period at an average of 170000 Metric Tonnes a day, an official said. This is more than double the normal average movement of stocks. “Yet, millions don’t have a ration card. How would it feel if the weakest members of a family starve despite the household’s granary being full?” asked economist Jean Drèze, a long-time advocate of right to food, pointing to surplus food stocks. Drèze has urged for universalizing access to cheap grains. Surveys by Drèze shows Jharkhand had 700,000 pending ration card applications. A survey by the National Council of Applied Economic Research conducted during April 3-6 showed about 29.3% households were affected by shortages in supplies of food. Income cuts were most severe for daily wage workers, it added.Behind the crisis, there is a public-expenditure burden that few want to be saddled with. The federally run FCI’s new reserves will naturally increase food budgets, so states are focusing on withdrawing regular and the additional free quota of 5kg ration per beneficiary, a federal official overseeing supplies said, asking not to be named. Some states, however, announced in-kind and cash support. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, two states with large migrant populations, have said they would provide instant ration cards and Rs 1,000 per labourer.Many large states have not factored in extra supplies for undocumented labourers. “Our government has told the Centre that since for April and May regular foodgrain quota is being distributed to beneficiaries, we will distribute additional free foodgrains of two months, totaling 10kg, in May,” Jharkhand public distribution director Sanjay Kumar said.A senior food department official from Karnataka, HR Vijay Kumar, said the state had distributed the total foodgrains due for April and May in April from its own quota. In May, the state would be distributing foodgrains due for May and June from the federal quota. “In some states, migrant workers are being forced to live in shelters that have no civic amenities. We have asked the finance ministry to pay at least Rs 5,000 to each labourer’s family immediately,” said K. Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, a labour union.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday tweeted asking the government to provide for emergency ration cards. Helplines run by political parties have been also flooded with calls from labourers in distress. “Taking care of migrant workers is the responsibility of each state. We not only need to take the responsibility for providing them food and shelter, but also need to show them empathy,” said P. Muralidhar Rao, general secretary of the BJP.A labour ministry official said small enterprises had sent several proposals to ameliorate distress among workers, such as utilising surpluses from the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). The ESIC’s revenue income stood at Rs 27, 312 crore on April 2019 while its expenses for the last financial year stood at Rs 11,085 crore. This surplus could be used for temporary benefits to the small and medium enterprise workers, one proposal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-for-free-ration-grow-as-migrants-fight-hunger/story-PGYIUFYtkQpSHqnpf8dC2I.html
17-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Nearly 60 million of India’s poor most vulnerable, says Oxford study||Using a multidimensional poverty index (MPI) developed with the UN Development Programme, researchers at the University of Oxford said on Thursday that nearly 60 million poor in India are at ‘high risk’ from the coronavirus pandemic.A briefing from the Oxford Poverty and Human development Initiative (OPHI) says that India tops the list of 10 countries most vulnerable to the virus; others include the most poor in China, Pakistan, Nigeria, Indonesia, Uganda and Afghanistan.The team used existing poverty data to analyse the vulnerability of populations on the basis of three indicators: lack of access to clean drinking water, under-nutrition and a lack of clean cooking fuel. The deprivations have long been associated with weakened immune systems and respiratory systems.Co-author Christian Oldiges said that for India, data relied on the National Family Health Survey 2015/16, and the population total is based on the UN’s Department of Economic and Social Affairs’ 2017 revision.Oldiges said: “Out of the 1.3 billion people in India, 974 million (or 72%) are at risk to COVID-19 as they suffer from one of the three following indicators: malnourishment, no access to clean water, no clean cooking fuel”. “62.5 million (or 5%) are at high risk, suffering from all three indicators at the same time. 371 million (or 28%) are at risk and are multidimensionally poor (according to the global MPI; i.e. they are deprived in more than one third of the 10 weighted MPI indicators)”. “58 million (or 4.3%) are at high risk and are MPI poor (highest number globally in absolute number of population)”, he added.Led by Sabina Alkire, the OPHI team said that globally, around 3.5 billion people live with at least one deprivation. Nearly 472 million people live with all three. Over 5% in South Asia are simultaneously deprived in nutrition, water and cooking fuel.Alkire added: “We are analysing poverty data productively to inform both the Covid-19 emergency and post-emergency response. As the year unfolds, we will continue to work with our creative and committed colleagues in poverty reduction around the world as we track the long-term profound effects of Covid-19 on global poverty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nearly-60-million-of-india-s-poor-most-vulnerable-says-oxford-study/story-amcFwj1TbltwtDzTel1g7L.html
17-04-2020||India||A thought for Covid-19 warriors: Two Gurugrammers instal tents for police officers||There’s only so much one can do to thank medical professionals, police officers and the likes, who have been working tirelessly in times of coronavirus crisis. At a time when temperature is skyrocketing, and the police personnel have to keep guard, at all times, to avoid any violations of the lockdown, two Gurugram residents — photographer Aditya Arya and events professional Tarun Sardana — have donated around 11 tents for the Gurugram Police personnel. These tents have been installed at various location in Gurugram including NH8 and Nathupur. Read: A shot of life: Delhi Police drive expecting mothers to hospitalsArya says, “It’s getting hot, and it’s nice for them to be able to relax there. We wanted to show our respect to them. Hence, we thought of reaching out to the administration and offer these tents because the administration needs them for food distribution centres, and other places. I wrote to the police commissioner, and he responded that it’s a fantastic idea for police personnel on the job! I immediately told him that I can make 11 of these available.” READ | Coronavirus lockdown: Gurugram Police officials at checkpoints get tents as day temperature rises“It’s pay back time,” says Sardana talking about the need to help those who have been putting up a brave front even in the time of such crisis. He adds, “It’s time to give back to the heroes who are standing in line of duty during this struggle. We didn’t want them to stand in the sun in this heat. We hope this might give them some relief.” Author tweets @nainaarora8 Follow @HTGurgaon for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/a-thought-for-covid-19-warriors-two-gurugrammers-instal-tents-for-police-officers/story-C18cX1Js95EftrwnVcJmKN.html
17-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, army chief to visit Kashmir for security review||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will visit Kashmir on Thursday for a security review, amid the national lockdown and an unusual spike in cease-fire violations by Pakistan army along the Line of Control, a senior officer said on Wednesday on condition of anonymity.This will be the army chief’s first visit to a forward area after the lockdown was imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he said, adding that the chief will be accompanied by minimum staff. He will return to Delhi on Friday.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 8, there has been an unusual spike in cease-fire violations by the Pakistan army on the LoC this year to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir compared to border violations in the previous years.The neighbouring army has carried out more ceasefire violations during January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years.Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1,144 times between January and March), with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally. The Pakistan army violated the cease-fire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 for the period January to March.Last Friday, the Indian Army targeted Pakistani positions facing Kupwara’s Keran sector across the LoC with artillery guns and caused severe damage to Pakistani army posts, terror launch pads and an ammunition dump.The fire assault was the Indian Army’s response to an unprovoked ceasefire violation by the neighbouring army.Five commandos belonging to an elite army Special Forces (SF) unit were killed in action along the LoC in the same sector in Kashmir on April 5 during an intense close-quarters battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all eliminated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-army-chief-to-visit-kashmir-for-security-review/story-byxXsc1AF0rB9BOo3yGM4H.html
