18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Three die in Jaipur, Rajasthan’s death toll mounts to 21||Three people died due to the Covid-19 infection in Jaipur on Saturday, taking the death toll in Rajasthan to 21, officials said.A 47-year-old resident of Shastri Nagar in Jaipur died at 12.40 am in SMS Hospital. Officials said he had acute diabetes. He was admitted to the hospital on April 13 and tested positive on April 15. A 53-year-old man from Krishnapuri Nahri Ka Naka area, who had chronic artery disease, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, died on Saturday, three days after testing positive on April 15. In another case, the test report of a 48-year-old woman from Telipada in Chaura Rasta area came on Saturday, a day after she died. Officials said she had hypertension, hypothyroidism and bilateral pneumonia.Meanwhile, the Rajasthan government will send 4,000 samples to a Delhi laboratory for Covid-19 testing to clear the state’s backlog of around 6,800 samples which need to be tested. “The CM has decided to get the samples tested by authorized private labs. Accordingly, 4000 samples currently with SMS Hospital are being taken to a Delhi-based testing facility. The results should be available with us in the next 36-48 hours, it has been mandated,” said an official.On Saturday, 122 new cases were reported, taking the state’s tally of Covid-19 patients to 1,351. So far, 200 patients have been cured and 93 of them discharged from hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-three-die-in-jaipur-rajasthan-s-death-toll-mounts-to-21/story-08HuJq5OEauOTXxmw1F7RK.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: 186 new cases take Delhi Covid-19 tally to 1893||Delhi on Saturday recorded 186 new coronavirus cases taking the total to 1893 including one death out of the total toll of 43, said a health bulletin released by the state government. A total of 134 people were declared as recovered from the disease on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 207. Six patients continue to be on ventilator support while other 26 are in ICU, the bulletin added.The LNJP hospital is treating most of the city’s Covid-19 cases (494) followed by Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital or RGSSH (166) and AIIMS Jhajjar (152). Among the Covid Care Centres, the one in Narela had 366 positive patients. Over 12,000 people are currently in quarantine in the city.Earlier in the day, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said there had been a slight decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last three days. However, he added that 26 members of one family had tested positive in Jahangir Puri area on Friday. The area was added to the list of containment zones in the capital that had shot up to 71 by Saturday evening.In other important data released in the bulletin, Delhi government has so far tested 22,283 samples including 2799, for which results were pending. 1047 samples have been collected today and sent for testing.The government issued an order to all the Delhi government hospitals asking them to operate at full capacity to make regular medical services available at non- Covid hospitals and try to accommodate the load of the hospitals designated as Covid hospitals.The government also announced a dedicated WhattsApp Number 8287972050 for receiving complaints and or requests from the citizens in respect of Covid-19. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-186-new-cases-take-delhi-covid-19-tally-to-1893/story-4zNG2UcfOmfnesFtWrGMBN.html
18-04-2020||India||Four new cases take Kerala Coved-19 tally to 399 but active cases continue to decline||Kerala on Saturday reported four new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of positive cases to 399, while at least 7 patients were discharged from hospitals after they were cured and the number of people under observation came down to 67, 190, said state officials.Out of the four fresh cases, three were reported from Kannur district in north Kerala, who all had recently returned from Dubai. The fourth person is believed to have contracted the disease from them.The seven discharges took the total number of recoveries to 257, leaving only 142 active cases that are under treatment in hospitals.Two people who were under observation died in Malappuram on Friday night. But the government ruled them out as Coved-19 casualties since one of them had twice tested negative for coronavirus and the second one had died of old-age related maladies. Both were over 80 years of age.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan credited the people of the state for their selfless corporation in the fight against the deadly contagion and hoped that the state would continue to keep the disease in check with containment efforts. He, however, warned against complacency.The Centre, too, praised the state’s Kasaragod district for effective implementation of the containment strategy which has delivered positive results in preventing the disease from spreading and in the management of patients.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-new-cases-take-kerala-coved-19-tally-to-399-but-active-cases-continue-to-decline/story-Qd27ABM42VOiQEeka9Tv4H.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: ‘Do not to lay off, cut pay if needed’, KTR tells businesses||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and minister for information technology and industry, KT Rama Rao, on Saturday appealed to all industrialists and IT firms in the state not to lay off any employee on the pretext of loss of production and revenue on the account of Covid-19 pandemic.In an open letter to “industry colleagues” on behalf of the Telangana government, KTR said he was aware of the multiple challenges faced by different industries due to lockdown including loss in production, revenue and market.“Yet, humanity demands that in this period of crisis, we are very compassionate towards the workforce that has served us for so many years. On behalf of the government, I appeal to you to ensure that no employee, regular or contractual or outsourced, loses his job, whatever is the situation,” the minister said.He suggested that the companies might consider other forms of cost-cutting including pay cuts, deferment of increments or bonuses etc. “In the government itself, salary deferments have been announced, right from the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues, to senior officials and employees of all levels,” he pointed out.He called upon the industry to refrain from job cuts and terminations. “I am confident that as soon as we come out of this crisis, the industry is bound to grow again and the government will ensure the enabling conditions which have made Telangana the most progressive state for doing business. It will maintain its position as before,” KTR said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-do-not-to-lay-off-cut-pay-if-needed-ktr-tells-businesses/story-8744j3YCq0vKLoALDxiHOM.html
18-04-2020||India||RSSB steps up to ease lockdown blues, distributes 12 lakh food packets daily||Nearly 11,000 stranded migrant workers and people told to isolate themselves have been accommodated at various Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) centres across the country, a statement by the spiritual organisation said on Saturday.Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had last month told HT that his government had reached out to RSSB for help to accommodate migrant workers so that harvesting of crops in the state doesn’t take a hit when the lockdown is lifted.The RSSB statement said it had offered its centres to be used as shelter and isolation camps besides storage of wheat by the district administration. All these activities are being carried out in accordance with the requirements of the district administration.The RSSB statement said they had made optimal arrangements for the food and lodging of the 11,000 people at its centres in the country.The RSSB, which had started distribution of packed meals within a day of the March 25 lockdown ordered by the central government, has steadily raised the number of food packets made by its volunteers, the statement said.As of April 16, the RSSB distributes about 12 lakh packed meals every day through its 250 plus centres in the country. This includes the 1.25 lakh food packets that are distributed to 134 villages in the vicinity of RSSB Headquarters, Dera Baba Jaimal Singh Beas, the statement said.The meals are prepared by observing all norms of hygiene including social distancing. The volunteers involved in preparation of meals are medically examined and wear face masks, gloves and head covers, the statement said, underlining that the RSSB will provide support as long as the situation demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rssb-steps-up-to-ease-lockdown-blues-distributes-12-lakh-food-packets-daily/story-MdLfbggICYxNrSJzLVAu9N.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 26 sailors at key Mumbai base test positive for Covid-19||In the single largest case of Indian military personnel being infected with the novel coronavirus, the navy on Saturday said 26 sailors from a key naval base in Mumbai have been placed under isolation after testing positive for Covid-19.The sailors from INS Angre --- a logistics and administrative support base under the Western Naval Command --- are being monitored at the navy’s premier hospital INHS Asvini. These cases have been traced to a single sailor who tested positive for Covid-19 eleven days ago. All the sailors live in the same residential complex. They are all in their 20s, except the oldest who is 47.“The detection of these Covid-19 cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening/testing carried out by the Western Naval Command after one sailor tested positive on April 7 (he is among the 26). All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.Also read: Most of 25 navy men who tested positive for Covid-19 traced to single sailorThe cases have come at a time when the navies of the United States and France, are grappling with an alarming rise in coronavirus infections on some of their frontline warships. The first Indian sailor to test positive on April 7 contracted the disease from a retired sailor who was infected by his son who came to Mumbai from the United States, a naval officer said on condition of anonymity.The navy hasn’t had any Covid-19 case onboard any of its warships, submarines or air stations so far. INS Angre is under lockdown to prevent the spread of infection.“Since the sailor was tested positive for Covid-19, the entire unit (INS Angre) has been sealed off. Containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection continues to be carried out as per protocol to contain spread by breaking the chain of transmission,” Madhwal added.The spokesperson said stringent quarantine and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and their families at INS Angre, with door-to-door screening being undertaken for identification of more cases if any.In a recent address to naval personnel, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh stressed that it was vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remained free of the virus and the navy was combat ready at all times.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 9, Singh told his men in a 15-minute video message that while they should hope for the best, the navy should plan for the worst.Also read: Vital to keep warships free of Covid-19, says Navy chiefThe navy chief said it was imperative to redouble efforts to ensure that navy personnel and their families stayed safe and healthy. “We are the last bastion in this fight. And if we who are supposed to be the care givers become care seekers, it will lead to a big problem,” Singh said in the message.The navy said on Saturday that it remained fully combat-ready and also prepared to participate in the national mission to fight the pandemic as well as provide support to friendly neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region.“Our assets continue to remain on patrol covering a vast oceanic swath from the Strait of Malacca in the east to Bab-el-Mandeb in the west, including undertaking Op Sankalp to provide reassurance and protection to our merchant vessels and anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden,” Madhwal said.All missions for coastal and offshore security continue unhindered, he added.Meanwhile, the army confirmed that a lady officer posted at the Military Hospital, Dehradun, has tested positive for the disease and the necessary contact tracing was being done. All primary contacts of the lady doctor are under home quarantine.In a statement on its latest Covid-19 case in Dehradun, the army dismissed reports that a large number of doctors at Lucknow were the lady medical officer’s primary contacts.“It is clarified that as per medical protocols none of the medical officers at Lucknow fall in the category of her primary contacts. It is further clarified that none of those doctors are symptomatic as on today. However, as a precautionary measure, they are being quarantined at their respective stations for 14 days before they start working in hospitals,” the army said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-26-sailors-at-key-mumbai-base-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-cl5E8tY4Pke3pHrk5PWMBN.html
18-04-2020||India||Truck with ‘essential goods’ tag intercepted in Pune, 1000 litres of country-made liquor found inside||A truck with “essential services” tag was found to be carrying 1000 litres of country-made alcohol by Pune Police on Friday evening. 25 cans of 40 litres each, full of locally produced alcohol and covered with grass to feed cattle, were seized from the truck. The police also found 26 empty cans in the tempo truck registered in Baramati region.Acting on a tip-off, the police set up a trap along BT Kawade Road, where the tempo truck was intercepted leading to the arrest of three people - Chandu Ananda Sasne, 45, Liyakat Abbas Shaikh, 31 and the business owner George Ryan Unnittan,46--- all residents of Ghorpadigaon.One other person identified as Satish Bhimrao Bhalsingh, a resident of Daund, is on the run from the police.The driver Sasne and owner Unnittan have both been named in 6 earlier cases involving the illegal sale of alcohol, according to police records.A case under Section 269, 270, 273 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 was registered against the four at Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-with-essential-goods-tag-intercepted-in-pune-1000-litres-of-country-made-liquor-found-inside/story-FlAtDC3XpI3lWSweBLwAsK.html
18-04-2020||India||List of Delhi’s 77 containment zones to check Covid-19 pandemic||The count of coronavirus-affected hot spots in the national capital rose to 77 after 9 new areas were identified on Saturday. The new areas identified includes North-east A-97,98 and 99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park, A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony; Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari; Budh Nagar, Inderpuri; Oberoi Apartment; G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden; E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park and T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri.Earlier in the day, after 26 members of a family in Delhi’s Jahangirpuri tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, the area was declared as a containment zone, pushing up the tally of the total number of hot spots in Delhi.The 69th zone was identified a day after Delhi’s count of hot spots reached 68.Here is the full list of Containment Zones in Delhi:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-delhi-s-77-containment-zones-to-check-covid-19-pandemic/story-CHhybZP6kAk2exRWfOS6IP.html
18-04-2020||India||Sheer number of students swamp UP’s Kota evacuation plan, buses fall short||Around 6,000 students in over 200 buses left for their homes in Uttar Pradesh since Friday night but thousands of students from the state are still waiting for a ride and more buses are likely to be needed than the 250 Yogi Adityanath’s government had sent for the evacuation . Students thronged the pick up points marked by the Kota administration in the city during the lockdown. But more students arrived for boarding the buses than the stipulated number since Friday night.Nitesh Kumar Sharma, Media Marketing Head, Allen Career Institute, Kota said that “Our estimate of UP students in Kota was around 7,500 but there are many parents also who live with their wards in Kota and also many students are not enrolled in any institute but do self-study so roughly around 10,000 students are wanting to return to UP which has resulted in some shortage of buses”.Apart from several students enrolled in the coaching institutes, several other students also arrived for boarding the buses.He said that there could be shortage of buses for around 4,000 students of UP in Kota.Kota’s Additional District Magistrate, Narendra Gupta said 3,138 students have already been sent through 113 buses since Friday night and around 2,800 more students are being sent through the remaining 90 buses of UP but there is still need of more buses because of the number of students. To ensure social distancing, only 25 students are being sent in every bus with sitting capacity of over 60, he said.But Divisional Commissioner, LN Soni denied that there was any shortage of buses. “There is no shortage as such as buses are being filled gradually so that no crowd is gathered to flout social distancing but if there will be any shortage of buses then more buses will be arranged. UP government has sent 250 buses so far,” he said.Deputy Director, Public Relations department, Hariom Gurjar said that Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan government will also arrange buses according to the need to ferry students from Kota to UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheer-number-of-students-swamp-up-s-kota-evacuation-plan-buses-fall-short/story-ZH28upNupkuJaYhg7RiawJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Inmates of Bengal jail hold staff hostage demanding bail; talks on||Demanding bail, a group of inmates of the Jalpaiguri central correctional home in north Bengal held a number of staff members hostage on Saturday afternoon.Senior district police officials rushed to the spot but could not enter the premises as the inmates had blocked the main gate from inside. Till last reports were received at 5 pm, officials were trying to diffuse the tension by talking to the inmates.Most of the agitators were undertrial prisoners, officials said. The inmates separated the new and old jail complexes by locking the connecting gates.A police officer, who did not want to identified, said most of the agitators at Jalpaiguri central correctional home had been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.There were rumours that some guards were assaulted but officials did not confirm this. The inmates also ransacked security cameras placed inside the premises.There are around 1300 inmates in the correctional home, officials said. Among them, around 200 are undertrial prisoners. This is the biggest correctional home in north Bengal.This is the third incident of rioting inside correctional homes in West Bengal. Days after the lockdown started and bail hearings stopped in courts, there was violence at Baruipur correctional home in South 24 Parganas district on March 3. A second incident was reported at Dum Dum central correctional home in March 21.Incidentally, Bengal and other states have released thousands of inmates on bail and parole following a Supreme Court order.Additional policemen and Rapid Action Force personnel rushed to the correctional home in the Raikatpara area of Jalpaiguri. The district superintendent of police and other officers were stationed at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inmates-of-bengal-jail-hold-staff-hostage-demanding-bail-talks-on/story-qLDXBGawvBppaTs6rDOLGN.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Bengal Governor alleges PDS scam, seeks urgent report from Mamata govt||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has alleged there was a scam in the public distribution system (PDS) in the state, which was getting bigger by the day when the state needed to put up a united fight against coronavirus. He added that he had sought urgent details from the chief secretary’s office on the matter.“Covid 19 has to be unitedly fought on ground and not in media/public relations. No politics at all. Worried-PDS SCAM getting bigger by the day. PDS system is in virtual political hijack-a crime. Free ration for needy and not coffers. Defaulters be sternly dealt,” one of Dhankar’s many tweets on the issue said.Dhankar’s allegation is supported by BJP leaders, two of whom-- Darjeeling MP Raju Singh Bista and Alipurduars MP John Barla-- have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming there was a scam in the PDS in Bengal. Bista has also spoken to Governor Dhankhar in this regard. Dhankhar’s tweet came two days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee acknowledged deficiencies in delivering ration to the needy and removed the state food and supplies secretary.“There is a problem with ration distribution, (it) is only about 10% of cases. We have to look into it and solve the problem,” she had said on Thursday.The state government has promised free ration to 7.5 crore people for six months. The state’s population is 9.13 crore, according to the census of 2011.Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded the resignation of the state’s food and supplies minister Jyoti Priya Mallick.“What’s the gain in making the secretary a scapegoat? It’s the minister who needs to be removed if he does not resign on his own,” BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said on Saturday.In another tweet, Dhankar said the PDS “SCAM BALOON” was getting bigger by the day and it involved “powerful ones”. He demanded a thorough probe to unearth “the sharks that hijacked PDS and denied poor and needy their due”.Mallick, however, refused to comment, saying that the chief minister had asked every leader and worker of the party to refrain from trading political barbs during the time of a crisis.In another tweet, Dhankhar wrote, “Concerned as regards illegalities and irregularities in making available benefit of free food grains to the poor and needy under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna, have sought urgent details through my office in this behalf from the State Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial”.Incidentally, the central scheme Dhankhar referred to has not been implemented in Bengal as the state has its own scheme. In Kolkata, senior Left leaders, including Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo members Biman Bose and Md Salim and Left leader in the Assembly Sujan Chakraborty were arrested while staging a demonstration against the alleged ration scam. The leaders maintained social distancing during the demonstration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-bengal-governor-alleges-pds-scam-seeks-urgent-report-from-mamata-govt/story-tLfYJ1B0mqDbYaJS1cqnyM.html
18-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Centre tells states to use mobile tracking method for quarantine enforcement and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre tells states to use mobile tracking method for quarantine enforcementThe Union government’s telecommunications department is offering states the ability to mass track people using mobile network tower data, offering a platform that can let ground-level authorities create virtual geo-fences for those meant to be in quarantine, as well as a second service that can let officials send out SMS messages to people in a specific area for Covid-19 containment efforts. Read moreCovid-19: Maharashtra registers 328 new Covid-19 cases, 184 are from MumbaiMaharashtra on Saturday registered 328 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 3,648 patients, the state health department said. Capital city Mumbai, which is one of the worst-affected cities in the country with coronavirus positive patients now, has 2,269 cases. Read moreGovt tweaks FDI rules to guard domestic firms. Thank you, tweets Rahul GandhiGovernment approval will be necessary a company or an individual from a country that shares land border with India can invest in any sector, the Commerce Ministry’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said Saturday. Read moreHow will Covid-19 end? Because all pandemics doIt is safe to say that for the next year or so, life will not return to normal for the world. Even if the Indian epidemic peaks around May , as some experts are now predicting, it will take several months for the deaths to stop. And in the interim, and perhaps for months afterwards, it will still be considered dangerous to go to the cinema, to attend large weddings, to shake hands with strangers, etc. Read moreMozilla Firefox users need to update the browser immediately: CERT-in alertsThe Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) has issued an advisory alerting Mozilla Firefox users about multiple vulnerabilities in the internet browser and has asked that they update it immediately. Read moreIIT Jodhpur develops sterilisation system for medical accessories used in Covid-19 casesIndian Institute of Technology Jodhpur has developed an Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization System based on UV-light and metal oxide nanoparticles catalyst panels. This can be used for sterilization of medical accessories being used by Doctors and COVID-19 patient handlers. The current system facilitates the reuse of N95 Filtering Face-mask Respirators. Read morePunjab Police’s special surprise for this child’s first birthday. WatchMany people have had or even will have their birthdays in the time of self-isolation and social distancing. So does that mean these people do not get to celebrate their birthdays? Not at all. This video shared on Twitter shows how even the tiniest of celebration to mark that special day will be enough for memories of a lifetime. Read moreTablighi Jamaat chief should’ve warned people: AAP MP on Covid hotspot sourceAam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh said Tablighi Jamaat chief Mualana Saad should have warned people earlier. Singh, speaking on the Nizamuddin Covid cluster, said the situation could have been avoided if Maulana Saad took steps earlier. The Tablighi jamaat chief was booked under sections of the Epidemic Disease Act. He was separately booked by ED under the money laundering case. Nearly 30% of India’s Covid-19 cases are linked to Tablighi Jamaat, Health Ministry had confirmed on Saturday. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-centre-tells-states-to-use-mobile-tracking-method-for-quarantine-enforcement-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-O1lGF7naVpDh3ZCyl2aJCJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra registers 328 new Covid-19 cases today, 184 are from Mumbai||Maharashtra on Saturday registered 328 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 3,648 patients, the state health department said. Capital city Mumbai, which is one of the worst-affected cities in the country with coronavirus positive patients now, has 2,269 cases. Mumbai recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases today as 184 people tested positive for the deadly disease, according to Maharashtra Health Department data. Eleven deaths were reported on Saturday taking Maharashtra’s total death toll to 211.Of the total number of cases which emerged today, Mumbai recorded 184 new cases, while Pune recorded 78 fresh Covid-19 cases.On Friday, fifteen new coronavirus cases were reported in Mumbai’s Dharavi area, believed to be Asia’s largest slum, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). With the 15 new cases the total number of coronavirus positive patients in Dharavi climbed to 101 late last night.Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 patient was detected on March 9 when a couple from Pune tested positive for the disease. They were treated successfully and discharged after 14 days on March 23.In India, coronavirus cases mounted to 14,792 on Saturday, with the death toll touching 488, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-registers-328-new-covid-19-cases-184-are-from-mumbai/story-iT5TNZztCwfBXoZ9LnbeNI.html
18-04-2020||India||Saturday rains and strong winds bring relief to Delhi from searing heat||The national capital and its adjoining areas received light to moderate rains on Saturday evening with accompanying high-speed winds bringing down the temperature in relief to the residents.The Indian Meteorological Department’s forecast for the day had predicted a “thunderstorm with squall or hail” with a maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 22.6 degrees Celsius.The weather station at Palam recorded a maximum of 38.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in the city. The weather forecasting agency predicts that the capital will also see partly cloudy skies on Sunday which may result into some thunder and lightning but any rain is unlikely. However, the forecast for Monday and Tuesday predicts light rain in the capital. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the city’s air quality index recorded at 4pm was 98, which falls in the satisfactory category.On Sunday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 37 and 22 degrees Celsius, respectively.While the rains in the capital were largely welcome as it brought some relief from intense heat, the same has brought bad news for farmers in Punjab and Haryana were standing crops were damaged due to unseasonal rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saturday-rains-and-strong-winds-bring-relief-to-delhi-from-searing-heat/story-TAAk7be4fo9yUwibQRoOTP.html
18-04-2020||India||Saudi Arabia’s Grand Mufti asks for holding Ramazan prayers at home due to coronavirus||Saudi Arabia’s topmost religious authority, Grand Mufti Abdulaziz al-Sheikh, has asked Muslims to perform Ramazan and the Eid prayers at home if the coronavirus outbreak doesn’t subside. The Grand Mufti’s statement was reported by the kingdom’s Okaz newspaper.“Ramadan’s Taraweeh prayer can be performed at home if it cannot be performed at mosques due to the preventive measures taken to fight the spread of coronavirus,” the Mufti is reported to have said.He added that the same will need to be followed for the Eid prayers if the virus doesn’t relent by then, necessitating continuance of social distancing measures.The month of Ramazan, which is slated to begin on the evening of April 23 this year and end with Eid celebrations, likely on May 24, is considered to be Muslims’ holy month, marked by day-long fasts and prayers to the almighty.Saudi Arabia had issued instructions last month to stop people from offering five daily prayers along with the Friday prayers inside mosques to aid in coronavirus containment efforts in the country.The kingdom on Sunday indefinitely extended the curfew to 24 hours a day to fight new infections that have grown rapidly recently.On Thursday, the Prophet’s Mosque in the holy city of Medina said that serving of evening meals in the mosque during Ramazan to poor people in need won’t be allowed as part of the breaking of the daily fast.Saudi Arabia currently has over 8,000 cases of coronavirus as per Worldometer, the website that tabulates and analyses all Covid-19 cases across the world, including over 90 deaths.India’s minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, too, had made a similar appeal to the Muslim clerics and other community leaders in India, asking them to encourage Ramzan prayers inside homes instead at public places such as mosques.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-arabia-s-grand-mufti-asks-for-holding-ramazan-prayers-at-home-due-to-coronavirus/story-BZRacy1hxNJabaRPVcc2OP.html
18-04-2020||India||India toughens rules on investments from neighbours, seen aimed at China||The Indian government has brought China under the ambit of regulations that would prevent takeovers and acquisitions of Indian firms amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and an official said on Saturday any Chinese investments will now require the government’s approval.The move follows concerns that China could take over Indian companies at a time when their valuation has taken a massive hit because of the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic that originated in Wuhan nearly four months ago, the official said on condition of anonymity.The revision of the foreign direct investment policy to prevent opportunistic takeovers also follows China’s central bank buying a 1.01% stake in HDFC in the first quarter of 2020.Earlier, all investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh required the government’s approval for security reasons. The scope of this existing policy has been widened to cover all neighbouring countries that share a border with India, the official said quoting a government order.Without naming China, the order issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) on April 17 said the government had reviewed the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy “for curbing opportunistic takeovers/acquisitions of Indian companies due to the current Covid-19 pandemic” and amended the FDI policy.“The change in policy will make it mandatory for all foreign investments from China, Pakistan and Bangladesh to go through the government’s scrutiny. So far, government permission was mandatory only for investments coming from Pakistan and Bangladesh,” the official cited above said.According to the order, “an entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route”. Other than investments from countries that share a border with India, non-resident entities – foreign individuals or companies – can invest in India without the government’s approval except in sectors where FDI is restricted, the order said.The order also requires the government’s approval for transferring ownership of an Indian company to any “existing or future” foreign investor belonging to the countries that share a border with India.India has 15,106.7 km of land border. The country shares land borders with Bangladesh (4,096.7 km) China (3,488 km), Pakistan (3,323 km), Nepal (1,751 km), Myanmar (1,643 km), Bhutan (699 km) and Afghanistan (106 km),but there are some exemptions for Nepal and Bhutan-based entities, the official said.Experts said the takeover threat is not completely ill-founded.Vikram Doshi, partner (tax and regulatory) at global consultancy firm PwC India said, “Covid-19 will impact several businesses, especially ones that are highly leveraged. It will open up takeover opportunities in many sectors.”“This press note is an attempt to place a check and give the government an opportunity to review such takeovers and investments coming into India from specific jurisdictions,” he said.Atul Pandey, partner in the law firm Khaitan & Co, said, “The notification by the government primarily intends to stem any attempts by Chinese firms to take control of Indian firms which have been affected and weakened by Covid-related lockdowns.”He added, “Any fresh investments by Chinese firms or any transfer of investments by existing investors to Chinese firms will be covered under this notification, and will require government approval.”Pandey said the government’s intention is clear in wanting to evaluate Chinese investments on a case-to-case basis. “However it is important to note that this notification will have the force of law once necessary amendments are introduced to the relevant FEMA [Foreign Exchange Management Act] regulations. Similar steps are being taken by the European Union and other jurisdictions like Australia,” he said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appreciated the move in a tweet: “I thank the Govt. for taking note of my warning and amending the FDI norms to make it mandatory for Govt. approval in some specific cases.”On April 12, he had cautioned the government against takeover threats. “The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The Govt must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-toughens-rules-on-investments-from-neighbours-seen-aimed-at-china/story-2prXQ7PVSpMBFMJefTKYYN.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Some cases show neurological manifestations, says study||New Delhi: Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can, in some instances, lead to disorientation or delirium, say neurologists treating Covid-19 patients. While the focus has so far been on the effect of the disease on the respiratory system, as doctors treat more patients, they are beginning to notice and document new patterns.Neurologists are worried that some patients may be showing only neurological symptoms -- not other common symptoms such as fever and cough. If they are not monitored, diagnosis may be delayed. “Elderly patients with an infection, any infection including urinary tract infection can develop delirium. The general symptoms with fever could be confusion (delirium, encephalopathy). Loss of taste and smell are likely at the level of receptors in the mucosa,” said Dr Vivek Mathew, professor of neurology at Christian Medical College, Vellore which is treating Covid 19 patients.A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on April 10 based on data collected from January 16 to February 19 at 3 Covid -19 care centres at Wuhan, China which included 214 hospitalised patients found that 36.4% showed neurological manifestations. Compared with patients with non-severe infection, patients with severe infection were older and had more underlying disorders. These patients showed fewer typical symptoms such as fever and cough but more neurologic symptoms. Global trends seem to bear out the truth of those findings. “In Covid-19, we have so far seen primarily respiratory symptoms or primarily gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms but in the past 10 days, cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) (a condition in which a person’s immune system attacks the peripheral nerves) have been documented in other parts of the world ,” Mathew added.Dr Col JD Mukherji, Principal Director and Head - Neurology at Max Super Speciality Hospital who is treating some Covid-19 patients says its still early days for India . “The general symptoms of the disease is headache, loss of smell and taste, fever, confusion. In China, cases of strokes, seizure and muscle injury have also been documented. We are on a learning curve in India. All of us will start seeing these cases as the numbers rise,” said Dr Mukherji.He listed the four ways in which the virus can affect the brain: direct viral injury, causing symptoms like viral encephalitis; an excessive immune response called cytokine storm which can damage the brain; unintended host-immune response where the immune response damages some other structure altogether “like the five cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) (a condition in which a person’s immune system attacks the peripheral nerves) documented in Italy”; and indirectly, “in those whose immune response has been deliberately reduced through medication due to conditions such as myasthenia gravis (a neuro-muscular disease) or multiple sclerosis.”“There are no medicines for these neurological symptoms yet. If the entire body is in a cytokine storm, a monoclonal antibody can be used but they are expensive and may not be made available widely. In an Indian setting some steroids can be used which needs to be studied and decided,” said Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, Chairman, PSRI Institute of Neurosciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-some-cases-show-neurological-manifestations-says-study/story-Yevc0sexIVv7tRMyczwECP.html
18-04-2020||India||Now, an app to track wildlife straying outside habitats during lockdown||The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is banking on an app called ‘Lockdown Wildlife Tracker’ that collects data of wildlife movement through human habitation during the lockdown period and which can help in wildlife conservation and management in the long run.It has been about a week since the app was launched and is mostly being used by officials. Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII said the application has been developed to track movement of wildlife during the lockdown. Videos of animal movements have been surfacing on social media from across the country since the app was launched amid the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.“The data received on this application will help us learn more about movement of wildlife during the lockdown. This information is very critical in understanding the human-wildlife interface in the country. People can report sightings of animals in real time as well as at any later period and as it is GPS enabled, we will be able to understand the movement better,” said Mohan. But he cautioned wildlife enthusiasts not to venture out to take photos or videos of wild animals during the lockdown period. They should do that from the balconies and windows of their homes and not violate lockdown, he said.Once the lockdown is lifted, a national and state wise data will be released by the institute based on patterns of the animals’ movements. At present, the application can be downloaded from the website of WII, using the link https://wii.gov.in/lockdown_wildlife_tracker, and it will soon be available on Google Play store also.After downloading the application, one can upload photos along with GPS location of their sightings Officials said that this free to use application makes it convenient to keep track of what one sees, while making the data available for further analysis and interpretation.“Lockdown Wildlife Tracker app shall be available for download from Google Play store in a couple of days with more options, especially the bilingual version. After the lockdown period Wildlife Institute of India will share the data with the respective States and shall also come with detailed State Specific Reports and National Report.“The information collected as a part of this initiative during the lockdown phase shall help in wildlife conservation and management in the long run,” added the director.The important features of the application are, recording wildlife sightings anytime and from anywhere, upload sightings with photographs, quick entry tools making the recording experience short and simple and GPS enabled entries of all sightings. Now, an app to track wildlife straying outside habitats during lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-an-app-to-track-wildlife-straying-outside-habitats-during-lockdown/story-7oC0dFdmq84H7WvTQrPucL.html
18-04-2020||India||Centre picks Kerala’s Kasaragod’s Covid-19 containment model for high praise||Centre on Saturday singled out Kasaragod in Kerala for special praise for handling of coronavirus outbreak in the district and detailed the effective implementation of various containment measures despite the various unique challenges it faced.Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that 113 coronavirus positive patients out of a total of 168 cases in the district have already been cured due to proper clinical management and underlined that not even one infected person had died to highlight the success of the Kasargod model of coronavirus cluster containment strategy.“Out of 168 total Covid-19 cases in Kasargod, Kerala, 113 have already been cured; most importantly, due to proper clinical management, not even one infected person died. Remaining active cases, too, are being monitored well,” Agarwal said.Agarwal noted the peculiarities and challenges faced by Kasargod to put this success story in the correct perspective. He pointed out that a large percentage of the district’s population lives abroad, which resulted in two waves of infections, first in Feb from a China-returned student and the second in mid-March after the return of individuals from the middle-east. The district is geographically distant from major cities and is farthest from the state capital and to add further to its woes, it was difficult to track expatriates that landed in large numbers at different airports before heading home. Agarwals praised Kerala’s strategy to appoint a special state officer in Kasaragod for seamless coordination. This special officer coordinated and monitored the functioning of district administration including between the line departments on the field and secretariat level.Kasaragod’s use of geospatial tracking through drones of people put in home quarantine, done under a highly effective campaign named #BreakTheChain for promoting social distancing was also praised. Agarwal said the district formed a core team of ‘Incident Commanders’ to attend to all Covid-19 related emergencies. Sec-144 was imposed in the entire district and all those with travel history were home quarantined. Identification of containment cluster zones through red colour coding was done and home delivery of essentials in these containment clusters was ensured.Highlighting the scale of the district’s response to the outbreak, Agarwal said that more than 17,300 contacts of positive cases were traced and quarantined followed by aggressive and quick testing, household surveys using ASHAA workers and health inspectors and setting up of Covid Care Centres and ICU facilities including operationalisation of Kasaragod medical college in just four days. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19One major distinct intervention of the district’s Covid-19 management was seen in quarantining of all primary and secondary contacts and also high-risk cases- those above 60 years of age—in isolation centres to prevent any chance of further transmissions.The district, Centre noted, was also not behind in social welfare initiatives to ensure poor and needy got free food and regular health checkups through ‘Care for Kasaragod’ initiative that saw the constitution of ‘Jana Jagratha Samithis’ at ward level for free food distribution to the poor and migrant workers. Shelter home and community kitchens were also started for this purpose. The district was also praised for keeping an effective check on black marketing, hoarding and price rise.“We got very positive and encouraging results when people returned (in Kasargod) after being cured of Covid-19. We have to work together in fighting this battle, in a whole-of-society whole-of-government approach,” Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-picks-kerala-s-kasaragod-covid-19-containment-model-for-high-praise-says-we-need-to-fight-together/story-4PdpnoQT7QZ83h8CLe2UzK.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Post-lockdown, exodus of expatriates worries Kerala||Kerala, which is on the verge of flattening the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curve, is bracing for yet another daunting challenge. The weakening of oil prices coupled with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the oil-dependent economies in the Persian Gulf countries have led to uncertainties, as out of 1.8 million workers from Kerala in West Asia at least 200,000 are desperate to come back home after losing their jobs.The state government is looking at getting at these stranded expatriates back home after the ongoing nationwide lockdown, enforced initially for 21 days and since then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, is lifted. The authorities are planning to repatriate the migrant workers in batches and lodging them in quarantine facilities for a mandatory 14 days. The government is working overtime to create accommodation for these Gulf returnees. Though many Covid-19 facilities have come up near four international airports in the state, more similar accommodations are required because of the anticipated bulk inflow of Gulf returnees. The state government has intensified searches for vacant flats, houses lying empty and even houseboats in the backwaters in Alappuzha that would be converted into makeshift quarantine facilities and Covid-19 hospitals.Kerala has reported 395 Covid-19 positive cases in the state to date, of whom 50% are either Gulf returnees or their contacts, as the state government is staring at an uphill task. Around 1.8 million people from Kerala work in the Persian Gulf nations, of whom over one million alone is in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Last week, the UAE had threatened to impose restrictions on countries that refuse to take back their citizens, leading the state government to intensify its evacuation plans for the Malayalee expatriates.“Kerala is indebted to its expatriate population for the state’s rapid development and progress. We will try our best to bring them back. We know they are going through a harrowing time. We are with them. We will screen and quarantine them upon their return,” said state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi twice seeking his intervention to repatriate the stranded Keralites from Persian Gulf countries.It is a double whammy for Kerala. While the state’s working-class population sought greener pastures in the Gulf, people from north India and the north-east filled the growing migrant labourers’ void in Kerala. The petro-dollar-fuelled a real estate boom in Kerala, as at least four million interstate migrant workers found jobs in the state at one point in time. Gradually, the boom has gone bust, and the migrant workers’ strength has dipped to 2.5 million after the central government’s demonetisation drive in 2016, triggering a crash in the realty sector.Kerala is grappling with twin issues. “The state has to do a fine balancing act. It has to keep its interstate migrant workers in good humour and at the same time bring the expatriates back home even though the remittances will take a beating, albeit temporarily. Migration is in an average Malyalaee’s genes. If not the Gulf, they will find another happy hunting ground soon. However, the next six months will be a struggle,” said Dr Irudaya Rajan, a migration expert and a faculty member at Thiruvananthapuram-based Centre for Development Studies.In 2018-19, the expatriates remitted Rs 88,000 crore, the backbone of the state’s money order economy.“Many countries had evacuated their nationals from West Asia. Our population there is huge. But India could have at least airlifted the sick and pregnant women, who are stranded there. Some of us feel that we are living in no man’s land. We hope that our evacuation will be expedited after the lockdown restrictions are lifted,” said KC Sajith, a Bahrain-based non-resident Keralite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-lockdown-exodus-of-expatriates-worries-kerala/story-kUrYlg1lqt8lYfm4cTUQPM.html
18-04-2020||India||3 jawans killed in attack on CRPF in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore||Three Central Reserve Police Force jawans were killed when their vehicle was attacked by militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore. This was the second attack on the CRPF since last night.The terrorists fired at a check post that was jointly being manned by troops of CRPF’s 179th battalion and the Jammu and Kashmir Police, said officials.This is the third attack against the paramilitary force in the Kashmir valley within a week.A CRPF trooper was injured on Friday after terrorists fired at a similar check post in Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militants-attack-joint-party-of-crpf-police-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-sopore/story-Y6fJ6UyCIa0ENvAirveSAN.html
18-04-2020||India||Bengal to start pool sampling to detect Covid-19 carriers||The West Bengal government has decided to start ‘pool testing’ to detect asymptomatic carriers of the Covid-19 disease. This will help to further ramp up the testing record of Bengal, which has been repeatedly drawing flak for its low rate of Covid-19 tests.In pool testing, samples from two to five people are collected and tested in a single unit. If the pool tests negative then all individuals are regarded as negative. But if the pool sample is positive each person in the pool is tested individually to find out who is affected.This helps to increases the testing capacities and saves time, money and manpower.“In order to increase the capacity of the laboratories to screen more numbers of samples it has been decided to use pooled samples for screening of suspected Covid-19 cases in West Bengal,” read an order issued by the state government on Saturday.A top official of the state health department said that pool sampling will be done for asymptomatic patients in those areas where prevalence of the disease is less than 2% of the population.“Samples will be collected from asymptomatic patients during community survey and surveillance. Those suspects who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients and are living in areas where the disease has spread will not be included,” said the official.Saturday’s order came a day after the division bench of Calcutta high court comprising Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee heard arguments on a writ petition and asked the government to inform what action was being taken to tackle the outbreak and how it was determining the cause of deaths. It also wanted to know what the government was doing to stop the spread of the disease and protect medical staff and doctors following guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and World Health Organisation (WHO).Out of the 23 districts in West Bengal, at least 10 districts have not reported any case so far. Officials said that at least 81% of the cases are confined in urban areas with north and central Kolkata and urban areas of Howrah reporting the maximum cases. There is also a high prevalence of the disease in North 24 Parganas.“We will take samples of five people in one pool. The ICMR has already issued some guidelines for pool testing and those would be followed,” the official said.With allegations mounting that not enough tests are being done to detect Covid-19 patients in Bengal and numbers of persons infected with the deadly disease spiking every day, the Mamata Banerjee government had on Friday decided to test even the asymptomatic suspects who might be carriers of the virus.Till April 17 in Bengal only 4,212 samples were tested. Compared to this Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh had done 17,594, 18,029 and 20,298 tests respectively. “The more you test, the more you can detect asymptomatic carriers. Random sampling and pool testing are ways through which you can ramp up your testing record. This is a welcome step and the need of the hour,” Kunal Sarkar cardiologist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-start-pool-sampling-to-detect-covid-19-carriers/story-cApfXgtT8wDR1ZIqIu0T8L.html
18-04-2020||India||India seeks to woo renewable energy firms shifting from China, plans manufacturing hubs at ports||The Centre has asked state governments and port authorities to identify land for creating new hubs for manufacturing renewable energy equipment as part of India’s efforts to attract firms shifting base from China amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre has written to the state governments and port authorities that the land identified by them should measure 50 to 500 acres and will be used for manufacturing hubs that will meet both domestic demand and seek global investments.The new and renewable energy ministry said on Saturday that at “a time when many companies are planning to shift their manufacturing base from China, it is [the] opportune time for India to bring policy changes for facilitating and catalysing manufacturing in India”.Tuticorin Port Trust and Madhya Pradesh and Odisha states have expressed keen interest in setting up renewable energy manufacturing parks. The Centre also plans to use Indian Railways’ vacant land to set up solar power plants of 30 gigawatt (GW) capacity. The railways plan to set up plants to generate 10GW in the first phase of the initiative. According to officials aware of the development, the renewable energy secretary chaired a meeting with manufacturing companies last week, and the ministry has been in touch with trade commissioners and representatives of several countries to invite them to invest in India. The Indian government also addressed the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum earlier this week and sought collaboration and investment by American firms, the ministry said. “These hubs will manufacture equipment like silicon ingots and wafers, solar cells and modules, wind equipment and ancillary items like back sheet, glass, steel frames, inverters and batteries,” said one of the officials cited above. India currently has the capacity to manufacture wind equipment of around 10GW, and it imports nearly 85% of solar cells and modules from abroad. “To incentivise domestic manufacturing, Government of India [has] already announced provisions to enable levying of Basic Customs Duty on import of solar cells and modules,” the ministry said. The ministry has also set up a renewable energy facilitation and promotion board to facilitate investments.“The Ministry has also strengthened the clauses in Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) to boost investor confidence. The three power and RE sector NBFCs, namely Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation Limitedand Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency have reduced their repayment charges to 2% for enhancing the fund availability for new projects in the sector. IREDA has brought out a new scheme for project specific funding to promote RE manufacturing in India,” the ministry said. India’s renewable energy sector has been tasked to meet its 175GW target by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-to-woo-renewable-energy-firms-shifting-from-china-plans-manufacturing-hubs-at-ports/story-QWHBaLLfCuLxYIsy0eHvoO.html
18-04-2020||India||Govt tweaks FDI rules to shield domestic firms. Thank you, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Government approval will be necessary a company or an individual from a country that shares land border with India can invest in any sector, the Commerce Ministry’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said Saturday.It said the government has reviewed the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy to curb “opportunistic takeovers/acquisitions” of Indian companies due to the current Covid-19 pandemic.Soon after the announcement, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who last week had asked the government to ensure that there are no predatory takeovers of Indian corporates amid the current economic slowdown, thanked the Centre for tweaking the rules. I thank the Govt. for taking note of my warning and amending the FDI norms to make it mandatory for Govt. approval in some specific cases. https://t.co/ztehExZXNcThe decision is likely to impact foreign investments, particularly from China which pumped in $2.34 billion in FDI between April 2000 and December 2019.An official said Indian corporates had expressed concerns about possible takeovers of distressed firms by Chinese companies. The DPIIT tweaked the rules by including individuals and companies of all countries that share land borders with India, effectively bringing Chinese individuals and companies under the new protocol. “An entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route. Further, a citizen of Pakistan or an entity incorporated in Pakistan can invest, only under the Government route, in sectors/activities other than defence, space, atomic energy and sectors/activities prohibited for foreign investment,” the DPIIT said in a press note.India shares land borders with six countries – Bangladesh, Myanmar, China, Bhutan, Nepal and Pakistan.A company can invest in India, subject to the FDI policy except in those sectors or activities that are prohibited.Until now, government permission was mandatory only for investments coming from Bangladesh and Pakistan. The previous rule had said, “Citizen of Bangladesh or an entity incorporated in Bangladesh can invest only under the government route. Further, a citizen of Pakistan or an entity incorporated in Pakistan can invest, only under the government route, in sectors/activities other than defence, space, atomic energy and sectors/activities prohibited for foreign investment.” The DPIIT also put riders on the transfer of ownership any existing or future FDI in an entity in India, directly or indirectly, resulting in the beneficial ownership falling within the restriction, “such subsequent change in beneficial ownership will also require government approval”.Last week, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had asked the government to ensure that there are no predatory takeovers of Indian corporates amid the current economic slowdown.“The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The Govt must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-foreign-investment-rules-to-curb-opportunistic-takeovers/story-93jDE0mbun58VvVyiEv3CO.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: France to grant special aid for most vulnerable in India, says Macron||President Emmanuel Macron has said France will grant special financial aid to protect the most vulnerable people in India amid the Covid-19 crisis.The financial aid figured during Macron’s last telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which also focused on collaboration in the fight against the Coronavirus, French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said on Saturday“President Macron confirmed that France would grant exceptional financial aid for protecting the most vulnerable people in India,” Lenain said.People familiar with developments said further details about the aid programme are expected to be presented at the end of April. Lenain said the political authorities of the two countries have been working closely together from the beginning of the Coronavirus crisis. “It’s during tough times that the full significance of our partnership comes to the fore,” he said.Macron and Modi had a “long telephonic meeting” on March 31 and “fixed the areas of collaboration, discussed best practices, shared the latest information, particularly on research on a vaccine, and coordinated their international initiatives”, the envoy said.The foreign ministers of India and France regularly discuss the global situation and “that of our two countries in the face of this pandemic”, he added.The cooperation at all levels between the two countries amid the Covid-19 crisis facilitated the return of more than 2,200 travellers to France since the suspension of international flights, Lenain said.“These high-level discussions were backed by work on the ground for repatriating French citizens visiting India. Within a few weeks, thanks to the excellent cooperation of India’s central and local authorities, we were able to organise the departure of French travellers from Kolkata, Kochi, Goa, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai,” he said.“But to reach these cities, we first chartered buses to bring them from Pushkar, Rishikesh, Dehradun, Manali, Mandi, Amritsar, Varanasi, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Pune, Surat, Cochin, Hyderabad and Trivandrum,” he added, giving details of the major logistical exercise involved in repatriating French citizens.India has so far facilitated the return of some 35,000 foreign nationals from 48 countries who were stranded in the country due to travel restrictions.France is also among the more than 50 countries for which India has cleared supplies of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, described by some as key to treating Covid-19 cases. These countries will be provided the dug either through commercial sales or grants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-france-to-grant-special-aid-for-most-vulnerable-in-india-says-macron/story-AJof8tyrEgdzvI3QQeNEBL.html
18-04-2020||India||All together now||Does Katrina Kaif sweeping her floor or Malaika Arora preparing stew, and posting it on their respective social media accounts give you a sense of community? When we share our daily mundane chores online, are we looking for a sweet relief in these times of crisis? “I’m not sure about relief, but it’s giving me a loose sense of structure, an illusion of a routine when time seems to stretch ahead like a never-ending stream. My days seem to run into each other, and giving them any sort of order seems to be a tiny step back towards sanity. That said, were we to go back a couple of months to the time we all thought was ‘normal’, I’d have said this bordered on over sharing. But, on the whole, social media has made me feel connected, to people, to the community, to the world,” says 29-year-old Bengaluru based publishing professional, Chetana Divya Vasudev.As the pandemic continues to sweep nations, people have begun documenting their lives. “We don’t have any other form of relief right now other than relating to each other’s pain and agony,” says 29-year-old New Delhi-based development professional, Shubhranka Mondal.Once littered with clothing and vacations, the stories, posts, and captions we now see are about daily chores. “I think it’s also a form of interaction. We subconsciously crave interaction with others, and posting stuff and reactions lead to chats and conversations,” adds Ushna Mohan Iyer, a 28-year-old media professional based in Pune.However, how one uses a particular medium, varies. “I guess it depends on the person. And the nature of chores. For example, some people are vocal about their fitness goals online because they feel beholden to their online community and feel they can’t let them down. They use that as motivation to then get fit,” says Hyderabad-based Sana Mirza.Capturing and narrating our daily rituals also helps us bide time which might otherwise be spent worrying about the effects of the pandemic. New Delhi-based media professional, Udita Jain, says, “While a lot of this content makes you feel like ‘so?’, I think it helps people validate their own time by posting about it and knowing how people receive it. I agree that activities foster some sense of community. Singing, sewing, fitness and all other activities on social media reminds people that everyone’s in this together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/all-together-now/story-JFFADYhQSdzfGM5dbePe6M.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Sonbhadra district runs 683 community kitchens that cater to 24,000 families daily||Varanasi: Besides keeping track of quarantined cases and medical help required by residents, the control room at the Sonbhadra district headquarters has also been monitoring an additional input. Since March 30, the administration authorities of the state’s second largest district have been running 683 community kitchens. Home to 18 lakh people, over 43% of population belongs to scheduled caste and scheduled tribe groups who depend on forest produce and daily wage work. Due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, labourers have lost work and factories are closed.The community kitchens cater to around 45,000 people — 24,000 families — daily, chief development officer Ajay Dwivedi said. Around 40% of the kitchens are in remote villages in rough terrains like Dudhi, Ghorawal, and Myorupur. At least 250 villages are located in extremely tough terrains.Each kitchen also has an Anaj bank, to which residents and local businesses have contributed foodgrains, flour, lentils, rice and oil for making ration kits for the underprivileged. Till now, Dwivedi said around 176 quintal of flour, 203 quintal of rice, 36 quintals of lentils, 74 quintals of salt, 224 kg of spices, 2,759 liter of mustard oil and 89 quintal of vegetable. Much was distributed in 3,000 ration kits. Some is also used in the community kitchens.The administration has also provided a fund of Rs 10,000 each to gram panchayat to ensure that the community kitchen is well stocked. Opened in the compounds of primary schools, those employed in making mid-day meals are now cooking food for the larger community in the villages. Locals also help in packaging the food to deliver to all homes.Pyare Lal, a resident of Pharipaan area of Myorpur, however, did not receive food packets till a few days ago (others in his village did not face any problem). His neighbour, Jagat Vishwakarma took the matter up with assistant development officer (block) Shailendra Singh. Lal, who lives alone, now gets the food packet twice every day. Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Karahiya village in the rough terrain of Duddhi area said that till last week, he would receive only two or three poori and a small quantity of vegetable in the food packet that was delivered to him daily. Together with some other locals, he raised the issue of insufficient food to senior authorities and the District Magistrate e S Rajalingam instructed the panchayat secretary to visit the village and ensure that the needy receive a full meal from the community kitchen. “Since Monday, our food packets comprise six puris and sabji in the morning and six rotis with vegetable or dal chawal in the evening,” he said. Dwivedi said that strict monitoring was being done through video calling the village panchayat secretary and village head, who have been given the responsibility to look after the community kitchens, from preparing the food to delivering it, to find out whether the community kitchens are running properly and food packets with enough food are being delivered. As soon as a complaint is received, it is addressed immediately, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sonbhadra-district-runs-683-community-kitchens-that-cater-to-24-000-families-daily/story-Cp2OQt9AWyzyFV4OmXDFsK.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest: 47 districts in 23 states Covid-19 free for the last 14 days||The health ministry on Saturday said a positive trend was emerging in 47 districts from 23 states where not even a single case of coronavirus was reported in the last 14 days. The ministry added that 22 new districts from twelve states had joined this list which could bear witness to the success of India’s Covid-19 containment efforts. The government, however, added that the battle against the disease was a difficult one. “Our field-level action is yielding positive results. Along with Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka too, has not registered any new case in last 28 days. Besides this, 45 other districts in 23 states have not registered any new case in last 14 days,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary health ministry.He added that three districts—Patna in Bihar, Panipat in Haryana and Nadia in Bengal-- which had earlier not shown any positive cases had registered new cases underlining the tough nature of the fight against the highly contagious disease.Agarwal added that a total of 1,992 people have been cured of the disease so far, and the overall cure percentage stood at 13.8%. He said 991 new positive cases reported over the last 24 hours had taken the total number of infections to 14,378 including 48 new deaths, which raised the death toll to 480 in the country.The overall Covid-19 mortality rate in India as on Saturday stood at 3.3%. The highest mortality rate of 33.1% was from 50 to 75 years age group, followed by 32% from 75+ age group, 14.4% from population up to 45 years of age and 10.3% from 45-60 years age group. 83% of fatalities also had comorbid conditions, he added.Agarwal said that 4,291 of India’s 14,378 coronavirus cases were from a single source- Nizamuddin Markaz cluster—which roughly translates into about 30% of all positive cases.The updates were provided in the routine press conference held by the government of India. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-47-districts-in-23-states-covid-19-free-for-the-last-14-days/story-XMJa7KUG4FRCQVMhU8DpOK.html
18-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Yogi Adityanath’s Kota evacuation plan puts Nitish Kumar in oppn firing line and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Yogi Adityanath’s Kota evacuation plan puts Nitish Kumar in oppn firing lineBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday came under fire from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the leading opposition party in the state, for not evacuating it students from Kota in Rajasthan but its ally, the Congress, sided with the state government. Read more‘Political maturity, code of conduct’: Rahul Gandhi gets a shoutout from Shiv SenaCongress leader Rahul Gandhi has taken a positive stand over the coronavirus pandemic in the country and shown how a responsible opposition party should behave during a crisis, the Shiv Sena said on Saturday. Read moreDelhi Covid-19 cases close to 2000-mark, Arvind Kejriwal calls a review meetDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a cabinet meeting on Saturday afternoon to review the coronavirus situation in the national capital, a news agency reported. Delhi is close to registering two thousand positive cases with the tally presently at over 1800 cases including 72 recoveries and 42 casualties. Read moreLions enjoy nap on road in rare sight captured during South Africa lockdownThe humans are away, so the big cats have come out to play… or catch some much needed zzz’s in the case of these lions at Kruger National Park. In a rare sight, a pride of lions were seen sprawled across a tarred road during the ongoing lockdown in South Africa. Pictures posted by park show the stunning sight clicked by Section Ranger Richard Sowry. Read moreHasmukh review: Vir Das kills a promising idea with a mediocre showIt’s such a shame when a good idea strikes the wrong people. Vir Das had an epiphany for the ages—a stand-up comedian who needs to charge his soul with murder, every time he steps up to the stage. It’s the perfect Killing Joke; or it could have been in the hands of a better writers. What we have now is a joke of a series, which fails to deliver on either the dark or the comedic aspects of the designated genre. Read moreDifficult to go against him: Kevin Pietersen picks MS Dhoni as greatest captain everThe role of a captain is perhaps the biggest in cricket compared to all other sports in the world. An innovative fielding set-up, an inspired bowling change, a shuffle in the batting-order, calculative approach - there are numerous ways a captain can change the course of the game. Read moreJeff Bezos outlines his plan for reviving the world economy in a letter to investors: Read it hereThe world is still in the process of trying to deal with the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and the economy has taken a massive hit. Everyone is worried about if, and when, and how, the economy is going to come back on track and be revived. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, currently the richest man in the world seems to have a plan. Read moreCovid in MP: Health Incharge on high death rates, 95 colleagues illMadhya Pradesh Health Incharge Mohd Suleiman spoke to Hindustan Times on the Covid-19 update in the state. Suleiman spoke on the high death rates in the states and the Principal Secretary Health row. The Health Incharge also spoke on the high numbers of MPs affected by Covid-19 in the state. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-yogi-adityanath-s-kota-evacuation-plan-puts-nitish-kumar-in-oppn-firing-line-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-oRSTgGjekFGyg1mxwQzF5N.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra to give Rs 2000 to state’s 12 lakh registered construction workers||The Maharashtra government will provide financial assistance of Rs 2000 to all the registered construction workers in the state to tide over the crisis during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections, officials said on Saturday.This one-time monetary help will be sent directly to the bank accounts of more than 12 lakh construction workers through direct benefit transfer (DBT), the officials said.The decision to give the assistance, taken by the state labour department on Saturday, will bring an additional burden of around Rs 250 crore to the state exchequer.“To contain the spread of Covid-19 epidemic, lockdown is being imposed in the state. This has led to shutting down of all the construction works across Maharashtra. Consequently, construction workers have no work. They have to stay at home and are also facing a financial crisis as they have no source of income,” an order issued by the labour department said.“Considering this, the state government has decided to provide financial help to all the registered and active construction workers,” it said.The order came days after hundreds of migrant labourers, mostly from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, gathered outside the Bandra railway station demanding that they be sent back to their homes. Only those workers who are registered with the state’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCWWB) will be eligible to get the monetary assistance. Their registration is also expected to be active, which means renewed every year, said SC Srirangam, the board’s secretary and chief executive officer.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India rise to 14,378, death toll at 480Maharashtra has 22.70 lakh registered construction workers but only 12.18 lakh who are active, will get benefit of the decision, Srirangam said.Meanwhile, the state has decided to allow construction work in cities, including Mumbai and Pune, with a rider that prior permission from civic authorities will be mandatory.According to the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Friday, the state has given permission for all urgent pre-monsoon works. The Maharashtra government has started to allow relaxation of rules in several areas of the state.The new rules will come into effect from April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-to-give-rs-2000-to-state-s-12-lakh-registered-construction-workers/story-8RNtXvdWlNv405MiLdUEqO.html
18-04-2020||India||Air India opens domestic bookings from May 4, international from June 1||Air India on Saturday announced it has opened bookings on select domestic and international routes from May 4 and June 1, respectively.“Bookings for select domestic flights for travel from May 4, 2020, and for international flights for travel from June 1, 2020 onwards are open,” it stated.There is currently a nationwide lockdown till May 3 to check the spread of coronavirus disease.The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14. All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended during this period.On April 3, Air India stopped bookings, both domestic and international, till the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-opens-domestic-bookings-from-may-4-international-destinations-from-june-1/story-Wh7HXCwqW9LBqmJ3dfg9TP.html
18-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 trajectory dips, with cases doubling in 6 to 8 days now||India’s Covid-19 cases rose by 16 per cent over the last two days to 13,835 till Friday night, data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare indicated. This is a relatively slower increase compared to the previous 48 hours, when the country’s case count rose 28 per cent to 11,933. On Saturday morning, however, the number of coronavirus positive cases stood at 14,378.The country’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases has taken a dip and currently stands at 6.2 days, at some places 8 days instead of the earlier three days, the Union Health Ministry had said on Friday. The dip in the coronavirus growth trajectory has a lot to do with the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. The lockdown was later extended till May 3. Before the first phase of the lockdown, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases was about 3 days, but according to data in the past 7 days, the doubling rate of cases now stands at 6.2 days. Doubling rate in 19 states and union territories are even lower than average doubling rate of the country, according to ministry data.ALSO READ | Coronavirus update: 25 Indian Navy personnel test positive for Covid-19So far this week, the number of cases has gone up by 64 percent (between Sunday evening and Friday evening). This is a slower increase compared to the previous five days, when confirmed cases had risen by 76 percent.Despite India’s Covid-19 trajectory tapering slightly, it continues to be steeper compared to Asian peers such as Singapore, Japan, Indonesia, and Pakistan. India’s curve is flatter than that of several Western nations where the virus has claimed far more lives. The country’s death toll as of Saturday morning is 480.India’s case count is now roughly double of what it was eight days ago. This is a slower rate compared to a few days ago, when cases were doubling every four days. At the current rate of compounded growth, the number of cases could rise to 20,000 by Tuesday. This Covid-19 trajectory needs to slow down further if India is to avoid getting its hospitals and other medical facilities overwhelmed in the next few months.ALSO READ | After lockdown, Covid-19 case doubling rate dipped from 3 to 6.2 days: GovtIndia’s death toll from the Covid-19 disease is rising at a faster pace, however, compared to the case count. The death toll on Friday evening was 452, double than what it was six days ago.Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit in the pandemic, leads in terms of the number of active cases of Covid-19, according to the health ministry update on Friday evening. Active cases exclude deaths and recoveries from the list of confirmed cases.The number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra has already crossed the 3000 mark.National capital Delhi has the second most number of positive cases (1707), closely followed by Madhya Pradesh (1,186). Tamil Nadu also has a very high concentration of coronavirus positive patients.These are current figures and the state-wise distribution could escalate in the coming days. Testing across states has been uneven and as testing gets ramped up with more testing facilities being introduced, more Covid-19 cases could come to light in states where reported cases have been low so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-trajectory-dips-with-cases-doubling-in-6-to-8-days-now/story-cI3W4snAmwUkOZGi5tMzFN.html
18-04-2020||India||Odisha announces Rs 100-cr Covid-19 package, Rajnath holds review meet: 10 points||The total number of coronavirus cases in India is inching toward the 15,000-mark. On Saturday, the Ministry of Health updated the country’s tally to 14,378. The figure includes 11,906 active cases, 1,991 people who have been cured or discharged and 480 Covid-19 fatalities. The country entered the fourth day of the extended lockdown on Saturday that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The lockdown will now come to an end on May 3. Here are the key developments:1. Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of senior Union ministers at his residence on Saturday. The ministers discussed the coronavirus situation prevailing in the country and ways in which various ministries can tackle the crisis.2. “The guidelines to allow limited activities and the measures announced by RBI were also appreciated,” the defence minister tweeted out after the review meeting.Interacted with the GoM on the COVID-19 situation. We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people. The guidelines to allow limited activities and the measures announced by RBI were also appreciated. pic.twitter.com/xUGfaSmV8L3. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a new rapid testing protocol that allows states to use rapid testing kits wherever they want, including in Covid-19 containment zones and hotspots.4. With 1,099 coronavirus cases, Gujarat became the sixth Indian state with more than 1,000 coronavirus cases besides Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. 5. Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, in its editorial mouthpiece Saamana, lauded Rahul Gandhi’s recent press briefing on the coronavirus situation. “But Gandhi has to be praised for the stand he has taken in the present crisis. He has created a model code of conduct on how an opposition party should behave when the country is faced with a crisis,” it said.6. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday announced a Rs 100-crore package to provide livelihood support to around 4.5 lakh urban poor families affected by the Covid-19 lockdown.7. 25 naval personnel tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai. Navy sources on Saturday said that most of them are asymptomatic and have been traced to a single sailor who tested positive on April 7. 20 of these sailors are from INS Angre, a shore establishment in Mumbai. 8. The department of telecommunication (DoT) has asked state governments to use its service for tracking people under quarantine through mobile telephony to augment measures to check the spread of the coronavirus.9. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday was slammed by the leading opposition party in the state, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), for not evacuating students from Kota, Rajasthan.10. In a bid to bridge the losses due to the coronavirus lockdown, the Railway Ministry may trim the salaries and allowances of over 13 lakh officers and employees, HT ‘s Hindi language publication, Live Hindustan reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-odisha-announces-rs-100-crore-covid-19-package-rajnath-holds-review-meet-10-points/story-iRGsi7lutgxGFouxM9kjiO.html
18-04-2020||India||Delhi Covid-19 cases close to 2000-mark, Arvind Kejriwal calls a review meet||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair a cabinet meeting on Saturday afternoon to review the coronavirus situation in the national capital, a news agency reported. Delhi is close to registering two thousand positive cases with the tally presently at over 1800 cases including 72 recoveries and 42 casualties.The city-state hopes to increase testing of suspects with the help of approximately one lakh rapid testing kids meant for quick antibody detection. The current daily average of tests done in the month of April in Delhi is under a 1000 samples. Its average of 930 tests per million population, however, is much higher than the national average of 220.The AAP government has offered a major relief to parents by instructing private schools to only charge tuition fees till the time schools do not reopen due to the lockdown. It also asked private schools to only charge monthly fees as against the practice of charging fees for a quarter in advance. They have also been advised against a fee hike without government’s sanction. In another important relief, the government is offering Rs 5,000 as immediate cash assistance for over one lakh autorickshaw drivers in the capital. The process of verification of their identities is currently on and the first batch of verified drivers have already been paid.Delhi government is also distributing ration to those without ration card through distribution centres established in about 400 schools across Delhi.The Congress on Friday had asked Delhi government to give ration and cash incentives to daily wagers and migrant workers to prevent them from leaving the city during the national lockdown.The Congress had also asked the Delhi government to completely waive school fees for three months to provide succour to parents and demanded that the government funded 75 per cent salaries of teachers in aided schools. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-close-to-2000-mark-arvind-kejriwal-calls-a-review-meet/story-9fbRoLGvV3QEWzORDt9keP.html
18-04-2020||India||Centre tells states to use mobile tracking method for quarantine enforcement||The Union government’s telecommunications department is offering states the ability to mass track people using mobile network tower data, offering a platform that can let ground-level authorities create virtual geo-fences for those meant to be in quarantine, as well as a second service that can let officials send out SMS messages to people in a specific area for Covid-19 containment efforts.Officials in several states have acknowledged previously that they use mobile network information to monitor those meant to be under quarantine, but the Centre’s pitch to other states that are not using such services at present details how these tools work and the sort of legal authorization behind it. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe first service, a mobile device surveillance system called Covid Quarantine Alert System, uses cellphone tower – also called a base transceiver station (BTS) – data to determine the approximate location of a person. If this person has been put on a watch-list, the system throws up an alert if their phone goes out of that geographic area and connects to a different BTS, according to an official who asked not to be named.To put someone on a watch-list, state authorities will need to send the person’s phone number to the department of telecom (DoT). An alert will also be sent if a mobile number if switched off for too long, the official quoted above said, adding that the tracking will not work if people leave their phones behind.“As on April 16, we tracked the movement of 70,422 persons in states including Bihar, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh. The service is authorised by the home secretary of the respective states and is allowed under the provision of section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph’s act for public emergency,” the person quoted above said.The law invoked, telegraph act’s section 5(2), is used for legal interception of telecommunications that is allowed in the Indian constitution under specific conditions, such as for national security and to prevent a crime. Breaking quarantine is a criminal offence under Section 188 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, which has been invoked since India declared the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a health emergency.The second service, called Covid-19 Savdhan, too has been deployed by some states. “Covid-19 Savdhan allows messaging in a targeted geographic area, we can send message to targeted groups, narrowing it down to one mobile tower. It is of great use in the hotspots and containment zones. This is again being done in Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Goa, Sikkim, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” the functionary quoted above said.To get more states to start using these utilities, the Union government first reached out through the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The DoT will now write to the chief secretaries of those that have not adopted it, the person quoted above said, adding that both services are free of charge. The official also said that states will not be passed on the names of the mobile phone users. “It is a non-intrusive way of checking if a person is within the tower area; we don’t monitor the phone usage,” this person added. A second official who occupies a senior post in the telecom department, said the tools have been developed by C-DOT to help health and disaster management authorities. “Covid Savdhan application, in particular, enables authorities to reach out to all mobile subscribers in any particular containment zone up to the level of individual mobile tower and convey targeted messages about health, well-being, water supply etc by means of SMS in local language,” this person added.The messaging service is available in all regional languages, and so far 26 million messages have been sent out through the platform for Covid-19 related communication till now. C-Dot is a government agency that develops computer applications for use in telecommunications.Experts said for the government legally use such surveillance mechanisms,there needs to be an order issued by the Union as well as the state governments. “The systems of mass surveillance which are being deployed are being done without any clear legal authority or limits. While the Telegraph Act does permit the government to place people under surveillance, it also contains safeguards which must be followed. It also remains an open question how the Central government’s cellphone tracking data will integrate with the data gathered by the Aarogya Setu app,” said Apar Gupta from the Internet Freedom Foundation, who was one of the lawyers in a PIL filed by the PUCL that led to the codification of the guidelines under section 5(2). “While there is a concept in health about disaster and epidemic tracking, those are applied only to people who fall sick. These steps are larger in ambit and the fundamental right to privacy is breached. The government should be transparent and issue orders, while letting people know that this is a temporary measure, that a complaint officer will be instated, and talk about how the data will be dealt with once the pandemic is over,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima of the digital rights group Access Now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-to-use-mobile-tracking-method-for-quarantine-enforcement/story-6lEzD9lNPuVQdhOSsgrSgJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath’s Kota evacuation plan puts Nitish Kumar in oppn firing line||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday came under fire from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the leading opposition party in the state, for not evacuating it students from Kota in Rajasthan but its ally, the Congress, sided with the state government.Lalu Prasad’s heir apparent and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav squarely blamed chief minister Nitish Kumar for washing his hands off students and migrant labourers stranded outside the state because of the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.What has set the political cauldron boiling is the decision by Uttar Pradesh to send around 250 buses to evacuate approximately 7,500 medical and engineering aspirants from Kota, often described as India’s coaching capital for competitive exams.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Bihar has been maintaining that the Rajasthan government should take care of the students in Kota and provide them security, as ferrying them back to their respective states was against the lockdown norms.In a televised message Saturday, chief minister Nitish Kumar assured people of the state, stranded outside, that his government was making every effort to extend all possible help to them through its resident commissioners and the disaster management department.Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) found support from an unexpected corner, with the Congress praising the chief minister on his stand.“The UP government has flouted lockdown norms by sending buses to fetch its students from Kota. The Congress government in Rajasthan has assured to extend facilities, including food, to the students there. On this, Nitish Kumar has agreed not to send buses to fetch its students. We support Kumar on this stand and in honouring lockdown norms. It is not just about the students in Kota. Lakhs of Biharis, who have gone out in pursuit of education and job, are stranded outside. We are with the government in its effort to contain the coronavirus pandemic. This is no time to play politics over it,” said Congress MLC and national spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra.In an open letter, the RJD leader, however, asked Kumar how other BJP-ruled states were so capable (to protect the interest of their people), while Bihar, which had a coalition government with the BJP, found itself so “helpless”.He also said that Bihar was “indecisive” and “rude” in dealing with the hapless migrant labourers and students stranded outside the state during lockdown.Yadav said other BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh had shown empathy towards their people stranded outside and taken action to bring them home, while Bihar had left them in the lurch.“The Gujarat government had made arrangements to bring back 1800 people stranded in Haridwar in 28 luxury buses during the lockdown. Similarly, UP had dispatched 200 buses, which made several trips, to bring back its people from Delhi NCR, while it made arrangements to send 250 buses to bring back its 7,500 students from Kota,” said Yadav in his letter, which he also posted on his Facebook page.On April 13, Bihar had lodged its strong protest with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla over what it said was flagrant violation of the lockdown norms by the Rajasthan government in issuing private vehicle passes for transportation of people to Bihar. It had even sought action against the Kota district magistrate for issuing private vehicle passes during the lockdown.Meanwhile, BJP distanced itself from the controversy, saying it was not the right time to play politics.“The Bihar government is assessing the whole situation and doing its best to serve Biharis within and outside the state. Our chief minister has ensured help to Bihar natives residing anywhere in the country. It’s not the time to play politics during coronavirus pandemic,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.On UP’s action, he said, “India is fighting against coronavirus in the best possible manner under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. Every state is doing its best to serve its people. The UP government took the best decision in the interest of its native students, after assessing its situation.”The Janata Dal (United), however, was not the same page with the BJP on UP’s decision to send buses to Kota to bring back its students.“It is against the norms of lockdown,” said a JD (U) leader, requesting anonymity.Efforts to reach JD (U) spokesperson Niraj Kumar, also Bihar’s minister for information and public relations department, proved futile.Kota draws thousands of students from all over the country, including Bihar, who enrol in institutes to prepare for IIT-JEE and National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test for undergraduate engineering and medical courses, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-nitish-kumar-gets-flak-for-not-evacuating-students-from-kota/story-vEPSXWzFds8nrgrTJpfOTI.html
18-04-2020||India||Watch: Slaps and fistfight in scuffle between vegetable seller, Mumbai Police||A scuffle broke out between a vegetable seller and Mumbai police on Friday after the vendor was not allowed to sell. The hawker was trying to sell vegetables in a containment zone in Mumbai’s Mankhurd when the police asked her to clear the area keeping in view the coronavirus lockdown guidelines. In a video released by news agency ANI, the female hawker is seen resisting police personnel. While the police tried to control her, the woman kept getting aggressive and started hitting a policewoman.Maharashtra Police has kept its grip tightened on lockdown abusers. Earlier this week, police personnel in Pune made lockdown violators perform yoga. #WATCH Mumbai: A scuffle broke out between a hawker and police personnel yesterday after she was not allowed to sell vegetables in a containment area in Mankhurd. A case has been registered in the matter by police. (Source - Amateur video) #Maharashtra #CoronaLockdown pic.twitter.com/NGhaUypxIxIn a video, police in Pune’s Bibvewadi area rounded up people who ventured out for a morning walk and made them perform yoga and exercises on the road.In another video, police in Maharashtra’s Kondhwa made about 100 people who were found violating the lockdown orders do sit-ups and exercises.Earlier this month, Maharashtra Police had registered over 35,000 offences across the state against those violating prohibitory orders and quarantine guidelines during the lockdown.Mumbai is one of the top coronavirus hotspots in the country. Of Maharashtra’s 3,323 coronavirus cases, 2,085 come from Mumbai. Country’s financial capital has seen 122 fatalities while 227 patients have been cured or discharged, Mumbai health department’s coronavirus dashboard mentions. Maharashtra has seen 331 patients recover while 201 people have succumbed to death due to novel coronavirus in the state. India has 14,378 total cases of coronavirus infections which include 11,906 active cases, 1,991 people who have been cured or discharged and 480 fatalities. The country entered the fourth day of the lockdown extension that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The lockdown has been extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-slaps-and-fistfight-in-scuffle-between-vegetable-seller-mumbai-police/story-siUGJjx4Gta4vrMdFGxvcP.html
18-04-2020||India||Economic action in non-hotspot zones begins April 20, Rajnath Singh reviews||As the government gets ready to ease the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a group of ministers (GoM) on Saturday met and discussed issues relating to restoration of partial economic activity in “non-hotspot zones” from April 20, two officials familiar with the deliberations said.The GoM on Covid-19, chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, has met five times since March 25 to review the country’s preparedness to combat the pandemic, spell out measures to provide relief to people and pass on the inputs of various ministries to the Prime Minister’s Office.“We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people,” Singh tweeted after chairing the meeting at his residence. He said the guidelines to allow limited activities after April 20 and the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India amid the coronavirus crisis were also appreciated.The GoM met a day after the PMO held a preparatory meeting with officials of seven key ministries to go through the fine details of partially relaxing the ongoing lockdown, a move aimed at restarting activity in select sectors of the Indian economy.As reported by Hindustan Times on Friday, the meeting, chaired by PM Narendra Modi’s Principal Secretary P K Mishra, primarily focused on getting workers to factories and back, and on the systems and processes states need to put in place for effective implementation of the guidelines for a partial exit from the lockdown as laid out in a home ministry order of April 15.The partial relaxation of restrictions will allow economic activities to restart to an extent and also provide much-needed employment to people, especially daily wage earners.“The GoM appreciated disbursement of Rs 31,000 crore to more than 33.25 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to mitigate the problems of economically weaker sections of population,” said one of the officials cited above.The second official said the ministers also examined suggestions to enlist services of retired doctors, health professionals and medical students in the final year of graduation to strengthen the national effort to combat the fast spreading disease.He said the GoM also reiterated its appeal to citizens to observe social distancing norms and stay away from participating in mass prayers or religious congregations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-action-in-non-hotspot-zones-begins-april-20-rajnath-singh-reviews/story-IvLsCfEzT385whIf936JtI.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Lockdown: UP woman falls sick while standing in queue for ration, dies||A 35-year-old woman who fell sick while standing in a queue at a shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district to collect free ration being distributed during lockdown died at a hospital, officials said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday. Police have sent the body for post-mortem, they said.“We got information about the death of a woman while standing in a queue outside a shop to get rice. The district supply officer has been sent to the spot. The cause of death is not yet clear, and it is being said that she died of heart attack. Once the (post-mortem) report comes, her family will be helped,” District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said.District Supply Officer Ramendra Pratap Singh said, “As per the villagers, the woman died of heart attack. The matter is being probed.” “Since the phone network was not proper and the internet was slow, it was taking time to print the vouchers. As a result, the distribution of ration was taking time,” he said.The Uttar Pradesh government is providing free ration to the poor during the nationwide lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus. With businesses shut, many have been rendered jobless and have run out of cash to buy food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-up-woman-falls-sick-while-standing-in-queue-for-ration-dies/story-cZHOuwT7NrFbx9W8gkoDfK.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: Andhra Covid-19 toll reaches 15, positive cases at 603||One more coronavirus patient died in Andhra Pradesh, taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties in the southern state to 15, officials said on Saturday. The latest death took place on Friday in Krishna district, which has seen five deaths due to the disease—the maximum in the state.The state also registered 31 new positive cases of Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, raising the total number of patients to 603. 18 of the 31 new cases were reported from Krishna district alone and five were from Kurnool.Kurnool accounts for the maximum number of coronavirus cases till now at 129, followed by 126 in Guntur, 70 in Krishna, 67 in Nellore, 44 in Prakasam, 37 in Kadapa, 35 in West Godavari, 30 in Chittoor, 26 in Anantapur and 20 in Visakhapatnam.A total of 42 patients have so far recovered and were discharged from hospitals bringing down the number of active cases to 546.State nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth said the testing of samples would pick up speed from Saturday as the state had imported one lakh rapid testing kits from South Korea for the purpose of community testing.Officials said a door to door survey will be carried out and those with symptoms and those living in red zones will be tested at their doorsteps.“Since the test result would be out within 10-15 minutes, it would help the officials prevent the spread of Covid-19 to a large extent,” Sreekanth said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-andhra-covid-19-toll-reaches-15-positive-cases-at-603/story-1RAoptDWI8ffiav8sRrIMI.html
18-04-2020||India||Govt should allow Covid-19 negative migrants to go home: PIL in Supreme Court||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to allow migrant labourers, who test negative for the coronavirus disease, to go back to their homes amid the extended lockdown, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. According to ANI, the private litigation, one of many such pleas, said the government should allow for “their safe travel to their hometowns and villages and provide necessary transportation” from cities to their homes.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Hundreds of thousands of migrant workers are stuck in several states after the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24 to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. They have borne the brunt after the 21-day lockdown was subsequently extended up to May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and were left without money to buy food or pay rent.The PIL was filed by lawyer Prashant Bhushan on behalf of Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), former professor and founder trustee Jagdeep S Chhokar and advocate Gaurav Jain.The petition said the migrant workers, who are amongst the worst affected due to the ongoing lockdown, must be allowed to go back to their homes after being tested for Covid-19.Also read| Mapping Covid-19: Most of India’s economic hotspots under grip of coronavirus“Those who test negative for COVID-19 must not be forcefully kept in shelters or away from their homes and families against their wishes. That the government should allow for their safe travel to their hometowns and villages and provide necessary transportation for the same,” the petition said.The plea said a large number of migrant workers wish to go back to their native villages to live with their families and it was evident from the sudden rush in the wake of the initial 21-days national lockdown that led to chaos at various bus terminals.It pointed out that it led to tragic deaths of many such migrant workers who were left with no option but to travel hundreds of kilometres to their home on foot.Also read: Woes mount, migrants stare at long road to normalcy“Recently, there have been media reports which show that migrant workers are protesting on streets in some places due to non-payment of their wages and demanding to return to their native villages,” the plea said.It also said these reports show that migrant workers are being harassed by the local residents and even beaten in some cases.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The fundamental rights of migrant workers cannot be suspended for an indefinite period forcing them to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions, the plea added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-allow-covid-19-negative-migrants-to-go-home-pil-in-supreme-court/story-LA07epk82YIi7nBZ6sNEjJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 2.0: Centre gears up for biggest surge in demand for jobs under MGNREGS||As tens and thousands of daily wage workers have flocked back to their home states amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the Centre is gearing up for a surge in demand for jobs in the employment scheme MGNREGS.During fiscal 2020-21, the government made an initial provision for 280.76 crore persondays of work – the highest ever – to cater to jobless workers after the closure of many business establishments due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Last year, the MGNREGS (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) generated 276.76 crore persondays, which was attributed largely due to drought in vast stretches in India. This year, despite the predictions of a normal monsoon, the Union rural development ministry has arranged for more MGNREGS work.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageBetween fiscal 2016-17 and fiscal 2018-19, the world’s largest job guarantee scheme generated 256.56 crore, 231.31 core and 220.93 crore persondays of work, respectively.The higher persondays – or people demanding more jobs – may also push the government to inject more money into the scheme as it has to pay higher per capita wages due to an upward revision of wages from April 1.The Centre has made an upward hike of between Rs 13 and Rs 34, the highest in the past six years. Last year, 10 states saw a zero hike and in one case, the wage rate was lowered. The new wages will help 12.8 crore MGNREGS workers.“It is clear that the government will require to pump in more funds as a huge section of the Indian workforce will see MGNREGS as their lifeline in this situation,” said Himangshu, an economist at the Jawaharlal Nehru University.Rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar reviewed all flagship schemes of his ministry on Thursday, and also took into account the release of Rs 7300 crore under MGNREGS to clear pending dues of fiscal 2019-20 and to meet the wage dues for the first fortnight of 2020-21.Tomar advised his ministry to assist 40 lakh beneficiaries of the rural housing scheme (PMAYG), who have received up to the third instalment of funds, to help them quickly complete their houses. The Centre has released Rs 800.63 crore to the states out of the budget of Rs.19,500 crore.But as the focus remains sharply on MGNREGS, which provides employment in distress, the Centre has allowed rural jobs to resume from April 20 outside the Covid-19 hot spots.Officials in the rural ministry indicated big construction projects that involve a large number of workers might be avoided for some time to adhere to social distancing rules, and smaller projects, such as building farm ponds, cattle shed or houses under PMAYG, will be pushed.But as many workers may not be willing to come to work while ignoring health risks, economist Reetika Khera said the government should consider giving some wages even if they sit at home. “We also have to bear in mind that like us, MGNREGS workers will be nervous about joining works that involve gatherings. This will be an impediment to claiming their legal right. In this situation, the government should give 10 days of wages to every MGNREGS workers for three months. Further, the government must fix the issue of failed and diverted payments arising due to the Aadhaar-payment bridge system.”Meanwhile, the Centre has identified a host of best rural Indian practices and the Union panchayeti raj ministry is trying to see if other states replicate some of these models. These models include a postman taking micro-ATM to villages to provide cash at the doorstep amid the lockdown in Uttar Pradesh’s Siddharth Nagar or villagers in a Kerala stitching and distributing about 18 lakh cotton masks through 300 tailoring units, while 21 micro firms prepared 2,700 litres of sanitiser.In Meerut, more than 2,800 sanitation workers were provided masks, sanitisers, soaps and gloves to help them in their daily duty of keeping villages clean. In Dadra and Nagar Haveli, daily meals are provided to the needy and stray cattle and animals, according to an official communication.The Union Territory has distributed more than 130,000 hand sanitisers and 17,000 masks free of cost in rural areas. Its gram panchayats are distributing handbills and pamphlets to create awareness among the public. The communique further said all high-rise building lifts are being sanitised and younger people are advised to let only senior citizens, pregnant women and disabled people use elevators.The rural panchayat network in Andhra Pradesh has focused on door-to-door survey and distribution of masks. The state has set a target of distributing about 16 crore masks while it undertakes the third round of door-to-door survey, according to the government communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gears-up-for-biggest-surge-in-demand-for-jobs-under-mgnregs/story-kKmaq6D5vL8wvl2lMFPTiP.html
18-04-2020||India||Over 2,000 Jagannath temple servitors to receive Rs 5,000 each amid Covid-19 lockdown||With the 11th century Jagannath temple in Puri shutting down for over a month amid the coronavirus crisis, the temple administration on Friday decided to give Rs 5,000 to each of its 2100 servitors working in the temple.Odisha had shut its most famous temple for pilgrims from March 20 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease. With no devotees visiting the temple, cash donations from devotees, the major source of earning for the priests there has stopped.Jitendra Sahu, who is the administrator of rituals in the temple, said Rs 1.06 crore would be given to the 2,130 sevayat (priests or servitors) of the temple. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) will credit Rs 5,000 to the bank accounts of each servitor, Sahu said.“This is a welcome step. I, on behalf of the servitors and the Temple Managing Committee, thank the chief administrator and the deputy chief administrator of the temple administration for this decision,” said Ramachandra Dasmohapatra, a servitor and member of the Temple Managing Committee.Priests at other temples demand financial assistancePriests of other temples in Odisha have also demanded assistance from the government. At Sakshigopal temple, a shrine of Lord Vishnu located 40 kilometres away from Jagannath temple, over 200 priests are having a tough time amid the lockdown. Every day thousands of people who came to Puri used to visit the 400-year-old temple until the lockdown was enforced amid the coronavirus pandemic last month.“We are entirely dependent on the generosity of the pilgrims. We are somehow keeping up the rituals of the Lord. As Jagannath temple is cash-rich, they could give money to the priests. Who will look after us,” said Shaymsundar Mohapatra, a senior priest at the temple.Similarly, hundreds of priests in Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar have also demanded financial assistance from the government. “We thought we would earn something from the Rukuna Rathyatra last month. But we were disappointed after it was cancelled. How long will we go on like this,” asked Kamalakanta Badu, a priest of the temple. Uncertainty over Rath Yatra loomsThe financial assistance to the families of the temple priests has come at a time when there is a lot of uncertainty over the conduct of the annual Rath Yatra on June 23. The annual Chandan Jatra of Lord Jagannath scheduled on April 26 at Narendra Pokhari (pond) in Puri would be held without the participation of devotees in view of the lockdown. The slicing of the wooden logs for the car festival has already started and the construction of the three chariots is scheduled to start on April 26.Though Puri is not in the list of Covid-19 hotspots of the country, there is still a lot of doubt if the annual car festival can be held this year. “Whether Rath Yatra will be organised or not this year is under discussion. No decision has been taken so far in this regard. We will take a final call on it soon,” said state law minister Pratap Jena.The lockdown had led to the cancellation of another famous car festival in Bhubaneswar, the Rukuna Rathayatra, on April 1.  For the first time in its history, the annual car festival of Lord Lingaraj in Bhubaneswar on the occasion of Ashokastami could not be held this year due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.During the occasion, the idols of Lord Lingaraj along with Gopalini (Parvati), Kumara and Nandikesvara and an image of Govinda are taken out in a chariot from Lingaraj temple to Rameswaram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2000-jagannath-temple-servitors-to-receive-rs-5000-each-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-g4sZwzxDze37DMwncJ7lfO.html
18-04-2020||India||In Cong’s team on Covid-19, Rahul Gandhi a member. Manmohan Singh heads it||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday constituted a consultative group, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, to deliberate on current matters related to the coronavirus outbreak and formulate the party’s views on various issues.The 11-member group also comprises former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who will also be its convenor, general secretary in-charge organisation KC Venugopal and former union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh.This is for the first time after he stepped down as the Congress president on May 25 last year following the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections that Rahul Gandhi has become a member of a newly formed organisational panel.Even after his resignation from the top post, he continued to be a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, the central election committee (CEC), a panel that selects candidates for any state or Lok Sabha polls, the election coordination committee and the group to look into future challenges.Rahul Gandhi also held strategy meetings during the budget session of Parliament that concluded last month.In a press release, the party said the consultative group will meet virtually, normally every day, to deliberate on matters of current concern and formulate views of the party on various issues.The other members of the group are Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate and Rohan Gupta.Explaining the functioning of the group, a member said on the condition of anonymity that the panel will give suggestions to the government on both health and economic challenges.“Economic pandemic is even bigger than the health pandemic. As Rahul Gandhi had said that the Congress as the principal opposition and the country’s oldest political party will continue to give its suggestions; irrespective, if the government accepts those or not,” he said.“We are duty bound to place in public domain the challenges and the solutions thereof in terms of way ahead. It is deeply felt by many many people in the country that the government is doing very little in terms of laying down a roadmap for kick-starting the economy and its strategy for economic recovery,” the member added.He said the group will have wider consultations with chief ministers, former chief ministers, former union ministers, party leaders, non-Congress leaders and experts.“Apart from suggestions and solutions, the group will keep coming out with warnings to the government about the forthcoming challenges,” the member said.He said Rahul Gandhi’s press conference on Thursday laid down a blueprint for constructive suggestions and positive criticism.“He happens to be the leader who is a rallying point for the party even though he may not hold any post. That is why with Dr Manmohan Singh, him and Chidambaram there, this committee will be able to lay down a futuristic roadmap for the country,” the member said.Both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have been interacting with party leaders from across the country through video-conferencing, urging them to play an active role in the fight against the deadly Covid-19 by reaching out to maximum number of people in distress due to the nationwide lockdown apart from assessing the work of the Centre and state governments in containing the pandemic in their respective states.The Congress has repeatedly demanded scaling up the testing and providing personal protection equipment (PPE) to doctors, nurses and health workers.It has also urged the government to spell out steps it planned to take to mitigate the woes of migrant labourers stranded on the borders of different states and those of the farmers waiting to harvest crops.The Congress has further demanded state-specific special economic packages and urged the Centre to clear all pending dues, including the GST, to states to enable them to fight the pandemic.It said the government must ensure phased lifting of the lockdown and coordinate with states to mitigate the sufferings of the poor.For her part, the Congress chief has written six letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi since March 23, seeking relief for different sections and suggesting measures to the government in dealing with the coronavirus.Addressing a news conference on Thursday through video-conferencing, Rahul Gandhi had said lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button and stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.While seeking immediate release of money and resources to states to enable them to deal with the pandemic in a nuanced manner, Rahul Gandhi urged the government to manage its funding to enable the country to tide over the massive financial backlash due to coronavirus.“One must keep in mind that do not use all our ammunition right now, because if you use all your ammunition right now, and we end up 2-3 months from now with a serious financial blowback. We have a real serious problem. So, it has to be thought through strategically. My advice is give out as much money to the poorest, weakest people as you can, but, keep in mind that there is going to be a financial backlash,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-sets-up-new-team-on-covid-19-manmohan-singh-plays-lead-role/story-Wa77wI4HGnKV5nIUTD6TbP.html
18-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Chhattisgarh to evacuate students from Rajasthan’s Kota||The Chhattisgarh government is preparing to evacuate students from the state stranded in Kota in Rajasthan due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, a senior minister said Saturday. A day after Uttar Pradesh evacuated 7,500 medical and engineering aspirants from Kota, the Chhattisgarh government has asked parents of the stranded students to contact their respective collectors and furnish all details and said it is making all preparations to bring back the student in next few days.All collectors of the state have been asked to make lists of students stranded in Kota, a hub of coaching centres for competitive examinations.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“At the meeting with chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday, officers were instructed to make a list of students who are stranded in Kota. We are very serious about the stranded students. I appeal the parents of such students to furnish all details to the collectors,” said Chatttisgrah Revenue and Disaster Management Minister Jai Singh Agarwal. The government was getting hundreds of requests from the parents of these students, he said.“Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel spoke to the Rajasthan Chief Minister about this issue and decided to bring back the students as soon as possible. We are yet to decide how to bring them back to Chhattisgarh but we have informed Kota district administration also and urged them to provide a list of Chhattisgarh students stranded in Kota,” Agarwal said.On Friday, Uttar Pradesh government sent about 250 buses to bring back its students from Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-chhattisgarh-to-evacuate-students-from-rajasthan-s-kota/story-xXu1ZJshX30zutGTzyeigK.html
18-04-2020||India||9-month-old baby of man who attended Tablighi Jamaat event contracts Covid-19||A nine-month-old infant who is among the latest coronavirus cases detected in Uttarakhand contracted the infection from his father after he returned from a Tablighi Jamaat congregation, officials said on Saturday.They did not say where the congregation was held or when the infant’s father had tested positive.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The infant is one of the three new coronavirus cases detected in Uttarakhand on Friday. The number of cases in the state after these fresh infections has risen to 40, a health department spokesperson said.The baby is quarantined at a school in Jakhan area of Dehradun, he said.According to the spokesperson, the infant’s father is one of the 10 Tablighi Jamaat members under treatment for Covid-19 in Dehradun. He is admitted to the isolation ward at the Doon Hospital.However, the baby’s mother has tested negative for Covid-19, he said.The other two persons who tested positive on Friday were a woman officer posted at a military hospital here and a Tablighi Jamaat member from Nainital district, the spokesperson said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The woman officer had recently returned from training in Lucknow. Contact tracing of the officer is underway, he said.The Tablighi Jamaat member is undergoing treatment at Sushila Tiwari Hospital, Haldwani, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-month-old-baby-of-uttarakhand-man-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-contracts-covid-19/story-lL7TmW8C9Tk8Q3kpkwgf7H.html
18-04-2020||India||States can use rapid testing for containment zones and hot spots: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a new rapid testing protocol that allow states to use rapid testing kits wherever they want, including in Covid-19 containment zones and hot spots.The new protocol was issued following requests from states, some of which wanted quicker results from tests in affected areas to speedily put in place aggressive containment measures.ICMR director general Balram Bhargava has also written to state chief secretaries and principal health secretaries, asking them to use the rapid testing kits at places they deem fit, provided the protocols are followed.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“I am writing to you with reference to the rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 testing. It is understood that many states intend to use these kits in affected areas…The National Task Force at ICMR has carefully reviewed the data evolving from various countries on use of such kits,” he said in his letter.Also read | Covid-19 virus accidentally leaked by intern at Wuhan lab: Report“Based on available evidence, the testing strategy for Covid-19 has been revised further…”The rapid antibody test is a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of diseases within a specific area or perimeter. This test will only be of use after a minimum of seven days of the onset of symptoms.Experts in the ICMR also said data about these rapid tests is emerging, and the understanding of their utility for diagnosis is still evolving. As of now, rapid tests are mainly useful for epidemiological studies (to know the distribution, patterns and determinants of disease conditions), and for surveillance to get real-time data.Since the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19 diagnosis is the real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-based molecular test, which is aimed at early virus detection, the rapid antibody test cannot replace the frontline test, the ICMR recommended in its revised protocol.An ICMR official, on condition of anonymity, said: “Many states want to go in for aggressive testing in containment zones and want to make use of rapid testing in these areas as they have to test almost everyone with influenza-like illness in those areas. We have drafted the new protocol keeping in mind the requests of the states. However, rapid diagnostic test is ideally a surveillance tool to capture trends. It cannot be used for early diagnosis.”According to the new ICMR protocol, only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness such as fever, cough and cold for seven or more days in hot spot areas should be made to undergo a rapid test.Those who are found positive in the rapid test must be quarantined for at least the next seven days. Those who test negative should also remain under home quarantine for at least seven days as they are in a hot spot area.“If clinical suspicion is high for Covid-19, then perform an RT-PCR test to reach a confirm diagnosis,” the ICMR protocol stated.However, the rapid test is best suited to ascertain disease prevalence in an outbreak situation, and the ICMR has made special recommendations in the revised protocol that testing should also be done as a surveillance tool for epidemiological purposes in such areas where cases have not emerged so far, or areas with few cases that may emerge as potential hot spots in future.Also read: Most of 25 navy men who tested positive for Covid-19 traced to single sailorThe testing, however, has to be done under strict medical supervision.“The IgM antibody that is the first antibody to develop after one gets an infection can help in detecting a recent infection. It can be used in hot spot areas as a supplementary testing modality along with RT-PCR. It’s also cheaper and quicker,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department of the Christian Medical College, Vellore.After delays in procuring kits, India on Thursday received 650,000 kits, including 500,000 antibody testing kits and 100,000 RNA extraction kits, from China. India has tested at least 300,000 samples so far, of which about 14,500 were positive, according to ICMR data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-use-rapid-testing-for-containment-zones-and-hot-spots-icmr/story-EWyP7bkwxGss7sR6ygxX5O.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Hyderabadis to miss haleem this Ramzan due to ban on iftar parties||Hyderabadis will be missing their favourite dish haleem during the Holy month of Ramzan, starting next week, because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown till May 3 that has been enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Haleem, originally an Arabic delicacy that was introduced in Hyderabad during the Asif Jahi dynasty’s rule during the 18th century, has been for long an inseparable part of the menu after offering iftar prayers during Ramzan.The Hindus, too, took to the popular dish, as it spawned a thriving business for over 2,000 small and big restaurants, including several star hotels, and online food ordering and delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato.“Hyderabadi haleem has become a distinct identity of Dakhni culture. Haleem is exported to the Persian Gulf countries after it was granted the geographical indication tag in 2010, ” said Mohd Abdul Majeed, president, Hyderabad Haleem Makers’ Association.Each plate of mutton haleem is priced between Rs 150 and Rs 200 depending on the outlet. The haleem business during Ramzan is estimated to be around Rs 800 crore every year.Unfortunately, haleem will not tickle Hyderabadi gourmet’s palate this Ramzan.The breaking of the day’s fast or, roza, takes place after sundown and haleem would not available at that time because the Telangana government has enforced a strict lockdown restrictions between 6pm and 6am. “There is no possibility of haleem being served, as iftar parties have been banned this Ramzan,” Majeed said.All restaurants and hotels are closed, including the outlets making haleem, because of the ongoing lockdown.“It requires elaborate preparations for making haleem. We have to set up bhattis (ovens) made of mud to cook the mutton, along with ghee, wheat, and spices on a low flame for several hours. We start the preparations as early as 4 am and complete cooking by afternoon, followed by arrangements for distribution. Alas! Nothing can be done this year because of the lockdown,” said Majeed, whose Pista House near Charminar is one of the most sought-after restaurants that serve haleem in the city.Mutton, the key ingredient for haleem, is scarce due to the lockdown even though spices and other cooking materials are still readily available.“We used to get quality meat from Chengicherla slaughterhouse on the outskirts of Hyderabad. But that’s closed because of the lockdown. Even if we manage to get the meat from local suppliers, there’s no demand, as the supply mechanism is disrupted,” he said.Besides, chefs and their assistants have mostly taken off for their respective native places after the restaurants downed their shutters while complying with the government’s lockdown restrictions.“Initially, our association thought of engaging Swiggy and Zomato for home deliveries, but that too is not feasible because of the restriction in movements after 6 pm,” he added.The haleem makers are waiting for the outcome of the Telangana cabinet meeting slated to be held on Sunday on the easing of lockdown curbs in some select sectors on the lines proposed by the Centre from April 20 onwards. “We are planning to meet Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to allow home delivery after 6 pm,” Majeed said.However, the haleem makers are apprehensive that even after May 3 -- when the lockdown is likely to be lifted -- there might be restrictions on hotels and restaurants to avoid mass gatherings, as the government would still strictly enforce social distancing norms.“If the government allows takeaway facilities to function, it may not be a feasible idea to do business, as large crowds would gather near haleem outlets. It doesn’t augur well for us,” he added.Besides the unavailability of haleem, this Ramzan promises to set a different benchmark for the spiritually inclined.Ulemas and Muftis from all schools of Islamic thought have appealed to the members of their community to offer Taraweeh prayers, a special form of Islamic meditation, that involves reading long portions of the Holy Quran, at their respective homes. Taraweeh -- derived from the Arabic word meaning “to rest and relax” – prayers are conducted after Isha, every evening’s last daily prayer.“All Muslims have been urged to partake iftar at home, as sehri, or pre-dawn meal during Ramzan, is done indoors. They have also been requested not to host or attend iftar parties. While staying at home, they shall observe fasting and refrain from holding ijtemas (gatherings) for Taraweeh and recitation of the Holy Quran,” said Mufti Anwar Ahmed of Jamia Nizamia, Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hyderabadis-to-miss-haleem-this-ramzan-due-to-ban-on-iftar-parties/story-wiVrr3HWnVdu2FwzAeN0hK.html
18-04-2020||India||In pics: Tulips in full bloom at Srinagar’s iconic garden amid lockdown||While the country remains in lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, colourful tulips are in full bloom at Srinagar’s iconic garden. An estimated 20 varieties of tulips are sown here every year in winter, mostly imported from Holland, on a cultivation area of around 7 hectares. The plantation of these majestic tulips is usually carried out in the month of December and the flowers come into full bloom by April. Besides an array of tulips blossoming here, an estimated 1.2 million flowers, the garden also boasts of a variety of hyacinths, daffodils and pansies. Srinagar’s Indira Gandhi Memorial Tulip Garden is one of the largest gardens in Asia. Nestled at the foothills of the Zabarwan mountain range, the garden overlooks the picturesque Dal Lake.Every year, Tulip festival begins at the garden to showcase the staggering beauty and variety of these exquisite blossoms at the beginning of spring. The festival takes place annually between March and May. This year, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the garden bears a deserted look but the flowers bloom in all brilliance. Formerly known as the Model Floriculture Center, the Tulip Garden was first opened in the year 2007 by former Chief Minister Gulam Nabi Azad.The garden is spread across 30 acres of land and has a magnificent terraced layout. The garden has seven terraces and each one has a different variety of flowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-tulips-in-full-bloom-at-srinagar-s-iconic-garden-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-k8XUDbddmavuUKNKMJ6FrK.html
18-04-2020||India||Humanity will overcome pandemic, says PM as he hails ministries for helping people in Covid-19 lockdown||Humanity will surely overcome the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he hailed the efforts put in by various ministries to help people during the lockdown, and in the fight against Covid-19. “The world is fighting Covid-19 together. Humanity will surely overcome this pandemic,” Modi wrote on Twitter while retweeting a tweet by the Indian Embassy in Switzerland.Click here for Covid-19 updates “Indian Tricolor of more than 1000 meters in size projected on Matterhorn Mountain, Zermatt, Switzerland to express Solidarity to all Indians in the fight against Covid 19. A big Thank You to @zermatt_tourism for the gesture,” the tweet said. The prime minister also responded to tweets by various ministries and his cabinet colleagues on how efforts were being made to help people amid the lockdown. “Proud of the Indian Railways team. They’ve been continuously helping our citizens in this crucial hour,” Modi said in response to a tweet by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Goyal said that while passenger trains stopped during the lockdown, the Railways did not. “With relentless dedication, hard work and meticulous planning, Railways keeps the nation running smoothly,” he tweeted. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted that he has thanked LOG cylinder delivery personnel for carrying out their responsibility in fulfilling people’s needs during the lockdown. Modi responded by saying, “Kudos to all those working round the clock, across the nation, to ensure India’s energy needs are met.” The Income Tax department said as a relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), income tax refunds worth Rs 5,204 crore have been issued by the CBDT in the last 10 days to nearly 8.2 lakh small businesses in view of the Covid-19 situation. Modi tweeted that the department was committed to helping dynamic small and medium businesses. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri posted on Twitter that coronavirus warriors of the civil aviation sector have now flown 262 flights across 2,64,181 kms with 454 tonnes of medical and essential cargo under Lifeline Udan since 26 March. Reacting to the tweet, the prime minister said, “Ensuring all possible assistance to those who need it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humanity-will-overcome-pandemic-says-pm-as-he-hails-ministries-for-helping-people-in-lockdown/story-Zxlf9dahkQDjo5fJ8tdIhO.html
18-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh starts telemedicine service amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Chhattisgarh government has launched a telemedicine service in Surajpur district to cater to those with common illnesses during the Covid-19 lockdown, officials said on Saturday.Surajpur is the first district to use this mechanism of online diagnosis and treatment of common people through a digital platform.“At this juncture when the focus has shifted entirely to tackling Covid cases, it is important to not ignore other health ailments which might impact the general health of the populace,” Deepak Soni, Surajpur’s collector, said while speaking to HT.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAn ailing person can register themselves and can avail the services of health experts at the district hospital through mobile-based video conferencing.Soni said the link to the service is available on the district’s official website. Once a person registers, they will receive an OTP on their mobile phone and after accepting it they will automatically move to a video call platform where a doctor can diagnose them. “After the diagnosis, the prescription is prepared by the doctor and free home delivery of medicines is made through Jan Aushadhi Kendra which has been linked to the system. The prescribed medicines are delivered to the patient free of cost within an hour after diagnosis,” he said.“The system supplements our efforts of the door to door active surveillance as the records generated are analysed to see if there are any symptoms of Covid-19 among the patients which are getting screened through this telemedicine module,” said the collector.Click here for Covid-19 updatesThe collector added that the district’s Red Cross Society was very helpful in chalking out the telemedicine module.“We are happy to support the telemedicine initiative of the district administration,” RS Singh, member secretary of the Red Cross Society, said.“Our team of volunteers will assist in delivering the medicines to the doorstep of the patient as per the prescription of the doctor. It will prove to be a boon to the people in this difficult time,” Singh said. Chhattisgarh health officials said the government is all set to launch the telemedicine service in all districts of the state.“We have tied already tied-up with telemedicine group, which government of India is promoting. Doctors are also enrolled in that and through 104 services we are launching it,” Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, said.All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, had started its telemedicine service on April 3.The Union health ministry recently issued telemedicine guidelines according to which doctors will be able to write prescriptions based on telephonic, textual or video conversations — chat, images, messaging, emails, fax and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-starts-telemedicine-service-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-1N2QrXxcwBwaxHISYS3bGM.html
18-04-2020||India||Govt injects Rs 36,000 crore of direct cash for farmers since lockdown began||The government has injected nearly Rs 36,000 crore of direct cash for farmers in the lockdown period to get the limping farm sector moving again, but transportion, shortage of labour and markets are yet to pick pace despite relaxations from the ongoing lockdown. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi or PM-KISAN, the income transfer scheme for farmers, the government has transferred Rs 16,927 crore to the bank accounts of nearly 84 million farmers since the country went into lockdown on March 24, according to official data. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 -- one every four months. It was launched on 24 February 2019, when the first instalment was paid. Cash transfers under the programme take place every four months: December to March, April to July and August to November.Under the state-regulated farm insurance scheme, called the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), insurance companies have paid Rs 2,424 crore in claims in 12 states.Banks have also approved farm loans worth Rs 17,800 crore under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to 1.82 million farmers out of a total of 8.3 million application. Also read| Mapping Covid-19: Most of India’s economic hotspots under grip of coronavirusThe payouts are aimed at easing credit crunch in the farm sector. They will help fund operations for harvesting and sowing in the upcoming kharif or summer-sown season. Shortage of labour and transport facilities remain key hurdles for farmers, as social distancing rules are being enforced on farmers and markets. Transporters said despite the Union home ministry’s guidelines, greenlighting several rural-economy sectors to resume operations from April 20, those employed in these sectors lacked “clarity” on various aspects.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “There is still a lot of clarity needed from the government’s side on the guidelines and how and when businesses can resume their operations fully and all of us are still trying to understand this from local authorities,” said Pushkar Singh, the CEO of LetsTransport, a logistics firm. The biggest challenge, Singh said, is that a “lot of migrant workers who work in the logistics sector have left for their homes and it would be a tough task to replace all that workforce in a short period of time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-injects-rs-36-000-crore-of-direct-cash-for-farmers-since-lockdown-began/story-AG7JaghainnyDowg3RN1GI.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Chhattisgarh to buy 75,000 rapid testing kits from Korean firm||The Chhattisgarh government will be procuring high-quality Covid-19 rapid testing kits from a South Korean company within next ten days, the state’s health minister TS Singh Deo said Saturday.Singh Deo said the government would be buying 75,000 high-quality rapid testing kits at a cost of Rs 337 per kit. Goods and services tax would be added to that. “As per the tender, the kits will arrive in the next seven to ten days. The South Korean company based in India was the lowest bidder. The rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India,” he saidFollow coronavirus latest updates here.The minister further said that the deal was possible due continuous interactions with the ambassador of South Korea and the Indian ambassador in South Korea.“The officers of South Korean company have been very cooperative till now,” he said.The Chhattisgarh government had earlier cancelled two short tenders for the purchase of rapid testing kits in the last 15 days.The first tender was cancelled due to a calculation mistake by the final bidder in filling the form while the second tender was cancelled after the bidder claimed that it had less stock.“We will take action against these companies,” said the minister.Chhattisgarh had reported 36 cases of Covid-19 out of which 24 people have been discharged. The state government has started random testing in Katghora town of Korba district from where 27 positive cases have been detected till now.“From Saturday random sampling will be done in other wards of Katghora town. Total 1000 sampling will be done in three days and the results will decide how much more sampling needs to be done,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-procure-75-000-rapid-testing-kits-from-south-korean-company/story-P09lnjlWTiavTFzNQ1YIQJ.html
18-04-2020||India||NHAI to resume toll collection on national highways from April 20||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will resume toll collection on national highways from April 20, as per a government communication, a move which is being opposed by the transport fraternity. The government had on March 25 announced temporarily suspending toll collection on national highways to ease emergency services in view of the coronavirus outbreak. “In view of the relaxations provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for the inter state and intra state movement of all trucks and other goods / carrier vehicles ...NHAI should take actions necessary for compliance of the orders of Ministry of Home Affairs ... and tolling operations be resumed w.e.f. 20th of April 2020,” the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a letter to NHAI. Replying to communication from NHAI, the ministry said the authority in letters dated April 11 and April 14 had highlighted reasons for resuming the collection of user fee on national highways, saying that the Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed a lot of activities with effect from April 20, including commercial and private establishments and construction work. “It has been further highlighted that user fee collection contributes to the government exchequer and also provides financial strength to NHAI in terms of budgetary support,” the letter mentioned. However, transporters’ apex body All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has opposed the move.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “This is appallingly preposterous. On one hand the Government want the continuity of essential supplies and which our fraternity is doing against all odds and at even loss, in service of the nation,” it said. AIMTC represents about 95 lakh truckers and transport entities. Its President Kultaran Singh Atwal said: “The entire transport fratenity is financially broke and does not have finance for operations and bringing back drivers either, which is another big challenge. Yet the government instead of extending this sector a helping hand by giving a bare minimum rescue package, submitted by AIMTC, it is burdening it with toll charges that account for 20 per cent of the operating costs.”  Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT) Coordinator SP Singh in the past 21 days the benefit of toll fee not being levied was hardly being passed on in form of any reduction in truck rentals across the country.Click here for Covid-19 updates “In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plazas across India,” Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has announced on March 25. This will not only reduce inconvenience to emergency services but also save critical time, he has said. The minister has said maintenance of roads and availability of emergency resources at toll plazas will continue as usual. Earlier, the road transport and highways ministry had advised the NHAI to follow the home ministry’s guidelines about toll plaza operations following the lockdown. The prevailing condition may be treated as “Force Majeure” of concession or contract agreement in terms of the finance ministry, it had said. The NHAI had rolled out the electronic toll collection programme across India in December on its over 500 toll plazas while doubling toll charges from the vehicles entering FASTag lanes without the tag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-to-resume-toll-collection-on-national-highways-from-april-20/story-Nd6Dq0j4Mx3f7GXXZgOcjL.html
18-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajnath Singh chairs Covid-19 meet, Smriti Irani, other ministers present and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh chairs Covid-19 meet, Smriti Irani, other ministers presentDefence minister Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of senior Union ministers at his residence on Saturday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic.All senior ministers were seen wearing masks. Read more Coronavirus update: Calcutta HC to monitor Bengal’s steps in tackling Covid-19 outbreakCalcutta High Court said on Friday it will monitor the West Bengal government’s preparedness in fighting the Covid-19 outbreak on a regular basis and asked the state to submit reports without waiting for its order. Read moreJharkhand witnessing ‘war-like situation’ due to Covid-19: HCThe Jharkhand high court on Friday expressed concern over the spread of novel coronavirus infection in different parts of the state, observing that a “war like situation” has arisen. Read moreUK doctors told to wear aprons while treating Covid-19 patients as full-length protective gowns run out: ReportBritish healthcare staff have been advised to treat Covid-19 patients without full-length protective gowns due to shortages of equipment, the Guardian newspaper reported on Friday. Read moreCan’t see his aggression in modern game: Inzamam-ul-Haq names iconic batsman, speaks about his passionFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq believes the aggression possessed by West Indies’ batting maestro Sir Vivian Richards remains unmatched today, despite the high-scoring encounters and despite the advent of T20 format of the modern era. Read moreCBSE may revise syllabus of classes 9-12 to compensate for loss of time due to lockdownAfter the new academic calendar of National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) was released by HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday, CBSE is also working towards a revised or rationalised syllabus for students of classes 9 to 12. Read more Zoa Morani pens note after Karim Morani’s return post Covid-19, says ‘whirlwind of an experience but happy to be on the other side of it’Hours after Ra.One producer Karim Morani was discharged from the Nanavati hospital in Mumbai for testing negative for coronavirus, his actor daughter Zoa Morani penned a long heartfelt note about the family’s recovery on Instagram. Read moreIndia’s Aarogya Setu app touches 60 million markNiti Aayog, earlier this week, said that the government’s Aarogya Setu app has become the fastest app to reach 5 crore downloads. Now, Communications, Electronics & Information Technology Minister RS Prasad has announced that the app has been downloaded by 60 million people in India. Read more World Heritage Day: Amputated artisans, floating idols, here are some lesser known facts about India’s heritage sitesEvery year, April 18 is celebrated as the International Day for Monuments and Sites or World Heritage Day. The International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) promote cultural heritage and diversity of the world’s monuments and heritage sites on this day. Read more Watch| ‘I’m not happy’: Donald Trump slams China over handling of COVID-19 crisis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajnath-singh-chairs-covid-19-meet-smriti-irani-other-ministers-present-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wL5nZ5oCcnrfreae51qUrM.html
18-04-2020||India||Gujarat becomes 6th state with over 1000 patients, Delhi nears 2000 cases: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Saturday rose to 14,378. The figure includes 11,906 active cases, 1,991 people who have been cured or discharged and 480 fatalities. Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan are the top five states that continue to struggle with the rising number of coronavirus cases.Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 3323 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 201 deaths so far while 331 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1707 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 42 people have died from the infection while 72 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1323. Tamil Nadu has seen 283 recoveries and 15 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1310 positive cases of coronavirus. 69 people have died from Covid-19 here while 69 have recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1229 on Saturday. The state has reported 11 fatalities, and 183 patients have recovered from the infection.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 1099 coronavirus cases and 86 recoveries so far. 41 people have died from the infection in the state.Uttar Pradesh849 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 82 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 14 have died from the infection here.Telangana766 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 186 people have made a recovery from the virus while 18 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 572 positive Covid-19 patients and 36 cases of recovery. 14 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 396 coronavirus cases on Saturday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 255 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 359 Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths. 89 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 328. 5 people have died from the infection while 42 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 225 and 202 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 13 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 43 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 27 in Punjab.287 people have been infected by the coronavirus in West Bengal. There have been 10 deaths and 55 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 60 Covid-19 positive patients, 19 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 83 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 37 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 5 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 40 coronavirus patients, 9 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 9 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 12 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 24 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, 6 patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 36 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 33 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported 9 cases and one death.Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the fourth day of the extended lockdown phase on Saturday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-becomes-6th-state-with-over-1-000-cases-delhi-nears-2-000-mark-covid-19-state-tally/story-677LqGOTMDNZ7zYavVl2kM.html
18-04-2020||India||Rajnath Singh chairs Covid-19 meet, Smriti Irani, other ministers present||Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of senior Union ministers at his residence on Saturday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and how best the ministries can help people in the present situation.There is a nationwide lockdown in place till May 3 to combat the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease.All senior ministers were seen wearing masks. Among those present were Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Prakash Javadekar, Ram Vilas Paswan, among others. “Interacted with the GoM on the COVID-19 situation. We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people,” tweeted the minister. Singh said the guidelines to allow limited activities post April 20 and the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India on Friday were also appreciated at the meeting.Yesterday, the RBI cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points — from 4% to 3.75% — encouraging banks to “deploy surplus funds” and lend more, a move that will in turn result in cash in the hands of the borrower.According to the Union government’s guidelines, starting April 20, key parts of the economy, including agriculture, logistics, infrastructure, e-commerce and factories located outside urban limits, will resume operations in areas with no infections -- what the health ministry calls green zones.Evidence available with scientists suggests there has been no mutation in the three known strains of the coronavirus that is causing the Covid-19 outbreak in India, government officials said on Friday, even as they claimed that the steps taken by authorities have helped the country slow the doubling rate of the infection to 6.2 days from three days before the announcement of a nationwide lockdown last month.According to the ministry, there have been 13,387 Covid-19 cases in India till April 17 with 1,749 recoveries and 452 fatalities.Separately on Friday, a group of ministers, headed by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, discussed how the implementation of lockdown measures can be improved, especially in areas reporting more Covid-19 cases. The group also discussed how areas such as diagnostics, vaccine development, drugs and hospital facilities can be strengthened for Covid-19 prevention and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-chairs-covid-19-meet-smriti-irani-other-ministers-present/story-OOZ4SOeuNnm8kTd4c2BiII.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Calcutta HC to monitor Bengal’s steps in tackling Covid-19 outbreak||Calcutta High Court said on Friday it will monitor the West Bengal government’s preparedness in fighting the Covid-19 outbreak on a regular basis and asked the state to submit reports without waiting for its order.The division bench of chief justice TBN Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee, while passing a long order after hearing arguments on a writ petition, asked the government to inform what action was being taken to tackle the coronavirus outbreak.The government, it said, will inform the court how it was determining the cause of deaths, stopping the spreading of the disease and protecting medical staff and doctors following guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and World Health Organization (WHO).The writ petition was filed by Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Fuad Halim, who is also a practising doctor. Also read: Mamata Banerjee govt plans ramping up Covid-19 testingThe bench dismissed advocate general Kishore Dutta’s argument that the petition could not be treated as public interest litigation (PIL) since Halim is a politician.“We are of the view that this is not an occasion or time for us to consider the maintainability of this writ petition and this is not a matter which should be thrown out at the threshold, since the question raised and which may arise on the basis of the material on record prompts our conscience to have a deeper look into the materials that are being produced on behalf of the State Government in form of affidavits..., the bench said in its order.“…We proceed keeping open all issues for consideration as and when it becomes relevant to be dealt with in the form of adjudication,” the judges added.Halim’s lawyer and former Kolkata mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya argued that the government is not following the guidelines of WHO and ICMR. He also criticised the manner of certification and auditing of the reason for death before issuing death certificates.Also read: ‘Community transmission threat looms, no crowding in markets’, says Bengal CM“We would not venture to say anything on that aspect now. We are aware of various possibilities relatable to the cause of death and the necessity to identify the reason behind a particular death. However, we expect the government to place their response in this regard with the views of the health personnel concerned,” the order said.The advocate general placed before the court some reports filed by state health secretary Dr Soumitra Mohan.“Further reports and materials as may be necessary and relevant shall be placed on record by the state by way of an affidavit from time to time without awaiting further orders of this Court,” the bench said in its order. In its report, the government said, “The state government has issued an advisory on April 13, 2020, in which testing of samples, as per the ICMR’s latest testing protocol, has been advised to the health authorities. In the said advisory, all symptomatic contacts, whether primary or secondary and all asymptomatic primary contacts of COVID-19 positive patient, have been advised to be tested.”Bhattacharya told the court that there was lack of adequate quarantine facility for doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and other people coming in contact with patients and suspected patients and there was a deficit in their protection and safety norms.“This is a concern which obviously has to be addressed by the concerned authorities. We expect the state government to place a report in this regard as well,” the bench said. “We are of the view that WHO and ICMR being expert authorities in the field, their guidelines and advisories are required to be followed by all stakeholders, including the state administration, and we are sure the same shall be done,” said the order.Also read: On April 20, about 45% of economy will resume operations“A further direction on the respondent authorities is sought for taking an immediate step to convert Calcutta Medical College for use only to house Covid-19 patients and also for improving health infrastructure by arranging sufficient test kit and/or protection measures for doctors to make it compatible to combat the present pandemic situation,” it said.The hearing was held through video conferencing in keeping with safety norms during the lockdown. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s state secretary Ritesh Tiwari and a lawyer who wrote separate letters to the chief justice, demanding the court’s intervention and seeking the same data, were also made parties in the hearing.“In my petition, I raised several issues, including the unclear status of Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata which the state government earlier said would be turned into the country’s biggest hospital for Covid-19 cases with more than 3000 beds,” Halim said while speaking to HT.The Bengal government has come under criticism in recent weeks as, unlike other states in India, it is against outright linking deaths of people with conditions such as diabetes, heart ailments, kidney disease etc to Covid-19 even if they have the infection. According to experts, such conditions make the disease deadlier. Such deaths are being treated as results of co-morbidity in which a person suffers from one or more conditions in addition to a condition.“We have formed a committee of five doctors who will decide the actual cause of death. They are the experts, I am not. We do not want to create panic among people. Please trust the doctors,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said last week.“We list all deaths and these are sent to the audit committee of doctors. We are not aware how many deaths the audit committee has reviewed so far and how many it has marked as not Covid related,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said at a media conference at the state secretariat on Thursday in presence of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-calcutta-hc-to-monitor-bengal-s-steps-in-tackling-covid-19-outbreak/story-HamnZwMzo2kCfSaptcOZJM.html
18-04-2020||India||UP sends 250 buses to Kota to bring back students||Kota: Students from Uttar Pradesh (UP) who were preparing for competitive examinations in Kota, popularly known as the coaching capital of India, heaved a sigh of relief, as the state government organised bus services to take them back home on Friday night.“UP government has sent 250 buses to Kota to ferry over 7,000 coaching students from the state,” said Narendra Gupta, additional district magistrate (ADM), Kota, and the nodal officer entrusted with the task.The UP students have been stranded in Kota since the ongoing nationwide lockdown was initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.UP government got into the act to bring back stranded students home after “#sendusbackhome” started trending on Twitter about three days ago.Vishal Pal (19), a National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) aspirant from UP’s Kannauj district, expressed relief to reunite with his loved ones while boarding the bus from Rajiv Nagar locality in the town. “I was worried about my family members back home. I’m happy to return home,” Pal said.Amool Pandey (18), a Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) – Advanced aspirant from UP, was also happy to get back home.“Many buses departed for UP on Friday night, and the rest left on Saturday morning,” Gupta said.“The social distancing norms were strictly followed, as each bus ferried up to 30 students even though it has a capacity of 68,” he added.The district authorities had organised triple-layered masks, hand sanitisers, water bottles, and food packets, which were distributed among students, before they boarded the buses. The buses would reach Agra and Jhansi in UP, and from there the students are expected to find a way for their respective destinations.“Each student was screened before he boarded a bus,” the ADM said.However, students from other states are still stranded in Kota. Many states like Bihar have taken exception to the district administration’s bid to ensure outstation students return home after Kota emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with 97 active cases and two deaths to date.Around 30,000 students are still stuck in Kota, and anther 10,000 aspirants have returned to their respective states, the district authorities said.Naveen Maheshwari, director, Allen Career Institute, said around 6,500 students from Bihar, 4,000 from Madhya Pradesh, 3,000 from Jharkhand, 2,000 each from Haryana and Maharashtra, and 1,000 each from the north-east and West Bengal are still stranded in Kota.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Friday, urging other states to take a leaf out of UP’s book and arrange taking back students so that “these young boys and girls do not panic or feel depressed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sends-250-buses-to-kota-to-bring-back-students/story-wWf9UX8zXQYtn7uH4v9CYN.html
18-04-2020||India||Mapping Covid-19: Most of India’s economic hotspots under grip of coronavirus||Coronavirus has infected nearly 15,000 people in the country. As per the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, 14,378 people have been infected by Covid-19 across the country which includes 11,906 active cases, 1,991 people who have been cured or discharged and 480 fatalities. A look at district-wise analysis of coronavirus infections suggests that urban areas are more affected by the virus. With economically significant regions, such as the financial capital (Mumbai) and the national capital, under lockdown for more than a month due to coronavirus, the country could witness a severe economic impact.HT’s business publication Mint analysed district-wise case data compiled by howindialives.com for 717 coronavirus affected districts in the country. The districts were divided into four zones - red, orange, yellow and green - on the basis of the number of coronavirus cases by mid-April. While districts with more than 100 coronavirus cases were marked in ‘red’, those with no Covid-19 cases were clubbed in the ‘green’ zone. Districts with 20-100 Coid-19 cases were categorised in ‘orange’ zone while those that reported less than 20 Covid-19 cases were put in the ‘yellow’ category. It was found that almost all districts - as many as 20 - in the ‘red’ zone were urbanised, centres of high economic activity. More than 50% of all confirmed coronavirus cases in the country and 67% of deaths came from districts marked in the ‘red’ zone. The data showed that around 87 districts were in the ‘orange’ zone, 292 districts in the ‘yellow’ zone while the remaining 318 were marked in the ‘green’ zone.Those districts marked in the ‘green’ zone were invariably poorer as compared to their counterparts in the ‘red’ zone, the analysis stated.The 20 ‘red’ zone districts included most from Delhi, many state capitals, metropolitans and economic hotspots such as Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Pune, Jaipur, Bhopal, Indore, Coimbatore among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-covid-19-most-of-india-s-economic-hotspots-under-grip-of-coronavirus/story-aDLlmKA8EYyiIREa3l3xvJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- 1,272 Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths in Gujarat: Report||Gujarat reported 176 new cases of the coronavirus disease, taking the state’s tally to 1272, including 88 people who have been cured, news agency ANI cited the health department as saying on Saturday.There were 143 Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad, 13 each in Surat and Vadodara, two each in Rajkot and Bhavnagar and one each in Anand, Bharuch and Panchmahal, the agency reported.The death toll in the state also rose to 48 after seven Covid-19 patients died in the state since 6pm on Friday, ANI reported.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The number of coronavirus disease cases in Gujarat had crossed the 1000-mark on Friday and officials had attributed the spike in the number to intensive surveillance and testing in hotspots.Gujarat had received 24,000 rapid testing kits from the Centre on Friday, according to the state’s information department.“These kits will be helpful for intense testing in containment zones, high-risk zones. More rapid testing kits will arrive in 2-3 days,” the department had said. Also read: Covid-19 virus accidently leaked by intern at Wuhan lab, says reportMost of the cases in the state have been reported in five districts of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot and Bhavnagar.The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose to 14,378 and there were 480 deaths across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday morning.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India rise to 14,378, death toll at 480(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-1-272-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-in-gujarat-report/story-Dudfe01VNYYLdPJsoGQgFK.html
18-04-2020||India||Dollar Industries among several companies eager to start production in Bengal||Responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal, several companies in West Bengal are trying to start industrial production in a phased manner from April 21 amid the ongoing lockdown. A small section of migrant labourers works for these organised industries. West Bengal is home to many leading hosiery companies, including Dollar Industries, a leading brand with three units in Tamil Nadu and one in Bengal.Vinod Kumar Gupta, managing director of Kolkata-based Dollar Industries Ltd, said, “As the Prime Minister said, life and livelihood are integrally related to each other. We plan to start production from April 21 with a 25% workforce, following all safety guidelines.”“In Tamil Nadu, we have a spinning mill as well as a stitching unit and a processing unit. All these are located in panchayat areas. We applied for permission to operate these. On Thursday, we received permission to open the spinning mill. We are waiting for the rest of the permissions,” said Gupta.“We have around 1600 people on payroll and approximately 300 of them are in West Bengal where we have a stitching unit at Barasat in North 24 Parganas district. On Thursday, we sent an application to the local authorities. We will arrange for vehicles to ferry workers,” Gupta said.Owner of a small surgical instrument manufacturing unit in the MSME cluster at Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district, Pradosh Roychaudhury said, “I have three permanent workers and three more who work for daily wages. I plan to start production. I have finished products lying in stock but could not deliver these to my clients because of the lockdown.”Achyut Chandra, vice president of Eastern India Corrugated Box Manufacturers Association, said, “The West Bengal government should come up with an easier process for giving permission. We were told that the chief secretary will give clearance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). How can people travel to the state secretariat to meet the chief secretary in the middle of a lockdown? Moreover, does a busy person like him have the time to go through every application?” said Chandra.“Two of my clients are part of the essential services. One of them supplies surgical masks while the other ships medicines. Both need the boxes that I make at my unit at Tangra in east Kolkata,” said Chandra.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee directed the state administration on Friday to find work for migrant labourers stranded in around 700 camps across Bengal. “We will utilise whatever resources we have. There are also people who returned from other states,” Banerjee said. On Wednesday, Banerjee said all jute industries can start production with 15% workforce and supply bags to states such as Punjab and Telangana where Rabi crop harvesting has started. Brick kilns, she said, can start with 15% workforce. Many jute industry owners are however reluctant to start production. They argue that working with 15% of people will lead to more losses than what they suffer now. They also apprehend unrest among workers who do get jobs as trade unions are very active in the jute sector. Farmers and tea garden workers were earlier permitted to join work as long as they maintain social distancing. Tea gardens and farm landowners hire resident labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dollar-industries-among-several-companies-eager-to-start-production-in-bengal/story-2bYdWzZxlakQubuzyBYBJN.html
18-04-2020||India||India stings Pakistan over its minority record at IMF meet for $1.4 bn aid||At the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting on April 16 that gave a green signal to $1.4 billion aid to Islamabad to enable the country to face the economic impact of the coronavirus, the Indian representative had red-flagged concerns that Pakistan’s Covid-19 spending might discriminate against its minorities and could be diverted to enhanced security spending.Surjit S Bhalla, who is the executive director for India on the board of the IMF, had stressed that Pakistan’s health and social safety net spending should be comprehensive, targeted and non-discriminatory. He also pointed out that budgetary resources should be made available to all regions of Pakistan as the Covid-19 situation was much worse in Balochistan and Sindh province.Bhalla pointed to reports to show that minorities such as the Hindus, Sikhs, Christians and Ahmadiyya communities - the most vulnerable in Pakistan’s society - are treated with disadvantage in mitigation response by the federal and provincial government authorities, people familiar with the proceedings of the IMF meeting told Hindustan Times.Also read: Imran Khan hits mute on Saarc Covid-19 pledge, India sends $1.7 mn reliefThe Indian economist also asked Pakistan to carry out effective and targeted disbursement of social sector spending that focuses on the most vulnerable category and not undeserving beneficiaries.The jab at Pakistan for its treatment of its minorities is seen to be linked to Prime Minister Imran Khan’s criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that the move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act was an effort to target Muslims.It is a point that Imran Khan had made in his speech to the 2019 UN General Assembly also, provoking a sharp comeback by a young Indian diplomat who reminded PM Khan that it was his country that had shrunk the size of its minority community from community from 23% in 1947 to 3% today, that had subjected its minorities to “draconian blasphemy laws, systematic persecution, blatant abuse and forced conversions”.Bhalla said the Imran Khan government’s Covid-19 response did not appear to be equitable either and was accused to have held back funds from Balochistan and Sindh provinces though the situation in these areas was severe.Also read| Covid-19 virus accidently leaked by intern at Wuhan lab: ReportThe IMF, which has projected that the Pakistani economy will contract by 1.5 per cent over the next year due to Covid-19, had cleared disbursement of $1.386 billion under the Rapid Financing Instrument at its Thursday meeting.Pakistan is a longtime recipient of help from the IMF and is already under a three-year, $6 billion programme that was approved last year. Indian officials say Pakistan has, since 1958 availed IMF funds and bailouts on 22 occasions and appeared to be facing increasing risks of debt sustainability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stings-pakistan-over-its-minority-record-at-imf-meet-for-1-5-bn-aid/story-2MyEltUlhtAaCTzSwf2XCL.html
18-04-2020||India||41 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in Rajasthan||Rajasthan’s tally of coronavirus infections stood at 1270 on Saturday morning after 41 new Covid-19 cases were reported from eight of the 33 districts, the state health department’s data showed.Bharatpur had the highest number of cases at 27, Kota had five, Jaipur, Jodhpur and Ajmer had two each, Banswara, Jaisalmer and Nagour had one each, according to the data at 9am.The state’s capital also reported two deaths and news agency ANI said one of the patients had chronic kidney disease and the other had acute diabetes.Rajasthan on Friday became the first state in the country to carry out rapid testing for Covid-19.Also read: Rapid testing begins as kits from China get clearanceRohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary of medical and health department, said the test will be done at a large scale to assess the prevalence of Covid-19 in hotspots—both in containment as well as buffer zones around the clusters.Rajasthan with 12 of its 33 districts features in the list of top five states in terms of the number of hot spot districts. Others are Tamil Nadu with 22 of its 37 districts in the ‘red zone’, Maharashtra with 14 of its 36, Uttar Pradesh with 13 of 75, and Andhra Pradesh with 11 of 13 districts.“The tests will be done at designated points on people with symptoms and super spreaders ie persons who are likely to be in contact with multiple persons like vegetable vendors, kirana store owner, etc,” Singh said.The official said in addition to rapid testing, Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) based tests for coronavirus infection will continue to be done in an aggressive manner in containment zones across the state.“A judicious mix of PCR based testing and rapid testing will help Rajasthan to control and manage Covid-19 in an efficient manner,” Singh said.Also read: Rate of patient recovery in top coronavirus-affected states in IndiaRajasthan started conducting rapid testing for Covid-19 with the arrival of 10,000 testing kits in the state on Friday. This test is not a confirmatory test but helps in quickly isolating the person tested positive so that the spread is prevented.The state’s chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the lockdown has not just affected every section of the society but the government as well.“The government will also have to take austerity measures and manage finances accordingly because there is no revenue collection. When economic activities will start from April 20 under modified lockdown, revenue will start coming,” he said on Friday.He said Jaipur’s SMS Hospital is also participating in research on plasma therapy.Gehlot also held a meeting through video conferencing with district collectors and gave them necessary directions with regards to the guideline of modified lockdown and opening of offices and starting of industrial activities from April 20.He said wearing mask is mandatory in the state and protocol related to social distancing must be followed everywhere.India reported 991 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 14,378, and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-rajasthan/story-dNcC0fzAKFW8gkcXGOrTbJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Gauhati HC orders release of detention centre inmates who completed 2 years||Following directives issued by the Supreme Court, Gauhati High Court has directed Assam police to release inmates of detention centres in the state who have completed two years in detention.In an order issued on April 15, the division bench of Justice Manojit Bhuyan and Justice Ajit Borthakur directed the police to compile a list of all such detainees and ensure that they are released.Acting on two intervention petitions seeking the release of detention centre inmates over fears of them contracting Covid-19, the Supreme Court had ordered on April 13 that all detainees who had spent two years in detention should be released.It was a modification of the Supreme Court’s order issued in May 2019 ordering the release of detainees who completed three years on furnishing two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. The recent order reduced the amount for sureties to Rs 5,000 each.There are six detention centres in Assam where those declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals are kept. According to government records, there were 802 inmates in these centres till March.In its order, Gauhati High Court directed the border department of Assam police to prepare a list of eligible inmates and release them “expeditiously within an outer limit period of seven days”.The court ordered the special director general of police (Border) to submit details of all those who have been released by the next date of hearing on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-orders-release-of-detention-centre-inmates-who-completed-2-years/story-hd5L7N8AvhR8CfXLXTC3fP.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic a huge challenge, but also an opportunity, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been questioning the government on the measures it has put in place against the spread of the coronavirus disease, had a new suggestion on Saturday.The former Congress president’s recommendation comes after his press briefing on Thursday when he stressed the need for a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The #Covid19 pandemic is a huge challenge but it is also an opportunity. We need to mobilise our huge pool of scientists, engineers & data experts to work on innovative solutions needed during the crisis,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Saturday.Gandhi on Thursday had also extended his support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Centre and all state governments in the fight against Covid-19 and demanded immediate scaling up of the testing facilities to contain the pandemic.“The biggest weapon to fight this virus is testing. Our rate currently is very slow and we are not using the testing strategically. We are at present chasing the virus. We should immediately and aggressively push for rapid testing, maximise it and use it strategically. If we don’t ramp up testing, we will be forced to again go into lockdown,” Gandhi said during a news conference through video-conferencing.The Congress leader had said it was not the time to criticise the government and insisted that he wanted to give constructive suggestions when asked if he agreed with the Prime Minister that India took early steps to contain Covid-19.Click here for complete for coronavirus coverage “I disagree with the Prime Minister on several issues and will continue to do so but this is no time to fight. It’s a long battle and all of us need to fight it together… I don’t want any credit and whoever wants to take it can take it but we would give constructive suggestions even if the government takes it or not,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rahul-gandhi-calls-for-innovative-solutions-against-covid-19-pandemic/story-TAOhQKbewXIhbWuvCH0I7N.html
18-04-2020||India||Most of 25 navy men who tested positive for Covid-19 traced to single sailor||Navy sources on Saturday said that most of Indian Navy’s 25 personnel, who have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, are asymptomatic and have been traced to a single sailor who tested positive on April 7.  20 of these sailors are from INS Angre, a shore establishment in Mumbai. All sailors are reported to be in their 20s except for one who is 47 years old and is the oldest of the lot.The infected navy men have been admitted to naval hospital INHS Asvini in Mumbai’s Colaba, two navy officials informed on the condition of anonymity.All these sailors reside at the same accommodation block at INS Angre. All primary contacts of the naval personnel (though asymptomatic) have been tested for coronavirus while the entire inliving block has been put under quarantine and classified as a containment zone. INS Angre too is under lockdown.There are no cases of infection onboard ships and submarines.While this is the first reported case of Covid-19 in the Indian Navy, the Indian Army has so far reported eight positive virus cases.“We have only eight positive cases in the entire Indian Army. Of the eight, two are doctors and one nursing assistant. Four are responding well to the treatment,” Army Chief General M.M Naravane said on Friday.The Army personnel who have not come in contact with any Covid-19 positive person are being moved back to units.“Our personnel who have not come in contact with any infected person are being moved back to units. We have already catered for two special trains -- from Bengaluru to Jammu and the other from Bengaluru to Guwahati,” he added.As the US Navy is struggling with increasing Covid-19 cases, Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh had stressed that it is vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remain free of the virus and the navy is combat ready at all times.In a 15-minute-long video message to naval personnel on April 9, the Indian Navy chief had told his men that while they should hope for the best, the navy should plan for the worst.“We need to be ready for the worst-case scenario and to my mind, it will be a long battle,” the navy chief had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-25-personnel-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-traced-to-single-sailor-indian-navy/story-ihUL4509r4pH7UJrio3EsJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India rise to 14,378, death toll at 480||With 991 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, India’s tally is at 14,378 and the Covid-19 related death has risen to 480, the Union health ministry said on Saturday morning.Among the number of infected, most are in Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, according to the health ministry data at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereOut of the 14,378 Covid-19 cases in the country, 1992 people have also been cured, discharged or migrated as the country is in the second phase of lockdown.The April 14-deadline was extended to May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this week.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Union health ministry has said the nationwide lockdown of 21 days and the subsequent extension has helped in containing the spread infection. It said the doubling rate in India has gone from 3 to 6.2 days during the period.“The doubling rate in 19 states and Union territories are even lower than average doubling rate,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary with the health ministry, said during the daily news briefing on Friday.“Kerala, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Puducherry, Delhi, Bihar, Odisha, TN, Andhra Pradesh, UP, Punjab, Assam, Tripura all have low doubling rates of coronavirus cases,” Aggarwal added.Also read: Cases dip in Maharashtra and Mumbai; but curve not sliding yet, say expertsHe also said that the ratio between Covid-19 patients who have recovered and those who have died stands at 80:20 in the country, which is higher than that of several other countries suffering due to the health crisis.The health ministry has also said that containment operations will be scaled down if no secondary case of Covid-19 is reported from a quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days.According to the ministry’s Updated containment plan for large outbreaks COVID-19, a containment operation or a large outbreak or cluster is considered to be over 28 days from the date the last case in that zone tests negative.Also read:8 new hotspots identified in Delhi, total count at 68. Check full list hereThe closing of the surveillance for the clusters could be independent of one another provided there is no geographic continuity between clusters. However, the surveillance will continue for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI).The Centre has declared 170 Covid-19 hotspots—123 hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 hotspot districts with clusters. Besides, it has identified 207 non-hotspot districts with clusters.The health ministry said in its updated containment plan for large outbreaks that India is preparing for a ‘scenario-based approach’ in tackling the coronavirus disease.The Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) shows there are 2,243,512 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease and that 154,209 people have died across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-rise-to-14-378-death-toll-at-480/story-jQWvAXJzSwWhsnYhfAQwKM.html
18-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Air pollution in Maharashtra sees significant drop during Covid-19 lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air pollution in Maharashtra sees significant drop during Covid-19 lockdownLatest satellite data on air quality two weeks before and two weeks during coronavirus lockdown show a big improvement in the air quality, mainly for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels, in major Maharashtrian cities such as Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune. Read more 3 workers die while cleaning septic tank in Mumbai’s Virar, 1 criticalThree labourers suffocated to death and another was injured after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning the septic tank of a private bungalow in Virar on Friday. Read more Uttarakhand police use Netflix’s Money Heist character to ask people to stay homePolice in Uttarakhand are taking a little help from a character from Netflix’s popular series Money Heist to urge people to stay home during the Covid-19 lockdown.They posted a photograph featuring Professor played by actor Alvaro Morte on Friday with that appeal. Read more Looking into reports that coronavirus ‘escaped’ from Wuhan lab, says Donald TrumpThe US is looking into reports that the novel coronavirus, which has killed more than 150,000 people globally, “escaped” from a Wuhan lab in China, President Donald Trump has said. Read more CEOs of Test nations to discuss Covid-19’s effect on future toursChief executives of Test playing nations will attend a conference call next week to discuss the impact of the Covid–19 pandemic on the Future Tours Program (FTP). Foremost on the agenda will be the inaugural World Test Championship (WTC) that is now in doubt. Read more Private schools in Bihar withhold salaries of teachers, cite low fee collectionWhile the government’s order to private schools for waiving fees for the months of March and April brought some respite to parents, scores of teaching and non-teaching staff in the state capital are facing the fallout of the order as they have been denied full salary this month. Read more Vodafone Idea discontinues double data offer on its prepaid recharge plansVodafone Idea has discontinued its double data offer which it offered on three of its prepaid recharge plans. The telco has discontinued this offer in eight telecom circles out of the 22 regions it operates on. Read moreWorld Heritage Day 2020: Significance, history and how to celebrateEvery year, April 18 is observed as World Heritage Day to promote cultural heritage via activities which are undertaken by the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS). Read more Anushka Sharma won’t allow Virat Kohli to return the haircut favour, says ‘the reverse is not happening’. See picAnushka Sharma surprised fans when she gave cricketer husband Virat Kohli a perfect haircut last month. However, the actor has said that she will not allow him to return the favour. A fan shared a sketch of Virat giving Anushka a haircut with Scooby Doo looking on. Virat can be seen winking as he cuts her long hair. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-air-pollution-in-maharashtra-sees-significant-drop-during-covid-19-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Tk43JeUeaainwQ8OjUUnHN.html
18-04-2020||India||Railways feels Covid-19 lockdown pinch, may trim allowances of nearly 13 lakh employees||In a bid to bridge the losses due to the coronavirus lockdown, the Railway Ministry is planning to trim the salaries and allowances of over 13 lakh officers and employees. Under this, the allowances for overtime duty including Travel Allowance, Dearness Allowance will be stopped, HT ‘s Hindi language publication, Live Hindustan reported. Besides this, rail driver-guards will not be given the allowance which is provided on a per-kilometre basis on running a train. The ministry is already battling a severe financial crisis, the condition has become thinner due to the lockdown. In view of this, there is a need to cut the allowance for overtime duty by 50%, Live Hindustan reported. It has been suggested that the allowance of Rs 530 which is given to the drive-guard of Mail Express on 500-kilometres be cut by 50%. A recommendation has also been made to trim six months’  salary of railwaymen by 10 to 35%.The Railways is also mulling over the option to reduce non-practice allowances including travel, patient care, kilometres, up to one year by 50%. If an employee does not come to work for a month, then it is suggested to deduct the transport allowance by 100%. Education allowance for children of employees is around 28,000, the ministry will review this as well. Indian Railways has also been working in tandem with other ministries and departments to help the government tide over the coronavirus challenge. It has converted several railway coaches into isolation wards.5,000 coaches have been converted into isolation wards for those infected with coronavirus. These are likely to be pushed into service in rural areas after a nod from the health ministry, officials said last week.The ministry has set a target of converting 20,000 coaches to counter the pandemic, of which 5,000 coaches with 80,000 beds are ready to be deployed, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-feels-covid-19-lockdown-pinch-may-trim-allowances-of-nearly-13-lakh-employees/story-eHAh9R64x7LQ1H7kk2FhYI.html
18-04-2020||India||4,000 Covid-19 rapid test kits allocated to Meghalaya, says CM||Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Friday said 4,000 Covid-19 rapid test kits have been allocated to Meghalaya as the health authorities are battling to zero in on the carrier into the state.The wife of the first Covid-19 patient and six others of her family members are under home quarantine, while their maid who also tested positive is undergoing treatment at a hospital, he said, adding that they all are stable.The state has been allocated 4,000 rapid test kits.We are trying to get more, he said in an address to the press.The chief minister said that 140 primary contacts of John L Sailo Ryntathiangs family and those at Bethany Hospital have been identified, and 4,755 secondary contacts have also been traced.Sailo, 69, died on Wednesday of the infection.Sangma said samples collected from 541 persons have so far tested negative and the reports of 67 persons are awaited.A total of 23,382 persons have been screened till date and 2,557 are observing quarantine, he said.In his address, the chief minister said that over 9,300 labourers were provided Rs 3,000 each under the Building and Other Construction Workers Act and over 25,800 farmers in the state have been given Rs 2,000 each under the PM Kisan Yojana since the lockdown began.Over 1.36 lakh labourers have registered for special assistance grant of Rs 2,100 and 1.16 lakh labourers have been verified for the same, he said.Over 6,000 persons from the state stranded across the country have registered for the CM’s special grant and the authorities have verified 458 persons so far, he said.Sangma said that the state has received 3.65 lakh reusable masks, 15,072 N95 masks and 29,084 PPEs for the frontline health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-000-covid-19-rapid-test-kits-allocated-to-meghalaya-says-cm/story-TcGMF9mg1VkevlF1aLe5IN.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in northeast reach 50; two deaths, 12 recoveries reported||Since the detection of the first case in Manipur on March 24, when a 23-year-old student who had returned from the UK was found positive, the number of Covid-19 cases in the seven states in the northeast has now risen to 50.Assam with 35 cases has the most number of patients of the coronavirus disease. The state had its first case on March 31. Apart from a Guwahati businessman and a person from Nagaland’s Dimapur, who got tested in Assam and is under treatment in Guwahati, all other cases in Assam have links with the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month. A 65-year-old patient died at the Silchar Medical College Hospital last week, making him Assam as well as the region’s first fatality. Till Friday, nine patients who have recovered from the disease have been discharged from three different hospitals while 25 others are under treatment.Also read: After lockdown, Covid-19 case doubling rate dipped from 3 to 6.2 days, says govtManipur’s first patient has recovered and been discharged from hospital. The only other patient in the state who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz last month is still undergoing treatment in Imphal.Mizoram was the second state in the region to record a Covid-19 case with a 50-year-old pastor who had returned from the Netherlands last month testing positive. No other case has surfaced in the state this month.In Tripura, the first positive case was a Nizamuddin Markaz attendee followed by a 45-year-old woman who had visited Guwahati. She has since recovered while the first patient is still in the hospital.Arunachal Pradesh has recorded just one case till date and the patient also has links with the Nizamuddin Markaz. Results of his third and fourth tests have come negative and he was discharged from the hospital on Friday evening.A businessman from Dimapur was recorded as Nagaland’s first positive case this Sunday. But since he was tested in Guwahati and is undergoing treatment here, he has been included in Assam’s tally by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The state has now gone from one to zero cases.Meghalaya was the last state in the region to join the list with a 69-year-old Shillong doctor testing positive on Monday. Also read: Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 patient dies, could have got infected from asymptomatic son-in-lawHe died on Wednesday but eight other members of his family, including his helpers, have been detected positive since. The state has nine Covid-19 cases, the second-highest in the northeast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-10-cases-in-northeast-reach-50-2-deaths-and-12-recoveries/story-gIAv4B6Z2xSXayOUN4F1OM.html
18-04-2020||India||Air pollution in Maharashtra sees significant drop during Covid-19 lockdown||Latest satellite data on air quality two weeks before and two weeks during coronavirus lockdown show a big improvement in the air quality, mainly for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels, in major Maharashtrian cities such as Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune.The fall in NO2 levels is largely due to the sharp drop in fossil fuel combustion in transport, industrial and energy sectors after the lockdown.The details were released on Friday in a study assessing satellite images (TROPOMI/S5P satellite data), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) real-time data, electricity generation and petroleum product consumption across India by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). An overall 18% reduction was recorded in petroleum products use during March 2020 as compared to March 2019.On April 2, HT had reported that an 81% decline in NO2 levels was recorded over six weeks (February 17 to March 29) across 10 real-time stations in Mumbai. The same was also visible through satellite images (also the first study for the Mumbai region using satellite images post-lockdown).The present study compared NO2 concentration between March 11 - 24 (before the lockdown) and March 24-April 7 (during the lockdown) and identified hotspots over major cities in India and industrial zones with high coal combustion. In the latest study, CREA observed a 71% drop in NO2 levels for Mumbai between March 24 to April 7 as compared to the previous two weeks (March 11-24) while Navi Mumbai saw a 62% drop as per the CPCB data. A similar significant reduction was recorded for Nagpur and Pune during this time, the study said.“Drastic reduction in NO2 over these cities post lockdown show that we can achieve breathable air and clear skies with emission reduction, and not necessarily by taking drastic measures such as shutting down all sources,” said Sunil Dahiya, Analyst, CREA, adding, “By adopting emission load reduction or efficient emission control across sources such as vehicles, industries, petrochemical refineries and power plants, we achieve clean breathable air.”Formed from the burning of coal, oil, and emissions from vehicles and diesel generators, toxic gases like NO2 worsen respiratory conditions and have detrimental effects on the central nervous system, especially the brain due to short term impacts, said Dr Arun Kumar Sharma from the University College of Medical Sciences in Delhi.In Mumbai, the Chembur-Trombay area — which has a power plant, several petroleum refineries and a fertiliser factory - is a hotspot for high NO2 levels. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Area (MMR), industries are located across Uran, Panvel, Kalyan and Bhayander covering Mumbai’s peripheral areas.“Even as Mumbai’s air had very little NO2 concentration, emissions across Navi Mumbai and peripheral areas of Raigad district were visible even during the lockdown period in our satellite study analysis,” said Dahiya.Considering that air pollution reduction is temporary (until the lockdown is called off) there are fears of a spike in private transport utilisation leading to higher air pollution. CREA recommended a shift from highly fossil fuel-dependent economy to clean energy-based systems, enhanced public transportation conducive for walking and cycling, and strengthening emission standards with time-bound targets under city or regional clean air action plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-in-maharashtra-sees-significant-drop-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-6Jw2CLVrLJJA7wA8xUiiJO.html
18-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand police use Netflix’s Money Heist character to ask people to stay home||Police in Uttarakhand are taking a little help from a character from Netflix’s popular series Money Heist to urge people to stay home during the Covid-19 lockdown.They posted a photograph featuring Professor played by actor Alvaro Morte on Friday with that appeal.“When someone asks you why not to go out during lockdown,” it said. And, it was followed by the still with Professor’s photo. “B’coz it’s a matter of our security,” was the reply.The post on Uttarakhand police’s Facebook page and the Twitter handle has received several likes with many social media users appreciating the department’s ‘interesting and innovative’ post to create awareness on the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown.Also read: Uttarakhand govt to allow industrial and agricultural activities from April 20“Looks like UK (Uttarakhand) police also fan of Money Heist,” Deepak Semwal, a social media user, commented.“Very creative and innovative Uttarakhand Police media handler,” Anjum Aggarwal wrote. “Oh! Bella Ciao stay home,” Ess Junyz also said. Uttarakhand police have been using characters from popular series, including dialogue from another popular Netflix series Sacred Games, in their awareness campaigns to create awareness on traffic safety. Also read: What you need to know todayUttarakhand police have used some ‘out of the box’ ideas to ask people to stay home. A few days ago, they tied up with two local artists dressed as Yamaraja and corona demon to spread the message. “We are trying to come up with such out of the box and innovative moves because they easily get the attention of people unlike conventional methods,” Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order) said. “These sort of moves leave a lasting impression on the minds of people and they remember that they don’t need to venture out and stay at home in lockdown,” Kumar said.Uttarakhand reported three new Covid-19 cases on Friday, including a doctor from a military hospital in Dehradun and a nine-month-old baby, as the number of infections in the hill state went up to 31, state health department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-use-netflix-s-money-heist-character-to-ask-people-to-stay-home/story-D8orzqaLwerXsfnGNXeNhO.html
18-04-2020||India||Visually-challenged woman alleges rape in MP, husband stranded in Rajasthan amid lockdown||A 53-year-old visually-challenged woman was on Friday allegedly raped in her house by an unidentified man in Bhopal’s Shahpura area, police said. The woman, a bank officer, was alone at home at the time of the incident, reports news agency ANI. Her husband and other family members are stranded in Rajasthan due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. There is a nationwide lockdown in place till May 3 to curb the spread of coronavirus infection. According to the police complaint filed by the woman, she was asleep when a man entered her room and raped her. A police officer said that a case has been registered under relevant sections and investigation into the incident has begun. “Police have visited the spot and a case has been registered under relevant sections of IPC. Probe is underway,” ASP Sanjay Sahu told ANI.Another officer told news agency PTI that a hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visually-challenged-woman-alleges-rape-in-mp-husband-stranded-in-rajasthan-amid-lockdown/story-qxiJn2AQ6KJ5A99WO6kaUM.html
18-04-2020||India||RBI lends a helping hand, Wuhan revises death toll: Top Covid-19 news today||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das vowed on Friday to do “whatever it takes” to cushion the economic blow of the coronavirus pandemic, before drawing from the central bank’s arsenal to cut the reverse repo rate to nudge banks to lend, provide liquidity support to struggling non-banks and ease asset classification norms. In neighbouring China, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pushed the country’s economy into its first contraction in decades in the first quarter, with its GDP shrinking 6.8% from a year ago, the worst performance since at least 1992 when official releases of quarterly GDP started. Meanwhile, China’s coronavirus epicentre of Wuhan admitted missteps in tallying its death toll as it abruptly raised the count by 50% or nearly 1,300 people even as Beijing dismissed claims that there had been any kind of cover-up.RBI steps into boost liquidity, prompts banks to lend moreThe measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) set the stage for the second round of a fiscal stimulus package that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to announce any day now. Governor Shaktikanta Das’s pledge to do all that it takes to save the economy indicates that the central bank will take aggressive steps, including further rate cuts, to support economic activity in a nation that has been locked down since March 25. Business leaders and economists have also sought a ₹9-10 trillion fiscal stimulus package. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn an admission that must have surely prompted millions of I-told-you-so moments across the world, China on Friday, through its state media, raised the death toll in Wuhan, the city where the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 first emerged, by around 50%. Read more Rapid testing begins as kits from China get clearanceRajasthan began conducting rapid testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday with the arrival of 10,000 testing kits from Delhi. All the 52 persons tested at the urban PHC Topkhana Desh on Friday evening tested negative. Read more Covid-19 update: On April 20, about 45% of economy will resume operationsThe Union government’s guidelines, envisioning a slow return to work starting April 20, will see up to 45% of the economy becoming operational again, up from just 25% during the initial lockdown from March 24 to April 14, economists said. Read more No mutation found in three virus strains in India: ICMREvidence available with scientists suggests there has been no mutation in the three known strains of the coronavirus that is causing the Covid-19 outbreak in India, government officials said on Friday, even as they claimed that the steps taken by authorities have helped the country slow the doubling rate of the infection to 6.2 days from three days before the announcement of a nationwide lockdown last month. Read moreMHA releases new list of activities exempted from lockdown curbsThe ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday released a new list of activities exempted from the extended national lockdown, including services offered by non-banking financial institutions (NBFCs) and cooperative credit societies with minimum staff and construction in rural areas. Read more Record one-day spike in Covid-19 deaths, Donald Trump unveils reopening guidelinesThe number of deaths from the novel coronavirus spiked to a new one-day high of 4,591 on Friday, nearly double the previous record, as President Donald Trump issued guidelines for reopening the country but left it to the states to decide; some of whom announced extended restrictions instead. Read more China adds 1,300 deaths to Wuhan toll, citing early lapsesChina on Friday revised upwards by nearly 1,300 the Covid-19 fatalities in the first pandemic epicentre, the city of Wuhan, where the virus first emerged in late last year, admitting that the infection hit China harder than it initially projected. Read moreChina’s economy contracts for first time in decadesChina’s economy shrank by 6.8% in the first quarter of 2020, government data showed on Friday, confirming the damage done to the second largest economy in the world by the coronavirus pandemic. Read more Kerala case raises fears over incubation periodA man who returned from Dubai on March 18 tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, 29 days after what health officials say was his likely exposure to an infection source, raising concerns that the disease could take longer to manifest and quarantine periods as short as 14 days may not be enough. Read more BIS retracts new guidelines for coveralls in PPE kitsThe Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on Friday withdrew the specifications for coveralls – one of the components of the personal protective equipment (PPE) – just three days after they were released because they were found to be too stringent. Read more Study links obesity to severity of disease, death in young patientsObesity has been identified as a risk factor for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)among people aged below 60 and is likely to lead to more severe forms of the disease and death among the overweight, a new study suggests. Read moreIAS officers’ training focuses largely on fight against Covid-19From watching Virus, a Malayalam film on the 2018 Nipah virus outbreak, to understanding the Epidemic Diseases Act, the next batch of IAS officers graduating from the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration is gearing up to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more Coronavirus update: Woes mount, migrants stare at long road to normalcyAfter the government announced an extension of the national lockdown till May 3, distress among stranded workers and the unemployed is rising. State governments have been asked to provide relief to stranded workers but not allow them to move back across state borders to their villages. Read more250 buses to bring back UP students from KotaThe Uttar Pradesh government dispatched 250 buses to Kota on Friday to bring back over 7,000 students from the state who are enrolled in the Rajasthan city’s many coaching centres and have been stranded because of the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreSense of duty drives AIIMS biomedical waste collectorThree days after Odisha’s second Covid-19 positive patient — a 19-year-old youth studying in the United Kingdom — was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Sanjay Dehury got a call from his boss. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-lends-a-helping-hand-wuhan-revises-death-toll-top-covid-19-news-today/story-ZldIazjLv0WQTrL79uIFpJ.html
18-04-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s brother offers to help ED in PNB fraud case||Neeshal Modi, younger brother of Nirav Modi, the diamantaire accused of defrauding Punjab National Bank to the extent of Rs 13,578 crore, has written to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) offering to cooperate in the case and distancing himself from his brother’s actions.Antwerp-based Neeshal has been charged by both the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the PNB fraud case along with Nirav, their uncle Mehul Choksi and others. He has also shared with ED sleuths a forensic audit conducted by a Belgium-based independent auditing firm, Van Den Keybus Van Der Jeught, which certifies that all transactions of Firestar Diamond BVBA were authentic, genuine and with legitimate documentary evidence such as invoices and shipping papers. Firestar Diamond has been named by ED as a company used by Nirav to launder money. ED has also said in its charge sheet filed in May 2018 that Neeshal was involved in the appointment of dummy partners and was a signatory or a beneficiary in some Dubai-based dummy companies between 2011 and 2013. He was also the director of Firestar Diamond based in Belgium and that huge sums were transferred into this company from six Hong Kong-based companies.Also read: 40 assets of Nirav Modi auctioned for Rs 51 croreIn his letter, reviewed by HT, Neeshal said: “I am willing to fully cooperate with any investigation that your department is undertaking and help you in accordance with law. I am sincerely hoping that in order to achieve fruitful results in this case, your office will positively respond to my offer of full cooperation with an open mind and meet me in Antwerp so that I can clarify any doubts that you may have about this matter.”Disassociating himself from Nirav, he added: “I have nothing to do with any of the alleged criminal activities of my brother, Nirav Modi. I had no knowledge whatsoever of any dealings that Nirav Modi may have had with any of the bank (s) for his business purposes including transactions in relation to the alleged LOUs (letters of undertaking).”“There is nothing on record to even suggest that I was ever a party or privy to any meeting or transactions of Nirav Modi with the bank (s) or its officer (s). I had never visited any bank (s) nor had I ever met or communicated with any banking officials in relation to the business activities of Nirav Modi or for the issuance of the alleged LOUs or for any of his business activities.”When contacted, Nirav’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal refused to comment on the matter. Nirav is lodged at Wandsworth prison in south-west London while his extradition proceedings are pending. Also read: 72 luxury items seized from Nirav Modi sold at auction for Rs 2.29 croreNeeshal also claimed he didn’t have a clue of his brother’s alleged criminal acts until he saw it in the news. Asserting that he isn’t a beneficiary of any of Nirav Modi’s wealth, Neeshal said: “I have always received remuneration through my salary (as director of Firestar Diamond) and income generated from legitimate business, where I have always paid the taxes on this income to the Belgian tax department.”An ED officer confirmed to HT that the agency has received a letter and the forensic audit from Neeshal but added that it doesn’t matter. “It doesn’t hold any value because he is an accused”. “If he is willing to cooperate, he should come to India,” added the officer, who asked not to be named. Neeshal has informed ED that several persons who owe money to Firestar Diamond are using the proceedings against the company as an excuse not to pay their dues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-brother-offers-to-help-ed-in-pnb-fraud-case/story-Vfvq4QZkWANP1iCtZwXvkN.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Goa to screen 40,000 showing symptoms of respiratory illness for Covid-19||The community survey in Goa under which close to 500,000 households were examined has found around 40,000 cases of people with influenza-like symptoms or severe acute respiratory illnesses, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said. Addressing a press conference, Sawant said the data gathered during the survey has been handed over to a committee of doctors at the Goa Medical College led by Dr Jagadish Cacodcar who will pursue and analyse the data of the survey. Also read: What you need to know today“A committee of doctors has been set up under Dr Jagadish Cacodcar. He will review the survey report. Around 40,000 people have been identified with respiratory illnesses. Now, we will find out if they have travel history and if anyone in their family has travel history and these patients will be screened and tested,” Sawant said. Also read: Seafarers stranded abroad desperate as India refuses repatriation“So, we now have a shortlist. This number can come down if we exclude those who have asthma. But if they have travel history they will be tested. Many people were asking: What will be the benefit of this survey? This is the benefit of the survey. At the last level if there is a patient who was left out can be tested,” Sawant said. Goa has managed to reduce its coronavirus disease patients from seven to one as six of the patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital. Also read: On April 20, about 45% of economy will resume operationsSix of the seven patients found positive in Goa had travelled abroad while the seventh was the brother of a patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-goa-to-screen-40-000-showing-symptoms-of-respiratory-illness-for-covid-19/story-19mO2qAbS8ygGngbzTISdO.html
18-04-2020||India||PM Modi praises RBI; Oppn says more needed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the second round of monetary measures by the RBI will enhance liquidity and improve credit supply. “These steps would help our small businesses, MSMEs, farmers and the poor. It will also help all states by increasing WMA limits,” he tweeted.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the RBI took a host of steps to maintain adequate liquidity in the system, incentivise bank credit flows, ease financial stress and enable normal functioning of markets.Experts said the move will infuse more liquidity in the banking system and bring relief to borrowers, but the central bank’s ability to shield the economy from the adverse impact of covid-19 is limited and the government needs to come up with a major stimulus package.“He is doing a tightrope walk by keeping the customers alive and banks not slipping into the red. Despite limitations, RBI governor has done what was within his capacity, but the government has not yet really stepped in with policy and fiscal measures required in this unprecedented situation,” economist Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of India, said.  A Nomura Global Market Research said the RBI governor had outlined measures to divert liquidity to the “have-nots” in the financial system by disincentivising banks from parking excess liquidity with the RBI and through regulatory easing measures for banks and shadow banks. “Monetary policy will be in sync with fiscal policy, where we expect a second round of fiscal stimulus to be announced shortly following the first tranche of ~0.8% of GDP [gross domestic product],” the report said. Industry, which has been concerned about an acute liquidity crunch and slump in demand even as business activities resume partially next week, is expecting a booster dose of up to ₹16 lakh crore from the government. At least three government officials said requesting anonymity that the finance ministry is in discussion with the Prime Minister’s Office to finalise a comprehensive stimulus package soon.According to DK Srivastava, economist and chief policy advisor at EY India, the reverse repo rate cut and increase in the WMA limits would “facilitate increase in economic activities as the lockdown is progressively eased.” The ways and means advance (WMA) is an instrument the RBI uses to provide enhanced temporary loan facilities to cash-strapped states. As per Assocham, companies want government to clear the ₹2.20 lakh crore owed to them by government departments and agencies.Opposition parties urged the government to take more steps to mitigate the problems of the poor. Congress leader Anand Sharma also said the measures were “far too little” to meet the needs of industry”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-praises-rbi-oppn-says-more-needed/story-jCvNj55rtcm9Hz7BFIB9dM.html
18-04-2020||India||Four terrorists killed in Kashmir gunfights||Security forces on Friday eliminated four terrorists in two separate incidents in J&K. Two of them, belonging to Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, were responsible for killing a special police officer (SPO) and injuring another in Kishtwar district on April 13.The other two terrorists were killed in south Kashmir’s Dairoo village after an encounter. A senior police officer said, “With the killing of two terrorists in Kishtwar and as many in Shopian in South Kashmir, the ongoing operations concluded today and a total of four terrorists have been eliminated. Weapons have also been recovered.” Speaking about the Kishtwar encounter, inspector general of police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh said, “After meticulous search and painstaking efforts for three days, security forces zeroed in on a spot behind village Saunder...Terrorists, who were in hiding, fired at the search party and were killed in retaliatory action. An AK- 74 Rifle and an INSAS rifle were recovered.”One of them, Ashiq Hussain, was a rape accused released 20 days ago in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Both Hussain and his associate Basharat Hussain were residents of Tander village in Dachhan and were reportedly responsible for hacking to death SPO Basit Iqbal and injuring SPO Vishal Singh.Meanwhile, late on Thursday evening, in a joint operation by the army, police and the CRPF in Dairoo village in Shopian, two terrorists, believed to be locals, were killed. This was the fifth encounter in Kashmir since the 21-day lockdown was clamped across the country to break the chain of Covid-19 infections. Twelve militants and five security personnel have been killed in encounters in different parts of the region in the past few weeks. Earlier this week, two people in the security establishment had told HT that the Army’s artillery assault on terror launch pads at Dudhnial facing the Keran sector across the Line of Control (LoC) on April 10 had killed eight terrorists and 15 Pakistan Army soldiers.It was from this mountain town that the five terrorists neutralised by the Army special forces in the Keran sector on April 5 had been launched.Three of them belonged to the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-gunfights/story-PKKiP4hkOZZbykWSn9q3BM.html
18-04-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP leadership discuss MP cabinet formation||Stung by criticism of being a one-man army, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has begun discussing the formation of his cabinet with the BJP’s central leadership. The move comes 25 days after he was sworn in as CM and five days after he said the cabinet wasn’t being formed because senior leaders were busy dealing with Covid-19. Chouhan has come under fire from the opposition and also social media users for Madhya Pradesh’s handling of the pandemic.On April 10, Congress leader and former leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “To become a one-man army, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan put in peril lives of 7.50 crore people of Madhya Pradesh. He is busy in his branding and publicity instead of protecting people of the state from Corona. In Madhya Pradesh, situation is going from bad to worse.”Since Chouhan took oath as the chief minister for the fourth time on March 23, half of the 52 districts in the state have been affected, it has 1,164 cases and 55 people have died. What has hit the government the hardest is 94 people of health department testing positive for Covid-19, including four IAS officials, compelling the government to institute a probe. On Thursday, senior lawyer of Supreme Court and Congress’ Rajya Sabha member, Vivek Tankha, tweeted: “Congratulations Shivraj ji. Amidst so much gloom in MP u managed an Indian record-as the longest serving CM without a council of minister. Previous best record of 24 days of was of Mr Yediyurappa CM Karnataka - both became CMs 4th term & formed Govts with the aid of defection.”State Congress chief Kamal Nath’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “The chief minister didn’t form his cabinet as he wanted to present his larger than life image as a hero while thinking that he would be able to control coronavirus single-handedly. But the fact remains that CM failed again miserably....”BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “Formation of a cabinet is a CM’s prerogative. It is wrong to say he is alone in his fight. The entire government machinery is fighting the disease under him.The Congress’ failure to make preparations when it was in power aggravated the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-bjp-leadership-discuss-mp-cabinet-formation/story-5ru1Z80sumWe1gWaoktF3N.html
18-04-2020||India||‘Pak terror continues in pandemic’: Army chief gen MM Naravane||On the second day of his trip to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) to review the security situation in the newly created Union Territory, army chief General MM Naravane on Friday accused Pakistan of backing terrorism in the region at a time when the world has united to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, and said India would not let its guard down.Naravane’s remarks came days after a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K , the death of five Indian para-commandos and five militants in a hand-to-hand battle and the killing of three civilians.“While the whole world is focused towards fighting Covid-19, Pakistan-instigated terrorists have been targeting innocent civilians in the hinterland; just three days back they targeted a retired Kashmiri soldier. Therefore, we cannot let our guard down,” Naravane said. Before ending his trip on Friday, the army chief visited forward posts in north Kashmir’s Kupwara sector and interacted with soldiers guarding the LoC. Naravane, in an interview with a news agency, said the five terrorists killed in the battle with para-commandos had attempted infiltration taking advantage of bad weather in Keran. Infiltration attempts in areas where the snow levels are high indicate the Pakistan Army’s complicity, he said. Naravane said in the hinterland, Pakistan-backed terrorists were targeting civilians with the aim of coercing them to follow their Azadi narrative.He said India will respond proportionately to ceasefire violations. “Unless Pakistan gives up its policy of state sponsored terrorism, we will continue to respond with ...precision,’’ he said.Pakistan on Friday rejected what it called the “irresponsible, spurious and totally false allegations” against Pakistan by the Indian army chief.It also charged India with ceasefire violations. “This year alone, Indian forces...have committed over 765 ceasefire violations, resulting in shahadat of 3 civilians and serious injuries to 54,” its foreign office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-terror-continues-in-pandemic-army-chief-gen-mm-naravane/story-fYhOAQF9Q9WO1xNUFQopJM.html
18-04-2020||India||Terrorist caught in Afghanistan earlier this month was IS recruiter in Jammu and Kashmir||Aijaz Ahmad Ahangar from downtown Srinagar’s Nawa Kadal had been a wanted man in Jammu and Kashmir for more than two decades. He was arrested once for terror links and released. This was sometime in the mid-1990s.Nearly 25 years later, he was arrested early this month by Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security (NDS) in Kandahar. No one really paid much attention. The NDS had been far too focussed on its prize catch, Aslam Farooqui, the chief of the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) who had claimed responsibility for the 25 March Kabul Gurdwara attack that killed 27 worshippers.In the early rounds of his questioning, Aijaz Ahangar identified himself as Ali Mohammed from Islamabad. The sequence of events that blew away his carefully crafted cover is still not clear. Counterterror operatives in Delhi and Kabul told HT that it was much later they discovered that the April 4 raid had also netted Aijaz Ahangar, the 55-year-old chief recruiter of the Islamic State Jammu & Kashmir. “It was a surprise,” said an Afghan watcher.Aijaz Ahangar, born in Bugam on the outskirts of Srinagar, wasn’t the only one in his extended family to pick up the gun. According to security agencies, his father-in-law Abdullah Ghazali aka Abdul Ghani Dar was a Lashkar-e-Taiba commander and had played a role in the formation in 1990 of the Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen. Aijaz Ahangar married Ghazali’s daughter Rukshsana much later.After a brief association with the al Qaeda, Aijaz Ahangar joined ISIS. Later, he joined the Islamic State Khorasan Province.His son Abdullah Umais joined the fighting in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar and got killed. His son-in-law, Huzafa-al-Bakistani, a top online recruiter of ISKP, was killed in a US drone attack in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-caught-in-afghanistan-earlier-this-month-was-is-recruiter-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-hHW79RlVW6x8QXlL6xnf8L.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In an admission that must have surely prompted millions of I-told-you-so moments across the world, China on Friday, through its state media, raised the death toll in Wuhan, the city where the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 first emerged, by around 50%.It is unlikely that the revision, up by 1,290 to a total of 3,869 deaths in Wuhan, will stop questions about the accuracy of China’s numbers. In fact, it will likely raise even more questions.Another set of China numbers also caused a flutter on Friday. Economic data released showed that China’s economy shrank by 6.8% in the first three months of the year as compared to a year ago, highlighting just how badly the pandemic and the lockdowns declared by countries around the world to contain it — the only option in the absence of a vaccine or a proven cure — hurt economies. This is the first time in decades that the Chinese economy has shrunk.For years, the Chinese economy was the driver of global growth. This year, according to the International Monetary Fund, the global economy will shrink by 3% (IMF has also said the Indian economy will expand by 1.9%). Admitting the death toll in Wuhan was higher than previously reported, and reporting a decline in the economy are both uncharacteristic of the Chinese. Indeed, to find the last time the Chinese admitted their economy shrank, one would have to travel all the way back to the mid-1970s.The 1.9% number came up during Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das’s comments on Friday as he unveiled the second tranche of monetary and credit measures to help businesses cope with the economic impact of Covid-19. The measures involved targeted liquidity at small businesses (and small finance companies), and agriculture, and enough respite for banks from having to declare accounts as non performing assets on the basis of norms that no longer make sense during this time (see pages 1 and 9). While RBI’s actions on the liquidity, credit, and financial stability fronts are welcome, the Indian economy desperately needs the government to announce a broader relief and stimulus package.If the pandemic subsides in the second half of this year, global economic growth next year will be 5.8%, IMF said in its outlook named The Great Lockdown.The chances of that happening seem unlikely. The pandemic could well subside, but in the absence of a vaccine, the world is unlikely to open up. On Friday, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that at least some restrictions in his country could continue for a year.He also spoke of a smartphone app similar to India’s Aarogya Setu, which the government will use to detect whether people may have come in contact with an infected person. Aarogya Setu isn’t mandatory, nor is the Australian app, which is expected to be launched in a few weeks, but the success of such apps, defined by their ability to contact-trace, is a direct function of the number of people who download it. Singapore also has a similar app called TraceTogether.Apps such as this could become important as governments seek to find a way for life and work to go on — even as the threat from the virus remains.On Monday, India will begin one such experiment, with a planned opening up of certain parts of the country for some business activities. Some states in the US hope to do this by the first week of May. India’s 40-day lockdown will come to an end on May 3. If the curve of infections has flattened by then, and if the infection rate is down to manageable levels, India can then return to a new normal existence — with social distancing, masks, and an app to keep it safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-rcOhWwX1q9pxbcOfelV9JL.html
18-04-2020||India||IAS officers’ training focuses largely on fight against Covid-19||From watching Virus, a Malayalam film on the 2018 Nipah virus outbreak, to understanding the Epidemic Diseases Act, the next batch of IAS officers graduating from the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration is gearing up to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The 182 officers currently at the academy are expected to join as trainee assistant collectors in districts across the country next month, provided the government lifts the lockdown, said an official at the academy.The Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers will complete their course on May 8. The Centre for Disaster Management recalibrated its course to instruct these officers about ways to tackle the outbreak.“The online course in the academy is focusing on the legal ecosystem around Covid-19, such as extant rules [for] national disasters with a special focus on procedure,” said academy director Sanjeev Chopra. A two-hour introductory session for this was held on the academy’s e-learning platform, GYAAN, on Thursday.“The session was mostly about the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA),” a trainee officer of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre said. “It was conducted by our faculty members, some of whom have experience on the ground of having handled disasters in Tamil Nadu and other states.”The trainee officer said Covid-19 is a nascent case study, though mitigation of the disease can be similar to other natural disasters. “We are still discovering things about Covid-19 but many steps taken for mitigation of disasters like floods can help here as well,” the trainee officer added. A second trainee officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre said information about laws will help with their work in the districts. “The DM [Disaster Management] Act, for instance, tells us about the exact responsibilities of a district magistrate and sub-divisional magistrate, ” he said. “We learnt we could requisition helicopters for delivering rations and ask private companies to provide equipment and human resources, if needed.”The second trainee officer added that Covid-19 has no precedent and officers will have to “improvise” when they start work. “The provisions apply in general to disasters, we will have to see how to use them to fight Covid-19,” he said.“We learnt how to set up relief camps, ensure sanitation and ensure no discrimination happens. We can extend these to tackle the present migrant worker crisis.” A second academy official said: “There are certain disasters that need an immediate response, such as floods. Others, like the pandemic, require a standardised response. These are the best practices needed to help reduce infections.”As a run-up to Thursday’s introductory session, the batch was asked to watch documentaries and films such as Virus and 93 Days, a Nigerian movie on Ebola. “The idea is to make them familiar with how countries across the world have dealt with epidemics,” the second academy official said. “Sub-divisional magistrates and sub-divisional officers are generally involved in disaster management in normal times as well. The district magistrate is the disaster management authority at the district level.”The batch was provided access to documents and modules on how districts and state governments and the Central government are tackling the pandemic.“Whether it’s understanding the concept of an incident response team or making sure different departments coordinate seamlessly, they will be in a better position to administer [after] this module,” said the second academy official. Inter-departmental coordination is being stressed. “Coronavirus has been declared a disaster by the government, so it automatically falls under the ambit of the course,” the official added. “We are also explaining coordination, such as working with police, the railway department, or others to ensure vulnerable groups and migrants don’t suffer.”A third official said disaster management was always an integral part of the course, but extra attention is being paid to it this year. “We have increased our focus on the National Disaster Management Act, State Disaster Management Act, epidemic Act and State Disaster Response Fund to help prepare the officers for their forthcoming assignment,” a third official said. “We are trying to help them understand and solve supply chain problems and ease the migrant crisis.”This official added that along with three classes a day, the trainees were asked to do book reviews on various subjects to help broaden their horizons. “Those who haven’t studied Hindi as a first language have to review a book in Hindi, others who are literature graduates have to review books on economy. The academy wants to help them expand their oeuvre.”The third official added an online concurrent assessment is being conducted on the material provided on Covid-19.The second trainee officer said while constant online assessment is being conducted, the trainees are also likely be tested on Covid-19 once the module is completed this week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officers-training-focuses-largely-on-fight-against-covid-19/story-dDdR0AP2B34BAfYwLKNd8I.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 25 Indian Navy personnel test positive for Covid-19||A total of 25 Indian Navy personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, ringing the alarm bells for the military at a time when the US Navy is grappling with a surge in coronavirus cases on some of its frontline warships.The navy men have been admitted in naval hospital INHS Asvini in Mumbai’s Colaba after testing positive for the novel coronavirus, informed two navy officials on the condition of anonymity. Most of these cases are asymptomatic and have been traced to a single sailor who was tested positive on April 7, 2020. They all reside in the same accommodation block at INS Angre. All primary contacts (though asymptomatic) were tested for Covid-19. The entire in-living block was immediately put under quarantine - containment zone - and INS Angre too is under lockdown.All actions as per established Covid-19 protocol are being taken. There are no cases of infection onboard ships and submarines.While this is the first reported case of Covid-19 in the Indian Navy, the Army has so far reported eight positive virus cases. “We have only eight positive cases in the entire Indian Army. Of the eight, two are doctors and one nursing assistant. Four are responding well to the treatment,” Army Chief General M.M Naravane said on Friday.The Army personnel who have not come in contact with any Covid-19 positive person are being moved back to units.“Our personnel who have not come in contact with any infected person are being moved back to units. We have already catered for two special trains -- from Bengaluru to Jammu and the other from Bengaluru to Guwahati,” he added.As the US Navy is struggling with increasing Covid-19 cases, Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh had stressed that it is vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remain free of the virus and the navy is combat ready at all times.In a 15-minute-long video message to naval personnel on April 9, the Indian Navy chief had told his men that while they should hope for the best, the navy should plan for the worst.“We need to be ready for the worst-case scenario and to my mind, it will be a long battle,” the navy chief had said. The armed forces have taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of coronavirus within their ranks. These include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel; a freeze on postings and foreign assignments; avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel; postponing of all courses for officers; and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-at-least-20-indian-navy-personnel-test-positive-for-coronavirus/story-9zFtU4xynEj3Yf2NqVyCRI.html
18-04-2020||India||Cases dip in Maharashtra and Mumbai; but curve not sliding yet, say experts||Although the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Maharashtra has witnessed a dip in the past few days, medical experts and Maharashtra government officials, whom HT spoke with on Friday, said the downward curve of cases in the state is likely to begin only on April 21 or 22.The state recorded 119 Covid-19 cases on Friday after it had reported 232 and 286 cases on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. There were 352 and 350 cases in the state on Monday and Tuesday.State health department officials said there are 60% chances of the curve of positive Covid-19 cases dipping after the two 14-day incubation cycles, which began from March 22 when international air traffic was stopped, are completed. “The two cycles of incubation period of infection end on April 20… We expect the beginning of the downward trend from that point. But if the curve moves upwards, it could be alarming and difficult to contain,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education & Research, adding that the state has not witnessed the community transmission stage yet. “If the number of cases moves upwards after April 21, then it could be called as the commencement of community transmission.”A health department official, on condition of anonymity, said the trend mostly depends on cases in densely populated areas such as Dharavi, Worli and the slums in Pune. The official said although the containment zones in these areas have been “carefully screened”, certain factors like “the density of population are not in their control”. The official said if the tracing of contacts failed in these areas, it could prove problematic.In Mumbai, too, there has been a massive drop in the number of cases, with the city reporting 12 cases on Friday as against 177, 140, 216 and 242 on the previous four days.Medical experts said the sudden dip could be because of the change in the testing policy of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). As per a new circular issued by BMC, following the instructions of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), only symptomatic patients along with high-risk patients will be tested. For those who were in close contact of asymptomatic patients, testing will be done only after five days of them being in contact with an infected person. Before April 14, the BMC was testing all close contacts of a patient for Covid-19.“Earlier, all the close contacts of a patient were tested, but now, they are being home quarantined. They will be tested between five and 14 days of their quarantine period. So, as the number of tests has decreased, the number of cases will automatically go down,” said Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert. However, the civic body has noticed that due to narrowing down of testing, the cases of false reporting have decreased. “Before implementation of the new rule, around 5% of the total people tested for Covid-19 were found positive. Whereas, now, the positivity rate has gone up by 11%,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. “In several cases, we have seen that even though a person has tested negative, he/she has turned positive days later. So, we need to give time to the virus to grow.”Health officials said the mortality rate in the state, too, is expected to drop further and the doubling of positive cases is expected to take longer. “The mortality rate has come down to 6.05% on Friday from 6.41% on Thursday and 6.84% on Tuesday. We expect a continuous drop as the response time to the infection has improved owing to aggressive testing. The deaths reported earlier were because of delay in admission and treatment and underlying ailments,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-dip-in-maharashtra-and-mumbai-but-curve-not-sliding-yet-say-experts/story-MBV9yt3cA9aOWNOHdVV1WL.html
18-04-2020||India||Delhi gears up to test 60,000 by month-end||Delhi is getting ready for a rush of testing once it receives the Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs) being distributed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — as many as 20,000 tests within five days and 60,000 before the end of the month — provided it gets enough kits. The numbers will significantly improve Delhi’s record on testing ; the city-state currently tests 930 per million population compared to a national average of 220. In terms of tests per million, it is ranked at the top in the country, with the only regions doing better are those with roughly a tenth of the capital’s population.The Delhi government has said it will focus its testing efforts on the containment zones, of which there are 68 in the city. Delhi officials said the government is awaiting a response from ICMR on the number of RTKs it will get. “The centre has committed to providing 50,000 RTKs for Delhi,” said an official in the chief minister’s office (CMO), asking not to be named. On Thursday, India received a batch of 550,000 RTKs from China, after two missed deadlines. “We are working on the details pertaining to allotment and logistics. The kits will be sent to our regional depots first and then it will be distributed to states taking into consideration several factors such as the scale of the outbreak, demand for kits stated by the states and current availability of RT-PCR kits in their inventory among others,” a senior ICMR official said on condition of anonymity. RT-PCR is short for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, a laboratory testing technique.Even though health ministry experts have reiterated that RTKs are not meant for diagnosis but should ideally be used for surveillance purposes to establish trends, and suggested they be used in areas where there are less or no cases, many states, including Delhi, are looking at using rapid kits for conducting aggressive testing along with RT-PCR around hot spots. “States can take a call on how and where they want to deploy these kits since health is a state subject, as long as the ICMR testing guidelines are followed,” said a senior health ministry official. As of Friday, Delhi accounted for 12% of the 14,350 cases in India. Delhi, meanwhile, has also placed an order for 50,000 more RTKs through ICMR-approved vendors, but those are yet to arrive (they too are being imported from China). Several other state governments have also placed orders with Chinese suppliers even as Beijing has tightened export norms to ensure quality. Unlike the RT-PCR test that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. It can show results within 30 minutes, experts said. Experts recommend their use to assess the extent to which a population has been exposed to the virus. According to a senior official in the state health department, on March 28, a five-member committee of doctors formed by the Delhi government conveyed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal the importance of scaling up tests and adopting random testing models in hot spots. Delhi was yet to notify any containment zones at the time. The chief minister asked the committee to come back with numbers, taking into consideration the shortage of kits.“After a few review meetings, the committee suggested that around 60,000 tests should be done by the end of April. It was a flexible estimation based on the projected rate of the outbreak and other inter-related factors. The chief minister agreed,” added the senior official who asked not to be named. “But to scale up the testing drive, the government will need rapid antibody test kits.” As per the plan, 20,000 tests are supposed to be done within five days of receiving the kits, the official said.“Testing will be scaled up and the focus will be on containment areas as per guidelines of the Union health ministry,” Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Delhi’s containment zones range from single buildings to entire neighbourhoods. “Once the testing is scaled up, the government can go beyond contacts of Covid-19 patients to cover within the containment areas all individuals with serious acute respiratory illnesses and cold, cough and flu-like symptoms for a proper assessment of the burden of the disease,” said Jugal Kishore, the head of community medicine department in Safdarjung Hospital – one of the medical institutes that has been asked by the Delhi government to lead the testing exercise.Until now, the tests have largely been restricted to healthcare workers exposed to patients and contacts of those infected. The government is yet to take a call on whether it will experiment with random tests, which will also take into account asymptomatic individuals.On Thursday, Kejriwal clarified that all individuals residing inside a containment zone will not be tested. For now, the tests are required only for the contacts of the patients and symptomatic individuals who reside in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gears-up-to-test-60-000-by-month-end/story-YSbBmQxDP6mOymVDQQxu4O.html
18-04-2020||India||Rapid testing begins as kits from China get clearance||Rajasthan began conducting rapid testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday with the arrival of 10,000 testing kits from Delhi. All the 52 persons tested at the urban PHC Topkhana Desh on Friday evening tested negative.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said another 50,000 kits are expected to arrive tonight and over next three days, the state will get 2 lakh rapid testing kits to push up testing. “We have received 10,000 kits and have started conducted rapid testing. In addition to rapid testing, PCR based testing will continue,” said Gehlot. Rajasthan plans to use rapid test for community surveillance and scale up testing capacity to 10,000 tests per day over the next ten days.Rapid tests have began India on Friday following 5 lakh rapid-testing imported from China being dispatched from the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) main depot at its National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR) on Friday, for six regional depots that will further distribute it to local laboratories doing testing.“The lot testing of the batch was completed today, and all kits were found to be of satisfactory quality. The consignment has been dispatched from NIMR,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.There are six institutes that ICMR has identified across India for storing the kits as it requires to maintain a cold chain conditions. Ten more institutes are being added as the number of kits being ordered is rising.“The rapid testing kits are being dispatched and being distributed among states that have high disease burden. The kits are being directly given to states and will be deployed or used by them as per their requirement, as long as ICMR guidelines for testing are adequately followed,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.The health ministry, however, did not give information on the number of kits being sent to each of their institutes or to which states and how many.The consignment that arrived on Thursday morning has 500,000 antibody testing kits and 100,000 RNA extraction kits. Of the 500,000, 300,000 are from Guangzhou Wondfo and another 200,000 from Zhuhai Livzon.There are 170 hotspot districts and 207 other districts with clusters, according to the health ministry.“The Rapid testing kits, as I have been saying again and again, are not to be used for diagnostic purposes, rather surveillance purposes to know the disease prevalence within the community. That’s how these kits should be used,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR.Rapid testing kits are meant for mass testing to detect undiagnosed infection. “Rapid testing works when you have to test a large number of people in a short span of time, as it is quicker and cheaper,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Apart from the central pool, the states have also been given a free hand to procure kits locally as per their needs.Andhra Pradesh received a consignment of one lakh rapid test kits manufactured by SD Biosensors from South Korea, which arrived on chartered flight Air India flight on Friday. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the first to get tested at his camp office in Tadepalli, tested negative.The flight reached New Delhi on Thursday and was brought to Hyderabad in the same evening. “From there, the kits were brought to Vijayawada by road on Friday morning,” the spokesman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-begins-as-kits-from-china-get-clearance/story-OlfBmTOIqqPu9srMDpZWVL.html
18-04-2020||India||250 buses to bring back UP students from Kota||The Uttar Pradesh government dispatched 250 buses to Kota on Friday to bring back over 7,000 students from the state who are enrolled in the Rajasthan city’s many coaching centres and have been stranded because of the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).A #sendusbackhome campaign launched on social media by the students, who are preparing for competitive examinations to qualify for admission to engineering and other courses, spurred the decision by the Yogi Adityanath government.“Uttar Pradesh state government has sent around 250 buses from UP which will reach Kota tonight (17 April),” Kota’s divisional Commissioner LN Soni told HT, adding that the buses will depart from Kota for Uttar Pradesh on Saturday morning.He said the students will be screened for Covid-19 before they set off for their home state to prevent the spread of the infection..The students cheered their imminent return. Eighteen-year-old Ritik Babu, who is preparing for the joint entrance examination to qualify for a seat in the Indian Institutes of Technology, said: “Finally now I will be able to meet my family”Suman Sahni, 19, said: “My course got completed a month ago but I decided to stay in Kota for further preparation. Suddenly, the lockdown occurred and I could not return home”.“I was missing my family as I was alone here in Kota so it is a delightful feeling that we are now going back to our homes”, he said.Around 10,000 students have already returned to their states from Kota, which is famous for the coaching centres that prepare students for admission to professional colleges.Other than Uttar Pradesh, no state has made an attempt to bring students stuck in Kota. Naveen Maheshwari, director of the Allen Career Institute, said that apart from the 7,000 students of UP, around 6,500 students from Bihar, 4,000 students from Madhya Pradesh, 3,000 from Jharkhand, 2,000 students each from Haryana and Maharashtra , and 1,000 each from the Northeast and West Bengal were enrolled in Kota coaching centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/250-buses-to-bring-back-up-students-from-kota/story-kqGQ1a4IXdo2vHP9fl2qpI.html
18-04-2020||India||Sense of duty drives AIIMS biomedical waste collector||Three days after Odisha’s second Covid-19 positive patient — a 19-year-old youth studying in the United Kingdom — was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Sanjay Dehury got a call from his boss.The 21-year-old used to drive vehicles in marriage processions till he joined a company that outsourced workers for cleaning assignments. In October 2019, he began to work at AIIMS Bhubaneshwar as part of the hospital’s 250-member housekeeping staff. On March 23, shortly after Odisha had gone into lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Manoj Sahoo, facility manager of Golden Hospitality Limited — the company hired to clean the hospital — gave him a new task to do. He requested Dehury to collect biomedical waste (blood, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, needles and syringes kept in bags from the wards) and drive it to the disposal centre inside the hospital complex. Sahoo made a similar request to 18 other employees; 10 said yes initially, but in the end, only two agreed to do the work.“The other housekeeping staff got scared and said there was a possibility of getting infected. The first day I reported for duty, I became very nervous as a few friends among the housekeeping staff asked me not to come. I did not report for duty for the next two days. But on the third day I thought if I do not go then someone else would do it. So I joined duty,” said Dehury, who lives with his father and brother in a village on the outskirts of the city.Like other hospital staff, Dehury requires a lockdown pass to travel to AIIMS. Every day he travels by his two-wheeler to AIIMS.In a non-pandemic world, transportation of biomedical waste requires a great deal of care. It must never be transported directly by hand due to risk of accidental injury from incorrectly disposed sharp items, or of transmission of blood-borne diseases. Hospital wards usually possess three colour-coded bins for different categories of waste, lined by corresponding colour-coded bags that are bio-degradable, leak proof and have a monogram of biohazard symbol. In the case of coronavirus-specific waste, the precautions are stricter given what we know about the virus: that it can stay on some surfaces for long, and still remain infectious. Guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board for handling biomedical waste of Covid-19 patients state that two bags are to be used for the collection of waste to ensure adequate strength and no leaks.Each morning, Dehury dons his Personal Protective Equipment comprising a coverall, hat, gloves, goggles, N95 mask, footwears and boot cover, before he goes up to the ward. A dedicated bin, labelled ‘Covid-19’, is kept in the storage room that can only be handled by authorised staff like Dehury. Dehury then enters the highly-infectious isolation ward to pick up the soiled linen.“After loading the colour coded bags onto a battery-operated vehicle, I drive it off to the biomedical waste facility where the vehicle is first washed with sodium hypochlorite solution.” At the site, Dehury also discards his own PPE, but keeps the N-95 mask on. “While the rest of the PPE are disposed of everyday, the mask is reused after disinfection,” he said.Until recently, there were two patients in the Covid ward, including a 72-year-old man who died last week. Another 60-year-old patient from Bhubaneswar who was critical, is now stable and likely to be discharged soon as his test results have now returned negative.Additional medical superintendent of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Pravas Tripathy said Dehury makes him proud. “Many of the housekeeping staff were scared of catching the infection and we had a hard time in making them understand that there is little risk (if they follow the precautions),” he said.Dehury earns Rs 12,000 a month and while a hospital official said that there were plans to “give a financial incentive to people like Dehury to keep them motivated,” nothing has materialised as yet. The hospital has converted one multi-storied hostel inside the campus to house all staff engaged in the Covid ward where 6-7 staff nurses and other attendants are staying. Dehury was given an offer to stay, but he chose to stay with his family.After returning home at the end of his duty hours, he dips his clothes in dettol liquid and hot water. He then takes bath in soap and warm water. After having his meal, he heads to the verandah. “We have just one room. So if I sleep in the room, my father and brother sleep outside. So at times I sleep in the verandah while they sleep inside to maintain maximum distance,” he said.In the tight quarters of his house in Suanga Nuasahi village, home to at least 300-odd people, it is difficult to maintain social distancing — one of the foremost requirements to prevent the spread of infection. Even the other residents of his village are trying to keep their distance from him and his family.Soon after he began working as a biomedical waste collector, a photo in which he wore the coverall and mask began to circulate on WhatsApp. “After some friends in the village saw the photograph, villagers pressured me to not report for duty. I simply asked them if any of them were infected by Covid-19 virus, who would look after them? The villagers agreed but asked me to not mingle with other youth in the village. My house is at one end of the village and so it does not affect me. Earlier I used to play cricket with my friends. Now I no longer do that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sense-of-duty-drives-aiims-biomedical-waste-collector/story-AGfpxa0lyBxqwBXMQv77dO.html
18-04-2020||India||MHA releases new list of activities exempted from lockdown curbs||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday released a new list of activities exempted from the extended national lockdown, including services offered by non-banking financial institutions (NBFCs) and cooperative credit societies with minimum staff and construction in rural areas.Harvesting, processing, packaging, sale and marketing of bamboo, coconut, arecanut, cocoa, spice plantation and collection, harvesting and processing of minor forest produce (MFP) and non-timber forest produce by scheduled tribes and other forest dwellers have also been exempted from the lockdown, extended from April 14 to May 3.Exempted construction activities in rural areas will include water supply and sanitation works, laying of power transmission lines and telecom optical fiber and cables, the MHA said.To help reive the economy, the government had on Wednesday released revised consolidated guidelines, allowing the transport of goods, without any distinction between essential and non-essential goods,farming operations, and marine and inland fisheries. Industries operating in rural areas including food processing, manufacturing and establishment in special economic zones (SEZs), export-oriented units and industrial townships were allowed as were coal, mineral and oil productionA senior government official said that after April 20, when the Centre will take stock of the lockdown , a few more economic activities may be allowed, depending on the ground situation and provided the restrictions that are in place are followed strictly.The states have already been asked to take action against the violators of lockdown measures under the Disaster Management Act.The MHA has stated that it was closely monitoring the lockdown and in touch with state governments on a regular basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-releases-new-list-of-activities-exempted-from-lockdown-curbs/story-G9HM55EuRgTq4mnwrthzrO.html
18-04-2020||India||As cases rise to 430 over three days, Madhya Pradesh’s Indore sees fresh spike||Indore has witnessed a further spike in Covid-19 cases with at least 430 cases reported in the past three days taking the tally in the district to 842 as on Friday evening. With the spike in the number of positive cases in Indore, Madhya Pradesh looks set to overtake Tamil Nadu to No.3 on the list of the worst affected states. The district administration in Indore attributed the spike to two factors-- a delay in getting reports of tests on samples sent in hundreds to a Delhi laboratory and the presence of a number of suspected Covid-19 patients in certain localities in Indore going unnoticed in February and March.District collector Manish Singh said, “A number of people came from outside via flights. I don’t know what was the facility for screening of such people at the airport at that time but there is a possibility of people here contracting virus from those who came from outside. The result was that the disease continued to spread in certain localities in February and March and this was perhaps the reason in spurt in deaths in these localities.”He expects the trend to flatten, though. “The samples which were sent to Delhi for testing were of such people who are already quarantined traced on the basis of contact history of Covid-19 patients already hospitalised. This is why we know the number of Covid-19 positive cases will continue to decrease now in the coming days.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has already gone on record saying that nothing was done by the then Kamal Nath government to identify Covid-19 patients. Even as the infection continued to spread in the third week of March, Madhya Pradesh was in the midst of a power shift. Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “Even if the Congress government did nothing, the question is, what has this government done to check the growth of Covid-19”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-rise-to-430-over-three-days-mp-s-indore-sees-fresh-spike/story-axuRX9AQAcRahsgWVF3VdM.html
18-04-2020||India||PMO holds meeting on easing lockdown after April 20||The Prime Minister’s Office on Friday held a preparatory meeting with officials of seven key ministries to go through the fine details of partially relaxing on Monday, the ongoing sweeping, federal lock-down -- a move aimed at restarting activity in select sectors of the Indian economy. Chaired by PM Narendra Modi’s Principal Secretary P K Mishra, the meeting primarily focused on getting workers to factories and back, and on the systems and processes states need to put in place for effective implementation of the guidelines for a partial exit from the lockdown as laid out in a home ministry order of April 15. That order allowed the restart of industries in rural areas and special economic zones, and also permitted services such as e-commerce -- all outside so-called containment zones declared by the respective state or union territory administrations. The idea behind the relaxation of restrictions is to allow economic activities to restart and also provide employment, especially to daily wage earners. Labour secretary Heera Lal Samariya, MSME secretary Arun Panda, urban development secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, rural development secretary Rajesh Bhushan, shipping secretary Gopal Krishna and mines secretary Sushil Kumar were present in the meeting that was attended by all senior officials of PMO.According to two officials present in the meeting who asked not to be identified, the main concern is to ensure fool proof ways for transportation of the workforce that will return to industries. In the absence of a public transport network, workers will have to be ferried in dedicated vehicles from their residence to the factory.The senior bureaucrats also discussed how construction sites or factories should be monitored, with health workers, Asha workers or volunteers regularly checking on the workers. “The home ministry has issued the revised guidelines and now a lot of ground has to be covered by the states with the help of the Centre. After all, the states have to implement the guidelines and put everything in place,” said one of the two officials. Another issue which came up during discussions was the maintenance of law and order when lockdown norms are relaxed. As law and order is a state subject , the secretaries have been told by the PMO to keep in regular touch with the states, assess the situation, and issue directives whenever needed.Food processing industries, road construction and industrial projects in rural areas will restart from April 20, with the government keen to create opportunities for daily wage earners. The measures are also aimed at boosting the rural economy . The government has allowed work related to MGNREGS, irrigation projects, construction and other industrial projects in rural areas. All farm-related activities will also remain operational as the harvest season has already started in parts of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmo-holds-meeting-on-easing-lockdown-after-april-20/story-utHBjTW7ceID6qk3JodhtL.html
18-04-2020||India||Kerala case raises fears over incubation period||A man who returned from Dubai on March 18 tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, 29 days after what health officials say was his likely exposure to an infection source, raising concerns that the disease could take longer to manifest and quarantine periods as short as 14 days may not be enough.The brother of this person – both are currently in Kozhikode – tested positive on March 28, prompting authorities to put him under special observation. “Chances of him being infected during observation period are nil. Since his brother was positive, he was under special observation. We have noticed a couple of such instances from other districts also. It could be that the onset was delayed because of his immunity. We can’t say virus works in a uniform pattern in all bodies,” said Kozhikode district medical officer Dr V Jayashree.Kerala has a 28-day mandatory isolation period for those with close contact with a confirmed patient or with a history of travel to hot spot countries. This period is double the 14-day isolation that people in other states are mandated to follow.Self-isolation is advised to keep someone who may have been infected from infecting others. This is particularly complicated in the case of Covid-19, which has an average incubation period (the time it takes for the disease to manifest itself) of around 5 days but has been established to last longer (up to 14 days). An incubation period of 29 days, as was in the case of the Kozhikode man, is rare.The virus also spreads when people are asymptomatic, making containment tougher.“True, Kozhikkode man’s case is a peculiar one. We have asked medical experts and scientists to study his case separately. Experts say since it is a new virus its behaviour is unknown and quite erratic,” said state health minister K K Shailaja, adding there was no need to worry. A student in Pathanamthitta, who shared a train compartment with some Tabligi Jamaat members who later were confirmed as patients, tested positive 22 days after her trip. She was asymptomatic throughout but tested positive when her observation period was about to end and remained asymptomatic even after the test result, said district medical officer Dr N Sheeja.A scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said such a behaviour by the disease cannot be ruled out. “It is possible as there are studies to suggest that. We are also conducting studies to check the incubation period,” said a microbiologist at one of the viral research and diagnostic labs of ICMR, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-case-raises-fears-over-incubation-period/story-JlRQ4e9eoZqMnKDAySQBqJ.html
18-04-2020||India||IISc start-up working on faster RT-PCR testing||A start-up from Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is in the process of validating a new two-step method for RT-PCR testing that can help India scale up molecular testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The RT-PCR test amplifies the virus’ genetic material (RNA) from throat swabs of the patients, converts it to DNA, amplifies it and checks it for designated markers to see whether it is the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.The method devised by the IISc team uses two machines, which are cheaper and readily available in India, instead of one, to complete the test. A thermal-cycler is used to amplify the genetic material machine, while a fluorescence reader is used to detect the presence of Sars-Cov-2 virus.Currently, India does about 25,000 RT-PCR tests a day. The testing is likely to go up with the much awaited consignment of 5 lakh rapid blood-based antibody tests arriving from China on Thursday. India has also started manufacturing its own antibody kits.“RT-PCR is the gold standard of tests, it can detect the presence of the virus in the body from day one, but there are very few RT-PCR machines across the country. They are also expensive. The method we have developed uses a thermal cycler, which is more readily available in biology labs,” said Arun B, director, Shanmukha Innovations, the IISc start-up.At IISc, there are about 30 RT-PCR machines in comparison to 200 thermal cyclers. There are about 186 government laboratories with the RT-PCR machines that have now been approved for Covid-19 tests.The fluorescence reader – the second machine needed for the testing -- is also available in several academic labs or can be manufactured at a low cost.“The fluorescence readers are used to measure the DNA in samples and is available at several academic laboratories. Otherwise, it can be manufactured at a cost of Rs 1 lakh as opposed to about Rs 15 or 20 lakh that the RT-PCR machine costs. We have been working with this method for other diseases such as malaria and kala azar, now we need to just validate the workflow for Covid-19,” said Arun.Their team has collaborated with the Bangalore Medical College to test round 100 samples using the traditional RT-PCR test and their two-step method to assess whether it is as accurate. The team already has two prototypes.“Once validated, the manufacturing and scaling up can happen as quickly as four to six weeks,” he said.The start-up is also working on a mobile laboratory – with bio-safety level II – requirements that can cut down on the testing time. “We already have a few vans donated to us under CSR and we are working on fitting them with equipment and restructuring them as a BSL II labs. Right now, there is a lag of at least three days between the sample collected and patients receiving the report because all the samples have to go to the designated laboratories. Instead, we can now take the vans to the hotspots and do the test directly there. Around 12 samples can be processed in three hours,” said Arun.Each van is likely to cost around Rs 45 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iisc-start-up-working-on-faster-rt-pcr-testing/story-mPUOVQ847uOudyBXUC6TiN.html
18-04-2020||India||MHA asks states to trace Rohingya Muslims who attended Tablighi Jamaat event||With close to 26,000  members of the Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts already under Covid-19 quarantine, the ministry of home affairs has found that Rohingya Muslim refugees from Myanmar spread across regions of India, too, attended activities of the Islamic group in March and several of them were missing.The ministry has asked all the state governments and police chiefs to trace the Rohingyas and their contacts on a “priority” basis.In a letter sent to all state chief secretaries, directors generals of police and the Delhi police commissioner, a copy which was reviewed by HT, the MHA wrote:“It has been reported that Rohingya Muslis have attended ‘ijtemas’ (largest annual Islamic congregation organized by Tablighi Jamaat – March 13 to 15) and other religious congregations of Tablighi Jamaat and there is a possibility of their contracting Covid-19.”“Rohingyas residing in camps in Hyderabad, Telangana had attended Tablighi Jamaat ijtema at Mewat, Haryana and had visited Nizamuddin Markaz at New Delhi. Similarly, Rohingyas living in Shram Vihar, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi who had gone for TJ activities, have not returned to their camps”.Following the Tablighi Jamaat’s mid-March congregation at its Markaz headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti, the area emerged as the country’s biggest hotspot of the coronavirus disease. The MHA’s letter said the presence of Rohingya Muslims who attended the Tabligh Jamaat events has been reported from Derabassi, Punjab and the Jammu area. “Rohingya Muslims and their contacts need to be screened for Covid-19. Accordingly, necessary measures may be taken in this regard on priority,” the MHA letter said.According to an estimate by the government, there are around 40,000 Rohingyas living in camps across several states in India; 17,500 of them are registered as refugees with the United Nations.A senior official who didn’t wish to be named noted the spurt in Covid-19 cases following the event in the Markaz,, and said: “... if Rohingyas ,who attended it ,living in camps across states ,are also affected, then it will be a bigger problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-trace-rohingya-muslims-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event/story-wYGuZEHdCSKewiYtGCTD7I.html
18-04-2020||India||Study links obesity to severity of disease, death in young patients||Obesity has been identified as a risk factor for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)among people aged below 60 and is likely to lead to more severe forms of the disease and death among the overweight, a new study suggests.Patients with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 to 34 were twice more likely to be hospitalised and 1.8 times more likely to need critical care and those with a BMI of >35 were 2.2 times more likely to get hospitalised and 3.6 times more likely to need critical care compared to those with a BMI of <30.BMI is a measure of wether a person is overweight or underweight, calculated by dividing the weight in kilograms by the square of the height in metres.The findings on the impact of obesity on people identified as Coiv-d19-positive were based on a study 3,615 patients who visited a large hospital in New York. Of them, 21% had a BMI of 30 to 34 (obese) and 16% had BMI of >35 (bordering extreme obesity). Of the total, 37% had to be hospitalised and 12% needed critical care. The study has been accepted for publication in the Oxford journal of Clinical Infectious Diseases on April 9.“Though patients under 60 years are generally considered a lower risk group for Covid 19 disease severity, based on data from our institution, obesity appears to be a previously unrecognised risk factor for hospital admission and critical care,” the study said.The study also briefly refers to the fact that obesity could be an important factor explaining high mortality in the US compared to, for instance, China and South Korea.South Korea, China, US and Italy have a fatality rate of 2.2%, China 4%, US 4.9% and Italy 13.1% presently as per Johns Hopkins University data analysis. New York is presently the epicentre of the pandemic, with over 10,913 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University data. Another study by NYU Langone Health, an academic hospital ,published in Medrxiv, a website for pre-print studies on April 11, found that among 4,103 Covid-19 patients studied, the most at risk were those older than 75 years and those with a BMI over 40 (severe obesity). People with a heart condition and those with oxygen saturation of less than 88%, and high markers of inflammation, were others at high risk.Around 28.1% hospitalised patients, according to the NYU Langone study, needed invasive ventilation and 18.5% died, compared to 2.3% patients needing invasive ventilation and 1.4% dying in the largest study of 1,099 hospitalised Covid-19 patients in China.“It is notable that the chronic condition with the strongest association with critical illness was obesity, with a substantially higher odds ratio than any cardiovascular or pulmonary disease. Obesity is well-recognized to be a pro-inflammatory condition,” the study said.Obesity was high among patients admitted in intensive care units and the disease’s severity increased with BMI, found a tudy by researchers at the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Lille in France of 124 Covid-19 patients .“Obesity is linked to pre-diabetes, diabetes, hypertension, low immunity, sleep apnoea, heart disease, obesity hypoventilation syndrome which all increase susceptibility and adverse outcomes in diseases like Covid-19,” said G C Khilnani, chairman of the PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care in New Delhi, and former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)Obesity predisposes people to many diseases and infections, . said Dr Romel Tickoo, consultant of internal medicine at Max Hospital.“If obese persons are on ventilator support, its difficult to wean them off because they have some sort of obstructive sleep apnoea. They tend to retain carbon dioxide. They also have pre-diabetes or diabetes and hypertension,” he said, adding that inflammatory markers predisposes them to morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-links-obesity-to-severity-of-disease-death-in-young-patients/story-yfrjhl7bdzJcb8Qyu7WxOJ.html
18-04-2020||India||BIS retracts new guidelines for coveralls in PPE kits||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on Friday withdrew the specifications for coveralls – one of the components of the personal protective equipment (PPE) – just three days after they were released because they were found to be too stringent. The new specifications said that in addition to being fluid-resistant, the coveralls or body suits also had to be viral resistant. They were part of a set of specifications put together by the national standards body for PPE including gloves, masks, and eye protectors to be used by health care workers while treating Covid-19 patients. The specifications were first put up on the BIS website three days ago and were removed on Thursday. On Friday, the organisation tweeted: “As per some media reports, confusion has arisen about standards of coveralls in the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). As of now standards specified by the ministry of health and family (welfare) are applicable. It is clarified that BIS has not notified any standard for coveralls.”A senior official from BIS said on condition of anonymity hat while the specifications were released, “there were administrative and inter-ministerial issues. For the time being, manufacturers have to keep following the specifications as released by the health ministry.”The reason for the withdrawal is that none of the manufacturers in India are currently geared up to make coveralls as per these specifications, not even the ones that have been approved by the textile ministry, according to an industry expert who asked not to be named. The industry expert, who was part of the discussions regarding the specifications, said, “The specifications must have been withdrawn after requests from the textile ministry. Although companies are working towards developing breathable viral-barrier materials and technology that can be used for sealing the seams, it is not available for now. The textile ministry knows this and they cannot afford to stop the production of the much-needed PPEs.”Indian manufacturers could not meet the new standards that required the coverall be made from viral-barrier materials that are not available in India, which is also short on machines needed for sealing the seams to prevent leakage.While the specifications have been withdrawn, most manufacturers agree that some standard ones are necessary. “What the ministry of health had released were buyer specifications, but not national standards that were to be followed by all manufacturers. These BIS standards are a very important first step towards creating uniformity in products that are being manufactured across the country. So far, the procurer for central government, HLL, institutes such as AIIMS, and different state governments all have different specifications for procurement,” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Devices Industry (AiMeD).BIS organised a meeting on April 3 with manufacturers and industry bodies to seek feedback on the draft of the specifications that were uploaded to its website earlier this week after the organisation decided to fast-track the adoption of the specifications.“The committee decided that due to novel coronavirus pandemic and for uniform product requirements and test methods to be followed by stakeholders, the wide circulation of the draft standard be waived off and draft standard be held to have been finalised for publication,” read the minutes of the meeting, a copy of which has been seen by HT. “We were initially about to start our production with fluid-resistant material, but we stopped even before we began because there were talks of viral-barrier suits. Now the challenge is availability of the raw material and the taping machines. These are dampeners when it comes to scaling up production in the country. Now, we have finally managed to source some material for the viral-barrier suits, but our product is yet to be certified. . Our PPE kits should reach the market next week,” said Dr GSK Velu, Chairman and Managing Director, Trivitron Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bis-retracts-new-guidelines-for-coveralls-in-ppe-kits/story-Qm71T603HSmVYHk6r637FN.html
18-04-2020||India||No mutation found in three virus strains in India: ICMR||Evidence available with scientists suggests there has been no mutation in the three known strains of the coronavirus that is causing the Covid-19 outbreak in India, government officials said on Friday, even as they claimed that the steps taken by authorities have helped the country slow the doubling rate of the infection to 6.2 days from three days before the announcement of a nationwide lockdown last month.Genome sequencing of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in Indian laboratories, including in Pune’s premier National Institute of Virology, has so far found three strains of the pathogen, Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of the epidemiology and communicable disease division of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said.Also read: PMO holds meeting on easing lockdown after April 20“The initial samples had a virus sequence similar to what was found in Wuhan, China (where the outbreak began in December); the second sequence was what was circulating in Iran and has similarities to the Wuhan virus; and the third strain is what has been found in people infected in the United States or the United Kingdom,” he said at a press conference.“...this virus does not mutate fast. Now the question is which of the strains is going to be the dominant quasispecies (dominant strain) in India...it is a bit difficult to predict at this time,” he added.Scientists isolate strains of viruses from patients to check for variations or possible mutations in a geographic area. The isolation of virus strains is the first step towards creating drugs, vaccines and rapid diagnostic kits in a country.Several research projects are underway in India in the field of drugs and vaccine development. ICMR will soon start studying the effect of Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine in Indian population. BCG, which scientists believe could boost immunity, is a tuberculosis vaccine that has shown promise against Covid-19, according to US researchers.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India rise to 14,378, death toll at 480At the same event, a top official of the Union health ministry said the sweeping restrictions announced to contain the infectious disease seemed to be working in India, stressing that it took it took 6.2 days for Covid-19 cases to double in the past week as against three days before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25.“There are 19 states where the doubling rate is less than the national average, which means it is taking more than 6.2 days for the cases to double. It is a product of our efforts...,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said.These 19 states and Union Territories are Kerala, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Puducherry, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Assam, Telangana, Karnataka and Tripura.On April 5, at the regular afternoon briefing to the press, Agarwal mentioned that the number of infections was doubling in India every 4.1 days.The doubling rate in the UK (104,145 cases and 13,759 deaths) stands at about 10 days at present. The corresponding number for the US (667,801 cases and 32,916 deaths) is about 11 days. To be sure, these two countries have managed to slow the doubling rate. When there were around 14,000 positive cases in these countries, the number of infections was doubling in the UK (around March 27) in about three days and in the US (around March 19) in about two days.According to the ministry, there have been 13,387 Covid-19 cases in India till April 17 with 1,749 recoveries and 452 fatalities.“As of today, 170,000 dedicated Covid-19 beds and 21,800 ICU beds are operational in 1,919 hospitals across the country. All these efforts are being made to ensure country is well equipped to deal with any eventuality,” Agarwal said.Separately on Friday, a group of ministers, headed by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, discussed how the implementation of lockdown measures can be improved, especially in areas reporting more Covid-19 cases. The group also discussed how areas such as diagnostics, vaccine development, drugs and hospital facilities can be strengthened for Covid-19 prevention and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-mutation-found-in-three-virus-strains-in-india-icmr/story-wSzC7YUgFwMytqKTMhnHDN.html
18-04-2020||India||MCI seeks registered doctors’ list from states||The Medical Council of India, country’s apex medical education regulator, has written to its state councils asking them to prepare a list of all doctors registered with them -- part of an exercise aimed at taking stock of the number of doctors that be mustered to treat Covid-19 patients should the number of infections increase sharply.In a latter sent out last week, the board of governors of Medical Council of India (BoG-MCI) asked for an updated list of registered medical practitioners and their contact details.“The Medical Council of India has been entrusted for ensuring availability of registered medical practitioners (registered under the Indian Medical Council Act 1956/State Medical Council Acts) for tackling Covid-19 pandemic. It is requested to share the updated list of registered medical practitioners available in your medical council…” said the letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.Apart from the names and registration numbers, the information asked for also requires mobile number, email, and contact address.“This information should be sent to the MCI as early as possible, in view of the prevalent situation. This information will be further shared with the government authorities for their use, when required,” the letter added.State councils have already started work on compiling the data.“We are working on compiling the list. Once a medical practitioner registers (with us) the name stays at least for years years in the state register ; some of them are also PG students coming from other states who return to their respective state after their education is over. We need to weed out those names from the list, and with skeletal staff at our disposal right now it might take a little longer,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, member, Delhi Medical Council.India has 1.1 million registered allopathic doctors as of December 2019. “Assuming 80% availability, it is estimated that around 9.26 lakh doctors may be actually available for active service,” said minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey in the Lok Sabha last year. For a population of 1.36 billion, this makes the doctor-population ratio 1:1,457, which is lower than the WHO recommended norm of 1:1,000.For people living in rural areas that are completely dependent on government hospitals and clinics, the ratio is actually far worse, 1:10,926, according to the National Health Profile 2019 data.Similar plans are afoot in parts of the government. The health ministry sent out a directive to the chief secretaries of states last week, on the utilization of the services of the ear nose throat (ENT) specialists or post-graduate trainees for collection of Covid-19 samples for testing.“You are aware that the country is in the midst of an unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19. One of the key components of our strategy to combat this outbreak is contact tracing and collection of nose and throat swab samples of potentially infected persons. There is an urgent need of trained and qualified personnel to collect these samples and the number of such persons needs to be augmented significantly,” said that directive, a copy of which has been seen by HT.“All States/UTs are, therefore, requested to organize collection of Covid-19 case samples by using the services of ENT specialists and residents. The services of these professionals working in all government and private medical colleges of the states may be drafted for this purpose,” the directive added.A health ministry official said on condition of anonymity: “While the labs were enough, there was felt a shortage of trained people to collect samples. The experts discussed the matter and thought of making use of ENT specialists for the purpose as they already are trained in handling diseases of nose and throat. The states have passed on the instructions to all medical institutions in this regard, and the process of involving specialists has begun.”“It is definitely a good idea as ENTs will definitely more skilled to do the job. The problem is bigger in remote areas where involving them should surely help,” said Dr NN Mathur, ENT professor and former principal, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College (Safdarjung Hospital).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mci-seeks-registered-doctors-list-from-states/story-ypKCu7PDrgObUgX0UdOiEM.html
18-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Woes mount, migrants stare at long road to normalcy||After the government announced an extension of the national lockdown till May 3, distress among stranded workers and the unemployed is rising. State governments have been asked to provide relief to stranded workers but not allow them to move back across state borders to their villages.Here are some snapshots from the marginsYearning for home“My wife suddenly gets up from sleep around midnight and starts crying. She is missing our daughter and two sons who are with my parents in my village,” said Vishal Misare, 28, a migrant worker from Balaghat town in Madhya Pradesh.Misare is one of 48 construction workers from Madhya Pradesh now living at a wedding venue at Miyapur Cross Roads on the outskirts of Hyderabad. They tried to leave the camp on Monday night but were brought back by the police.Misare has exhausted the money he had earned from February through the middle of March. “I am penniless,” he said, claiming that the Rs 500 promised by authorities (Central government) has not been given. “We were given 5 kg of rice and a kg of dal last month.” Ludhiana district officials said they were providing best possible facilities in these “tough” conditions.Like Misare, a landless labourer, there are hundreds in labour camps across India, who are yearning to go back to their villages, as they can get work in agriculture fields or under the MGNREGA, both allowed from April 15.Sunil Kumar, 24, from Patna, wants to leave the camp at Jeedimetla in Hyderabad. “I will get married on May 20. I want to go back, but I am not being allowed to step out,” said Kumar, who worked in a gas welding unit in Jeedimetla industrial estate, which is shut due to lockdown.Last week, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked migrant workers to not worry as the state government would not allow anybody to suffer from hunger. “It is for their benefit that we are asking them to stay back wherever they are. If they have any issues, they can bring it to the notice of the authorities and they will solve them,” he said.Pending wagesFor one week, Rajkumar, 28, a steel factory worker in Punjab’s Ludhiana has been entreating his employer to pay his wages. His brother is suffering from tuberculosis and he needs money to support his family.“After a week of struggle, harassment and making repeated rounds, my employer paid me one month’s wages while two month’s pay was pending. He did not even pay me for overtime,” he said.Possible to ask employer?For the past three days, labourers in Sahnewal, Machhiwara and Sherpur Kalan in Ludhiana have hit the streets, demanding to go back to their villages, and protesting against the administration.Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said thousands of ration kits were distributed and meetings held with factory owners to push them to not slash wages. “The helpline numbers are ringing 24 hours, food and ration are being provided to the needy and all efforts are being made to see the migrants do not suffer,” he said.Rental DemandGhaneswar Behera, 29, an assembly line operator working with a Gurugram auto major, paid whatever money he had as pending rent for single room in the national capital region on Friday and is now wondering how he will feed his family if the auto company does not start operations from April 20.Behera left his home in Amartya in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district with his wife and 20-month-old son about six months ago. A village acquaintance helped him to get a job with an auto company in Gurugram. Having no work for 21 days, he, with four other families, booked railway tickets to return to Odisha, thinking that the lockdown will be lifted on April 15.As the lockdown was extended, the landlord came knocking.“The house-owner asked me to pay or leave,” said Behera, leaving with no option but to give Rs 5,000 of the Rs 7,000 he had to the landlord. When Behera told his landlord about the government moratorium on such payments, he did not listen. Behera paid up.Behera is left with just Rs 2,000 to run his household of five people, and little certainty of employment. The employers have asked workers to submit their body temperatures daily to the contractor. “We don’t have enough money to buy vegetables, how will we buy a thermometer?” Behera asked.Walking Back“We walked for over 12 hours before we got a lift from a truck driver who dropped us here. I hope for another lift, otherwise we will cover the journey on foot,” said Naushad Sheikh, a daily wage worker in Ghaziabad, who has walked from Delhi to Lucknow. His destination is Bhadohi in eastern Uttar Pradesh, still 280km away.The 19 year old, having just Rs 1,500 with him, had decided to stay put in Ghaziabad but changed his mind when the lockdown was extended.On April 14, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, Sheikh packed his belongings -- three pairs of trousers, two shirts, some toiletries, a shoe, a sandal, a speaker and documents -- in a backpack, covered his face with a handkerchief and left Ghaziabad.The decision to extend the lockdown has led to another exodus of migrant workers, though fewer than in the first wave some weeks ago. At least three groups were stopped in Hyderabad, one in Tamil Nadu, two in Kerala and several others in the Hindi heartland by police since April 15.On his way, Sheikh met seven other daily wagers and the group reached Lucknow together after 24 hours on foot on Wednesday evening. Tired and without a proper meal, the group stretched themselves out on the grass alongside the state highway leading to Varanasi, before starting to walk again.“We saw many labourers returning home,” said Shyam Gautam, 24, a mason, returning to Sultanpur with Sheikh. “Around 50 labourers, who lived in my locality, also left on April 15. Many more will do the same. We can’t survive in cities anymore.”Finally Home“Walking 250 km on an empty stomach was arduous,” said Ram Achal, 25, sitting outside his home in his village in Bahraich district, recalling his travel from a construction site in Kanpur soon after the lockdown was announced.He completed the 14 day quarantine period before he was allowed to enter the village, a protocol implemented by states to isolate migrant labourers. Thousands of others were quarantined at government run institutions, including schools. Despite the trauma and pain, Achal, a landless labourer, said the village was like “heaven” as he can play with his children and mingle with other people in the village.Manna Lal, 48, who had led them on the walk, was not nearby. “He is now obsessed with swimming in the river. He eats, swims, stays home and does nothing. All of us are just idling around.“We became migrant labours because we get Rs 450 per day against Rs 250 per day as farm labours,” he said. But, if the fear of Covid-19 continues, he and other villagers will have to take up farm work. “Surviving here is also not easy.”(With inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu, Aneesha Sareen Kumar, Debabrata Mohanty, Pankaj Jaiswal, Chandan Kumar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woes-mount-migrants-stare-at-long-road-to-normalcy/story-ydYufzx4j0a8Y3qYcAqyrN.html
18-04-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee govt plans ramping up Covid-19 testing||Amid allegations that not enough tests are being conducted to detect Covid-19 patients in West Bengal and the number of infections increasing steadily everyday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s government has finally decided to expand testing to include even asymptomatic people, or those showing no symptoms of the virus“Swab samples {to} be taken for all symptomatic contacts, and all asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case as per Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and in clusters and quarantine centres, as deemed fit by the local administration,” said a directive issued by the state government.The step is a part of the state government’s 11-point containment and treatment strategy for high-risk spots announced on Monday. Only symptomatic patients were to be tested under the strategy, which was amended on Thursday to include even asymptomatic people who may be carrying the virus.“This is a huge step taken by the state government. We doctors have been banging our head against the wall for this for the last 10 days. It is because a lockdown and policing alone cannot bring desired results. We need to ramp up our tests. We need to go for random sampling. Tests, tests and more tests ae the need of the hour because we need to identify asymptomatic carriers and confine them,” said Kunal Sarkar, a cardiologist. Around 12,200 people are now under observation in 582 institutional quarantine centres run by the state. They are likely to be tested, said a top official at the state health department.“Earlier the ICMR had suggested that only symptomatic patients need to be tested. Now with ICMR coming up with new guidelines, we have also issued fresh guidelines. The state has also placed requisition for 50,000 rapid antibody testing kits. We will start the rapid test as soon as the kits arrive,” the official added.West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress government has been drawing flak for allegedly not conducting enough tests.Only 3,811 tests have been conducted in Bengal, with a population of around 100 million, compared to 56,673 tests in Maharashtra, 21,384 in Uttar Pradesh and 17,650 in Madhya Pradesh.Till date, at least 205 persons have tested positive for the virus in Bengal out of whom 10 have died. Allegations have surfaced that a few other patients who died Covid-19 hadn’t been included in the toll; the state government says that they had comorbid conditions that may have been responsible for their deaths. The state has set up a panel of doctors to look into such deaths before declaring whether they died of Covid-19 or other ailments. The latest directive, expanding testing to asymptomatic people, didn’t silence critics. the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that t was another attempt to suppress numbers.“Health minister Mamata Banerjee continues assault on Doctor’s rights, proscribes them from prescribing Covid tests! How is it that a doctor treating a Covid patient can neither decide on the test nor write reasons for death but local admin or some random committee can?” tweeted Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s information technology cell.The health department offered no immediate clarification. Repeated calls and messages to top officials in the department elicited no response .The Union government has identified Kolkata and Howrah as red zones – where the number of cases could easily double within four days. The state administration has started a house-to-house survey in high-risk containment areas to trace Covid-19 suspects who need to be quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-govt-plans-ramping-up-testing/story-MovgwQULEkD9qlaFK6ajxL.html
18-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: On April 20, about 45% of economy will resume operations||The Union government’s guidelines, envisioning a slow return to work starting April 20, will see up to 45% of the economy becoming operational again, up from just 25% during the initial lockdown from March 24 to April 14, economists said.A patchwork of sectors, focused on the rural economy, essentials as well as services, are set to resume but losses from the lockdown could still be staggering and not everything can start at once on April 20. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe transport, farm operations and rural construction sectors will need the least turnaround time, analysts said.The relaxations, set to kick in on April 20, are primarily aimed at the agricultural and rural economy to restore the earnings of daily wage earners. “Our estimates suggest that the partial relaxation will open up a larger share of the economy. Compared with the original lockdown, in which only 25% of the economy was operational, these relaxations can result in roughly 45% of the economy resuming business after 20 April,” Sonal Varma, an economist with securities firm Nomura, said. “The priority is to save lives while looking to safely restart the economy,” a federal official told HT on April 15, when the Union home ministry issued revised consolidated guidelines on which economic activities will be allowed in non-containment zones. Another economist, Varshit Shah of Emkay Global, an equities firm, said he expected domestic demand to “bounce back” once the lockdown eases. The cautious optimism about the economy tiptoeing its way back excludes hot spot districts (there are around 170), which roughly account for over 37% of gross domestic product, or GDP. According to the Union government’s guidelines, starting April 20, key parts of the economy, including agriculture, logistics, infrastructure, e-commerce and factories located outside urban limits, will resume operations in areas with no infections -- what the health ministry calls green zones. Click here to follow Covid-19 updatesThe rebooting of these activities is still critically tied to the condition that the curve of coronavirus positive cases begins to flatten. “If any new area is included in the category of a containment zone, the activities allowed in that area till the time of its categorisation as a containment zone, will be suspended, except for those activities that are specifically permitted under the guidelines of Union ministry of health and family welfare,” the government said.“Agriculture and manufacture of essential goods will benefit the most from the revised guidelines. This has to be looked at in line with the opening up of the agricultural produce market committee markets, free movement of essential goods, ration shops and no restriction on opening up of establishments for manufacturing essential goods,” Care Ratings said in a report.Yet, economists have projected staggering losses from a 40-day lockdown of business. The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% projected in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% projected earlier. “In total, the direct economic loss due to the lockdowns is likely to be around 7.5% of GDP,” Varma said. According to a Barclays report, each week of lockdown would cost India $20 billion. Varma said economic activity could be ruled out in at least in 123 districts where the health ministry has said there is an outbreak . “Assuming that activity commences in the remaining 60% of the districts, our back of the envelope calculation suggests that relaxed guidelines will lead to roughly 45% of the economy becoming operational after April 20,” she added.Experts also said the economy’s performance will depend on strict containment of new novel coronavirus infections because newer hots pots will pinch output further. “So much depends on how the infection curve pans out,” said DK Joshi of Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm. Given that new cases haven’t stopped, India could still be on the “exponential part” of the Covid-19 graph, according to Varma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-april-20-about-45-of-economy-will-resume-ops/story-ypELwD2A8WaygClRUhQ46I.html
18-04-2020||India||With fewer people, industries eye slow start after relaxations||Industries resuming production from Monday will work much below their capacities because of restrictions imposed by states and most the workforce having left for their home states, industry leaders in different states said on Friday.They said the possibility of employing stranded migrant labourers, except in the construction industry, is not high because of the specific skills needed in each industry. They also feared that the possibility of the stranded labourers returning home when the lockdown is lifted is high, an eventuality that will further hamper production.The Central government had issued guidelines for allowing all industries in rural areas and certain industries in non-hotspot regions of urban areas to begin operating from Monday.The state governments have issued specific protocols, which include boarding and lodging facility and transportation for workers, said government officials in several states.The Karnataka government hinted that IT-BT companies could be allowed to start limited operations from Monday. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan met representatives of technology companies. Later, while speaking to the media, he said that while the lockdown would continue after April 20, technology companies could start operating with 50% employees coming in every other day. Karnataka exports about $40 billion in technology services and the sector is the biggest employer in the organised sector in the state.The minister also said that technology employees would not need the special pass required by others. “I doubt whether there would be the pass culture after April 20. Anyway, there is no public transport, no metro, no buses. In two wheelers only one person can travel and there are limits on how many can travel in a car. If the technology companies want, we can provide sanitised public transport buses.”Narayan said the representatives of IT companies had assured him that hygiene, masks, use of sanitisers, social distancing and all other government directives will be strictly implemented. “They have said they will undertake screening and testing as well as other responsibilities,” Narayan said.Badish Jindal, president of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association, said strict conditions, such as accommodating labour within the factory premises and holding the owner responsible if any worker contracts the infection, made many owners of industrial units reluctant to resume production.“Not more than 2% of the small and medium units have the space to accommodate the workers on their premises,” he said.Industries dealing with food, sanitisers and personal protective equipments (PPEs) were allowed to function during the lockdown period, which meant that about 1% of industries were operating during the national lockdown. Revival of all industrial activity is being seen as a measure to provide employment to workers unemployed since March 24, when the first 21-day lockdown was announced.Industry leaders in different states said that only about 5-10% of the industries will be operational and many small and medium industries will not function as they do not have places for workers to stay, a condition imposed by most states.They were anticipating that the production will increase to half of the capacity even after lockdown is lifted as workers are keen to return home.In Punjab, which has about 2,50,000 industrials units, not many will operate, said additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra. He said detailed guidelines for industries to function in special economic zones, industrial areas and clusters will be issued by Friday evening.PHDCCI (Punjab) ex-chairman, RS Sachdeva, whose own unit is operating at half its capacity, said resumption of manufacturing in a substantive manner will be very difficult till the entire supply chain (availability of raw material and delivery of manufactured products) is fully established.“Some small units can start working to create inventory for mother units, but I don’t think large units will get into production,” he said. He, too, feared labourers will return to their villages, leading to a scarcity of workers. Maharashtra government will allow the industrial operations in about 20 districts which have none or a few Covid -19 patients from April 20 and aims to facilitate resumption of operations of at least 60% of the 4.5 lakh MSMEs by the end of April.“We are preparing a proposal to begin industrial operations in about 20 (of 36 total) districts from next week,” said industries minister Subhash Desai. “Industrial units in services, agriculture, pharmaceutical sectors are ready to resume the operations from next week. But, having limited skilled workforce is an impediment,” said Milind Kable, president, Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (3202) and has reported 194 deaths till Thursday.Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry, state president, Suresh Agarwal, said the industries will be operational by April 21-22 with around 30% labour. “I believe the garment factories will come into operations swiftly, looking to pending orders and local labour,” he said, adding that the industries will have adequate labour as half of the workers are from Rajasthan.Some industrialists, such as Akhil Agarwal, owner of Jaipur based Auto Corp Private Limited, said 30% workers were staying in factory premises and they will start operations by April 21. “If required, the rest of the labourers, who stay within a 10km radius of the factory ,will be called,” he said, ruling out the possibility of hiring stranded labourers.Rajasthan Industry Commissioner, Muktanand Agarwal said the industries will have to comply with the standard protocols issued by the state on basis of Central guidelines. “Passes will be required for transportation of workers who are not staying in factory premise and are coming by transport arranged by the employer,” he said. Gautam Kothari, president of Peethampur Audyogik Sangthan in Madhya Pradesh, said, “About 70% of the workforce of industries have returned home. Industries cannot resume work until adequate workforce is present 10 to 15 days prior to the resumption of operations.” He said that there was hardly any chance of resumption of operation of automobile industries in Peethampur, which has several such industries.Chairman of Indian Industry (CII), Bhopal zone, Siddharth Chaturvedi, expected the apparel and construction industries to have more operating capacity than other industries.Ex-chairman of PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Bhopal RG Dwivedi, said there is no data on skills of the stranded labourers. “Industries are looking for the labourers but they are facing problems at present in getting suitable data on skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labourers,” he said.Federation of Telangana Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) managing committee member, Avinash Gupta, said 75% of the workforce in the jewellery making units in the state were from other states, particularly West Bengal. About 80% of workers in real estate are from UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and they will go back home once the lockdown is lifted, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Telangana chapter general secretary, V Rajasekhar Reddy, said.In Bihar, the state’s industries association has decided not to start production till the government waives payment of fixed energy charge for the lockdown period. “We are not going to open our units from Monday, unless government comes out with a clear-cut directive on the two main energy related demands, which affects more than 500 energy intensive factories,” said Ram Lall Khetan, president of Bihar Industries Association. The government, however, is ready to permit companies that are willing to resume production. “We have allowed four cement companies, 193 food processing units and one jute factory to restart manufacturing for the revival of economic activities in the state in the interest of workers,” said industries minister, Shyam Rajak. He said the government has cleared subsidy entitlements for 76 State Investment Promotion Board approved units on Thursday to make money available for entrepreneurs for tiding over the disruption in activities.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-fewer-people-industries-eye-slow-start-after-relaxations/story-qhQywRH5Ein3PtReRN6vfP.html
18-04-2020||India||92 new coronavirus cases take Gujarat tally to 1,021, death toll at 30||The number of coronavirus disease cases in Gujarat crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday after 92 new infections were reported during the last 12 hours, PTI reported citing state health officials.Jayanti Ravi, the state’s principal secretary for health, said out of the 92 Covid-19 cases, the highest, 45, were from Ahmedabad, followed by 14 in Surat, nine in Vadodara, eight in Bharuch and five in Narmada.The coronavirus count in Gujarat now stands at 1,021. Also read: List of new activities exempted by govt from lockdown restrictionsRavi also said that two more people succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the state, taking the death toll due to the infection to 38 on Friday.Also Watch | Covid-19: Migrants begin to walk again, 170 districts in ‘red zone’ | Top 5 stories from HT Follow live updates on Coronavirus These deaths, reported in the last 12 hours, were recorded from Vadodara and Ahmedabad districts, she said. A 31-year-old man died in Vadodara and another aged 55 succumbed in Ahmedabad during his treatment, she said.New cases have emerged in other districts including Botad with three, Panchmahal with two and one each in Anand, Chhotaudepur, Dahod, Kheda and Mahisagar, the senior bureaucrat said. Also read: This country says it’s on course to wipe out Covid-19One more Covid-19 patient recovered in the state and so far 74 people have been discharged from hospitals.India reported 724 new Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Friday morning. There were 11,201 active cases, 1,748 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals and 427 Covid-19 related fatalities, the ministry’s website showed at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/92-new-coronavirus-cases-take-gujarat-tally-to-1-021-death-toll-at-30/story-8QPKfmtjvFtvmOKpFnbdBN.html
18-04-2020||India||From reverse repo rate to dividend move: Understanding RBI’s announcements||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a series of measures on Friday to infuse liquidity in the system and provide relief to borrowers amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.WHAT ARE THE SIGNIFICANT STEPS?To begin with, RBI has cut the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points — from 4% to 3.75% — encouraging banks to “deploy surplus funds” and lend more, a move that will in turn result in cash in the hands of the borrower. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.Also read: RBI’s steps will improve credit supply, help small businesses, says PM ModiThe reverse repo rate is the rate at which RBI borrows from commercial banks. Broadly speaking, a cut in the reverse repo rate means banks are discouraged to park their excess money with RBI since they will get more incentives by giving loans to other institutions/individuals at a higher rate.WHAT ELSE IS THERE FOR THE BANKS?In order to ease the liquidity position at the level of individual institutions, the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement for scheduled commercial banks is reduced from 100% to 80% with immediate effect. The LCR requirement will, however, be gradually restored in two phases – 90% by October 1, 2020 and 100% by April 1, 2021. LCR is the proportion of high liquid assets set aside to survive an acute stress scenario and meet its short-term obligations.Watch | RBI cuts reverse repo rate by 25 bps, expects 7.4% GDP growth in 2021-22RBI has asked scheduled commercial banks and cooperative banks not to make any further dividend payouts from profits pertaining to FY20 (April-March) in order to ensure that they preserve capital during the coronavirus crisis. The curbs will be reviewed in the quarter ending September 30.IS THERE A LOAN RELIEF?All loan accounts for which lending institutions decide to grant a three-month moratorium or deferment (as decided by the government in the wake of the crisis) and which were standard accounts as of March 1, the usual 90-day non-performing asset (NPA) norm shall exclude the moratorium period of March 1-May 31, 2020. In the normal course, borrowers are declared NPAs only after 90 days of overdue. Until then, they are called standard accounts.WHAT ELSE HAS RBI DONE?The central bank has made available an additional Rs 50,000 crore liquidity for National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) and National Housing Bank (NHB) at a time these institutions are facing difficulties.These bodies play an important role in meeting the long-term funding requirements for agriculture and the rural sector, small industries, housing finance companies and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs).SO THERE IS NO CHANGE IN REPO RATE?The benchmark repo rate remains unchanged at 4.4%, for now. Changing the policy rate is the prerogative of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), which sharply reduced the repo rate by 75 basis points to 4.4% late last month.Repo rate is the rate at which RBI lends to commercial banks. A lower repo rate would mean availability of cheaper loans to industries and consumers.IS THERE ANYTHING FOR THE STATES?RBI has offered enhanced temporary loan facilities to cash-strapped states from its system through ways and means advances (WMA). It has doubled the WMA limit to provide greater comfort to states for undertaking Covid-19 containment and mitigation efforts. The increased limit will be available till September 30, 2020.IS THERE SOMETHING IN THE PIPELINE?The central bank has indicated that it might take more monetary measures to help the economy tide over the crisis. Late last month, RBI infused an additional Rs 3.74 lakh crore of liquidity into the system and said it would do “whatever it takes” to handle the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-reverse-repo-rate-to-dividend-move-understanding-rbi-s-announcements/story-SXblrpMRojT8C4uhKM81lN.html
