19-04-2020||India||Non-essential deliveries by e-tailers remain prohibited||E-commerce companies such as Amazon and Filpkart are not allowed to sell products unless they are in the essential items list, the Union home ministry said in an order on Sunday, appearing to backtrack from an earlier announcement that allowed these companies to deliver products such as laptops, mobile phones and appliances from April 20.On April 15, the government put e-commerce in the list of what will be allowed once some curbs are lifted from areas with no Covid-19 outbreak, a decision that trader lobbies criticised for giving being discriminatory against brick-and-mortar retailers. “Supply of non-essential goods by e-commerce companies to remain prohibited during Lockdown 2.0 to fight Covid,” said a spokesperson of the ministry of home affairs citing the new order, which, he said, clarifies a misinterpretation of last week’s directions.Clause 14 (v) for e-commerce companies in revised consolidated guidelines on April 15 was technically misinterpreted as allowing the delivery of non-essential items, since the clause did not specify “essential or non-essential items”, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter sent to all states on Sunday. On Saturday, the opposition Congress too opposed the April 15 decision, saying the government was doing injustice to retail traders by allowing e-commerce companies to deliver non-essential items. Similar objection was raised by the Confederation of All -India Traders in a letter to the PM. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday the move will help in creating a level playing field.Amazon India, one of the biggest e-commerce websites, said Sunday’s decision will affect customers who may need some products essential to working or studying from home. “The new guideline will disappoint not only the consumers whose list of essentials had expanded to work from home and study from home products but also the thousands of small businesses, sellers and manufacturers across the country, who had geared up in the last 48 hours to provide millions of people with safe access to products,” a spokesperson said. The company said it will continue to follow guidelines and deliver essential products, and was working closely with authorities for expedited processes to make safe deliveries of priority products. On Sunday, CAIT issued a statement, saying it had “demolished sinister plan of e-commerce companies to trade in non-essential commodities”. Since March 25, when India was put under what is the world’s largest shutdown in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government has largely allowed only items of basic necessities to reach people.Efforts have been made to ensure that milk, vegetables, cooking oil, milk and such products reach people, with a special emphasis on doorstep delivery in many parts of the country, the official cited above said.When Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, he said that certain economic activity in regions that contain the outbreak successfully can be relaxed, but with “very strict guidelines on how people step out of their homes” . These allowed some construction and industrial activity as well as operation of offices with strict social distancing protocols, as long as these were in areas not classified as hot spots. Work by some self-employed individuals, such as cobblers and roadside vendors, was also put on the list of what could be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-essential-deliveries-by-e-tailers-remain-prohibited/story-IPxhNwvQMSVfWF2ljPFuNO.html
19-04-2020||India||Capital curbs won’t be eased today||New Delhi: Delhi will not immediately ease any restrictions clamped under the national lockdown because coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, even as several other states announced relaxing some norms beginning Monday to jump-start the virus-hit economy.Hindustan Times reported on Sunday that the Delhi government did not want to ease restrictions on April 20 on the grounds that the city-state was a “high-risk zone”. All 11 revenue districts in the state are now designated as virus hot spots, with one remaining district (north-east Delhi) joining the list.At a news conference on Sunday morning, Kejriwal said the government will assess the situation after one week. “There have been instances where people without symptoms were found infected by Covid-19,” the chief minister said. “Delhi has 2% of the country’s population but 12% of the total active cases,” he added.Kejriwal said many people were facing difficulties because of the lockdown. “But if we give relaxations and if there is a shortage of ICU, ventilators, oxygen in hospitals and people lose their lives, we wouldn’t be able to forgive ourselves. Hence, the decision to not relax lockdown was taken,” he added.Out of 736 samples collected recently, 186 people were found to be infected by Sars-CoV-2 on Saturday and all of them were asymptomatic, he said, adding that the people did not suspect they had contracted the disease. “This suggests that they would have compromised with isolation norms and potentially spread the virus without even knowing. This is a scary situation.”At 2,003 cases -- 110 people tested positive on Sunday -- Delhi has the second most Covid-19 infections after Maharashtra, which has 4,200. The city has 80 “containment zones”, where the restrictions are stricter, movement is barred, and home delivery of essentials is facilitated by the administration.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the national lockdown – first imposed on March 25 – will be extended till May 3, but said some of the curbs would be lifted in places outside “containment zones” and in areas where the potential of the pathogen spreading was low, to revive economic activity.An order released by the Union home ministry a day after PM Modi’s address laid down guidelines for the conditional lifting of some restrictions.The Delhi government, however, decided to send a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday evening against the lifting of restrictions after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) informed it of “large outbreaks” in several parts of the city, according to a senior government official who asked not to be named.Kejriwal attributed the large number of cases in Delhi to heavy airport arrivals from Covid-affected countries and a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin recently.The tally of Covid-19 cases first jumped in India after the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Once the cluster – the largest single source so far in the country – was identified and isolated on March 30, daily cases surged. The number of cases in Delhi increased from 72 on March 29 to 2,003 so far – more than 1,000 cases can be linked to the Nizamuddin gathering.“If there had been no lockdown, the situation here would have been similar to Italy and Spain,” Kejriwal said.According to an order issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, the government will review the situation on April 27.Food distribution centres in Delhi also came up on the radar after a volunteer tested positive for Covid-19. Kejriwal said people linked to the centres will be among the first batches to be tested with rapid antibody kits.Of the first batch of 42,000 rapid testing kits that arrived in Delhi on Friday, some were used to evaluate 92 cured patients being discharged from Lok Nayak hospital for plasma therapy trial to treat other Covid-19 patients.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will continue to remain closed; as will all public transport including buses, auto-rickshaws, taxis, cab aggregator services, e-rickshaws and the Metro. Construction and other business activities, including the operation of non-essential factories will also remain suspended. Goods transport and all essential services that were permitted through the lockdown will continue to operate.Experts said earlier that the sectors that could have witnessed some relief included self-employed workers such as electricians and plumbers, construction activities in cases where the sites had provisions for safe accommodation of labourers, and activities in industrial zones.Animesh Das, a labour activist and member of the Delhi government’s minimum wage board, said: “Delhi has around 600,000 constructions workers of which roughly 500,000 are left in the lockdown. Rest managed to leave the city before it was strictly imposed. A significant percentage of them resides at the construction sites. Since relaxations are out of question at this hour, the government should take up an exercise of construction site visits and provide them with direct cash benefits. The workers and their families are currently in poor shape.”Public health experts said not allowing any relaxation at this time was a good move as ideally all containment zones should have tight restrictions and complete lockdown for at least 28 days. Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Delhi is vulnerable because of its high population density. Mobility is directly proportional to chances of transmission and that is already visible to some extent after the first phase of the 21-day lockdown. So, stricter restrictions are a necessary step at this juncture. Currently, Delhi is not in a position to relax the lockdown. To contain the transmission of the virus, people have to cooperate.”Amita Baviskar, a professor of sociology at Ashoka University, said: “Well-to-do families with salaries and savings will sail through. The crisis has hit the lower middle and working classes – small businesses, street vendors, domestic workers, daily wage labourers, and industrial workers. The government may give them two meals a day but they need cash for other necessities such as rent, medicines, school fees, mobile recharge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-curbs-won-t-be-eased-today/story-8wHSBQwXCEUQaeEfNP3GgJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Cured of Covid-19, MP cop dies before discharge, CM gives Rs 50 lakh and a job to the family||A 42-year-old police inspector, who had recovered from coronavirus infection, died in a hospital in Indore in the wee hours of Sunday, said the district administration.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced Rs 50 lakh as ex-gratia payment for the cop’s family and a government job for his wife.The police officer who was in charge of Juni police station in Indore contracted the virus while performing his duties, said police officials. As per police officials, this was the first coronavirus-linked death of a police officer in the state.Chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of Indore, Dr Pravin Jadia said, “The police officer was hospitalised on March 31 having tested positive for Covid-19. After his treatment, he twice tested negative for the disease and was about to be discharged from the hospital, when his end came.”Dr Jadia added, “The doctors at the hospital, where the cop was treated, suspect that the police officer died due to pulmonary embolism. However, it remains to be seen if the problem was caused by Covid-19.”Paying tributes to the cop, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “The state government will provide Rs 50 lakh to the family as ex-gratia and appoint the police officer’s wife as a sub-inspector in the police department.”State Congress president Kamal Nath also paid tributes to the police officer.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cured-of-covid-19-mp-cop-dies-before-discharge-cm-gives-rs-50-lakh-and-a-job-to-the-family/story-Iy1UUh2a8z0KRZvseOjrPL.html
19-04-2020||India||Delhi Health Bulletin on April 19, 2020:Capital’s 110 new Covid-19 cases take count to 2,003||Delhi on Sunday reported 110 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 2,003 and breaching the 2000-mark, according to Delhi government data..A total of two deaths have been reported today and 45 people have died of the infectious disease in the national capital so far.Taking into account 31 cases in an extended family in Jahangirpuri, which emerged over the weekend; Delhi saw a sharp spike in its total number of coronavirus positive cases, taking the count of positive patients to 2,003.After Maharashtra, the national capital is the worst-hit in the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total 45 deaths reported till date, 25 of the victims were aged 60 and above and were senior citizens, the data indicated.Ten coronavirus patients who succumbed to the disease were aged between 50-59 and 10 were aged less than 50 years, officials said.A total of 83 people have been cured and discharged from Delhi hospitals in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi Health Bulletin. Among the total patients, 290 were cured and discharged so far while one has migrated.According to the health report, among the total cases, 1,080 patients are ‘Positive cases under Special Operations’, with no new addition in the last four days.A total of 12,151 people are home quarantined across the city.So far, Delhi has declared 79 containment zones across the city. Containment zones, also known as red zones, are the areas sealed by the district administrations after at least three coronavirus cases are found in the locality.On Saturday night, the number of cases of the deadly virus in the city stood at 1,893 including 43 deaths.With two more fatalities reported, the death toll from the Covid-19 disease in Delhi has jumped to 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-bulletin-on-april-19-2020-capital-s-110-new-covid-19-cases-take-count-to-2-003/story-7AUlIvPCGEZL97pQA62gKO.html
19-04-2020||India||60,000 imported, donated PPE kits fail quality tests||New Delhi At least 60,000 of the nearly 200,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits donated by industry and philanthropic organisations have failed quality test over the past one month, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.Most of these kits were imported from China, the world’s largest supplier of medical products including drugs and diagnostics, which led India to look for manufacturers based in other countries. The highest rejections were in a batch of 170,000 kits that arrived on April 5.“There are no government-to-government donations; these are all philanthropic organisations that have come forward to donate necessary supplies in this moment of crisis. Our rules are clear that we do not let anything be distributed without necessary quality checks,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity. “All imports, be it bought or donated, undergo stringent quality checks and are being looked for certificate of compliance before they are put to use. When dealing with such a large number there are bound to be some pieces that can be faulty, and we are rejecting those. It doesn’t mean the entire lot is faulty.”One of the big labs where the products are being tested is the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh.The Union health ministry’s joint secretary, Lav Agarwal, in one of his press briefings, said, “India has put stringent standards in place for medical items, and whichever product does not meet the quality standards will not be accepted. We will not provide our health care workers anything substandard, and we are looking around the globe to identify manufacturers who can supply us not just PPE kits, but also diagnostic kits. We have enough PPE at the moment, and we will get more soon.” India is also looking at other countries to source essential medical supplies, such as South Korea, Singapore, Japan, Germany, France, the US, among others.While doctors across the country have been highlighting the need for more PPE in hospitals to reduce health care workers contracting infections, the government says it is ensuring that this demand is met.“There was shortage earlier as we were only importing PPE but now we are comfortably placed in terms of supply,” said Agarwal.According to health ministry sources, close to 400,000 PPE kits are already in stock in hospitals across India, and more shipments are expected in a week or so.“Over the past month we have placed orders for some 16 million PPE that have already started coming in. In a week or so we should receive most of our orders. Also, there is a significant number of domestic manufacturers now who have been identified for the job, and have started manufacturing. Some have even scaled up their capacity really fast,” said a health ministry official.From being totally dependent on imported PPE, India has managed to set up about 50 domestic companies in just the past one month to raise its PPE manufacturing capacity. Currently, all 50 of these companies have the capacity to manufacture about 60,000 PPE kits a day, and are in the process of scaling it up further, to be able to meet the country’s demand for about 100,000 kits a day.“There should be enough PPE in stock by next week. There is absolutely no shortage, and there won’t be any in future, too,” said the health ministry official cited above.Experts say rather than relying on imports, the focus now should be on manufacturing indigenously.“It is better to import critical missing raw material fabric for PPE that’s breathable and yet is fluid and viral-resistant, rather than importing planeloads of PPE kits that may not meet the quality criteria,” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-000-imported-donated-ppe-kits-fail-quality-tests/story-6wDw1y8PAKYLKogJ95gW9H.html
19-04-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee government accuses central institute of providing faulty Covid-19 test kits||The Mamata Banerjee government in Bengal, which has been drawing flak for the low rate of Covid-19 tests, has accused the central research institute, the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) of providing defective Covid-19 test kits.“The apparently defective test kits supplied by ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, are resulting in a high number of repeat / confirmatory tests and causing delays and other attendant problems at a time when we are batting a pandemic,” the state health department tweeted on Sunday evening.ICMR –NICED in Kolkata is a research institute under the union health ministry and also the regional Virus Research Diagnostic Lab (VRDL) for eastern India.The state government also tweeted that there was no problem earlier when the testing kits were being received directly from National Institute of Virology, Pune. Recently, the supplies to government labs in West Bengal have been routed through ICMR-NICED, Kolkata.NICED director, however, said state-run medical colleges were unable to standardize the kits in the absence of proper technical know-how, leading to inaccuracies. “Earlier when kits were required in smaller quantities they were imported, standardized and then distributed by NIV, Pune. But when the demand started rising ICMR imported the kits and sent them directly to the 16 regional hubs including NICED in Kolkata. The kits were then distributed to state-run medical colleges where they were required to be standardized. But this standardization is not being done because of the lack of time and technical know-how. That’s why sometimes these kits are giving inconclusive results,” said Shanta Dutta, director of NICED.A few days back Dutta had alleged that NICED was not getting enough swab samples from the state government for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-government-accuses-central-institute-of-providing-faulty-covid-19-test-kits/story-4wQGFE1GVLX07uXd2GgFoM.html
19-04-2020||India||After lockdown ends, Odisha to put anyone who returns in 14-day quarantine||Setting the stage for the return of migrant labourers as well as other people from the state who will return to Odisha after the lockdown is lifted on May 3, the state plans to keep all of them in 14-day institutional quarantine in towns and villages.In a video message on Sunday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said when the restrictions are lifted, Odisha in coordination with the host state and Government of India will facilitate the return of all those who want to come back home.“In spite of best efforts of our state and the host states, life is not normal for them and it pains me. In our state we have about 1 lakh people from other states whom the state is taking care. Similarly, there are lakhs of brothers and sisters from Odisha in other states (students, professionals, stranded pilgrims and patients and a large number of workers). Every person on return from outside Odisha would have to compulsorily stay in quarantine for 14 days observing the guidelines issued by the health and family welfare department,” Patnaik said, adding that one of the key factors in controlling the spread in Odisha was the mandatory registration of all foreign returnees and placing them in compulsory quarantine.Patnaik said every gram panchayat and urban local body in the state will have registration facility and those returning from other states will register themselves in the panchayats and urban local bodies.“Following this they will be kept in 14-day quarantine. Their treatment, food and accommodation expenses will be taken care of by the state government. Family members and relatives of the returnees will ensure that the registration happens,” Patnaik said.According to the CM, to implement this effectively and with a humane touch, the state government has delegated the powers of district collectors to sarpanches of the panchayats under the provisions of Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005, Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Odisha Covid-19 Regulations 2020.Registration, streamlined movement and 14 day quarantine are very important to protect the returnee, their own families, the community and the state at-large, he said.Odisha has so far reported 61 positive cases and 1 death due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lockdown-ends-odisha-to-put-anyone-who-returns-in-14-day-quarantine/story-BhtC8xCEyJ3kPvQzog287K.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Highest single day rise in positive cases in Maharashtra, tally reaches 4200||Even as Maharashtra plans to ease the restrictions and resume industrial operations in rural areas from April 20, the state saw a sudden spike of 552 cases on Sunday-- the highest rise in a day-- taking the total to 4200 cases in the state. 456 of these cases were from Mumbai alone, taking the city’s total of positive cases to 2724. The Sunday surge is expected to impact the doubling rate which had improved in the last few days.The state on Sunday also reported deaths of 12 Covid-19 patients, taking the toll to 223. Six of the 12 new casualties were from Mumbai, four from Malegaon and one each from Solapur and Ahmednagar. Six of the deceased were aged above 60 years, while five others were aged between 40 and 60 years, according to the report released by the state health department. State officials attributed the spike in the cases to a delay in verification of tests conducted in Mumbai.“Some of the test reports added in today’s tally were conducted since April 12 in Mumbai taking the tally high,” the report stated. According to the officials from the health department, the reports of tests conducted by the private laboratories are verified by the government laboratories and this process led to the delay. “It leads to a spiralling of the numbers on the day the verification is done,” an official said.According to the officials, the doubling rate of the disease had come down to 5.5 days from 3.5 days a few days ago before the Sunday spike. “The sudden rise on Sunday may again disturb the rate,” he added.Maharashtra has conducted 72,023 tests including 67,673 that tested negative. 507 positive patients have fully recovered. Over 87 thousand people are under home quarantine across the state, while 6,743 patients are in institutional quarantine. The number of containment zones in the state has reduced to 368, most of them being in Mumbai. A total of 23.97 lakh people in the state have been screened for the disease with the help of 6359 teams.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while announcing relaxation in the lockdown restrictions in rural parts of the state, clarified that the strict restrictions will continue in the containment areas and also in Mumbai and Pune, at least till May 3.“We are relaxing the restrictions in Green and Orange zones with no and fewer number of Covid-19 patients to a certain extent. The industrial operations in these zones will be allowed, but the employers will have to arrange for the fooding and lodging of the employees. The district borders will, however, remained sealed and no intradistrict activities will be permitted,” he said.The state government has also directed 10% of its employees to resume work from Monday in a gradual resumption of public services. Four districts (Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli) have no coronavirus patients while positive cases in 18 plus districts are in single digits. “We expect the industrial units in pharmaceuticals, agricultural sectors to begin operating from Monday. They are expected to follow the standard operating procedures laid down under the lockdown restrictions for their employees. There are 10.26 lakh registered MSMEs in the state, including 4.5 lakh in areas partially exempted from April 20. We want 60% of them to be operationalised by the month end. However, the major industries of all sizes are in MMR and Pune, where the operations are unlikely to begin at least for next few weeks,” said an official from Industries department.Some of the industries have been directed to operate at 50% of their workforce, while others have been directed to arrange for workers’ food and lodging at the workplace.The vehicles carrying the workers will have to operate at 30-40% of their capacity in order to maintain social distancing. Shops selling Kirana, sweets, snacks will begin operating from Monday in areas not affected by Covid-19.“All these activities continue to be banned in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune city and Nagpur city as they have large number of virus cases. We are apprehensive about the pace of industrial and commercial activities in the state and the urban parts will continue to be under restrictions,” said an official from the state government.Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune city account for 89.4% of all positive cases (3262 of 3648 on Saturday) in Maharashtra and 90.5% of all deaths in the state (191 of 211 on Saturday) were also from these regions. MMR and Pune have less than 25% of state’s population. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Maharashtra police have registered a whopping 55,393 cases related to violation of lockdown rules since March 22, the day chief minister announced completed lockdown in the state. The police helpline has received 72,644 calls related to the pandemic, while 11,645 citizens have been arrested over the last four weeks. Of the total offences, 105 were of assault on policemen, while 567 were related to violation of quarantine measures. The police have also booked 15 foreigners for visa-related violations. 241 cases related to the objectionable posts on social media were also registered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-highest-single-day-rise-in-positive-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-reaches-4200/story-wUMcQz0u6oMjIAuH1tcOnL.html
19-04-2020||India||Meet the Jodhpur Covid-19 warrior who leads a survey team||When Heena Aftab, chosen to lead a team conducting a Covid-19 medical survey in the Nagauri Gate area of Jodhpur, showed her identity card to some residents on her first day at work, the reaction was one of open hostility.Her ID was tossed aside and she was told they knew she was collecting data for the National Register of Citizens (NRC) aimed at identifying illegal migrants, an exercise that hasn’t even begun. Aftab, a 32-year-old Yunani medical doctor, didn’t allow the incident to faze her.” I didn’t mind their words and behaviour as I know these youngsters had been brainwashed through fake messages circulating on WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms,” she said. On March 31, Aftab was transferred from the town of Mandor near Jodhpur to Nagori Gate, where she has gone everyday since to conduct the survey. She hasn’t taken a single day off for 18 days, putting in 10-hour work days.Jodhpur is the second worst-hit district of Rajasthan in the coronavirus outbreak. Until Friday morning, the district had reported 133 positive cases of the virus (out of 1,193 reported in all of Rajasthan), and 13 were from Nagori Gate. Aftab didn’t let any concerns about catching the infection come in the way of her work.“When I was sent to lead the medical survey team in Nagori Gate, I asked myself whether I would be able to do this job,” Aftab said, adding she felt uncertain because the area was new to her, the population was mixed, belonging to different classes, communities, religions and financial backgrounds.To win the trust of the people, Aftab, who is from Bikaner, learnt the local dialect, approached influential members of the community and sought their support to persuade the residents to respond to the survey. “These people cooperated with me and explained to the locals,” she said.She told the residents about the survey her medical team was conducting, and asked them to report anyone circulating fake messages to the contrary on social media.“Slowly and gradually, people started answering our questions honestly and cooperated with us by giving their samples too,” Aftab said.Aftab and her team, comprising of nursing students, auxiliary nursing midwifes and lab technicians and assistants, also educated residents of the area how to protect themselves from the virus and reduce chances of infection.The team visits around 90 houses daily for collecting responses to the survey, and also keeps tabs on whether people are following quarantine orders strictly. Aftab starts her work day at around 8.30 in the morning and returns home around 7 in the evening. She has two sons --four-year-old Faizan Ahmed and one-year-old Shahvez Ahmed . Her husband, Zahim Ahmed Qazi, is a veterinary doctor.“I do my work with lot of enthusiasm; my little corona warriors pray for me. Before I leave, Faizan daily wishes me good luck,” said Aftab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-the-jodhpur-covid-19-warrior-who-leads-a-survey-team/story-EWUwrXYwhw2wAvkh460S9M.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 60,000 imported PPE kits fail quality tests||At least 60,000 of the nearly 200,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits donated by industry and philanthropic organisations have failed quality test over the past one month, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.Most of these kits were imported from China, the world’s largest supplier of medical products including drugs and diagnostics, which led India to look for manufacturers based in other countries. The highest rejections were in a batch of 170,000 kits that arrived on April 5.“There are no government-to-government donations; these are all philanthropic organisations that have come forward to donate necessary supplies in this moment of crisis. Our rules are clear that we do not let anything be distributed without necessary quality checks,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity. “All imports, be it bought or donated, undergo stringent quality checks and are being looked for certificate of compliance before they are put to use. When dealing with such a large number there are bound to be some pieces that can be faulty, and we are rejecting those. It doesn’t mean the entire lot is faulty.”One of the big labs where the products are being tested is the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh.The Union health ministry’s joint secretary, Lav Agarwal, in one of his press briefings, said, “India has put stringent standards in place for medical items, and whichever product does not meet the quality standards will not be accepted. We will not provide our health care workers anything substandard, and we are looking around the globe to identify manufacturers who can supply us not just PPE kits, but also diagnostic kits. We have enough PPE at the moment, and we will get more soon.” India is also looking at other countries to source essential medical supplies, such as South Korea, Singapore, Japan, Germany, France, the US, among others.While doctors across the country have been highlighting the need for more PPE in hospitals to reduce health care workers contracting infections, the government says it is ensuring that this demand is met.“There was shortage earlier as we were only importing PPE but now we are comfortably placed in terms of supply,” said Agarwal.According to health ministry sources, close to 400,000 PPE kits are already in stock in hospitals across India, and more shipments are expected in a week or so.“Over the past month we have placed orders for some 16 million PPE that have already started coming in. In a week or so we should receive most of our orders. Also, there is a significant number of domestic manufacturers now who have been identified for the job, and have started manufacturing. Some have even scaled up their capacity really fast,” said a health ministry official.From being totally dependent on imported PPE, India has managed to set up about 50 domestic companies in just the past one month to raise its PPE manufacturing capacity. Currently, all 50 of these companies have the capacity to manufacture about 60,000 PPE kits a day, and are in the process of scaling it up further, to be able to meet the country’s demand for about 100,000 kits a day.“There should be enough PPE in stock by next week. There is absolutely no shortage, and there won’t be any in future, too,” said the health ministry official cited above.Experts say rather than relying on imports, the focus now should be on manufacturing indigenously.“It is better to import critical missing raw material fabric for PPE that’s breathable and yet is fluid and viral-resistant, rather than importing planeloads of PPE kits that may not meet the quality criteria,” said Rajiv Nath, founder and forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-60-000-imported-ppe-kits-fail-quality-tests/story-aTjbZ488d8mjh3HjrV0VWM.html
19-04-2020||India||‘Limited toilets, no tobacco or pan masala’: Govt lays down rules as Parliament secretariat set to reopen on Monday||A limited number of toilets, not more than two people in lifts and no tobacco or pan masala to prevent people from spitting—these are some of the restrictions that will be in place as officials are allowed to come and work in the Parliament complex from Monday.The Parliament was adjourned on March 23, when India introduced the first round of lockdown spanning three weeks because of the Covid-19 outbreak, days before its budget session was to end on April 3.Also read | Lockdown 2.0 relaxation: Government lists permitted and banned activities from April 20A week after government offices were reopened for a limited number of officials, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariat too, will allow skeletal staff to their office.The rush to join office will presumably be less in the Parliamentary offices as there is no session or even any internal meetings.Two circulars, issued by the Lok Sabha secretariat, gave the details of the restrictions that will be in place while announcing that the offices will start from Monday.Also read | Selective relaxation in non-containment areas from April 20: Health ministryA circular stated, “Not more than two persons shall be allowed to travel in Lifts. Employees are requested to cooperate and use staircases to the extent possible.”“Smoking and chewing of pan, pan masala, gutka, tobacco etc. shall be strictly prohibited within the Parliament House Estate. Parliament Security Service shall ensure that frisking be done at all the points so that nobody carries them,” the circular added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-limited-toilets-no-tobacco-or-pan-masala-parliament-secretariat-to-open-from-monday/story-yx20F1Ioqyq3BDHDCMnc8J.html
19-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Bengal governor and government lock horns over ‘PDS scam’||Amid the lockdown to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, an alleged scam in the public distribution system (PDS) continues to snowball in Bengal with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, senior leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) targeting the Mamata Banerjee government.The state government, on its part, blamed the Centre on Sunday for the shortfall of food grains and accused ration shop owners in the state of giving inadequate ration to the people.“The requirement of rice that the Centre was supposed to provide under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna is 3 lakh metric tonnes per month. As of Sunday, we have received only 1,41,000 metric tonnes. How can we collect less than half the requirement? Whom should we deliver and whom should not? Let them send at least a month’s supply,” said state food and supplies minister Jyoti Priya Mallick.Incidentally, following Dhankhar’s allegation on social media that there was a “PDS scam” in the state, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Saturday wrote a letter to the governor in which he too alleged that the Centre was not sending adequate supplies.In an interview to Hindustan Times in Sunday, Dhankhar said, “I have personally spoken to union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and was shocked to know that the state had not even raised the requisition indent for the food grains that the Centre and the Food Corporation of India are ready to provide. Paswan had also spoken to Mallick a few days ago. The Centre has given all details and the same have been forwarded to the state administration.”Paswan is the cabinet minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution.Dhankhar said that there were three problems with the PDS in West Bengal. “First, supplies are not reaching the needy. Second, the PDS has been hijacked by the ruling party and distribution is taking place through them. And third, people are getting the food grains in lesser quantity and of poor quality,” Dhankhar said. Mallick, however, said that Bengal did not need to send requisition because it is a ‘direct procurement state’. “We never send requisition. The governor is unaware that we do not procure from the Centre. We procure directly from farmers. The Centre only needs to send what they have committed,” he said. The Trinamool Congress also has rubbished Dhankhar’s allegation of “political hijacking of PDS.”“The governor is misleading the people of the state. PDS is being distributed through ration shops. Whenever party leaders are distributing relief, it is they who are arranging for the funds. They are raising funds and paying from their own pockets. The governor should not confuse PDS with the distribution of relief material by our party,” said TMC spokesperson Snehasish Chakraborty.“Give us a single case of party leaders distributing PDS and action will be taken,” Chakraborty said. Mallick said that the chief minister has decided to provide free rice to 9.5 crore people of the state. The state’s present population is estimated at above 10 crore at present. It was 9.13 crore, according to the Census of 2011. Mallick however, conceded that there are problems at ration shops. “There are 21,000 ration shops and we don’t have enough staff strength to monitor the activities of every shop in real-time. Many of them were previously penalised by the state government but they won the cases in the high court. It is only a handful of ration dealers who are still indulging in malpractices. We are taking action as soon as reports are reaching us,” Mallick said.Mamata Banerjee has announced free ration – two kg rice and three kg wheat per head – to 9.5 crore people for six months. The food minister said that some ration shops could not provide people with the whole quota of 5 kg food grains due to a shortage of supply, as most rice mills remained closed.”“There are about 900 operational rice mills. Of them only about 200 are functional at present. We are trying to make the other mills operational at the earliest. In Kolkata, some ration shops are too tiny to store large quantities. They have been allowed to store in neighbouring schools.”Right to Food activist Anuradha Talwar said that shortage of supply was the main issue for a good number of people not receiving adequate rice.“Corruption is a minor issue. Going by the number of ration cards and the projected present population of the state, only 62% are to get rations. The state government additionally provides ration to another 20%. Altogether, only 82% are getting covered. It is absolutely essential that the Centre starts distributing food grains from its buffer stock which is meant for catastrophic situations,” said Talwar. Biswambhar Basu, general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Association, refuted the allegations of corruption. “Not a single person who holds a digital ration card has been denied ration. Those who did not enrol for the digital ration cards and are no longer entitled to receive ration from our shops are the ones creating trouble,” Basu said.He admitted that in some cases people were given half their entitlement because the shops did not get enough supplies due to shortage of manpower, difficulties in transport and lack of storage space for the surge in demand. “Those who received half their entitlement would receive the rest before the end of this month,” he added.Over the past few days, Bengal has witnessed a number of protests against ration shop owners. Leaders of BJP and Left parties had alleged that PDS reach the leaders of the ruling party, the Trinamool Congress, instead of those who needed it.The administration over the past three days have lodged police cases against 36 ration shop owners and several of them have been arrested, according to a senior officer of the state food and supplied department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-bengal-governor-and-government-lock-horns-over-pds-scam/story-78cMR1yC9EE6okkh9pPXCO.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Full list of 78 containment zones in Delhi as of Sunday, April 19||Two new containment zones have been identified in the national capital on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus hotspots to 78. A locality each from Kapashera and Inderpuri were added to the list on Sunday. Nine new containment zones were added to the list yesterday. As on Sunday evening, Delhi has 2008 Covid-19 positive cases including 43 casualties.Here is the latest and the full list of 78 Containment Zones in Delhi as of Sunday, April 19:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri were included in the list todayThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-full-list-of-78-containment-zones-in-delhi-as-of-sunday-april-19/story-gKZZfN4HKBE3BtHLARUYeN.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Bihar feast stirs political row, FIR filed||A formal police complaint has been lodged against Bihar education minister Krishna Nandan Verma’s personal assistant for allegedly organising a house-warming party amid the Covid-19 lockdown, according to officials.Adding to the government’s discomfort was a video clip --- purportedly capturing visuals from party --- that went viral on social media.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has repeatedly urged people to follow the lockdown guidelines and turned down requests from opposition parties to bring back Bihar residents, including students and workers, stranded in other parts of the country.A police officer said the party was organised in Jehanabad, which is Verma’s hometown, on April 15. Several officials of the local administration and journalists participated in it, officials said. Taking cognizance of reports, the government asked the police headquarters to inquire into the matter. After the reports were confirmed, a first information report (FIR) was filed on Sunday against the minister’s personal assistant (PA), Pintu Yadav, and several officials, including Jehanabad’s sub-divisional police officer, block development officer and circle officer.“The minister’s PA threw a house-warming party and a large number of people, in batches of 50 and 100, took part in it. The officials also admitted having attended the party, as the invitation was from the minister’s PA,” the police officer said on condition of anonymity.“Many journalists also enjoyed the feast. As the FIR was lodged under bailable sections, all officials got bail but the investigation is on. A charge-sheet will soon be filed. The officials will also face departmental proceedings,” the officer added.Jehanabad’s superintendent of police Manish Kumar said action is being taken in the matter. Another police officer, who declined to be named, said the list of all the people who attended Yadav’s party is being drawn up.Soon after the incident came to light, the minister said he had received information that the block and district officials, who were busy distributing relief materials, had been requested by the people of his hometown to have lunch as a mark of respect.“I don’t know if social distancing was maintained. If there is anything wrong, there will be a proper investigation,” he said.However, the opposition parties criticised the state government.“The government must walk the talk. If this is what a senior minister’s PA does within the state and barely 75 km from Patna, it does not set the right example and the call to adhere to the lockdown will become meaningless,” said Congress legislator and spokesman Premchandra Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-bihar-feast-stirs-political-row-fir-filed/story-go0Px4xz5oEtYUzdZ8ejeO.html
19-04-2020||India||Two fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala, late onset of disease worries state||Kerala on Sunday reported two new cases of coronavirus which took the total number of infections in the state to 401, the state’s health minister K K Shailaja said.Out of the 401, 270 have been discharged while 129 people are in different hospitals, she said in a statement.The latest two persons to test positive had returned from the Persian Gulf but more than the number of patients, health authorities are worried about the extended incubation period of the virus. There have been instances of the onset of the Covid-19 even after 25 days among people who came back from West Asia.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The World Health Organization had set an incubation period of 14 days for the virus but in Kerala some cases have been reported even after 29 days of exposure.In Pathanamthitta in central Kerala a girl student, who travelled in a compartment in which some Tabligi Jammat members were also travelling, tested positive after 22 days of her trip. Under observation she remained asymptomatic throughout but turned positive when her observation period was about to be over. She was asymptomatic even after she tested positive on April 6, said district medical officer Dr N Sheeja. Similarly in Kozhikkode a man who was under observation was tested positive on 28th day when he was about to be taken out of quarantine.Despite these worrying points the state has shown a steady recovery rate. A total of 55,590 people are under observation. At one point, their numbers had crossed almost two lakhs. Kerala, first state to report the virus in the country has lowest mortality and highest recovery rates.Out of the 14 districts in the state, four are in red zones, eight are in orange and two are in green zones. In orange and green zones the government has announced many concessions. Restaurant will be opened till 7 pm but people sitting there will have to keep a minimum distance. In orange zones private vehicles will be allowed under odd-even scheme. Only three passengers will be allowed in car including the driver and no pillion rider on two-wheelers. And local buses will be allowed for shorter distances. The government said it will withdraw these concessions if it found anyone flouting these norms||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-late-onset-of-disease-worries-state/story-hDicWnJVB9DlMnnw6LXkCN.html
19-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi applauds small traders who kept supply chain intact amid lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi applauds small traders who kept supply chain intact amid lockdownPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded the role of small traders and local shopkeepers who have played a vital part in the supply chain of essential commodities by selling and delivering basic necessities to citizens at huge personal risk during the Covid-19 health crisis and the subsequent lockdown. Read more. Trump, WHO chief’s face-off over Covid-19 could spark fireworks at annual eventUS President Donald Trump and his administration’s consistent attacks on the World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus have set up a face-off at the proposed annual meeting of the World Health Assembly on May 18. Read more. No decision yet on resuming passenger flights post lockdown: Hardeep PuriCivil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday no decision has yet been taken to resume domestic and international flight at the end of the lockdown.Read more.  Asymptomatic Covid cases between 50 to 82%, highlight the threat from silent carriers50 to 82 per cent of India’s total coronavirus patients registered across states are asymptomatic, say officials from different states, presenting a difficulty in the further easing of lockdown norms beyond May 3. Read more.Life Hacks: Seeking beauty in the monotony of the lockdown effectDespite starting out with the best intentions, our days become monotonous because we’re locked down. It is only human to think about what can be done to escape that monotony. Read more. Human gestures hearing impaired dog about going on walk, her reaction is priceless. WatchThere are a lot of things that can make a dog go crazy. It can be their favourite treat or when their favourite human returns home. However mostly, it’s all about walks. Read more. Filmmaker Gurinder Chadha loses aunt to coronavirus, says ‘no one could be with her in person in her final moments’Gurinder Chadha has revealed that her aunt died of coronavirus-related complications on Sunday. The filmmaker also shared that though no one from the family could be there by her side in her final moments, her children were on video call with her and chanting prayers. Read more. UPSC, SSC exam update: Union minister Jitendra Singh speaks on Covid impactUnion minister Jitendra Singh commented on the postponement of UPSC and SSC examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh said that UPSC has issued a circular stating that a decision regarding conduct of the exams will be taken after May 3. The nationwide lockdown to ‘break the cycle’ of Coronavirus infection was extended to May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-applauds-small-traders-who-kept-supply-chain-intact-amid-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OezbVjd9hiBwotdtZGcSsK.html
19-04-2020||India||Dashboard of CoronaWarriors employed in India’s fight against Covid-19 goes live||The union government on Saturday launched an online data pool of critical human resource employed for combating and containing Covid-19 across the country. The dashboard mentions the exact number of professionals from various disciplines, departments and sections available in each state and every district. This online data pool includes a break up of doctors, nurses and other health care professionals, volunteers from different organisations, ex-servicemen etc deployed on the ground level as a ready reckoner for administrators in states, districts or municipalities.A broad look at the data shows that a total of 927,000 MBBS doctors have been roped in for the containment efforts. 153,656 MBBS students and 2.17 lakh dentists have also been drafted in. Services of close to 17.5 lakh nurses and 11.25 lakh pharmacists and 8.32 lakh AYUSH professionals have also been listed. The information has been uploaded on a dashboard has been made available to states. The dashboard is being referred to as the master database carrying details of healthcare professionals and volunteers apart from the contact details of the nodal officers. It will be updated regularly.According to the dashboard, at present roughly 1.8 lakh Ex-Servicemen, 14.86 lakh members of NYKS (Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan) 13.67 lakh NSS (National Service Scheme) members, 46175 NCC (National Cadet Corps) members and 43,736 lab volunteers are assisting in various aspects of containment efforts led at the state and the district level.Centre has told states that the dashboard can be used by various authorities to prepare crisis management or contingency plans in coordination with nodal officers for each group.Also Read: Lockdown 2.0 relaxation: Government lists permitted and banned activities from April 20The dashboard also contains details of the deployment of grass roots health care professionals like from PMKVY or Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (1.08 lakh), trained healthcare workers under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission or DAY NULM (45,385), trained workers under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana or DDU GKY (43,944) Psycho Social Care workers (1.16 lakh), ASHAA workers (10.07 lakh) Anganwadi workers (25.43 lakhs), Gram Rozgar Sewaks (1.73 lakhs) Veterinary doctors and Para Vets (83,256), Panchayat Secretaries (2.37 lakhs)This database can also be used to utilise the services of volunteers for enforcing social distancing at banks, ration shops, mandis and for providing help to elderly, people with special abilities and orphanages, said a government communication.This will also help States/UTs to move human resources from one location to the other for their utilization, it added. The database also lists all hospitals and other medical centres that have been added to the network to fight Coved-19 infections. It includes 201 CPSEs hospitals, 49 ESIC hospitals, 50 Railway hospitals, 13 Defence hospitals, 12 port hospitals.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government of India has constituted 11 empowered groups to formulate plans and provide solutions to address the challenges of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The empowered group-4 headed by Dr Panda, Secretary, MSME has been mandated with identification of human resources for various Covid related activities along with necessary capacity building for them.The dashboard could be accessed at https://covidwarriors.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dashboard-of-coronawarriors-employed-in-india-s-fight-against-covid-19-goes-live/story-oEemvRvkG7Uu3KJACpCXNK.html
19-04-2020||India||Khalilzad reaches out to Jaishankar on troubled Afghan peace process||The US special envoy for Afghan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, has sought India’s engagement in international efforts for a lasting peace in Afghanistan against the backdrop of growing concern in New Delhi over the US-Taliban deal.Khalilzad, who has been pushing the Afghan government to facilitate the implementation of the US-Taliban deal by releasing more Taliban prisoners, tweeted he had reached out to external affairs minister S Jaishankar to discuss the latest developments in the Afghan peace process.“We talked about the urgency of resolving the internal political crisis and the importance of Afghan leaders forming an inclusive government,” he said, in an apparent reference to differences between Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and former chief executive Abdullah Abdullah.“We also discussed the need for both the Afghan government and the Taliban to accelerate prisoner releases, support a prompt reduction in violence, and start intra-Afghan negotiations,” Khalilzad said in a separate tweet.Khalilzad said he had told Jaishankar that “the US welcomes Indian engagement in regional and international efforts for a lasting peace in #Afghanistan” and that the US is “committed to a sustained engagement with #India on this objective”.This was Khalilzad’s first outreach to the Indian side to discuss the troubled Afghan peace process since diplomatic engagements around the world were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Khalilzad said he and Jaishankar also spent time “covering the immediate and longer-term impact of the Coronavirus”.Jaishankar tweeted that Khalilzad had “called to update on recent Afghan developments”. Without giving details, he added: “Shared the Indian perspective. Our historical friendship with this close neighbour will always guide our Afghan policy.”Khalilzad’s outreach came against the backdrop of growing concern in New Delhi about the US-Taliban deal not leading to any significant reduction in violence in Afghanistan. Officials in the Indian government are also concerned that there has been no public move by the Taliban to distance itself from terror groups such as al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed that have a presence in Afghanistan.Former ambassador Rajiv Dogra, who has served in Pakistan and closely tracks developments in Afghanistan, said Khalilzad’s tweets appeared to be veiled suggestion to India to “stay off” as far as Afghanistan is concerned. “If one reads between the lines as far as Khalilzad’s tweets are concerned, the message seems to be very clear - don’t spoil our deal,” said Dogra. “One day a future US administration will judge Khalilzad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalilzad-reaches-out-to-jaishankar-on-troubled-afghan-peace-process/story-4AKXLb2jNbr6eBqVDhIrJK.html
19-04-2020||India||PM Modi applauds small traders who kept supply chain intact amid lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded the role of small traders and local shopkeepers who have played a vital part in the supply chain of essential commodities by selling and delivering basic necessities to citizens at huge personal risk during the Covid-19 health crisis and the subsequent lockdown. “In this time of crisis, the countrymen are able to follow the lockdown diligently, in which many sections of society have a positive role to play. Let us imagine what would have happened if these small traders and shopkeepers did not take the risk of their own life and did not deliver such necessities to fellow citizens?” PM Modi said in a series of tweets in Hindi.“Small shopkeepers have contributed significantly in maintaining the entire social system. The society and the country will always remember their contribution,” he said. The PM added that he realized how challenging it was to follow social distancing and get others to follow it too.ALSO READ | PM Modi says Covid-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste and creed“In future also, shops should follow social distancing, we have to ensure this. All shopkeepers and traders deserve congratulations for their contribution in this hour of crisis,” he said.Earlier on Sunday, the Prime Minister said that the Covid-19 pandemic affects every human being equally irrespective of faith, colour or caste.“Covid-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together,” PM Modi had said in a post on LinkedIn.He said the world is now facing a common challenge that will test humanity’s resilience. The pandemic has affected more than 16,116 people in India and more than 23 lakh across the globe.The number of coronavirus cases in India has climbed to 16,116, which includes 519 deaths, the Health Ministry said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-applauds-small-traders-who-kept-supply-chain-intact-amid-lockdown/story-joIeE0EUasarQTOHqvSMbL.html
19-04-2020||India||Goa’s active Covid-19 count down to zero, minister warns against complacency||PanajiGoa has become the first state where the number of active Covid-19 cases has fallen to zero since the outbreak as the seven people infected by the coronavirus disease have recovered, but state health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday cautioned against any complacency. “Zero indeed has great value! Immensely happy to announce that all the COVID-19 positive cases in the state are now NEGATIVE,” Rane tweeted, thanking doctors and frontline workers “who worked tirelessly and risked their lives to save others”. In a separate tweet, chief minister Pramod Sawant said: “A moment of satisfaction and relief for Goa as the last active Covid-19 case tests negative. Team of doctors and the entire support staff deserves applause for their relentless effort. No new positive case in Goa after 3rd April 2020.” Rane, however, said the state authorities couldn’t afford to be complacent.“While we have good news of zero COVID-19 cases in Goa, it is too early to tag our state as a ‘green zone’. It’s time to intensify the testing facilities, we are now drawing up protocols for random testing – testing of migratory workers, industrial workers, etc,” he tweeted shortly after the announcement regarding the recovery of all positive cases.“We are also setting up smart kiosks, which will be placed at the borders, airport, MPT (Mormugao Port Trust), and several other locations that would be best suited for broadening our scope of testing,” he added.In a statement earlier, Rane said the state government was proud to announce that all the patients who tested positive for Covid-19 in Goa had recovered.“While currently we do not have any active cases in the state, it is our responsibility to keep in mind the importance of the lockdown, maintain social distancing, increase the scope of testing and adhere to norms and guidelines issued by both Central and state governments,” he said. The patients who had recovered were moved to a hotel, where they will spend another 14 days in isolation before being sent home. This is being done as an additional precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-active-covid-19-count-down-to-zero-minister-warns-against-complacency/story-Eaeq4Y2LT1nvP61DtEyoHL.html
19-04-2020||India||Lockdown disrupts ₹5 meal kitchen, activist switches to doorstep delivery||After feeding the underprivileged for five years, wholesome and nutritious meals in only ₹5, through his ‘Dadi Ki Rasoi’ initiative, social activist Anoop Khanna refuses to be daunted by the lockdown and is now trying to ensure he provides rations to the hungry right at their doorsteps.Dadi Ki Rasoi, which began in Noida in August 2015, and literally translates to Grandmother’s Kitchen, catered to about 500 people every day. In his own words, he charges a nominal amount of ₹5 and does not give the food for free in order to respect the dignity of the recipient. “From students to private employees and daily labourers, all types of people comes to us and we provide the same meal to everyone”, says Khanna, who has been operating this kitchen all by himself and a few paid staffers, but is averse to adding unpaid volunteers.“I have observed many youngsters take interest in social initiatives but it quickly fades with time. I do not want to depend on people who might show up on one day and discontinue later. Also I am against the idea of full-time charity and want everyone who is getting involved in such initiatives to have a separate source of income, so that they do not use funds meant for social causes, for their own good,” adds Khanna, who operates two medical shops in the city and is also the president of a chemists’ association, a network that he put to use to identify the need for food in different parts of the city during the lockdown and made sure he reaches those places.“With the lockdown, we had to shut Dadi Ki Rasoi and there were concerns about how we continue feeding people. Hence we took this decision to make packets of dry rations and distribute them to the underprivileged in slums,” says Khanna. Dadi Ki Rasoi has not only inspired similar kitchens in different parts of the country but also earned laurels from President Ram Nath Kovind, and Khanna was felicitated at Rashtrapati Bhawan last year, as part of the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatama Gandhi. Khanna was invited to the President’s house and was commended for his contributions which fulfilled the basic requirements of “roti, kapda and dawai” of the needy.While earlier he would set his food stall at around afternoon at a fixed place in sector 29, now his daily schedule includes driving around empty stretches of Noida, carrying along hundreds of packets of dry rations — a combination of a few kilograms of rice, wheat flour and pulses.“We have made small ration packets to discourage people from hoarding and to cover more households. We will keep revisiting these places within a gap of four to five days till this lockdown gets over,” adds Khanna, who now distributes over 400 packets of dry rations every day.As he has been serving the poor for so many years, procuring rations for distribution amid the lockdown hasn’t been a problem for him as vendors, familiar with his work over the years, were more than happy to make the products available to him.With a WHO advisory suggesting senior citizens to exercise maximum caution and preferably stay indoors, the 62-year-old pins hopes on his safety gears and continues to serve the underprivileged.“Everyone has his duty, be it healthcare professionals, policemen or civil society. In this hour, it is of utmost importance to keep serving people. It is only everyone’s collective effort that keeps humanity alive. I am using a mask, gloves and even a plastic apron to keep myself protected and we always maintain social distancing while distributing rations,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/lockdown-disrupts-5-meal-kitchen-activist-switches-to-doorstep-delivery/story-unKgNXl8fUG8DXHfEfX4fL.html
19-04-2020||India||British retiree spends savings to feed stranded labourers in Goa||Rowena Fuller, a 63-year-old retiree from Britain who was holidaying in Goa when the lockdown was announced, has used up most of her holiday nest egg — a tidy sum of Rs 90,000, set aside for a trip to South Africa — to feed migrants stranded in Agonda, a coastal village in the southern part of the state.“I think I have found my purpose,” Rowena told Hindustan Times. “We have crossed 1,000 meals per day and by May 3, we will have served over 2200 meals,” Fuller said. “But if the lockdown continues beyond that, I don’t think we will be able to continue with it.” A former social worker, Fuller came to Goa in August 2019. The plan, she said, was for her husband Peter and her to travel the world, leaving their life in the United Kingdom behind. When the lockdown was announced, the Fullers dug their heels in. Rather than fly home on one of the many repatriation flights that the UK government has organized for its citizens, they chose to stay back in Goa. Agonda is one of Goa’s most well known tourist beaches, and regularly makes it to the top ten lists compiled by travel portal TripAdvisor. An idyllic village in the far south corner of Goa that has none of the crowds, nightclubs and loud parties that other beaches can boast of, but it is a popular haunt for tourists, especially foreigners, looking for a quieter, cheaper holiday. It is also home to labourers, several of whom come from states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka to earn a living in restaurants and other industries that are labour intensive. They live in shanties and make themselves available at a gathering spot each morning waiting for someone to call upon their services. Since the lockdown, however, they have been stranded with no way of returning home and no means of earning any income. In Goa, an unskilled worker is entitled to receive Rs 350 as daily wage.Fuller got in touch with a local restaurant, Fatima’s, which agreed to cook meals for them. With their help she has been delivering meals to 65 labourers and their families in the beach village. “I hope and pray that others will help me in this venture, but if they don’t I’ll do it anyway, I have food in my freezer, dried goods in my cupboards and am rich in comparison to so many here, even my paltry pension per month is enviable, so I shall continue. Fatima’s restaurant shall continue to cook for these deprived people, and Santosh (a local resident helping Fuller) shall continue to deliver to them all, and I shall sleep content that we made a difference,” she said. Initially, Fuller initially used her own money — paying Fatima’s Rs 100 per meal — but it has since run out, prompting her to approach her friends to spread the word around. They will need to generate Rs 220,000 to ensure that they are fed until May 3.“They send the money directly to the restaurant that cooks the food,” she said. Stevie Rodrigues the owners of Fatima’s said that though the food is simple, they too are bearing some of the costs. “We have been supplying them with simple food and are bearing some of the cost. At the end of the day it’s our village and we have to look after it,” he said.Supplies have not been a problem, Rodrigues said, as his network of suppliers ensure that he is well stocked.Each meal consists of a portion of rice, fish curry and a piece of fried fish along with some vegetable depending on availability. “I am not receiving donations personally, I am not a charity, just a person who cares and who, over the months and especially over the last few days, has come to realise the other side of paradise, the sick, the old, those with dementia, those who are blind, those who were migrant workers but got left by the wayside … the list is endless. I cannot help all, but by God I will help all those I can even if it empties my savings,” she said. Since then others too have pitched in to help. “They are day labourers, in short, if they work by the morning, they will have food to eat. No work. No food. If you have witnessed the scene of distribution, trust me you can’t have dinner. These men take their food to home where there are kids,” another tourist who has been volunteering with Fuller and who didn’t wish to be named, said. While Fuller hasn’t yet approached the government for help, she said that she would if the lockdown continued beyond May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-retiree-spends-savings-to-feed-stranded-labourers-in-goa/story-MWIPXyJ9yi1GxjgznU0m1H.html
19-04-2020||India||Bombay, Orissa, Meghalaya high courts to get new chief justices||The Supreme Court collegium, on April 18, recommended the appointment of new chief justices to 3 high courts – Bombay, Orissa and Meghalaya.These appointments will go through once they are notified by the central government.Calcutta high court judge, Justice Dipankar Datta was recommended for elevation as chief justice of Bombay high court.Justice Datta will take over from the current chief justice of Bombay, Justice BP Dharmadhikari who will retire from office on April 27.Justice Datta, who was born in 1965, obtained a law degree in 1989 and practiced in the Supreme Court and high courts before he was appointed judge of Calcutta high court in 2006.The collegium also recommended the appointment of Justice Biswanath Somadder as chief justice of Meghalaya high court. Justice Somadder who originally hails from Calcutta high court is currently serving as a judge of Allahabad high court.Like Justice Datta, Justice Somadder also began his law practice in the year 1989 and was elevated as judge of Calcutta high court in 2006 before he was transferred to Allahabad high court in October 2019.With Justice Somadder being recommended to take over as chief justice of Meghalaya, the current chief justice of Meghalaya, Justice Mohammad Rafiq was recommended by the collegium for transfer to Orissa high court as its chief justice.Justice Rafiq, whose parent high court is Rajasthan, was elevated as Meghalaya high court chief justice in November 2019.The Orissa high court has been without a permanent chief justice since January 5 after the retirement of former chief justice, KS Jhaveri. The high court is currently headed by acting chief justice Sanju Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-orissa-meghalaya-high-courts-to-get-new-chief-justices/story-pzYwSgRM3UkmcEBwawCZDO.html
19-04-2020||India||8-yr-old cancer patient’s medicines delivered from Delhi by Indian post in Una||An eight-year-old cancer patient from Himachal Pradesh got her medicines from Delhi thanks to Indian postal service that is helping in the delivery of essential services during the nationwide lockdown, imposed to fight coronavirus outbreak in India. A press release from the government of India’s press bureau on Saturday highlighted the story of the timely delivery of medicines to Shalini after her predicament was brought to the attention of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. Shalini’s family asked one of their friends in Delhi for help when they realized the routine delivery of her medicines through courier wouldn’t be possible due to the lockdown measures. Shalini’s stock of medicine was likely to last only till 19th April 2020.The friend’s family in Delhi requested the Union Minister for Communications, Law & Justice and Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad for help.Prasad promptly directed India Post to provide all possible logistical assistance to ensure the girl’s medicines were delivered to Una before 19th April.All the four circles of India post involved in the delivery--Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh-- coordinated efforts to ensure timely delivery. The Punjab circle even arranged for a postal motor van that reached Shalini’s house on the morning of 19th April with the box of medicines.Shalini’s mother thanked India post after receiving the medicines. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Prasad, too, thanked India Post for “living up to the expectations of its people” in their hour of need. He also wished Shalini the best of health and happiness.“Delight to hear that @IndiaPostOffice is living up to the expectations of our citizens when they need it the most. @Punitspeaks thanks for your efforts to help your friend’s family in Una and please convey my best wishes to the little girl for her good health and happy life,” Prasad tweeted.India post is also engaged in delivering medicines, testing kits and PPEs to medical care professionals around the country.Any information on India Post’s services during the lockdown period can be availed through their helpline no. 1800-266 -6868.Also Read: Lockdown 2.0 relaxation: Government lists permitted and banned activities from April 20||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-year-old-cancer-patient-s-medicines-delivered-in-una-by-india-post-minister-tweets-thanks/story-mlhT13Ok8C0aqKqaem572K.html
19-04-2020||India||No decision yet on resuming passenger flights post lockdown: Hardeep Puri||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday no decision has yet been taken to resume domestic and international flight at the end of the lockdown. “No decision has been taken so far to commence operations of domestic and international flights post the lockdown. All airlines have been directed by @DGCA to refrain from booking tickets. They shall be given sufficient notice and time for restating operations,” Puri tweeted. No decision has been taken so far to commence operations of domestic & International flights post the Lockdown. All Airlines have been directed by @DGCAIndia to refrain from booking tickets. They shall be given sufficient notice & time for restarting operations.@MoCA_GoIShortly before Puri’s tweet, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in a statement said no decision has been taken to resume passenger flights from May 4 when the lockdown ends and that airlines should not start booking tickets.Referring to previous circulars by the Civil Aviation Ministry which prohibited operations of domestic passenger flights, the DGCA said, “In these circulars, there was no direction/clearance which allows the airlines to start ticket bookings for the journeys to be undertaken w.e.f the 4th of May, 2020. Further it has been noted that airlines have started booking tickets for journeys w.e.f the 4th of May 2020.In this respect it is brought to the notice of all concerned that no decision to commence the operation of domestic/international flights w.e.f 4th of May has been taken.”“In view of this, all airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets as described above. Further the airline s may note that they shall be given sufficient notice and time for restarting of operations,” it said.The regulator asked for “strict compliance” by all airlines.Passenger flights were banned from March 25 when the lockdown came into force to check the spread of coronavirus.Air cargo services were exempted from the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dgca-asks-airlines-to-refrain-from-booking-tickets-till-may-3-says-no-decision-on-commencing-operations-yet/story-0UjyBdo5uKhCPlEDzRmORK.html
19-04-2020||India||Lok Sabha Secretariat to resume work from Monday||The Lok Sabha Secretariat will resume work from Monday after it was shut in the last week of March in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, according to an official order.The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were shut on March 24 after both houses were adjourned sine die following the passage of the Finance Bill for 2020-21, bringing a premature end to the budget session of Parliament, which was slated to conclude on April 3.According to the order issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, it will resume work from Monday and all officers of the joint secretary rank and above will join office.Besides them, the other staff will work on a rotational basis.The order further said while working, the secretariat staff will ensure that social distancing norms are observed.File movement shall only be through electronic mode in e-office. The only exception could be urgent files for the consideration of the Lok Sabha speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-secretariat-to-resume-work-from-monday/story-VhoQbBkOea5gTeygB4DjfP.html
19-04-2020||India||Selective relaxation in non-containment areas from April 20: Health ministry||Selective relaxation will be given in non-containment areas from April 20, but strict restrictions will continue in districts declared COVID-19 hotspots, the government said on Sunday.Addressing a daily media briefing to give updates on the novel coronavirus situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said some activities in agricultural sector and rural economy would be permitted as part of ensuring “Jaan bhi hai jahan bhi hai (life and wellbeing)”.He also said a high-level task force to work on frontiers of science related to vaccines and drug testing was formed on Sunday.“The co-chair of the task force are member of the Niti Aayog and the principal scientific advisor to the government. Besides them, AYUSH, ICMR, Department of Science and Technology, Biotechnology, CSIR, DRDO, DG Health Services and Drug Controller are also its members,” Agarwal said.He said 1,334 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported since Saturday with 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases stand at 15,712 and deaths at 507. As many as 2,231 COVID-19 patients, which is around 14.19 per cent, have been cured, Agarwal said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that from April 20 selective relaxation will be given in some areas. In accordance to that, there will be some relaxations in non-containment zones from midnight, Agarwal said.The joint secretary in the health ministry, however, said that containment areas in coronavirus hotspots will not get the relaxations.States and Union Territories may impose measures which are even more stringent than Centre’s guidelines, according to local requirements, he said.Hotspots or red zones are those areas where either there are large number of COVID-19 cases or the doubling rate of infection is less than four days, Agarwal explained.“In these hotspots, local administrations delineate containment zones and buffer zones to control spread of the disease. No relaxations are permitted in these containment zones,” he said, adding strict perimeter control will be continue and nothing except essential services will be allowed there.“We will give selective relaxation in non-containment zones, but states and districts have to ensure that existing lockdown measures are strictly complied with.” “Activities to be prohibited till May 3, even in cases of relaxation, are primarily passenger traffic movement by air, rail and road, educational institutions, industrial commercial activities and hospitality services unless they are specifically exempted,” the health ministry official said.Along with these, cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, entertainment parks will be closed while social, political, cultural, religious or academic and sports gatherings continue to remain prohibited, he said.Relaxation will be there for agricultural activities, daily-wage earners and employment opportunities for some to be monitored, health services to be functional and supply of essential goods to continue, Agarwal said.An ICMR official said 3,86,791 tests for coronavirus tests have been conducted so far with 37,173 tests done on Saturday. Agarwal also said that 755 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and 1,389 dedicated healthcare centres have been set up in country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selective-relaxation-in-non-containment-areas-from-april-20-health-ministry/story-rcgmCtAiQSzQWA81nvoLpK.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: 50 to 82% Covid cases in India are asymptomatic||50 to 82 per cent of India’s total coronavirus patients registered across states are asymptomatic, say officials from different states, presenting a difficulty in the further easing of lockdown norms beyond May 3.An asymptomatic coronavirus patient doesn’t show any visible symptoms of the disease because of various factors including a strong immune system and is a carrier of the virus who can spread it further if unchecked.Doctors said showing signs of Coved-19 depends on the load of the virus, one’s age and body immunity.“If the load is not very high and virus is not virulent, the symptoms may not be there. But, it can be detected through test,” Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana said.Dr C Nagaraja, Director Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases in Bangalore said younger patient with a good immunity may not show any signs of the disease. Most of the asymptomatic patients are in the age group of 20-45. “Even older persons taking certain medicines may not show any signs initially. Those with weak immunity and co-morbid conditions show Covid signs faster,” he said. There have been instances when persons kept in observation have turned Covid positive after a long time. In central Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district, a girl student, who travelled in a train compartment with some Tablighi Jamaat members, tested positive after 22 days of her trip. Under observation, she remained asymptomatic throughout but turned positive when her observation period was about to end, said district medical officer, Dr N Sheeja.A 21-month old baby in Kolkata tested positive after being cured for mild fever. “There were no signs (of Covid). We got him tested when we saw patches in his lungs in his X-ray,” said a doctor, who was not willing to be quoted. Instances of persons reporting positive after being in observation for long period have been reported from Kozhikode in north Kerala and SBS Nagar in Punjab. Identifying such persons is difficult unless massive testing is done. As of now, the government tests contacts of a positive person and those living near the Covid containment areas to identify symptomatic persons. Testing of asymptomatic patients has started only in the recent past.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19However, with the government deciding to introduce rapid and pool testing, the reporting of such cases is likely to increase in the coming days. While all states have started rapid tests, some such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have initiated pool testing, in which samples of up to 64 persons are tested together. If the combined test is positive, then all persons are tested individually to identify those carrying the virus.Assam presents a scenario of a state that may not report many cases as most positive cases were found to be asymptomatic. Assam did not report any Covid cases till March 25. Nearly 82% of the 34 Covid-19 patients in Assam were asymptomatic, said health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “They didn’t show any of the typical symptoms associated with the disease during treatment,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.This is not restricted to smaller states.Around 75% of total Covid cases in Punjab, 50% in Karnataka, 65% in Maharashtra and 75 % in Uttar Pradesh were asymptomatic. “Most of the Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana are asymptomatic,” Dr Kamboj said.In Delhi, all 28 persons tested positive in Jehangirpuri on Saturday were symptom-free. “One of them was working at a food distribution Centre. We have isolated all persons working there and are identifying people he may have served food to,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Countries such as South Korea, Japan and China, where the number of Covid-19 have declined have started an exercise to identify the asymptomatic carriers. According to a report in South China Daily Post, around 43,000 symptoms free careers have been identified and isolated. Similarly, in South Korea more than 30,000 such persons have been identified, reported multiple new agencies.Experts, however, said that asymptomatic patients are not a big threat if the chain of transmission is broken and the lock-down is an effective way of doing that.“Lockdown is effective in breaking the (transmission) chain,” said ICMR head Balram Bhargava.Dr. Karan Peepre, medical superintendent, AIIMS, Raipur, said the only way to deal with asymptomatic persons is quick identification through massive testing and isolation. Uttar Pradesh health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said identifying hotspots is crucial to prevent the spread of the disease by symptom-free patients. Andhra Pradesh Covid nodal officer, D Arja Sreekanth said identifying such persons is not easy and therefore, they are conducting door to door survey.“We are also testing all those above 60 years having co-morbid issues like diabetes, hypertension, past history of tuberculosis etc, though they might not have Covid-19 symptoms,” he said.ALSO READ:Lockdown 2.0 relaxation: Government lists permitted and banned activities from April 20||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-asymptomatic-covid-cases-between-50-to-82-highlight-the-threat-from-silent-carriers/story-sC6bMC5NPELoC1AowuiLQL.html
19-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, illegal hunting of wild animals spikes in Northeast||Amid the lockdown across the country to prevent the spread of Covid-19, several incidents of wild animals being killed for food have surfaced in the northeast.It is not known how those who allegedly killed the wild animals could move around during the lockdown without being intercepted.A nearly 10-foot long king cobra was killed by residents of a village in Naharlagun area of Arunachal Pradesh on Friday. Video clips doing rounds on social media showed a person carrying the dead snake wrapped around his neck and body. Another one showed three persons placing the dead snake on banana leaves and getting ready to cut it. .“Because of the lockdown I felt like eating meat and went to the jungle…. I was hungry. Government officials please don’t get offended, we usually don’t do this,” said an unidentified person in the video.Senior forest officials in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar confirmed the incident and said that the person who killed the snake and two others shown in the videos have been identified. The trio reportedly ate the snake meat.“A forest team went to the place to inquire and was able to verify the snake had been killed and consumed. The forest personnel had to retreat as local residents surrounded them. The main accused who is from Kurung Kumey district is absconding,” state deputy chief wildlife warden Umesh Kumar said.“King cobra is a very rare species listed in Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act found in the foothills of forests. Killing it could lead to an imprisonment of up to 5 years or fine of Rs 25,000 or both,” he added.Chief Minister Pema Khandu told The Arunachal Times that strict action would be taken against those who indulge in illegal hunting of wildlife. He added that instructions have been issued to forest officials to ensure there is no hunting and illegal felling of trees during the lockdown.In neighbouring Assam, villagers in Golaghat district killed a leopard on Friday and decamped with its flesh, skin, claws, tail and teeth.“We came to know about the incident after photos of the animal was circulated on WhatsApp. Villagers didn’t help us, but we found traces of flood in a nearby jungle and found the leopard’s carcass buried in a pit,” said Mirel Ahmed, sub-inspector at Golaghat police station.“The leopard’s two hind legs, skin, tail, claws and teeth were missing. The forest officials have been informed about the incident and they are investigating. No one has been arrested yet,” he added.Another video clip which surfaced on Sunday shows at least two men killing several deer, one civet and some other animals inside a forest in Nagaland and roasting them on a temporary platform.The youths are seen saying that they are doing this during the lockdown. Though the exact location is yet to be confirmed, some reports say that it happened inside the Intanki, Nagaland’s lone national park in Peren district.Deputy Commissioner of Peren, Sentiwapang Aier said that he was not aware of the video or the incident and will have to get it confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-illegal-hunting-of-wild-animals-spikes-in-northeast/story-rujd1W94lvhMSWFDmYKvfJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Trump, WHO chief’s face-off over Covid-19 could spark fireworks at annual event||US President Donald Trump and his administration’s consistent attacks on the World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus have set up a face-off at the proposed annual meeting of the World Health Assembly on May 18.Trump, who has long accused the Tedros-led WHO of playing into China’s hands over the coronavirus disease, this week suspended funding to the global health body. By then, the Ethopian microbiologist who was elected to lead the WHO in 2017 with support from Xi Jinping’s China, had already galvanised support from African and most Non-Aligned countries.To be sure, diplomats based in Geneva where the annual meeting of the World Health Assembly take place told Hindustan Times that the three-hour long video conference would end up in an anodyne resolution calling for a global fight against the spread of Covid-19 with all member nations uploading their statements. Even the most hard-hit European countries and the UK have desisted from criticising the WHO director general at this point, saying this isn’t the time to play politics but fight the virus.Also Read: Geostrategic paralysis in face of Covid-19 could open a role for India | OpinionHowever, every representative of the 194-member body is expected to scrutinise the US statement as President Donald Trump has led the attack against Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, accusing him of playing into the hands of the Chinese government and downplaying the threat posed by the deadly virus that has claimed 157,000 lives worldwide.President Trump on Sunday went a step ahead when he warned of consequences to the Xi Jinping regime if it was found that China had deliberately suppressed facts about the origin and spread of the virus that originated from Wuhan province.The US charges against WHO were largely summed up by the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the US Congress, which in a letter on April 9 to Dr Ghebreyesus made it clear that the organisation was “no longer serving the needs of the world and instead taking its cues from China.”Also Read: Reforming the World Health Organization | OpinionWhile India has not formally taken a stand against Dr Ghebreyesus over its assessment that the focus should be Covid-19 and not WHO director general, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was first to indirectly question the body during a G-20 meeting last month when he wondered if a 20th century body would be able to handle the new-age diseases.The US position is in contrast to the stand taken by African Union and countries and Non-Aligned Movement. Dr Ghebreyesus hails from Ethiopia, which has been a member of the movement for nearly 40 years.The US is unhappy that as late as January 14, 2020, the WHO denied that there was community transmission in Wuhan despite warnings of human-to-human transmission by a non member Taiwan the previous month.The WHO, the Trump administration believes, was late to declare Covid-19 as a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) January 30, 2020.By this time the disease had infected almost 10,000 people. In fact, Dr Ghebreyesus congratulated the Chinese government for taking extraordinary measures to contain the outbreak.The WHO, despite declaring Covid-19 a PHEIC and extensive evidence of transmission through travel, did not warn any country against travel, to or from China. Between December 31 and January 31, as many as 430,000 people flew on direct flights from China to the US.Covid-19 was only declared a pandemic on March 11 after it had raced around the world, sickening nearly 120,000 people in 110 countries and killing close to 4,400.However, much to the chagrin of Donald Trump and US lawmakers, WHO routinely praised China for its efforts to combat the spread of Covid-19 contrary to the accusations that Beijing had underreported the threat and gagged professionals such as doctors and journalists for speaking about the severity of the disease.Even though the World Health Assembly in Geneva may end up in a very diluted outcome. diplomats expect that there would be increasing pressure on China to respond to criticism that it hasn’t been transparent enough about the disease and the WHO, for the steps that it should have taken.At the UN Security Council meeting that belatedly discussed the pandemic last week, the US drove home the point by calling for “complete transparency” in the reporting of coronavirus data, a clear reference to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-who-chief-s-face-off-over-china-s-covid-19-role-could-spark-fireworks-at-annual-event/story-ae607RTc5DQy0Dj2PFthiM.html
19-04-2020||India||Bengal to start rapid antibody tests for Covid-19 infections soon||The West Bengal government will soon start rapid antibody tests in hotspots, clusters and containment zones to identify Covid-19 cases, a top official of the state health department said on Sunday.Interestingly, however, the results of the tests will not be revealed instantaneously even to the person, who has been tested, to prevent any panic mongering.“The state government will start rapid antibody tests. These tests will be done in hotspots, clusters and containment zones,” a top official of the state health department said.In areas where no Covid-19 cases have emerged so far, this test could be done for epidemiological purposes.“Considering the limited number of testing kits and to avoid wastage of this precious resource, prior approval of the state health department will have to be taken to conduct the tests,” said a health department official.The rapid antibody test is a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of the disease within a specific area or perimeter. The rapid antibody test will only be of utility after a minimum of seven days of onset of symptomsUnlike the RT-PCR, which detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. It can show results within 30 minutes. Once a person tests positive after the antibody test, an RT-PCR test is done to confirm the result.On Thursday, India received a batch of 5,50,000 rapid testing kits (RTKs) from China. The state government, however, has not provided any data on how many kits have arrived in the state.At least 14 medical colleges and government laboratories in 28 districts have been identified, which will conduct the tests with prior approval of the state health department. In Kolkata three such institutions – IPGMER, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and School of Tropical Medicine, have been identified. On Saturday, the Bengal government had decided to start ‘pool testing’ of asymptomatic Covid-19 suspects to further ramp up its testing record after repeatedly drawing flak for its low rate of Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-start-rapid-antibody-tests-for-covid-19-infections-soon/story-nQBPxVBTTmbzIcO62iz8BJ.html
19-04-2020||India||After aviation minister’s ‘advice’, Air India stops bookings on all flight||Air India has stopped taking bookings on all flights, said its officials, a day after Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri “advised” airlines to open bookings only after the government takes a decision on resuming passenger flights.The minister’s comment came on Saturday night, hours after the national carrier stated that it has opened bookings on select domestic flights from May 4 and on select international flights from June 1. Amid the second phase of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Air India officials said on Sunday: “We have stopped all forward bookings now. Any passenger who has booked tickets on a flight, which has been cancelled, would be getting a credit voucher for future travel.” On April 3, during the first phase of the lockdown, Air India had announced that it has stopped bookings on both domestic and international flights till April 30.A notification on Air India’s website on Saturday read, “Bookings for select domestic flights for travel from May 4, 2020, and for international flights for travel from June 1, 2020, onwards are open.” The notification has been removed from the website.Private sector airlines, however, continue to take bookings May 4 onwards.Several passengers have complained on social media that Indian airlines are not giving refunds for flights cancelled due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and instead issuing credit vouchers for future travel.On April 16, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated that travellers can ask airlines for full refunds if the bookings were done during the first phase of the lockdown for travel up to May 3.The first phase of the lockdown imposed in the country in view of the coronavirus outbreak was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase started on April 15 and will end on May 3.All domestic and international commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended during the lockdown period. However, cargo flights and special flights authorised by aviation regulator DGCA have been permitted during this period.The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 507 and the number of cases to 15,712 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-aviation-minister-s-advice-air-india-stops-bookings-on-all-flight/story-M8BijSgVt5AqzYBOKBXfdP.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: UP govt to provide employment to 5 lakh stranded workers in state||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday decided to set up a committee to provide employment to the 5 lakh workers who entered the state in the last 45 days from different parts of the country amid the coronavirus lockdown. “In a meeting today, the Chief Minister ordered to set up a committee aimed at providing employment to 5 lakh workers who have come to the state in the last 45 days from different parts of the country,” said Awanish K Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department.The state government had on Saturday announced that Rs 1,000 aid each to destitute people, including to those who were left out in both urban and rural areas amid lockdown. Thousands of migrant workers and daily wage labourers stranded away from their homes and families in cities across the country are left with no jobs.With activities except for essential services halted, they are facing difficulty to earn a livelihood.This comes as the lockdown, which was earlier scheduled to end on April 14, was recently extended till May 3 in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-govt-to-provide-employment-to-5-lakh-stranded-workers-in-state/story-AiRV4DeHsd4ea0B40EiSjN.html
19-04-2020||India||PM Modi shares LinkedIn post on Covid-19. Read full text here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Covid-19 pandemic affects everyone equally and does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking.“COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together,” PM Modi said in a post in LinkedIn.Here’s the full text of the LinkedIn post:It has been a topsy-turvy start to the third decade of this century. COVID-19 has brought with it many disruptions. Coronavirus has significantly changed the contours of professional life. These days, home is the new office. The Internet is the new meeting room.For the time being, office breaks with colleagues are history. No alt text provided for this imageI have also been adapting to these changes. Most meetings, be it with minister colleagues, officials and world leaders, are now via video conferencing. In order to get ground level feedback from various stakeholders, there have been videoconference meetings with several sections of society. There were extensive interactions with NGOs, civil society groups and community organisations. There was an interaction with Radio Jockeys too. No alt text provided for this imageBesides that, I have been making numerous phone calls daily, taking feedback from different sections of society.One is seeing the ways through which people are continuing their work in these times. There are a few creative videos by our film stars conveying a relevant message of staying home. Our singers did an online concert. Chess players played chess digitally and through that contributed to the fight against COVID-19. Quite innovative! The work place is getting Digital First. And, why not?After all, the most transformational impact of Technology often happens in the lives of the poor. It is technology that demolishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminates middlemen and accelerates welfare measures.Let me give you an example. When we got the opportunity to serve in 2014, we started connecting Indians, especially the poor with their Jan Dhan Account, Aadhar & Mobile number. This seemingly simple connection has not only stopped corruption and rent seeking that was going on for decades, but has also enabled the Government to transfer money at the click of a button. This click of a button has replaced multiple levels of hierarchies on the file and also weeks of delay. India has perhaps the largest such infrastructure in the world. This infrastructure has helped us tremendously in transferring money directly and immediately to the poor and needy, benefiting crores of families, during the COVID-19 situation.Another case in point is the education sector. There are many outstanding professionals already innovating in this sector. Invigorating technology in this sector has its benefits. The Government of India has also undertaken efforts such as the DIKSHA Portal, to help teachers and boost e-learning. There is SWAYAM, aimed at improving access, equity and quality of education. E-Pathshala, which is available in many languages, enables access to various e-books and such learning material. Today, the world is in pursuit of new business models. India, a youthful nation known for its innovative zeal can take the lead in providing a new work culture. I envision this new business and work culture being redefined on the following vowels.I call them- vowels of the new normal- because like vowels in the English language, these would become essential ingredients of any business model in the post-COVID world.Adaptability: The need of the hour is to think of business and lifestyle models that are easily adaptable.Doing so would mean that even in a time of crisis, our offices, businesses and commerce could get moving faster, ensuring loss of life does not occur. Embracing digital payments is a prime example of adaptability. Shop owners big and small should invest in digital tools that keep commerce connected, especially in times of crisis. India is already witnessing an encouraging surge in digital transactions. Another example is telemedicine. We are already seeing several consultations without actually going to the clinic or hospital. Again, this is a positive sign. Can we think of business models to help further telemedicine across the world?Efficiency:Perhaps, this is the time to think of reimagining what we refer to as being efficient. Efficiency cannot only be about- how much time was spent in the office.We should perhaps think of models where productivity and efficiency matter more than appearance of effort.The emphasis should be on completing a task in the specified time frame. Inclusivity:Let us develop business models that attach primacy to care for the poor, the most vulnerable as well as our planet. We have made major progress in combating climate change. Mother Nature has demonstrated to us her magnificence, showing us how quickly it can flourish when human activity is slower. There is a significant future in developing technologies and practices that reduce our impact on the planet. Do more with less.COVID-19 has made us realise the need to work on health solutions at low cost and large scale. We can become a guiding light for global efforts to ensure the health and well being of humanity.We should invest in innovations to make sure our farmers have access to information, machinery, and markets no matter what the situation, that our citizens have access to essential goods. Opportunity:Every crisis brings with it an opportunity. COVID-19 is no different.Let us evaluate what might be the new opportunities/growth areas that would emerge now.Rather than playing catch up, India must be ahead of the curve in the post-COVID world. Let us think about how our people, our skills sets, our core capabilities can be used in doing so.Universalism: COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together. Unlike previous moments in history, when countries or societies faced off against each other, today we are together facing a common challenge. The future will be about togetherness and resilience.The next big ideas from India should find global relevance and application. They should have the ability to drive a positive change not merely for India but for the entire humankind. Logistics was previously only seen through the prism of physical infrastructure – roads, warehouses, ports. But logistical experts these days can control global supply chains through the comfort of their own homes. India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post COVID-19 world. Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity. I urge you all to think about this and contribute to the discourse.The shift from BYOD to WFH brings new challenges to balance the official and personal. Whatever be the case, devote time to fitness and exercising. Try Yoga as a means to improve physical and mental wellbeing. Traditional medicine systems of India are known to help keep the body fit. The Ayush Ministry has come out with a protocol that would help in staying healthy. Have a look at these as well. Lastly, and importantly, please download Aarogya Setu Mobile App. This is a futuristic App that leverages technology to help contain the possible spread of COVID-19. More the downloads, more its effectiveness. Will wait to hear from you all…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/read-pm-modi-s-full-linkedin-text-on-covid-19/story-5hRfwawDMU79iWcAsiFB1O.html
19-04-2020||India||Bihar BJP MLA gets pass to drive to Kota to bring back daughter||While Bihar chief minister Nitish has been steadfast in refusing to evacuate the state’s students stranded in in Kota in Rajasthan during the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, his ally BJP’s MLA from Hisua (Nawada), Anil Singh has just returned from Kota with his daughter.Singh had obtained a pass from the Nawada district administration for driving to Kota and back, a distance of over 2,200 km. Kota is a coaching hub for medical and engineering competitive exams and draws students from different parts of the country. After the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to evacuate its students in 250 buses, Madhya Pradesh and Chhatisgarh governments are also planning to do the same, which would increase the pressure on Nitish Kumar further to carry out similar evacuation.Nawada ‘s sub-divisional officer (SDO) Anu Kumar, who is authorized to issue passes, said the MLA had claimed that his daughter who was preparing for medical entrance exams at Allen Institute, was not well and needed to be brought back.“He had met the district magistrate also. We do issue passes when required, but only to vehicles from Nawada needing to go anywhere,” he added.The pass was issued in the name of the legislator for a 10-day period from April 16 to April 25. He returned on April 18 after driving virtually nonstop.The MLA said that he had done no wrong nor any of his actions could be termed violation of lockdown in anyway. “There is provision for pass in view of extremely important work. I applied for e-pass as per laid down provisions as for me bringing my daughter was of utmost importance, the pass was issued and I went following the guidelines and returned. What is wrong in it? There should not be politics over it,” he asked.“Most of the children have left Kota after they met the district magistrate in groups and the latter issued passes to them to travel in buses. However, I don’t approve of that, as the very concept of social distancing would not be maintained in buses. I went on my personal vehicle along with food and water so that I did not have to stop anywhere,” he added.Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, however, was unsparing in his attack on Nitish Kumar, his former boss. “Nitishji rejected the appeal of hundreds of students stranded in Kota on the plea that it would be against the spirit of lockdown, but his government was quick to grant special permission to a BJP MLA to bring his ward back,” he tweeted.RJD was also quick to describe it as a reflection of VIP culture. RJD leader Mriyunjay Tiwari said there should not be double standard.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said the MLA had followed all the procedures and there should not be any politics over it. “District administrations issue travel passes to anyone for a genuine cause. There is no special treatment. Some people are in the habit of misinterpreting things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bjp-mla-gets-pass-to-drive-to-kota-to-bring-back-daughter/story-Pm6tqTprtriDhyhbUYV9WL.html
19-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0 relaxation: Government lists permitted and banned activities from April 20||The union government on Saturday reminded everyone that only selective relaxation will be allowed during the second phase of lockdown beginning midnight with the purpose of restarting the rural economy and providing earning opportunities to the daily-wage earning class including migrant labourers.Centre made it clear that the limited commercial activities will only be allowed in non-Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones. The government added that the relaxation will have no impact on most containment measures in force during the lockdown and people should remember that the prohibition on activities that threaten community transmissions will continue.Here’s the list of activities/services that will continue to be under suspension despite the relaxations that will come into effect from April 20 in certain areas. 1. Passenger traffic movement by rail, road and air--except in places where they have been exempted by the local administration as part of relaxations.2. Educational and related institutions including schools, colleges, vocational training centres.3. Most industrial, commercial activity and hospitality services including hotels (unless they are specially exempted)4. Cinema halls and entertainment complexes.5. Shopping malls, shopping complexes and entertainment parks.6. Social, political, cultural, entertainment, academic and sports gatherings.7. Religious places, places of worship and religious congregations.8. Taxi services including autos and cab aggregators.The government said it was important that no mistake is made while restoring services which could be counterproductive to the containment efforts leading to an outcome the country can ill-afford at this stage.“Agricultural and related activities should be functional, rural economy should be functional, daily wage earners employment opportunities should be monitored, health services should remain functional, the supply chain of essential goods should be maintained. Our effort is to gradually restore normalcy to ensure that both life and livelihoods are protected,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry while listing some of the services that will continue to be in operation in the last leg of the second phase of lockdown starting April 20.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Agarwal said that several offices, workplaces, factories and other establishments outside hotspots or containment zones will start operating from April 20 but they will have to ensure social distancing. He added that big industrial units are being encouraged to house migrant workers inside their premises to prevent a possible spread in infections.“Hotspots are those areas were a large number of Covid-19 cases have been found or where the doubling rate is less than 4 days,” Agarwal defined the term for the purpose of identifying containment zones.He added that if any of the areas enjoying relaxations report positive cases they can be converted into containment zones and relaxations will be withdrawn.He made it clear that lockdown SOPs will have to be followed even in areas outside these containment zones where selective relaxations will be allowed.No relaxation is permitted for containment zones where only essential services will be allowed.Also Read: Covid-19 Latest Update: India’s recovery rate showing improvement at 14.91%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-relaxation-government-lists-permitted-and-banned-activities-from-april-20/story-WhdmAH6Gq1gHB2iDVJZv9L.html
19-04-2020||India||PM Modi says Covid-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste and creed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the Covid-19 pandemic affects everyone equally irrespective of faith, colour or caste,“COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together,” PM Modi said in a post in LinkedIn.Read live updates on Coronavirus here.He said the world is now facing a common challenge that will test out resilience. The pandemic has affected more than 15,000 people in India and more than 23 lakhs across the globe.“Unlike previous moments in history, when countries or societies faced off against each other, today we are together facing a common challenge. The future will be about togetherness and resilience,” he said.Also read: Army to manage India’s largest Covid-19 quarantine centre in DelhiDespite the danger that Covid-19 poses, he said there is an opportunity in the crisis and urged Indians to get ahead of the curve in the post-Covid world..“Every crisis brings with it an opportunity. COVID-19 is no different. Let us evaluate what might be the new opportunities/growth areas that would emerge now. Rather than playing catch up, India must be ahead of the curve in the post-COVID world. Let us think about how our people, our skills sets, our core capabilities can be used in doing so,” Modi said.The next big ideas from India should find global relevance and application, the PM said.“They should have the ability to drive a positive change not merely for India but for the entire humankind,” he said. He underlined the vital role of logistics and said India has the advantage to emerge as a global nerve centre of multinational supply chains in the post-Covid world.“India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post COVID-19 world. Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity, Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-covid-19-does-not-see-race-religion-colour-caste-creed/story-2vkItERJbpkl4O9Qn3d4hN.html
19-04-2020||India||Centre transfers Rs 36,659 crore to 16 crore needy during Covid-19 lockdown||The Union government has transferred Rs 36,659 crore directly in the bank accounts of more than 16 crore poor farmers, labourers and other underprivileged people between March 24 and April 17 to provide relief during the ongoing nation-wide lockdown, the finance ministry said in a statement. The direct benefit transfer (DBT) ensures cash benefit directly credited into the account of the beneficiary, eliminates leakage and improves efficiency, it said on Sunday. The bank transfer was undertaken through the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) office, an arm of the finance ministry.According to the statement, the government disbursed Rs 17,733.53 crore to 8.43 crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) and Rs 5,406.09 crore to 1.55 crore rural workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Program (MGNREGA).The amount transferred also includes benefits under the state government schemes worth Rs 9,717 crore involving 4.59 crore beneficiaries, the statement said.The government has transferred Rs 500 in each of 19.86 crore women account holders of Jan Dhan accounts up to till April 13, resulting in disbursement of Rs 9,930 crore, data issued by the department of financial services (DFS), an arm of the finance ministry, said.During the Covid-19 outbreak, several state governments such as Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Tripura, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Andhra Pradesh (AP) used DBT to transfer cash in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.“Through 180 welfare schemes, the state governments using PFMS have disbursed to 4,59,03,908 beneficiaries, an amount of Rs. 9,217.22 crore between March 24, 2020 till April 17, 2020,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-transfers-rs-36-659-crore-to-16-crore-needy-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-57UWeCCjFsLUGguVnKWQZK.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Plea seeking military deployment for proper implementation of lockdown filed in Supreme Court||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the authorities to deploy armed forces to ensure proper implementation of the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. The plea, which said that health care workers and police officials have been attacked by mobs in some states while they were discharging their duties during the lockdown, has also sought a direction to the authorities for laying down guidelines and devise strategy to protect the fundamental rights of citizens.It has said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or the National Investigation Agency (NIA) should be directed to probe into matters related to assembly of people in various parts of the country during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3.“In order to control the spread of coronavirus, proper lockdown is very necessary and in order to keep the lockdown...deployment of military force in each state of India is very necessary. Therefore, the military force should be deployed as soon as possible for the benefit of the citizens of India,” petitioner K R Shenoy has said in the plea.The petition has claimed that despite action taken by various states, people engaged in health sector and police officials were still being attacked and this was causing problem in controlling the novel coronavirus.“It is also pertinent to note that people who are quarantined or under treatment are continuously trying to run away from the quarantine centre, hospitals etc which is again increasing the chance of spread of coronavirus, therefore more security needs to be increased at these places,” the plea said.It has also raised issue of gathering of people in some states, where COVID-19 cases have increased rapidly, on the pretext of wanting to go back to their native places.The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 507 and the number of cases to 15,712 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-plea-seeking-military-deployment-for-proper-implementation-of-lockdown-filed-in-supreme-court/story-EgnhqIwC7iBewkTjrxCj4K.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Plea in Supreme Court for action against landlords pressuring students, labourers for rent||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking action against the “arbitrary and unlawful action” of landlords demanding rent from students and labourers during the lockdown despite a government order to the contrary. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued an order on March 29 which stops landlords from demanding rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month. Those landlords who force people to vacate their houses will face action, the MHA statement warns.The order, issued under the Disaster Management Act, had said employers will pay their workers’ wages on due dates without any deduction.The petition filed by advocate Pawan Prakash Pathak and others, has sought implementation of the home ministry’s March 29 order that no landlord will collect rent from the labour class and students for a month during COVID-19 period and those who violate it would be punished.“Petition is being filled against the arbitrary and unlawful action of landlords in the state of Delhi amid COVID-19 where there is clear instruction issued by the Ministry of Home affairs that in order to maintain the lockdown situation and law and order during COVID-19, order dated March 29, 2020 ‘restraining all landlord to forcing labours and students to vacate their premises’, in case they fail to pay rent during this period,” the plea said.The PIL said irrespective of the MHA order, various landlords were forcing tenant students to pay full rent, failing which they will be thrown out of premises.“Many landlords are continuously putting pressure on students to pay their rent and the students are living in constant fear and depressions. They are feeling helpless in this situation as they can’t demand money from their parents because their parents are also suffering from financial crisis due to the lockdown. In such a situation one is left with one option i.e opportunity cost of money, either one can pay rent out of same amount or one can buy essential ration and food for family during this period,” the plea said.The petition said that in a situation like this, the students who are staying in rented accommodations have limited resources at their disposal.“Most of the students stuck are from humble background and they supplement their expenses by working part time -- for instance by taking up tuition. But in situations like this, they are struck in dire straits. If they will not be helped by the government concerned then they have to live in constant fear and depression caused by the financial crisis,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-plea-in-supreme-court-for-action-against-landlords-pressuring-students-labourers-for-rent/story-k8DateMuHq3F7yKWLv42YO.html
19-04-2020||India||Goa wipes Covid-19 slate clean, count comes down to zero||Goa became the first state to have reduced its number of active Covid-19 patients to zero with the last of the seven patients now having been declared as recovered, authorities said Sunday.“Zero indeed has great value! Immensely happy to announce that all the Covid-19 positive cases in the state are now negative,” Goa’s Health Minister Vishwajit Rane announced thanking doctors and frontline workers “who worked tirelessly and risked their lives to save others.” “A moment of satisfaction and relief for Goa as the last active Covid-19 case tests negative. Team of Doctors and the entire support staff deserves applause for their relentless effort. No new positive case in Goa after 3rd April 2020,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Goa had a total of seven patients who tested positive for coronavirus but the figure steadily kept reducing as no fresh positives were registered after April 3 while those who were tested positive began to recover. “We are proud to announce that all the recovered patients reported positive in the state of Goa have recovered from Covid-19. The active number of cases in Goa now stands at zero. While currently we do not have any active cases in the state, it is our responsibility to keep in mind the importance of the lockdown, maintain social distancing, increase the scope of testing and adhere to norms and guidelines issued by both central and state government,” Rane said. Patients who recover are moved to a separate hotel where they are kept in isolation for another 14 days before they are sent home in order that they do not attract a secondary infection upon discharge from hospital as well as an additional precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-wipes-covid-19-slate-clean-count-comes-down-to-zero/story-bgGqmUvt01yzsTYOqZk1zJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Health insurers to decide coronavirus treatment claims within 2 hours of receipt||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has said that health insurers have to decide on authorization for cashless treatment to the network provider (hospital) within two hours from the time of receipt of authorization request and last necessary requirement from the hospital.The move is meant to ensure that health insurance claims of all coronavirus patients are dealt with swiftly. “In light of prevailing conditions owing to Covid-19 as also taking into consideration the need for alleviating the pressure on the healthcare infrastructure all insurers shall decide health insurance claims expeditiously,” Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) said in a circular.Health insurers also need to communicate their decision on final discharge to the hospital within two hours from the time of receipt of final bill and last necessary requirement, the insurance regulator said.“Decision on authorization for cashless treatment shall be communicated to the network provider hospital within two hours from the time of receipt of authorization request and last necessary requirement from the hospital either to the insurer or to the TPA whichever is earlier,” the insurance regulator said.The insurance regulator has asked health insurers to issue appropriate guidelines to their respective third party administrators soon.Earlier this week, the Finance Ministry had extended the renewal dates of health and motor insurance policies falling during the nationwide lockdown till May 15 to ensure continuity.This extension is for policies that are due for renewal between March 25 and May 3.“With a view to mitigate hardship to policyholders whose health and motor (third party) insurance policies are due for renewal during Covid-19 lockdown, the government has issued notification allowing policyholders to make payments on or before 15.05.2020 towards renewal of their policies,” the finance ministry had said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-insurers-to-decide-coronavirus-treatment-claims-within-2-hours-of-receipt/story-h9jSoF2DILKWFMAio9IETN.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Latest Update: India’s recovery rate showing improvement at 14.91%||The recovery rate of coronavirus patients in India had further risen to 14.91% with a total of 2231 patients getting discharged so far and the list of districts that have not reported any new Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks rising to 56, the Union government said on Saturday while highlighting the positive results emerging from country’s fight against the contagion.The recovery rate was nearly 13% as per government figures released on Friday last week, which was a steady improvement from the previous week’s 8%. A total of 1334 positive Covid-19 cases have been reported since yesterday taking the total number of infections to 15,512. In the last 24 hours, 27 deaths have been reported taking the total number of casualties to 507 since the outbreak.The country was also witnessing a consistent addition to its testing capacity with over 37,000 tests done on Saturday including 7486 tests done in 82 private labs. The remaining tests were done in 194 labs linked to the ICMR network.“Apart from Mahe in Puducherry and Kodagu in Karnataka, 54 additional districts from 23 states have not reported any new cases for the last 14 days. This includes 10 new districts that have been added to the list,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry. Agarwal added that the country was entering a crucial phase with selective relaxations in commercial activity mainly targeted to start the rural economy and recreate employment opportunities for daily wagers.According to the health ministry data, Maharashtra with 4227 cases continues to have the most number of coronavirus infected patients including 211 deaths, followed by Delhi that has registered 2007 cases including 42 deaths.The health ministry official added that the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the country had risen to 755 and the dedicated Covid health care centres had gone up to 1,389, taking the total number of dedicated facilities to treat serious coronavirus cases to 2,144. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-update-india-s-recovery-rate-showing-improvement-at-14-91/story-WxhEELb6NXSNIJ6wq0ALvN.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: First batch of 9,600 rapid test kits arrive in Kashmir valley||Kashmir has received the first batch of 9,600 rapid test kits as the valley is trying to ramp up testing in its fight to contain the spread of COVID-19, officials said on Sunday. The rapid test kits help examine whether a person has developed antibodies in their blood stream to fight the novel coronavirus, which indicates whether a person has been exposed to or has COVID-19. The results of these tests take around 30 minutes. Doctors and healthcare workers can then determine the number of people who could be infected in a population sample. The kits would be used in the 83 red zones in the valley on a priority basis to help the administration expand the testing in these designated areas, the officials said. “We have received the first batch of 9,600 rapid testing kits,” Director, Health Services, Kashmir, Dr Samir Mattoo told PTI. Mattoo said the kits were being dispatched to red zones in the valley and it would be distributed to each such containment zone. The kits provide the results on the spot and would cut the time taken to determine the results, he said. The process will be hastened as these kits provide the results in about half-an-hour only, the director added. Health officials said the rapid testing kits would help in expanding the testing in the areas designated as red zones. These kits would first be used to test people in each red zone and would also be used to test the frontline health workers, the officials said. “Afterwards, the testing areas will be increased with the increase in the number of kits,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-first-batch-of-9-600-rapid-test-kits-arrive-in-kashmir-valley/story-2dTKgsHTu18aHNoMVIiI4N.html
19-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0 Update: Govt order on migrant workers resuming work explained||The union home ministry has issued a standard operating protocol for the movement of stranded migrant labourers within the states and Union Territories from April 20, when additional commercial activities resume in non-coronavirus hotspots. The government notice says that these migrant workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MNREGA works and the local administration could follow the guidelines being issued to facilitate their movement within the geographical boundaries of the state and or a Union territory.Here’s what this order means for hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers who are mostly living out of relief camps set up by state governments.1. A registration exercise will be carried out at the relief camps for migrants where their skills will be noted to identify their work area like construction, manufacturing, sanitisation etc.2. Migrant workers will be transported to their place of work within the state if they express a desire to do so. But they will be first screened for the possibility of coronavirus infection and only those found with no symptoms will be allowed to return to their place of work.3. In no condition will the migrant workers be allowed to move or transported outside the state or Union territory where they are located currently. That would mean that a migrant worker who was employed in Kerala but travelled to Karnataka before he was put up in a relief camp will not be allowed to return to Kerala and will need to find work in Karnataka for the time being.4. Buses transporting migrants will have to be sanitized and the migrants will have to observe social distancing norms while travelling to their places of work.5. The local authorites are also directed to provide food and water to the migrants for their journey to the place of work.6.The migrant labourers who will continue to stay at the relief centres should be given nutritious food to ensure they stay healthy. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-update-govt-order-on-migrant-workers-resuming-work-explained/story-qf9Fk4PXRYra2YkpB7uFqL.html
19-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: ‘Where is your dignity now?’, Prashant Kishor’s latest jibe at Nitish Kumar has Kota connect and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Where is your dignity now?’: Prashant Kishor’s latest jibe at Nitish Kumar has Kota connectElection strategist Prashant Kishore has been constantly targeting Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over the plight of the people from the state stranded in other places during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections. Read more. Centre opens job avenue for migrant workers, bars inter-state movement of labourersThe central government opened on Sunday an employment avenue for migrant labourers in states where they are stranded, while also making it clear that they will not have permission for interstate travel. Read more. India takes up collapse of Kartarpur gurudwara domes with PakistanIndia has taken up with Pakistan the issue of collapse of domes of Sikh shrine Gurudwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, people aware of the development said. Read more. IGNOU TEE June: Deadline extended to submit assignment till May 31, exam form till May 15Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the deadline to submit the assignment for term end exam (TEE- June) 2020 up to May 31. Earlier, the last date to submit the TEE June assignments was April 30. Read more. ‘MS was totally opposite’: Sourav Ganguly, MS Dhoni and Anil Kumble’s captaincy style decoded by SrikkanthThe rise of MS Dhoni is nothing short of a fairytale and in that dream story, a lot of former cricketers and coaches played their part. Former India opener and chief selector Kris Srikkanth was one of them. Read more. Kangana Ranaut defends sister, targets Farah Khan Ali again: ‘Don’t twist words to suit your distorted narrative’Kangana Ranaut has hit back at jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali’s claim that Rangoli Chandel’s tweet, which got her suspended from Twitter was “totally inappropriate, hateful and goes against the rule of law”. Read more. Penguins wandering on street ‘wonder’ where the humans have goneWhat were the penguins wandering around on a quiet Cape Town street wondering about? Probably they were thinking where all the humans went – or at least that is what netizens suggest. Read more. Throwback fashion: Sridevi stunned in a maroon Benarasi silk saree, Janhvi shines in greenDabboo Ratnani has been posting interesting and fun videos of himself getting “bored in his house”.Celebrating ‘25 years of Dabboo Ratnani, the photographer most recently posted a picture of King Khan, Shah Rukh Khan. Read more. Zoom hack: We asked Microsoft, Google, AnyDesk about their encryption modelsFrom getting hacked by Zoombombers to selling software exploits in the Dark Web, Zoom, the video conferencing app, has probably seen it all over the past few weeks. Read more. Call centre running from Gurugram hotel busted amid lockdown, 7 arrestedTo keep its business running even during lockdown, a call center company ran its operations illegally from 35 rooms it had booked in the luxurious Radisson Hotel in Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar. Police said the promoters of the company, Saburi TLC World Wide service Pvt Ltd , threatened their employees to work from the hotel and violated social distancing norms in effect in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-where-is-your-dignity-now-prashant-kishor-s-latest-jibe-at-nitish-kumar-has-kota-connect-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EiCcdmGYFDSRcIjAAsi2AL.html
19-04-2020||India||High self-isolation standards in Asia’s highest motorable village and lockdown orders from a goddess||Two villages in Himachal Pradesh with two distinctive identities, one with the highest motorable road and the other renowned for its potent “tourist attraction” and ancient governance system, have set high standards in how communities can self-isolate for protection against Covid-19 without the administration or police wasting valuable time enforcing rules.Welcome to Komic and Malana, where villagers, with remarkable maturity, have banned the movement of people voluntarily, knowing they have to save lives at any cost. The ruling deity in the latter village also issued lockdown orders much before the government didVillagers in Komic – situated 15,500 feet above sea level – now rarely step out of their homes and strictly adhere to guidelines issued by the state government. They have restricted farm activities too. “We hardly go out and the children study at home,” says local resident Palzor.The youngsters have made a time table which they follow diligently and study for four hours a day, she says.Komic does not have a ration depot, but the villagers who have to travel 30 km to the nearest market in Kaza, have stocked up for the next six months. They are habituated to doing so as the entire Lahaul and Spiti district remains cut from the rest of the state for about six months a year due to heavy snowfall in Rohtang pass.The only problem, Palzor says, is that relay signals for television are weak and they don’t have internet facilities.Deity’s orders Malana, an ancient village located in scenic Kullu district’s Parvati valley, was the first panchayat in HP to restrict entry of outsiders from March 18, much ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s March 24 lockdown call.Villagers like to say they have simply followed the orders of their supreme deity, Jamlu, who wished it so. Said to be descendants of Greek king Alexander’s soldiers, the Malanis as locals are known, have their own parliamentary system comprising an upper house called Jayeshthang and a lower house called Kanishthang.The reason why they anticipated problems and closed their borders ahead of others is the dubious local trade here in Malana cream, a strain of Cannabis hashish with high oil content and an intensely fragrant aroma.Despite the government’s efforts to stop its production, Malana cream still attracts people from all around the world.That’s also why many restaurants have sprung up here. “There are 20 odd restaurant owners who have remained in Malana. “We have told them that if they leave the village they would not be allowed to return”, says Bhagi Ram, head of the local panchayat, which has a population of 4,700 . Ram said ration was not a problem and they had adequate stocks.The Malanis use the Kanashi dialect, which is much different from the others spoken in the Kullu region.Traditionally, inhabitants of this land-locked village used to make baskets, ropes and slippers from hemp. But in the late 1980s, visiting foreigners taught people here the methods of extracting the intoxicating resin from cannabis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-self-isolation-standards-in-asia-s-highest-motorable-village-and-lockdown-orders-from-a-goddess/story-wrJRS595TQ6sEO5hwu0QbN.html
19-04-2020||India||Maharashtra to impose lockdown at Aurangabad jail, 5 other prisons: Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government has decided to implement lockdown at Aurangabad jail with proper arrangement for food and has directed police personnel to stay within the jail premises during the duration of the lockdown, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday.“Prisons in Maharashtra have more inmates than their actual capacity. So we have decided to implement lockdown at Aurangabad jail. Arrangements for food and for the stay of police personnel will be made inside the jail complex,” Deshmukh said.The state government has also decided that no one will be allowed to come out or go inside the Aurangabad jail.In an attempt to stop the Covid-19 infection from spreading inside the prisons of Maharashtra, which are already packed to capacity, a similar decision has been taken for five more jails in Maharashtra, Deshmukh added.Earlier, this month, a city-based non-governmental organisation had moved the Bombay high court seeking speedy decongestion of prisons across Maharashtra, as ordered by the Supreme Court.Taking cognizance of the threat created by the coronavirus pandemic, on March 23, the apex court had directed all states and union territories to decongest prisons to the maximum possible extent. The Supreme Court had ordered setting up of high-powered committees at state levels to determine the class or classes of prisoners who could be temporarily released from prisons in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The apex court said the states and union territories could release certain categories of prisoners, like undertrials facing charges of offences punishable with imprisonment for up to seven years or prisoners convicted for similar offences.Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit in the Covid-19 pandemic, leads in terms of the number of active cases of Covid-19, according to Union health ministry data. Active cases exclude deaths and recoveries from the list of confirmed cases.The number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra has already crossed the 3000 mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-impose-lockdown-at-aurangabad-jail-5-other-prisons-deshmukh/story-r2pQoVAdAeM4TZqKP7Pg5N.html
19-04-2020||India||‘Where is your dignity now?’: Prashant Kishor’s latest jibe at Nitish Kumar has Kota connect||Election strategist Prashant Kishore has been constantly targeting Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over the plight of the people from the state stranded in other places during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections.This time, he has picked up the case of Bihar students stuck in Kota, the Rajasthan city known as India’s coaching capital for competitive examinations.Prashant Kishore tweeted a question to his former mentor along with a photo of what looked like a permission letter to Bharatiya Janata Party legislator to take his vehicle from Nawada to Kota to get back his son.Also read: Students stranded in Kota won’t be evacuated, says Chhattisgarh government“Nitish Kumar rejected the appeal for help from hundreds of children from Bihar trapped in Kota saying it will be against the dignity of #lockdown,” Prashant Kishor tweeted in Hindi.“Now his government has given special permission to a BJP MLA to bring his son from Kota. Nitish ji, what does your dignity say now?” he asked.Before this, Nitish Kumar was in the crosshair of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Bihar’s leading opposition party, for not evacuating the state’s students from Kota.Also read: Sheer number of students swamp UP’s Kota evacuation plan, buses fall shortRJD’s Tejashwi Yadav had on Saturday accused the chief minister of not doing enough to help students and migrant labourers stranded outside the state.The Bihar government has said Rajasthan should take care of the students in Kota and provide them security, as ferrying them back to their respective states was against the lockdown norms.The attack came after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath sent hundreds of buses to get back medical and engineering aspirants from the state from Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-is-your-dignity-now-prashant-kishor-s-latest-jibe-at-nitish-kumar-has-kota-connect/story-ixQrZMOz7p7lrjOP1PkueN.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Army takes over day-time management of Delhi quarantine centre which houses Jamaat members||A team of 40 Indian Army personel, including doctors and paramedics, has taken over the management of quarantine facility in Narela which currently houses 932 members linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month.The Army has taken the initiative to manage the facility from 8 am to 8 pm relieving the Delhi government doctors and medical staff who are now managing the facility only during the night, the Army said in a statement on Sunday. The Army took day-time charge of the facility, one of the largest in the country for handling Covid-19 suspected cases, on April 16, the statement said.Established by the Delhi government in mid-March, around 1,250 people were kept in the centre, including an initial lot of 250 foreign nationals. A team of army doctors and nursing staff has been assisting the civil administration at the Narela quarantine centre since April 1.“Presently, 932 members from markaz (centre) are being taken care in the facility and 367 out of them have been tested Covid-19 positive,” the Army said. The Army team managing the facility includes six medical officers, 18 paramedical staff and a few personnel providing administrative security who have all volunteered to stay on the premises.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 7, the police filed an FIR against two Jamaat members, residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, for defecating in front of their room at the Narela quarantine centre.“The professional approach of the army medical team has won the hearts of inmates, who have been very cooperative, facilitating smooth handling of all medical procedures,” the army said, adding that is “tremendous synergy” with the civil administration to run the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-army-takes-over-day-time-management-of-delhi-quarantine-centre-which-houses-jamaat-members/story-Sp8DaKTQIDXEcmwMkhRxJN.html
19-04-2020||India||Rectify deficiencies: India to Pakistan on collapse of Kartarpur gurdwara domes||The Indian government has asked Pakistan to urgently repair the domes of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur that were damaged in a storm apparently due to the use of poor quality materials in the shrine’s renovation, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.Several photos posted on social media over the weekend showed at least two domes of the gurdwara, built at the site where Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak spent the last years of his life, had fallen off during heavy rains and strong winds on Friday night.The photos were widely shared on social media, and the Indian side raised the damage in a “note verbale” or unsigned diplomatic correspondence sent to Pakistani authorities, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“India has taken up the issue of the collapse of domes of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib with Pakistan. It has been highlighted that the damage to the structure of the holy gurdwara has caused great consternation to the members of the Sikh community,” said one of the people cited above.“The Sikhs’ strong sense of faith and devotion to the holy site must be fully understood and appreciated. India has urged Pakistan that, in deference to the sentiments of the Sikh community, the deficiencies which led to the damage to the newly constructed structures should be urgently rectified and remedied,” the person added.The photos posted on social media appeared to suggest the damaged domes were made of some light material and not concrete reinforced with iron rods, which is usually used for such structures.On Sunday, Pakistani authorities also issued photos that showed the domes has been repaired.Despite security concerns and opposition to a service fee of $20 charged from every Indian pilgrim, the Indian government last year agreed to the opening of the cross-border Kartarpur Corridor that allows Indians to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib without visas.Pakistani authorities had said the $20 fee was aimed at raising funds for the maintenance and upkeep of the gurdwara.The gurdwara was renovated and a massive complex was created around it during 2019. The Pakistan Army was the main driving force behind the project and the Frontier Works Organisation, a military engineering unit, was responsible for the construction work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-takes-up-collapse-of-kartarpur-gurudwara-domes-with-pakistan/story-iJu2CosbJ8lZRwnCF9OuyN.html
19-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, pregnant woman walks for nearly 7 kilometres, delivers at dentist clinic||A pregnant woman in Karnataka’s Bengaluru walked for nearly 7 kilometres in the hope of finding a clinic or a hospital amid the coronavirus lockdown. The woman delivered at a dentist clinic, news agency ANI reported. A doctor at the clinic told ANI that the woman and her husband were looking for a hospital or any clinic where she could deliver her baby. Dr Ramya told ANI that at first the newborn was not responding but they were successful in resuscitating the baby.The mother and the baby were later sent to a hospital. Karnataka: A pregnant woman delivered a baby at a dentist's clinic in Bengaluru where she had reached, along with her husband, after walking for around 7 km in hopes of reaching a hospital. The mother & baby (in pic with the dentist) were later sent to hospital after the delivery pic.twitter.com/dO9edQ9EsU“She had walked for 5-7 km expecting some clinic/hospital to be open. She came across this clinic and delivered the baby. The baby wasn’t responding initially, so we thought it’s dead but we were able to resuscitate it. We sent them to a hospital after the delivery,” Dr Ramya said. Earlier this week, it was reported that a man in Kerala had to take his father in arms and walk up to a kilometre after the police personnel didn’t allow their auto any further citing coronavirus lockdown guidelines. The incident took place in Kerala’s Punalur area on Wednesday.Kerala State Human Rights Commission took cognizance of the incident and registered a suo moto case in connection with the incident.Meanwhile, the Union Health Ministry on Sunday released an advisory on spraying disinfectant on people in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.“The following advisory is issued: spraying of individuals or groups is NOT recommended under any circumstances. Spraying an individual or group with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful,” the health ministry’s advisory stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-amid-covid-19-lockdown-pregnant-woman-walks-for-nearly-7-kilometres-delivers-at-dentist-clinic/story-yVUsi3CGyoIs9CeRhTDOpI.html
19-04-2020||India||Industries in orange, green zones to be allowed in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Industries in areas that have been identified as orange and green zones will be allowed conditional permission to resume operations from April 20, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday.The central government has allowed states to resume limited activities in certain areas from Monday and laid down guidelines on the segments that could begin operations.“Industries will be allowed in green and orange zones. However, the workers should be in-situ. They should not travel,” Thackeray said, asking the businesses to take care of the workers and house them.Till Saturday, the state reported 3,648 coronavirus cases and 211 deaths. Green zones are where there have no reports of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while orange zones are the ones where a few cases have been reported. India has identified 170 hot spot districts, or red zones, where the relaxations will not be applicable.Till Saturday evening, Maharashtra has conducted 66,800 tests, of which 95% were negative, Thackeray said. “Of the 3600 people tested positive, 75% are showing mild symptoms. There is no need to hide if you have any symptoms. You can approach the government hospitals,” he added. Thackeray requested women to dial 100 to register complaints on domestic violence, amid reports that such cases have increased during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industries-in-orange-green-zones-to-be-allowed-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-YPVBdHMQG8ocS6ugArMlgK.html
19-04-2020||India||Centre opens job avenue for migrant workers, bars inter-state movement of labourers||The central government opened on Sunday an employment avenue for migrant labourers in states where they are stranded, while also making it clear that they will not have permission for interstate travel during the nationwide lockdown announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).With the government relaxing lockdown guidelines in select areas and allowing limited activities, stranded labourers could be engaged in “industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) works”, according to a government order.Thousands of migrant labourers walking on India’s streets to reach their hometowns hundreds of kilometers away emerged as a symbolic image of the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 during its initial days. Unemployed, a large section of these migrant labourers is at present housed in shelters run by state governments and Union Territories (UTs).Such workers stranded in states and UTs should be registered with local authorities, and an assessment of their skills should be carried out, the home ministry order said. If these people want to return to their workplace within the state where they are stranded, a screening would be done and those not showing symptoms of Covid-19 will be ferried to the factory or the unit concerned.During the bus journey, social distancing norms will be followed, and local authorities should give them food and water for the road trip. The order also said federal guidelines issued on April 15, in which the government laid down the terms for conditional resumption of activities in certain areas, should be strictly followed.Late last month, the Uttar Pradesh government evacuated thousands of its workers from Delhi and the National Capital region who were stranded due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-bars-inter-state-movement-of-labourers-as-economy-reboots-monday/story-lPtxZOI4Hu9O1jbm1INCvN.html
19-04-2020||India||Amit Shah praises Delhi Police on twitter for their relief operation amid Covid-19 lockdown||Union home minister, Amit Shah, on Sunday applauded the Delhi Police on twitter for their ongoing relief operations wherein the police personnel are helping poor and needy people, who are affected because of the Covid-19 lockdown in the city, by providing them cooked food, ration and other essential items.“Delhi Police, an organization that lives up to its Motto-Shanti Sewa Nyaya. Very proud of @DelhiPolice. Together we will win this battle (sic),” the home minister tweeted from his official twitter handle.His praise on the micro-blogging site came two hours after the Delhi Police tweeted that they have delivered five million food packets to poor and homeless in the city since the lockdown was announced on March 24.“The biggest Humanitarian Relief Operations by Delhi Police since its inception in 1948. Five million food packets delivered to the urban poor and homeless so far ! 145 tonnes of dry ration distributed to the needy families ! (sic),”the Delhi Police tweeted.Taking to twitter, Delhi Commissioner of Police S N Shrivastava also thanked Amit Shah. I thank our Hon’ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah ji for acknowledging and appreciating the humanitarian work done by Delhi Police and boosting the morale of the Force. Regards https://t.co/d3BQq01wx0Since Delhi is a Union Territory and the police of all the eight UTs of India come under and the union home ministry, the Delhi Police report to the home minister through the lieutenant-governor and not the elected Delhi government. The Delhi Police get its annual budget from the Centre.Through the tweets, the city police highlighted that food network has been established by all the 15 police districts through active participation of good Samaritans, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), various private and public organisations and groups of individuals. Some images and videos showing how the food is cooked and packed were also shared along with the tweets by the city police.The Delhi Police are also running a 24x7 dedicated Covid-19 helpline -- 011-23469526 – that only addresses calls related to hunger, requirement of ration, medicines and other essential items, and seeking movement (curfew passes). The helpline has received over 23,000 such calls since the lockdown was announced. Nearly 700 calls were about “no food, no ration, and no money” till date, said deputy commissioner of police (licensing) Asif Mohammad Ali, who is supervising the helpline.“The Delhi Police personnel are working as facilitators and a bridge between needy people and those who have come forward to help them with food, ration or other essential items. These help groups in coordination with us (the city police) have been working day and night to ensure that nobody in the city sleeps hungry,” said DCP Ali.There are 209 police stations across the city and each police has been given the responsibility to coordinate with volunteers and deliver food and essential items to needy people in their areas. In a few police stations, community kitchen has also been started in police-public partnership. The police have also been distributing masks, sanitisers, milk to children, sanitary pads, and soaps as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-praises-delhi-police-on-twitter-for-their-relief-operation-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-PojD9spYdGqwSOQk0ltUmJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 fight, Kerala govt lands in row over IT deal with US-based firm||At a time when the Kerala government has earned praise for checking the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, a controversy involving an American firm over data sharing is threatening to take the sheen out of its success.The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front has announced a series of agitations from next week seeking Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation alleging it was a “sell-out” and many state-based IT and data companies were overlooked to gift the contract to the US firm. At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic in Kerala, the state IT department had inked an agreement with the US firm to process a huge volume of data collected by grassroot health workers of the state. Though no money was involved in the contract the opposition alleged that it was a breach of privacy and vital data. Later, it was found that the state cabinet and law department were not consulted before signing the deal.Earlier, the CM had defended the government’s decision saying no fee was involved in the contract and one of the top officials of the data firm was an NRI from the state and he offered the proposal to the government “in lieu of looking after his aged parents in Mavelikkara in Alapuzha district”. He had said there was no transfer of the data and it will be stored in a secure server in the country and denied any breach of privacy.As the controversy flared up, state IT secretary M Shivasankar, also the CM’s private secretary told the media on Saturday that he had taken the decision personally, as the pandemic situation was getting out of control in the state. Later, he also appeared in a promotional video of the deal which was removed from the Sprinklr’s website after the controversy cropped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-fight-kerala-govt-lands-in-row-over-it-deal-with-us-based-firm/story-l1eGG3YSGG0u00jvBMaNtN.html
19-04-2020||India||‘Doubling rate of Covid-19 patients improving’: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that the rate of doubling of coronavirus patients has been improving which is “a good indication,” news agency ANI reported. Vardhan comments came after he reviewed the coronavirus situation at Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital“The doubling rate of patients in the last 14 days was 6.2 days. When it was calculated for the last 7 days it turned out to be 7.2 days. It has turned out to be 9.7 days for the past 3 days. It is a good indication,” the minister said as reported by news agency ANI. The doubling rate of patients in the last 14 days was 6.2 days. When it was calculated for the last 7 days it turned out to be 7.2 days. It has turned out to be 9.7 days for the past 3 days. It is a good indication: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan https://t.co/8YD2bWnU39He also said that the analysis of government data on Covid-19 has been satisfactory. “The data is improving every day,” he noted. “I’m being told that around 95 patients, out of the 177 admitted here, will be discharged by today evening,” the health minister said referring to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that there will be no relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the national capital. He said that the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is on the rise but the situation is under control.  “There are as many as 77 Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi at present and all districts are categorised as hotspots,” Kejriwal said.“Yesterday, we received reports of 736 Covid-19 tests and 186 of them came out positive for coronavirus. That is 25%, which is high,” the chief minister said.The number of coronavirus in the country rose to 15,712 on Sunday. The latest figures include 12,974 active cases, 2,230 patients who have been cured or discharged and 507 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-patients-improving-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-QQeYNIEj4HxHCcew1v6zPP.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi Police tweet about biggest humanitarian relief op, get praise from Amit Shah||Delhi Police on Sunday got a pat on their back from Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday after they tweeted about their contribution to the fight against the coronavirus disease.The force had tweeted they have been ensuring the poor and the homeless in the national capital don’t go hungry during the lockdown.“The biggest Humanitarian Relief Operations by Delhi Police since its inception in 1948:Five million food packets delivered to the urban poor and homeless so far ! 145 tonnes of dry ration distributed to the needy families! (sic)” Delhi Police tweeted from it handle.Delhi Police also tweeted two short clips of food being cooked and packed for the poor.“Hundreds of initiatives such as the one shown here are part of this unique Food Network that is organized and coordinated by Delhi Police. These are working day and night to ensure that every needy person in the city gets hygienic food,” they tweeted.“Food Network established by 15 Districts through active participation of good Samaritans/NGOs/Public spirited Institutions has achieved this Milestone! Miles to go before we sleep!” they added.The Union home minister soon tweeted his appreciation for the force.“Delhi Police, an organization that lives up to its Motto- Shanti Sewa Nyaya. Very proud of @DelhiPolice. Together we will win this battle,” Shah posted.Others too joined in congratulating Delhi Police for their ‘great work’.“Wonderful gesture. Feeding the hungry & poor is the greatest service to the mankind..Kudos to @DelhiPolice @CPDelhi for coming to the rescue of the poor (sic),” said one user.“Selfless service to humanity by your team sir..” tweeted another.There were words of caution as well as suggestion.“Its good humanitarian work. But would request that please take care your front line covid19 warriors as cases are increasing of positive among them. Provide protective care to them n make them secure. Stay safe all….” tweeted a user.Others asked the Delhi Police not to use plastic.“wow! thank you delhi police for working in such resource-constrained settings. 1request though: can we have a more environmental frndly packaging since the food is not to be stored for long, the plastic is not used by ppl they are given to and end up in dustbin almost immediately (sic),” wrote one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-tweet-about-biggest-humanitarian-relief-op-get-praise-from-amit-shah/story-Uiy2PFz51ZzfJhbfbNnHRO.html
19-04-2020||India||Cop dies of covid-19, MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces Rs 50 lakh compensation||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday mourned the death of a 41- year-old police officer from the coronavirus infection and announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to his kin and the post of sub-inspector for his wife.Chouhan tweeted that the inspector sacrificed his life in the battle against the outbreak.“He was undergoing treatment at the Aurobindo Hospital in Indore and recently (after the treatment of COVID-19) he tested negative and this was good news for us. But at 2 am late last night, the sad news of his death was received suddenly,” Chouhan said in a tweet.Announcing a compensation of Rs 50 lakh, Chouhan also tweeted that “the inspector’s wife is being appointed as a sub-inspector in the department”.Superintendent of Police Maheshchandra Jain told PTI the deceased officer was on duty in Juni Indore police station before he got infected with the virus.“Despite all the efforts of doctors, the life of the police inspector could not be saved. He is survived by his wife and two daughters,” Jain added.Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said the officer tested postive and was admitted in hospital about 20 days back, and then post-treatment, tested negative two times and was discharged as per protocol.“The doctors at the private hospital suspect the cause of death may have been pulmonary embolism (a problem associated with arterial blood clotting). But there is also a possibility that pulmonary embolism might have been caused due to coronavirus infection,” Jadia added.A 70-year-old woman also died of COVID-19, taking the number of deaths in Indore from the infection to 49.Jadia said, as per revised data, the number of COVID- 19 patients now stands at 890 here.“We have also received information about the death of a former city corporator. We are confirming if the death was due to coronavirus infection,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-dies-of-covid-19-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-rs-50-lakh-compensation/story-WbgXXTojcit1SM3dd2R4qO.html
19-04-2020||India||Maharashtra to resume ‘some business activities’ from Monday, no lockdown ease for Delhi: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country nears the 16,000-mark. On Sunday, the Ministry of Health updated the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country to 15,712. The latest figures include 12,974 active cases, 2,230 patients who have been cured or discharged and 507 fatalities.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that no lockdown restrictions will be relaxed in the national capital from April 20 as the number of coronavirus cases in Delhi is on the rise.The Centre had stated that non-hotspots and other areas that aren’t under the grip of the Covid-19 can see some relaxation in lockdown restrictions from April 20. Here are the latest developments:1. The relaxations in lockdown restrictions for non-coronavirus hotspots will come into effect from Monday. These were announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on April 14 when he extended the lockdown till May 3.2. The Home Ministry has said that the supply of non-essential goods by e-commerce companies will remain prohibited during the Covid-19 lockdown.3. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the national capital will not see any relaxation in Covid-19 lockdown restrictions and that the situation will be reviewed again after a week. 4. “The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi are rising. The situation is worrying but under control,” Kejriwal said. 5. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that April 20 onwards the state will start some financial activities. 6. “As we don’t run our economy now, we’ll be in a financial crisis after we come out of the coronavirus crisis. We’re starting some business activities in a limited way,” Thackeray said.7. Fight against Covid-19 is the biggest invisible war in our lifetime; a war against humanity, defence minister Rajnath Singh told PTI on Sunday.8. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that the central government has not taken any decision on the resumption of rail ail or airline services.9. Indian budget carrier GoAir said its employees will go on leave without pay till May 3 amid coronavirus crisis. 10. The central government has rubbished the reports of a 20% cut in central government pensions amid coronavirus crisis and described them as “false and baseless”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-resume-some-business-activities-from-monday-no-covid-19-lockdown-relaxation-for-delhi-10-points/story-Q699lmHX6JSKMGowU2P47N.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Health ministry advisory against spraying disinfectant on people||The Union health ministry has issued an advisory against spraying disinfectant – sodium hypochlorite – on people for Covid-19 management, saying such measures could “lead to a false sense of disinfection and safety”.“We had been hearing about people being sprayed with disinfectants and getting queries on how effective it is in killing the Coronavirus. An expert committee was asked to look into it and they are of the opinion that there isn’t enough scientific evidence against it,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The technical team extensively went through available evidence on the use of disinfectant as a spray.“In view of the above, the following advisory is issued: spraying of individuals or groups is NOT recommended under any circumstances. Spraying an individual or group with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful,” the health ministry’s advisory stated.“Even if a person is potentially exposed [to] the Covid-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered your body. Also there is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing/body in an effective manner.”The advisory added, “Spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes to the nose, throat [and] respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm.“Additionally, use of such measures may in fact lead to a false sense of disinfection and safety and actually hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures.”The advisory further stated: “The strategy seems to have gained of lot of media attention and is also being reportedly used at local levels in certain districts/local bodies. Purpose of the document was to examine the merit of using disinfectants as spray over human body to disinfect them from Covid-19, and to provide appropriate advisory.”Disinfectants are chemicals that destroy disease-causing pathogens or other harmful micro-organisms. The term refers to substances applied on inanimate objects owing to their strong chemical properties.Chemical disinfectants are recommended for cleaning and disinfection only of areas and surfaces frequently touched by those who are suspected or confirmed to have Covid-19.Precautionary measures are recommended, such as wearing gloves while using disinfectants for cleaning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-ministry-advisory-against-spraying-disinfectant-on-people/story-o7jFgx5ALwjuF9URHKjndM.html
19-04-2020||India||‘I give you my word, will take you home ’: Uddhav Thackeray to migrants||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday assured migrant labourers in the state that his government would ensure that they are sent home once the lockdown is lifted. “I give you my word that the Maharashtra government will take you to your homes, the day this crisis ends. I believe that when you go back to your homes, you should go back happily and not out of fear,” Thackeray said in a webcast, according to ANI.Also read | Centre opens job avenue for migrant workers, bars inter-state movement of labourersThe assurance came four days after hundreds migrant workers in Mumbai thronged the Bandra West railway station despite the lockdown following rumours that the railways was about to start services to take stranded people home. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The workers were also protesting the extension of the lockdown. They eventually dispersed after a lathi charge by the police.The incident led to Union home minister calling Thackeray and telling him the protests against the lockdown weakened India’s fight against coronavirus disease and the administration needed to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. Also read | India under lockdown: Migrant labourer pedals 1,700 km in 7 days to reach homeAfter the incident on Tuesday, Thackeray had assured the workers that they were safe in Maharashtra and that he and the Centre would make arrangements for their return when the lockdown ends.The Maharashtra government also ordered a probe into how the rumour spread. The police had also arrested a journalist of a Marathi news channel which ran a story about train services to evacuate stranded workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-give-you-my-word-will-take-you-home-uddhav-thackeray-to-migrants/story-TKFkN4qcPGB0ytQRdNlqQI.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- 82% of Assam Covid-19 patients did not show symptoms: Sarma||Nearly 82% of the Covid-19 patients in Assam did not show any symptoms of the infectious disease, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.“…(they) were silent carriers. They didn’t show any of the typical symptoms associated with the disease during treatment,” Sarma said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The age of the patients in Assam ranges from 18 to 71 years, with most cases detected in the 50-60 year group. Till Saturday, Assam reported 34 patients with one fatality and 12 recoveries. Twenty-one patients are still in hospitals. Altogether 4,400 tests have been carried out in the state.Assam has so far tested 120 persons in 1 million, which is higher than several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, but less than others such as Kerala and Delhi.Assam has five hot spot districts (places where Covid-19 infections are more) — Goalpara, Golaghat, Nalbari, Dhubri and Morigaon. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/82-of-assam-covid-19-patients-did-not-show-symptoms-sarma/story-MRt96Vqn9jMy2ag9snoghP.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: ‘Fight against Covid-19 biggest invisible war’, says Rajnath Singh||Fight against Covid-19 is biggest invisible war in our lifetime; a war against humanity, defence minister Rajnath Singh told PTI on Sunday. He said that India is fighting Covid-19 crisis on war footing and all government agencies are working in close coordination. Expertise of armed forces in communications, supply chain management, medical support and engineering being used, he added saying “Armed forces are taking steps like curtailing troop movement, restricting leave, enforcing and work from home to check coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-fight-against-covid-19-biggest-invisible-war-says-rajnath-singh/story-GMKs23lfyAo0Bnfn4oohHN.html
19-04-2020||India||Import consignments delayed, drug controller eases norms||The Central drug controller has relaxed norms to allow import of drugs with less than 60% of their shelf life amid the Covid-19 crisis as several import consignments were delayed because of movement restrictions.However, the relaxation has been offered only as a temporary measure for three months.A circular from the Central Drugs Standard Organisation (CDSCO) stated: “In the light of present situation due to spread of Covid-19, ministry of health…has instructed to take various steps in order to ensure availability of sufficient quantity drugs in the domestic retails market besides ensuring that the product conform to the prescribed specification.Also read: MHA bars supply of non-essential items by e-commerce companies during lockdown“One of the steps include issuing immediate approvals to applications…further relaxing the requirement of minimum 60% residual shelf life of all drugs including vaccines/biological products at the time of import temporarily, for three months until normal supply resumes.”According to current regulations, no drug can be imported into India unless it complies with standards for strength, quality and purity, and has at least 60% residual shelf life on the date of import.However, the expiry regulations would be reviewed on a case-to-case basis, and some drugs or vaccines were allowed in exceptional circumstances.The revised regulation allows the import of drugs nearing expiry but with certain riders, such as the medicines cannot be stored and have to be consumed as soon as possible.Strict action will be taken against importers if a product is found circulating in markets beyond its expiry date.A CDSCO official, requesting anonymity, said: “These are exceptional circumstances we are dealing with currently, and several industry people had made requests about relaxing the norms as their supplies were stuck at ports and losing shelf life because of the lockdown.Also read: ‘Covid-19 virus cannot be man-made’, Wuhan virology lab chief denies it originated from institute“They had asked for permission to bring these drugs in even though they were reaching closer to the expiry date.”The official added, “It has been made amply clear to importers that no drug or vaccine will be available in markets after their expiry date. That’s the condition.”Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant (internal medicine) at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said, “As long as the medicine is not expired it is usually effective, and sometimes the medicine retains its efficacy even after the expiry date. However, as a rule of thumb, expired drugs must not be consumed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/import-consignments-delayed-drug-controller-eases-norms/story-AvD97mSoBJjtqwRR56DiTO.html
19-04-2020||India||Tea, pineapple farmers stare at big losses amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Covid-19 lockdown has not only hit conventional crop farmers in Bihar, but also tea and pineapple growers in Kishanganj district, who have been forced to dump their produce due to lack of processing facilities and buyers.The tea growers’ association in Kishanganj has estimated losses over the past few weeks at ₹ 20 crore after green leaves were not plucked in time (from the end of March to the first week of April) as the gardens and factories were shut following the lockdown that began on March 25.According to reports, tea growers dumped a huge quantity of green leaves from the first flush during March 22-April 7 as there were no buyers for the produce amid a nationwide disruption in supply chains.Raj Karan Daftari, a tea garden owner and president of the Ashok Bihar Tea Plantation Development Society in Kishanganj, said: “Around 5,000 small and marginal farmers growing tea in their fields have been hit due to the non-plucking of green leaves.”He added, “After the lockdown, our processing units and factories came to a halt. Permission was granted to resume work in the first week of April. But by that time, one cycle for plucking leaves was over and a huge quantity of green leaves was damaged, prompting farmers to dump them.“It is estimated that one crore kilograms of green leaves, worth ₹ 20 crore, was damaged in the past few weeks in the district.”The society has approached the Tea Board for compensation after a survey, he said.“The state government should provide some relief to small and marginal tea growers as they are not registered with the Tea Board, having small fields where tea is grown,” Daftari said.In Kishanganj, the yearly tea production is estimated at 75 lakh kg, while green leaf production is nine crore kilograms annually. There are 10 processing units in the district with most tea growers concentrated in Pothia, Thakurganj and Kishanganj blocks.Struggle of pineapple farmersThe condition of pineapple farmers is no better, and Dulal Singh, a grower in Pothia block of Kisganganj, said thousands of fruits perished in the past few weeks because there was no way to send the produce to the nearest markets in north Bengal.“We sell our produce to wholesalers in Bengal and it is then sent to several states and Delhi. But due to the lockdown, there were no buyers and transportation is difficult. Our fruits are perishing each day because the summer heat is rising, which damages the fruit,” he said.Singh said the tropical fruits are lying in the fields.Mohammed Rafiq, another pineapple grower, said: “We invested ₹ 1 lakh to ₹ 3 lakh for the produce. But we are not even getting ₹ 2 for one pineapple these days, whereas it usually fetches a good price. We have been pushed back almost 10 years to 15 years in terms of trade losses, which is in crores.”Rafiq said the yield per acre is usually 12,000 pieces of pineapples.Bihar’s agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar said the state government has taken up the matter of allowing fast transportation of pineapples with the West Bengal and the Central governments.“We are coordinating with the West Bengal government and the Centre to ensure buyers are able to buy produce from the fields of Kishanganj and other areas. We are making arrangements to ensure the pineapples reach markets in north Bengal by road and the district magistrates have been directed to keep tabs on this,” Kumar said.Referring to losses in the tea sector, Kumar said tea is in the commercial crops category and there are no provisions for compensation. “We have allowed the tea gardens to resume work and operations are going on now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tea-pineapple-farmers-stare-at-big-losses-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Ypi5VLlyyU4Sz4AAab8MCJ.html
19-04-2020||India||With 44 new Covid-19 cases, tally in Rajasthan nears 1400-mark||Rajasthan reported 44 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and one death across the state on Sunday, taking the tally to 1395, health officials said according to news agency ANI.The news agency said the Covid-19 patient died in the state capital of Jaipur.“Out of the total positive cases found today, 27 were from Jodhpur city while eight were reported from Bharatpur. Two cases were each reported from Jaipur, Kota, Jhalawar districts. While Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Hanumangarh recorded one case each,” the health department said in its bulletin.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown relaxation: Full list of activities allowed from MondayThe state health department said 47,904 samples have been collected so far. Out of these 39,714 have come out negative and 6795 samples are under process.Rajasthan on Friday became the first state to conduct rapid testing for the Covid-19 infection with the help of newly-acquired rapid antibody testing kits, which will help speed up the testing time and detect carriers or super-spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus who could potentially infect others.Rajasthan got 10,000 rapid test kits on Friday and 52 samples were tested, all of which were negative. On Saturday, 5000 tests were conducted in Jaipur’s walled city, from where the most number of cases have been reported.Also read: MP overtakes Tamil Nadu, becomes state with 3rd highest Covid-19 casesRohit Singh, additional chief secretary, health, said the rapid tests would help the government in the ongoing containment exercise as people tested positive will be quickly isolated to prevent further spread.“This is part of our strategy to use an optimal mix of both types of tests for effective containment in an aggressive manner,” he said.State health minister Raghu Sharma had said on Saturday that Rajasthan will get 100,000 testing kits soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-44-new-covid-19-cases-tally-in-rajasthan-nears-1400-mark/story-IPvYRSuKMPcIsbQUaCmPkO.html
19-04-2020||India||Maharashtra govt allows industries to operate during lockdown, but with conditions||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state government will allow industries to resume operations from Monday in areas marked green and orange according to the spread of Covid-19 there. However, the industries will be allowed subject to certain limits, he added at a press briefing on Friday.“Tomorrow onwards we’re starting some financial activities. As we don’t run our economy now, we’ll be in financial crisis after we come out of coronavirus crisis. We’re starting some business activities in a limited way. Fortunately,several of our districts have zero positive case,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra has been hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, with the number of infected crossing 3,000.In red zones, which are under strictest restrictions, there won’t be any relaxation. “Door-to-door delivery of newspapers would not be allowed in Mumbai and Pune which are in red zone,” said the chief minister.He also announced that no suburban train will operate till May 3, the date till which nationwide lockdown has been extended.Thackeray also said that there is no need to be scared of the disease. “95 percent tests negative so people need not be scared of Covid-19. Do not hide it if you have symptoms and aproach government hospitals,” said Thacekray.No new cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Sunday morning in Maharashtra and the tally of Covid-19 cases remained at 3,648 cases and 211 deaths, state health department officials said.After a relatively lower number of news cases on Thursday and Friday, the state recorded new 328 Covid-19 cases on Saturday.Mumbai, which has the highest number of cases in the state, recorded 184 new cases on Saturday taking the tally to 2,268.The city’s death toll is now 126 according to state health department’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-allows-industries-to-operate-during-lockdown-but-with-conditions/story-sMrhC1vc1Q8kr8rSi78YYL.html
19-04-2020||India||No decision yet on resuming train, airline services, any discussion futile: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar made it clear on Sunday that the central government has so far not taken any decision on starting train or airline services, asserting that any discussion on the issue is futile. Asked if the government is looking at any timeline to start passenger transport services like trains or airlines, he told PTI, “It has to start one day but which is that one day you don’t know at this moment. Discussion about it is futile because we are examining the situation every day and drawing new lessons.”  Some airlines, Javadekar said, decided on their own to start bookings from May 4, and noted that Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has already clarified that the government has not taken any decision in this regard. A final decision on the issue will be taken by the government, he said, advising against any speculation over the matter. The ongoing nation-wide lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic is scheduled to end on May 3. Some airlines, including Air India, had opened bookings on select domestic routes from May 4, prompting Puri to advise them to open bookings only after the government takes a decision on starting domestic and international commercial passenger flight services. “The Ministry of Civil Aviation clarifies that so far no decision has been taken to open domestic or international operations... Airlines are advised to open their bookings only after a decision in this regard has been taken by the government,” Puri had said on Saturday. Railways had stopped booking passenger tickets since Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on April 14 in which he extended the lockdown to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-yet-on-resuming-train-airline-services-any-discussion-futile-prakash-javadekar/story-0RTZ6YKWybG5DFk0GDFrrN.html
19-04-2020||India||Out of money, 6 foreigners make home inside cave in Rishikesh, quarantined||Amid the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, the Uttarakhand police have found six foreigners including three women living in a cave near the Ganga in Lakshman Jhula area in the pilgrim town of Rishikesh after running out of money, officials said on Sunday.The group of foreigners was found Saturday evening after a tip off from locals, police said. “The group includes three women and three men. Two of them hail from Ukraine and one each from Turkey, USA, France and Nepal,” said Rakendra Singh Kataith, station house officer of Lakshman Jhula police station who led the police team.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Kataith said they found the foreigners staying in the cave with all their belongings. “They were cooking their food using firewood. They brought the water from the Ganga flowing nearby. They were all brought to the police station where they said that they had shifted to the cave on March 24 after they ran out of money to pay hotel charges in Muni Ki Reti area of Rishikesh where they were staying,” said Kataith. The police officer said all the six had come to Rishikesh about two months ago and had shifted to the cave just before the first phase of the lockdown began.“They have been now shifted to a quarantine centre with all required facilities. None of them have shown any symptoms of Covid-19 in the medical examination,” said Kataith. According to the Pauri Garhwal district administration, there at present 778 foreigners in the district with most of them in the Lakshman Jhula area only. Dhiraj Singh Garbyal, district magistrate of Pauri Garhwal said, “Of the total 778, maximum 96 are from Russia followed by 75 from USA and 49 from France. They are all in their accommodations at present due to the lockdown.”Garbyal said, “Almost all the foreigners had come to the district much before the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown. As a precautionary measure they are being screened by doctors from time to time and are taken care of with all the required facilities.”Uttarkhand has reported 42 cases of coronavirus so far out of which nine have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-money-6-foreigners-make-home-inside-cave-in-rishikesh-quarantined/story-H2UjZb7rtuqHayD8qcmRMI.html
19-04-2020||India||GoAir employees to go on leave without pay till May 3 amid lockdown 2.0||Majority of 5,500-odd employees of GoAir will now be on “leave without pay” (LWP) till May 3 as its entire fleet remains grounded in the wake of the extended lockdown, the airline has said. In March, the Wadia Group-owned airline asked its employees to go on LWP on a rotational basis besides cutting their salaries. “The lockdown has been further extended till May 3, and with this extension, our fleet continues to be completely grounded. Hence, we are constrained to request you to proceed on ‘leave without pay’ till May 3,” GoAir said in a communication to its employees on Saturday.Also read: MHA bars supply of non-essential items by e-commerce companies during lockdown The government has extended the lockdown till May 3, which was to end on April 14. Most of the airlines had chalked out their plans to resume services from April 15 in expectation that the lockdown will be lifted. “We may, however, have to extend the period of ‘leave without pay’ for further term, if so required,” the airline said. An official, however, said about 10 per cent of the 5,500-odd employees, who are crucial for certain tasks even when there is no operation, continue to work and will be paid partial salary.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown relaxation: Full list of activities allowed from Monday We are hopeful that the skies will reopen from May 4 and we will resume operations in a phased manner. Meanwhile, the airline also said it is working towards building its ability to scale up operations in the new environment and market conditions that would emerge going forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-employees-to-go-on-leave-without-pay-till-may-3-amid-lockdown-2-0/story-QbfWZYME7MFNhPA5UspLiJ.html
19-04-2020||India||‘False and baseless’: Centre rubbishes reports of 20% cut in central govt pensions||On Sunday, the government said that reports of a 20% cut in central government pensions are “false and baseless” and that the government has planned no such measure. A tweet posted by the Ministry of Finance read, “It is being reported that a 20% cut in Central Government Pensions is being planned. This news is FALSE. There will be no cut in pension disbursements. It is clarified that salaries and pensions will not be affected by Government Cash Management”.The Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare also issued a statement on the same stating that such rumours have “become a source of worry for the pensioners”, news agency PTI reported.“As clarified earlier, it is being reiterated that there is no such proposal for reduction of pension and no action is contemplated by the government in this respect. Instead, the government is committed for the welfare and well being of the pensioners,” the communique issued by the DoPPW said.In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the government had announced that senior citizens, differently-abled and widows who are drawing central government pension will get three-month advance pension in the first week of April under the National Social Assistance Program (NSAP). There are 65.26 lakh central government pensioners.It is being reported that a 20% cut in Central Government Pensions is being planned.This news is FALSE. There will be no cut in pension disbursements. It is clarified that salaries and pensions will not be affected by Government Cash Management instructions.@PIBFactCheck https://t.co/hlZpnbxnJxThe Government of India has taken a slew of measures to aid the economy and benefit citizens in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The government has also released around Rs 30,000 crore in assistance to various sections of the society.Under a special provision, the government had announced that individuals could now withdraw three months salary from Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) account amid the coronavirus crisis. The EPF withdrawals have been exempt from service charge.The government has also introduced measures to provide financial assistance to various sections of the society under its schemes such as PM-KISAN, Jan Dhan, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, Ujjawala scheme and National Social Assistance Programme.The number of coronavirus cases in the country has crossed the 15,000-mark. On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the 21-day nationwide Covid-19 lockdown will be extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-false-and-baseless-centre-rubbishes-reports-of-20-cut-in-central-government-pensions/story-4UwtDRIlgZ24mntuQPeqcJ.html
19-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Arvind Kejriwal on why lockdown rules won’t be relaxed in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.77 containment zones, 1893 Covid-19 cases: Arvind Kejriwal on why lockdown rules won’t be relaxed in DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday gave a number of reasons why there won’t be any relaxation in the rules during the lockdown till May 3 in the national capital. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief said he will hold a review meeting after a week on April 27 to review the situation. Read moreHaridwar, Nainital districts in Uttarakhand classified as ‘red zones’ after spike in Covid-19 casesAuthorities in Uttarakhand have designated Haridwar and Nainital as ‘red zones’ or hotspots after a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in these two districts, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. Read more Manipur’s 2nd Covid-19 patient tests negative two weeks after treatmentManipur’s second Covid-19 patient has tested negative for the first time since undergoing treatment, according to official sources. The northeastern state has reported only two cases of coronavirus infection, according to the latest health ministry figures. Read moreMaharashtra dedicates 25 more hospitals to treat Covid-19 patientsNo new cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Sunday morning in Maharashtra as the tally of Covid-19 cases has remained 3,648 cases and 211 deaths, state health department officials said. Read moreSchools, shops re-open across Europe as Covid-19 cases plateau, but experts warn cautionPeople reading in downtown Rome, children going to elementary schools in Demark, Italians returning to bookstores and Austria allowing gardening stores to sell flowers again - life seems to return to normalcy as an initial sign of hope and optimism that the first wave of Europe’s devastating pandemic is coming to an end. Read more‘He may win 6-7 titles’: Gautam Gambhir names his pick for best IPL captainFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir on Saturday picked Mumbai Indians’ skipper Rohit Sharma as the best captain of the Indian Premier League. Under his leadership, MI have become the most successful franchise of IPL with four trophies in 12 seasons. Read more Chris Hemsworth chickens out of insane Extraction action sequence, leaves it to experts. Watch videoChris Hemsworth may play the god of thunder, Thor, in the Marvel Cinematic Universe but the actor sure knows when to step up and when to back down with “flexed biceps and folded hands’. Read more Word of the Week: Is time really up for the apostrophe?The closing of the Apostrophe Protection Society because of the ‘ignorance and laziness’ of the general public strikes a body blow against those fighting for correct English. Read more Covid-19 to be part of syllabus of Biochemistry at Lucknow UniversityThe decision was made in agreement with the teachers of the biochemistry department who are now busy in preparing a syllabus accordingly. The final syllabus, along with the proposal will be put forward in the next executive council meeting of the university. Read moreWoman tries to show ‘perfect handstand’ but her dog has other plans. WatchA video of a woman heading for that ‘perfect handstand’ would have been amazing and even somewhat motivating until a dog decided to walk in the scene and foil the attempt at fakery. Read moreWatch| ‘US now expects up to 65,000 deaths from Covid-19’: President Donald Trump||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-arvind-kejriwal-on-why-lockdown-rules-won-t-be-relaxed-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qC8Ie8zZq3zU7tino9jE9M.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown hits tea, pineapple growers in Bihar; farmers dump produce||The Covid-19 lockdown has not only hit the conventional crop farmers in Bihar, but tea and pineapple growers too. These businesses have been impacted equally hard with farmers in Kishanganj district being forced to dump their produce due to lack of processing and prospective buyers leading to heavy monetary losses in the last few weeks.The tea growers’ association in Kishanganj has estimated losses worth Rs 20 crore due to non-plucking of green leaves in time (from March end to April first week) as the gardens and factories remained shut for work after lockdown.As per reports, growers dumped a large quantity of green leaves in the first flush from March 22 to April 7 as there were no buyers for the produce.Raj Karan Daftari, a tea garden owner and president of Ashok Bihar Tea Plantation Development Society, Kishanganj, said, “Around 5,000 small and marginal farmers growing tea (a cash crop) in their fields have been hit due to non-plucking of green leaves.”“After lockdown, our processing units and factories came to a halt. Permission was granted to resume work in April first week. But, by that time, one cycle of plucking of leaves was over and huge quantity of green leaves were damaged prompting farmers to dump them. Estimated one crore kg of green leaf, worth Rs 20 crore, was damaged in the past few weeks in the district,” Daftari said.The society has already approached the tea board for compensation after necessary survey, he said. “The state government should provide some relief to small and marginal tea growers as they are not registered with the tea board having small fields where tea is grown,” he said.In Kishanganj, the total tea production is estimated to be 75 lakh kg annually while green leaf production is nine crore kg annually. There are 10 processing units in the district with maximum tea growers concentrated in Pothia, Thakurganj and Kishanganj blocks.Struggle for pineapple farmersOn the other hand, the plight of pineapple farmers is more pitiable. Dulal Singh, a pineapple grower based in Pothia block of Kisganganj, said thousands of fruit pieces had perished in last few weeks because there was no way the produce could be sent to the nearest markets in north Bengal.“We sell our produce to the whole sellers in Bengal and it is sent to several states, including Delhi. But due to lockdown, there are no buyers at all and transportation is difficult. Our fruits are perishing each day because the summer heat is rising, which damages the fruit fast,” he said. Singh said the tropical fruit pieces are lying unplucked in the fields.“We invested Rs 1-3 lakh in the fields for the produce. But we are not even getting Rs 2 for one fruit these days when it usually fetches a good price. We have been pushed almost 10-15 years back in terms of trade losses, which is in crores,” said Mohammed Rafiq, another pineapple grower. He said the yield per acre is around 12,000 pieces of the tropical fruit.Meanwhile, agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar said that the state government had taken up the matter of allowing fast transportation of pineapples to north Bengal with the West Bengal government and central government.“We are coordinating with the West Bengal government and Centre to ensure that buyers are able to buy the produce from the fields in Kishanganj and other areas. We are making arrangements to ensure that the pineapple produce reaches the markets in north Bengal by road and the DMs have been directed to keep tab on it,” the secretary said.On the losses in tea sector, the secretary said that the tea comes in commercial crop category and there are no provisions for any compensation. “We have allowed the tea gardens to resume work and operations are going on now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hits-tea-pineapple-growers-in-bihar-farmers-dump-produce/story-4qNKLoiBAkpX5vgibRxOBO.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Drugs with less than 60% shelf life can be imported, but on a condition||Keeping in mind the coronavirus situation, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has allowed import of drugs with less than 60 per cent residual shelf life on the condition that importers give an undertaking that the drug would be utilised or consumed before the expiry date.According to rules, the import of such drugs may be permitted after taking an undertaking from the importers by the port officers of CDSCO that the drug will be utilised or consumed before the expiry date and no part of it will be available for sale and distribution after its expiry, a circular issued to all port offices of CDSCO said.“In the light of the present situation due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the health ministry has instructed to take various steps in order to ensure availability of a sufficient quantity of drugs in the domestic retail market, besides ensuring that the product conform to be of the prescribed specification. One of the steps is issuing immediate approvals to applications for registration, manufacture and import of pharmaceuticals.“Further, we have received a representation from the industry association that there are challenges in the clearance at port offices due to the Covid-19 outbreak and many products are losing their shelf life and getting below the threshold of 60 per cent,” the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) said in a circular.Therefore, it has been requested to relax the requirement of minimum 60 per cent residual shelf life of all drugs, including vaccines and biological products, at the time of import for a period of three months until normal supply resumes, the circular added.According to rule 31 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, “No drug shall be imported unless it complies with the standard of strength, quality and purity,” provided that the licensing authority shall not allow the import of a drug with a less than 60 per cent residual shelf life as on the date of import.However, in exceptional cases, the licensing authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow the import of any drug with a lesser shelf life, but before its expiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-drugs-with-less-than-60-shelf-life-can-be-imported-but-on-a-condition/story-ctXrjgVvsMvhtPGqIKvPVN.html
19-04-2020||India||With 5 more Covid-19 deaths, Gujarat’s toll nears 60; infections surpass 1,600||Gujarat health officials said on Sunday five more deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been reported in the state, taking the toll to 58, according to news agency PTI.With 228 new Covid-19 cases, Gujarat tally of infections also went up to 1,604 with Ahmedabad reporting 140 of them, PTI said citing health officials.The news agency also said that the number of coronavirus disease cases in Ahmedabad district crossed the 1,000-mark.There were 280 new coronavirus disease cases, the highest in a single day, in the state on Saturday and the majority of them were from Ahmedabad. On Saturday morning, 176 cases and seven deaths were reported in Gujarat. In the evening, another 104 positive cases and five deaths were recorded. Out of these 104, Ahmedabad reported 96 cases, Vadodara 3, Bhavnagar 2 and Panchmahal, Sabarkantha and Mahisagar one each.Ahmedabad had the maximum 862 positive cases, followed by Vadodara at 158, Surat 153, Rajkot and Bhavnagar 30 each, Anand 27, Bharuch 22, Gandhinagar 17, Patan 15, Narmada 11, Panchmahals 9, Banaskantha 8, Chotta Udepur 6, Kutch, Botad and Mehsana 4 each, Porbandar 3, Gir-Somnath, Dahod, Kheda and Sabarkantha 2 each and Jamnagar, Morbi and Aravalli one each.“Out of the total 1,230 active cases, the condition of 1,220 is stable while 10 are on ventilators due to critical condition,” Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary of the health and family welfare department, said on Saturday.Seven patients were discharged on Saturday after treatment, taking the total to 93 in Gujarat.“In the last 24 hours, health authorities have drawn 2,664 samples, with 277 testing positive and 2,387 negative. The total tests till now are 26,102, of which 1,376 were positive and 24,726 negative,” Ravi had said on Saturday.The number of quarantined people in the state is 16,925, including 14,471 at home, 2266 in government facilities and 188 in private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-5-more-covid-19-deaths-gujarat-s-toll-nears-60-infections-surpass-1-600/story-mYGRxLvkodKnsjQ8yUB6RK.html
19-04-2020||India||Maharashtra dedicates 25 more hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients||No new cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Sunday morning in Maharashtra as the tally of Covid-19 cases has remained 3,648 cases and 211 deaths, state health department officials said.After a relatively lower number of news cases on Thursday and Friday, the state recorded new 328 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Mumbai, which has the highest number of cases in the state, recorded 184 new cases on Saturday taking the tally to 2,268.The city’s death toll is now 126 according to state health department’s data.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The sprawling slum of Dharavi saw a spike in infections on Saturday with 17 new cases and one death. An 80-year-old woman from Dharavi who died on Friday at Sion Hospital was only confirmed on Saturday that she was Covid-19 positive.Maharashtra which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country also designated another 25 hospitals dedicated to treating those infected. The total number of dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 in Maharashtra has now risen to 55 with a capacity of 6,660 beds.Health department officials also said that the state government also received permission from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start six new government laboratories for Covid-19 tests. The total number of laboratories in the state now goes to 42, which includes government and private sector. New testing facilities are going to come up at Beed, Nanded, Gondia, Kolhapur, Baramati and Jalgaon.Though the mortality rate of the state is seeing a gradual decline, it is still double of the country’s rate. The mortality rates on April 14, 15, 16 and 17 were 6.84%, 6.61%, 6.41% and 6.05%. Forty six people died in these three days.“The mortality rate is slowly decreasing because of early influx of patients. Earlier, most patients died between the first and third days of admission. Now, it happens six to seven days after admission in critical cases. When they are in hospital, we can monitor their lungs, blood-pressure, etc,” said TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education & Research.The Maharashtra government also decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to all registered construction workers in the state to tide over the crisis during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections. Only those workers who are registered with the state’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCWWB) will be eligible to get the monetary assistance. Maharashtra has 22.70 lakh registered construction workers but only 12.18 lakh who are active, will get the benefit of the decision, said S C Srirangam, the board’s secretary and chief executive officer.Meanwhile, The Maharashtra government issued orders that state government employees would start working from Monday with 10% strength. The government has given exemption to women employees. Earlier on March 23 the state government had issued orders that it would operate with only 5% of its staff.The Mumbai Police, which has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the Maharashtra Police department, has kept its staff with health issues away from the containment zones where the chances of them getting infected by the pandemic are relatively high.As of Saturday, a total of 37 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 out of which 18 are from Mumbai, 17 from Thane and one each from Pune city and Mumbai Government Railway Police (GRP), said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general, law and order, Maharashtra Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-dedicates-25-more-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-1LXHgwBd1Bzi8QWNd0dLqN.html
19-04-2020||India||‘I am Nisha Jindal’: Raipur Police arrest man for running controversial Facebook page||A divisive page on Facebook came under the scanner of Chhattisgarh Police, who decided to take action against him. The profile was under the name of a woman, Nisha Jindal.But when the police started investigating, they found out that the page is fake, and that a man is operating it. His name, according to local media, is Ravi Pujar.According to reports, Pujar is an engineering student and has been running the page which has more than 10,000 followers.Some users on Twitter said Pujar was not able to clear his engineering exams for the past 11 years. “When the Raipur Police reched to arrest “Nisha Jindal” for disrupting communal harmony, they found that “Ravi”, who has not been able to clear his engineering for the last 11 years, is the real “Nisha”,” tweeted IAS officer Priyanka Shukla in Hindi. साम्प्रदायिक वैमनस्यता भड़काने के आरोप में जब @RaipurPoliceCG FB user "निशा जिंदल" को गिरफ़्तार करने पहुँची तो पता चला कि ११ साल से engineering पास नहीं कर पा रहे "रवि" ही वास्तव में "निशा"हैं! 😱"निशा" के >10,000 फ़ालोअर्ज़ को सच बताने पुलिस ने रवि से ही उनकी सच्चाई पोस्ट कराई! pic.twitter.com/x7RSCqRftnThe police also forced Pujar to post his real photo on the page and as punishment, asked him to tell his followers that he is the owner of the Facebook page. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel commended the police for the job. “No fraud will be spared. Let us reveal all those element who wish to mislead. Good job @RaipurPoliceCG,” he said on Twitter. No fraud will be spared. Let us reveal all those element who wish to mislead.Good job @RaipurPoliceCG https://t.co/LYqCes5IelPujar was arrested on Friday after the police traced his IP address through which he operated his fake account. Laptops and mobile phones found at his home has been seized, the reports said.According to reports in local media, Pujar has been booked under charges of promoting disharmony and insult to religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-nisha-jindal-raipur-police-arrest-man-for-running-controversial-facebook-page/story-8UHnAwUs6v7J3cfF2wGtQJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Delhi witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases, no relaxation in lockdown: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday held a press briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital. Kejriwal said the national capital is witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. The number of containment zones are also being increased. The chief minister said that keeping in mind the present situation in the national capital, the administration has decided to provide no relaxation in the lockdown restrictions. “The situation will be reviewed again after a week,” he said.Kejriwal said that as per Centre’s directive, while non-hotspots regions can see some relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the country from April 20, those marked as Covid-19 hostpots and as containment zones shall not get any relaxation from the lockdown restrictions.“There are as many as 77 Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi at present and all districts are categorised as hotspots,” Kejriwal said.“Yesterday, we received reports of 736 Covid-19 tests and 186 of them came out positive for coronavirus. That is 25%, which is high,” the chief minister said. The CM said that all these 186 people who have tested positive for coronavirus are asymptomatic. “These people showed no symptoms. We have no idea how many people are asymptomatic and are carrying the virus and spreading it to others,” he said.The chief minister informed that of 186 people who have tested positive for Covid-19, one was working at one of the food centres set up by the Delhi government. “Don’t know how many people he must have infected there. I have ordered the administration to rapid-test all those who come to eat at these food centres as well as the volunteers and workers there,” he said. Kejriwal said that coronavirus infection in the national capital is spreading but the situation is under control.“We need to be disciplined to be able to control this pandemic,” Kejriwal said. He said there were no new Covid-19 cases in containment zones where people showed discipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-witnessing-surge-in-covid-19-cases-no-relaxation-in-lockdown-measures-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-8g9byg552IaCbEHTuIWWoJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Haridwar, Nainital districts in Uttarakhand classified as ‘red zones’ after spike in Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Uttarakhand have designated Haridwar and Nainital as ‘red zones’ or hotspots after a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in these two districts, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Two more people, both in Haridwar had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the hill state on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 42.Yugal Kishor Pant, additional secretary (Health), said that 80% of the Covid-19 cases in the state are from Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital districts. The state capital, Dehradun, has already been classified as a ‘red zone’.Earlier this week, the government divided the country into colour-coded areas depending on the level of infection— red zones indicate infection hotspots, orange some infection, while green denotes an area with no infections.The Union health ministry had declared 170 hotspots—123 hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 hotspot districts with clusters—in 25 states and Union territories.The districts seeing a high number of cases or high growth rate of infections were marked as hotspots; districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots; and those which have reported no cases as green zones. The districts or cities contributing to more than 80% of the cases in the country or the state will be classified as hotspots (red zone), according to the government. Places that show a high rate of infection with a doubling rate of less than four days will also be in this category.All six metros—Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad—currently have a high number of cases. Apart from the 123 hotspots, 47 districts were marked under ‘cluster outbreaks’, where the virus spreads in clusters, more than 15 cases are reported and the infection shows no sign of stopping.Furthermore, 207 districts have been identified as potential hotspots or where there have been cases but the numbers were limited.Officials said on Saturday that one of the two people to test positive for the coronavirus disease is a migrant labourer—the first such case in the state. The second patient is a close contact of a person who attended the event of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month.“A 24-year-old migrant labourer, who initially worked in Rishikesh, and a 45-year-old female who is a close contact of a Jamaat attendee tested positive for coronavirus,” Dr Saroj Naithani, chief medical officer (CMO) of Haridwar district, said. “The migrant labourer had come to Rishikesh from Hathras area in Uttar Pradesh to work, but he was caught by officials on March 30 near Roorkee and sent to a relief camp. He was caught when he along with three others were going back to Hathras by taking a lift from a truck driver,” Dr Naithani added.The samples of the migrant labourer were sent for testing on April 16 after he complained of sore throat. Test results of three more people travelling with him are awaited.Dr Naithani said they have isolated the 45-year-old woman, who was already staying in a quarantine centre since she was found to be a close contact of another positive Covid-19 patient. “On Saturday, her two children were also isolated and their samples sent for testing. Her husband, however, has tested negative but is still being monitored by health officials for any symptoms in future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-nainital-districts-in-uttarakhand-classified-as-red-zones-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-GmPqR0ZyndZBSgCtV98WqN.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown relaxation: Full list of activities allowed from Monday||The relaxations announced by the government during Covid-19 lockdown will come into effect from Monday. These relaxations were announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on April 14 when he extended the lockdown till May 3.PM Modi had said that these relaxations will be conditional, and asked countrymen to ensure the coronavirus disease doesn’t spread.Here is a list of all that is going to be available from tomorrow:Private vehicles: The Home Ministry which released the guidelines after PM Modi’s address, permitted taking our private vehicles but only during emergencies like going to a veterinarian doctor. While two people - driver plus one passenger at the back seat - are permitted to go out in a four-wheeler, only one person is allowed on a two-wheeler.Cab services: Taxis, autorickshaw and cab services are shut till May 3. However, if your bike or scooter needs to be repaired, mechanics will be available.Offices: The government has announced staggered shifts and lunch breaks for offices. The guidelines also say that people will have to maintain a distance of 10 feet while working in offices, and face masks will be compulsory. The government has allowed homemade face masks too - something PM Modi used while addressing the nation. While IT companies have been allowed to call 50 per cent of the staff to offices, other sectors have been allowed 33 per cent of workforce. Among other measures announced by the government, more than four people should not ben allowed in office lifts, and only big vehicles are meant to be use during pick and drop of employees so that safe distance can be maintained.Who will work from home: People aged 65 or more, and those with children aged five years or less. Offices have also been asked to install thermak screening and hand sanitisers.E-commerce: Amazon, Flipkart etc have been allowed to deliver stuff to people’s homes, but in a fresh notification issued on Sunday, the Home Ministry clarified that these platforms will be allowed to deliver only essential goods. Kirana and other grocery shops have been allowed, but they will have to follow social distancing norms.Construction activities: The government has also allowed construction activities from Monday. The real estate firms are, however, not allowed to bring in labourers from outside a state.Agricultural activities: Packaging and marketing of food products allowed, but the companies involved in this business will have to follow social distancing. Brin kilns too have been allowed to operate.Services: Electricians, plumbers motor mechanics, carpenter, courier services have been exempted from lockdown and can start operations from tomorrow. The cable and DTH workers will be allowed to carry out repair and augment supplies.Transport of goods: The transport of all goods have been allowed from Monday. The Railways have already said that its goods trains will function during the lockdown to ensure supply of essential items. Such goods trains and cargo flights have been allowed to operate with two drivers and a helper.Essential services: Banks, ATMs, post offices, petrol and CNG pumps, hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, medical equipment centres will continue to operate the way they have been since the lockdown began. Ambulances, doctors and scientists are allowed to cross over from one state to another.These relaxations are, however, not allowed in areas identified as Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-relaxation-full-list-of-activities-allowed-from-monday/story-MAx78Als7hpfMXhu2mAtaK.html
19-04-2020||India||Failed lab experiment to bats and pangolins: Theories around origin of Covid-19||What is known about the coronavirus pandemic is that it originated in China and in a matter of months spread across the globe killing lakhs of people and infecting millions. While the contagion has brought more than half of the planet to a grinding halt, scientists are busy tracing Covid-19’s path to the human body.There are many theories doing the rounds when it comes to the origin of the novel coronavirus. Some even believe it was a result of a failed lab experiment. A study conducted by the Pew Research Centre suggests that most Americans believe that Covid-19 was lab-grown. Nearly three in ten Americans or a quarter of the American population, as many as 29% of those surveyed, believe that novel coronavirus was grown in a lab, the survey indicated. 43% of Americans believe that the virus came about naturally. The more scientific and believable theories rest on the premise that links the virus to its zoonotic traces, connecting it to bats.China’s world-famous Huanan seafood market in Wuhan, which is a live animal market, was the place where a man was first reported to have got the infection from an animal. How did the infection reach Wuhan’s seafood market is still debatable.The identity of the animal source of coronavirus remains a key and an urgent question.Coronavirus is being increasingly linked to bats as the obscure animals have traditionally been found to have links with outbreaks in countries like Uganda and Bangladesh. Bats are believed to be the natural hosts of the SARS, MERS and the Ebola virus.In the case of SARS and MERS, the virus came from bats but was transmitted to humans via other animals. The 2002 Sars outbreak got to humans from bats through cat-like civets. MERS-CoV spread from bats to camels to humans.Some of the recently conducted studies point at scaly, ant-eating pangolins to be the intermediary animal between bats and humans in the case of Covid-19. Researchers in Guangzhou, China believe pangolins could be the probable animal source of the coronavirus outbreak. However, it is reported that pangolins were not listed on the inventory of items sold in Wuhan, the sale of the mammal is illegal.As per a research paper published in the Journal of Medical Virology, two researchers from the South China Agricultural University in Guangzhou identified pangolins as the potential source of the Covid-19 virus. The researchers made their theory public in February 2020.The experts based their findings on “genetic comparison of coronaviruses taken from pangolins and from humans infected during the recent outbreak,” the research published in the Journal of Medical Virology read. “By analyzing more than 1 000 metagenomic samples and using molecular biology testing, they found that the positive rate of β coronavirus in pangolins was 70% and that the genome sequence of an isolated virus strain was 99% similar to that of the SARS-CoV-2 virus”. The study, therefore, called for further investigation into the role of pangolins in transmitting coronavirus to humans.Earlier this week, the Indian Council of Medical Research also stated the possibility of pangolins acting as the intermediary animal between bats and humans. “We also conducted surveillance, in which we found that there are two types of bats, and they carried coronavirus which was not capable of affecting humans. It’s rare, maybe once in 1,000 years that it gets transmitted from bats to humans,” Indian Council of Medical Research’s (CMR) Gangakhedkar said during the press conference.“As per research in China, it was found that coronavirus might have originated due to mutation in bats. Bats might have transmitted it to pangolins, from pangolins it got transmitted to humans,” Gangakhedkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failed-lab-experiment-to-bats-and-pangolins-theories-around-origin-of-covid-19/story-yvf532omjHtlqbeNjdQO0M.html
19-04-2020||India||Manipur’s 2nd Covid-19 patient tests negative two weeks after treatment||Manipur’s second Covid-19 patient has tested negative for the first time since undergoing treatment, according to official sources. The northeastern state has reported only two cases of coronavirus infection, according to the latest health ministry figures. Prof Ch Arunkumar, medical superintendent of Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) hospital in Imphal where the male patient is admitted, said on Sunday that the man tested negative in his fourth test. The test was conducted at Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) of RIMS and Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS), another government hospital in the state capital. “As per the standing protocol, the repeat test will be conducted after 24 hours as two tests are required to be negative,” Prof Arunkumar said. “Based on its results, we may discuss and take future course of action,” he added.The man had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2.Dr Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of state health department,also shared the news of the negative test of Manipur’s second coronavirus case through a press release on Saturday. He said that the patient will likely be discharged soon if the next test result also comes out to be negative.Manipur’s first Covid-19 case, a female, was reported on March 24 following which she was treated at JNIMS and discharged on April 12 after being cured. She is now staying home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine.Meanwhile, in a review meeting held in Imphal on Saturday, the state chief secretary appreciated the efforts of the health department and advised it to ramp up quarantine facilities and testing capabilities, according a press release by Covid-19 Common Control Room in Imphal.At the same time the authorities of RIMS and JNIMS had been instructed not to curtail emergency services, the release said. As on Saturday 1,92,335 persons were screened for coronavirus while 328 persons were tested for the disease in Manipur, as per status report of state surveillance officer Dr L Tomcha Khuman of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. In addition, 96 persons are staying at government quarantine centres while 263 of them have completed their quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-second-covid-19-patient-tests-negative-two-weeks-after-treatment/story-i68HN0R7t5XjObqzfmjcnJ.html
19-04-2020||India||From a Twitter handle, the story of Pakistan’s new terror group for Kashmir||A freshly-minted terror group, The Resistance Front, set up in Jammu and Kashmir after Parliament scrapped its special status in August last year is funded and backed by Pakistan, a top counter-terror official in Kashmir told Hindustan Times.The group is one of the several efforts, often repeated in the past two decades, to give terrorism in Kashmir an indigenous face and give the Pakistan deep state, blamed for supporting terror, an alibi, the official said.The JK Pir Panjal Peace Forum was another, he said, adding that this was part of a pattern in Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence’s handling pressure over its support to terror groups in J&K.“We have been keeping track, on and off social media, and have spotted efforts to build a base of influencers in the Indian hinterland also,” the official said.Security officials who track terror in the valley and its links across the Line of Control, said the TRF was supported and backed by the Lashkar-e-Taiba. Sometimes, one of them said, the TRF even appears to be a proxy.Also Read: Four terrorists killed in Kashmir gunfightsSecurity agencies had first spotted the group on social media platforms such as Twitter and Telegram.Initially, it appeared to be one of the many handles operated from Pakistan that was sharply focused on Kashmir, abused the armed forces and made provocative claims about the ground situation in the Valley designed to incite others. Or posted photographs of the terrorists “martyred” or the jawans punished, he said.When one of the first grenades was thrown after the scrapping of Article 370 in Srinagar’s Hari Singh High Street on October 12, the TRF had claimed responsibility. Ditto with the next one within a fortnight that killed one civilian.This social media account, according to the internet protocol address, was being operated from Islamabad, the official said. Mostly from an Iphone.It wasn’t rocket science anyways. Kashmir was still under a lockdown and the Internet had been snapped simultaneously.The frequency of the posts increased after Kashmir got back the Internet. These social media accounts now had the target audience within earshot.But it was only last month that security forces came face-to-face with some newly-recruited cadre.Also Read: Terrorist caught in Afghanistan earlier this month was IS recruiter in Jammu and KashmirIn north Kashmir’s border district of Kupwara, the police on March 23 arrested six men who claimed to be part of the new group, The Resistance Front, or TRF. Their interrogation led the cops to their arms dump.Apart from 89 hand grenades, a joint team of the army and state police seized 8 AK rifles, 10 pistols, 20-odd detonator fuses and ammunition, Inspector General of Kashmir Vijay Kumar announced.The assessment about the TRF’s links with the Lashkar-e-Taiba was confirmed early this month when the TRF social media channels operating from Pakistan pushed out photographs of the terrorists killed in the Keran gunfight with the army’s Special Forces in Kupwara’s Keran sector. Five terrorists and an equal number of commandos were killed. It claimed that the five terrorists killed at the border were from the TRF. The route, which this group of infiltrators had taken, is believed to have been in use by Lashkar terrorists.It has, since then, been bombarding its channels with near-live updates of terror attacks and counter-terrorist operations. Or take responsibility.Also, officials point how the threats to people who speak against them or cooperate with the State have become shriller and frequent. Like when a terrorist drew out an AK-47 rifle concealed under his robe to shoot three CRPF jawans, the TRF rushed to claim responsibility, and described the killing of soldiers for the death of their cadre in recent incidents.In many ways, officials said this was the template followed by other social media handles of the group. In one case, the Twitter handle of the so-called administrator of the TRF - his alias sounded American - was also tracked down to Islamabad. One account which was suspended by the platform was again based in Islamabad. Another was named around the so-called resistance in the Valley, also traced through its IP address to Pakistan.“While the world is fighting the coronavirus, Pakistan is using the time to prepare for the next stage of violence in Jammu and Kashmir in the name of resistance against the so-called Indian occupation,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-a-twitter-handle-the-story-of-pakistan-s-new-terror-group-for-kashmir/story-Wgw0Q4ccsL3B8Sg5y3hx2N.html
19-04-2020||India||‘It’s been a long journey’: Ahmedabad’s first Covid-19 patient goes home||A woman, who was the first patient of the coronavirus disease in Gujarat’s hardest-hit Ahmedabad city, has gone home after spending a month in a hospital. She was discharged from the hospital on Saturday after completely recovering from Covid-19, according to news agency ANI. “I was hospitalised on March 17 and now finally getting discharged after testing negative twice. It has been a long journey,” the woman was quoted as saying by ANI.On the day the woman left the hospital, the western state reported its highest single-day spike of 280 Covid-19 cases. The number of infected people in the state shot up to 1376, while the death toll rose by 12 to 53 on Saturday.Ahmedabad alone accounted for 239 new detections on Saturday. With the new cases of the coronavirus disease and five deaths, the tally of Gujarat’s largest city stands at 862 and the number of the victims at 25, a health department official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Most of these cases have been reported from hotspot areas in Ahmedabad, mainly due to concentrated testing,” Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said.“Among the affected localities are Behrampura, Chandlodia, Dariyapur, Danilimda, Manekchowk, Ellis bridge, Ishanpur, Navrangpura, Motera, Nikol, Saraspur, Gomtipur, Jamalpur, Astodia, and Kubenagar,” Ravi said.Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases cross 15,000, death toll rises to 507Health authorities said they could not begin the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad hospitals.“We are awaiting permission from the ethics committee of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We have found one donor and recipient also for plasma therapy, but it needs to be checked whether the required parameters of both individuals match or not,” Ravi said.Twenty-seven Covid-19 patients have also been discharged from hospitals in the city.Around 13,000 samples have been tested in the city, the highest in the state, as part of a proactive testing approach of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. The corporation has also roped in private laboratories and deployed mobile vans to ramp up testing.Also read: IIT- Gandhinagar to undertake study to find out survival of coronavirus in human waste“Extensive surveillance by health workers has helped us find new cases, which reduced the possibility of cases in lakhs and deaths in thousands. We conducted aggressive testing, from 25-30 per day to 1500-2000, that too by approaching people at their houses,” municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said, according to PTI.“The situation is still worsening because we have not been able to make people aware completely,” he added.Authorities have imposed curfew in parts of Ahmedabad’s walled city area and localities like Danilimda and Behrampura to contain the spread of the coronavirus infections. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-been-a-long-journey-ahmedabad-s-first-covid-19-patient-goes-home/story-OTGzB6ejw7LKFquZoMbX1J.html
19-04-2020||India||Inmates at Bengal jail hold staff hostage, demand bail; talks end crisis||Demanding bail, a group of inmates at Jalpaiguri central correctional home in north Bengal held a number of staff members hostage on Saturday afternoon. Senior district police officers rushed to the spot but could not enter the premises as the inmates had blocked the main gate from inside. The crisis ended in the evening after the officials diffused the tension by talking to the inmates.Most of the agitators are undertrial prisoners, officials said. The inmates separated the new and old jail complexes by locking the connecting gates. They took six jail wardens and eight cleaning staff hostage.A police officer, who did not want to be identified, said most of the agitators had been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Such inmates are not entitled to bail although the Supreme Court recently took note of the lockdown in courts and showed leniency towards jail inmates being tried or convicted for some specific offences.In its order, the apex court said those booked for crimes against women and children, waging war against the state and other serious offences cannot be released. Bengal and other states have already released thousands of inmates on bail and parole following that order.“The situation was controlled after the inmates wrote a petition to the district magistrate, demanding bail. The police and jail authorities told them that it would be forwarded to higher authorities,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. In the evening, Jalpaiguri superintendent of police Abhisek Modi, who led the police team, said, “The situation is under control. The unrest will be investigated.”The agitators started the trouble by refusing to have lunch and stopped others from eating it as well. They threw away the food. Branches of trees, iron rods fitted to a football goal post and bricks were allegedly used by the agitators. There were reports that some guards were assaulted but officials did not confirm this. The inmates also ransacked security cameras installed inside the premises.There are around 1,300 inmates at the correctional home, officials said.  Among them, around 200 are undertrial prisoners. This is the biggest correctional home in north Bengal.This is the third incident of its kind in the state since bail hearings stopped because of the coronavirus lockdown. There was violence at Baruipur correctional home in South 24 Parganas district on March 3. The second incident was reported at Dum Dum central correctional home on March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inmates-of-bengal-jail-hold-staff-hostage-demand-bail-talks-end-crisis/story-ex19PltJHcMag8PWZXAP8M.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Chidambaram calls central govt ‘heartless’, poses 2 questions||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday called the central government heartless, accusing it of doing nothing for the poor during Covid-19 lockdown.“There is overwhelming evidence that more and more people have run out of cash and are forced to stand in lines to collect free cooked food. Only a heartless government will stand by and do nothing,” Chidambaram said on Twitter.He then asked two questions: “Why cannot government save them from hunger AND protect their dignity by transferring cash to every poor family? Why can’t government distribute, free of cost, a small part of the 77 million tonnes of grain with FCI to families who need the grain to feed themselves?”And then targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “These two questions are both economic and moral questions. @narendramodi and @nsitharaman have failed to answer both questions, as the nation watches helplessly,” Chidambaram said in his third and final tweet.The tweets come nearly a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The initial 21-day lockdown, which was scheduled to end on April 14, was extended till May 3.The central government then announced a slew of measures, which are aimed at benefiting the poor and restarting the economy stalled due to the lockdown. Many small enterprises have been given permission to resume work an labourer-based service allowed. The relaxations are coming into effect from Monday.The Congress has repeatedly sought the ramping up of Covid-19 testing and personal protection equipment (PPEs) for health workers. It has also urged the government to spell out steps it plans to take to mitigate the woes of migrant labourers and farmers waiting to harvest their crops.On Saturday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi constituted an 11-member consultative group under former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s leadership to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic and to formulate the party’s views on them. Chidambaram is part of that group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-chidambaram-calls-central-govt-heartless-poses-2-questions/story-f2mFCmtZ9iDeSjl5chBTrL.html
19-04-2020||India||MP overtakes Tamil Nadu, becomes state with 3rd highest Covid-19 cases: State tally||The Ministry of Health on Sunday updated the number of confirmed coronavirus cases to 15,712. The latest figures include 12,974 active cases, 2,230 patients who have been cured or discharged and 507 fatalities. Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat are the states that continue to see a high number of Covid-19 cases.Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 3651 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 211 deaths so far while 365 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1893 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 42 people have died from the infection while 72 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1407 positive cases of coronavirus. 70 people have died from Covid-19 here while 127 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1372. Tamil Nadu has seen 365 recoveries and 15 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1351 on Sunday. The state has reported 11 fatalities, and 183 patients have recovered from the infection.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 1376 coronavirus cases and 93 recoveries so far. 53 people have died from the infection in the state.Uttar Pradesh969 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 86 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 14 have died from the infection here.Telangana809 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 186 people have made a recovery from the virus while 18 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 603 positive Covid-19 patients and 42 cases of recovery. 15 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 400 coronavirus cases on Sunday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 257 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 384 Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths. 104 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 341. 5 people have died from the infection while 51 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 225 and 202 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 13 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 43 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 27 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 310 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 12 deaths and 62 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 61 Covid-19 positive patients, 21 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 86 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 37 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 12 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 42 coronavirus patients, 9 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 23 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 10 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 14 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 24 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, 6 patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 34 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported 11 cases and one death.Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the fifth day of the extended lockdown phase on Sunday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-overtakes-tamil-nadu-becomes-state-with-3rd-highest-covid-19-cases-state-tally/story-wQmK6WfClJ5pZwZ1PrkyfP.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Staying at home and want to use AC? Here’s what you need to know||As coronavirus disease Covid-19 spreads rapidly, there is a barrage of information floating along with it on what should be used and what shouldn’t to check the spread of the disease.Among such information is the use of air conditioners (ACs) - many on the internet and social media are claiming that use of ACs can lead to spread of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. But the government has taken upon itself to dispel all such misinformation.The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has tweeted on is Fact Check handle that use of window AC if all right; the issue is with the central air conditioning system.“As the mercury soars, here’s one more #PIBFactcheck. Claim : ACs should not be used to cool off in the heat, as they spread #Covid_19. Fact : It’s a little complicated. Window ACs are ok, but not central air-conditioning,” the PIB tweet said. As the mercury soars, here's one more #PIBFactcheckClaim : ACs should not be used to cool off in the heat, as they spread #Covid_19 Fact : It's a little complicated. Window ACs are ok, but not central air-conditioning. Let's listen to this segment from @DDNewslive 👇 pic.twitter.com/UkbZsJ4pIsSince the window AC is used at home - basically a confined space - it is still okay to use. But the central air conditioning system has the potential to spread the virus to a much larger area in case a Covid-19 positive case is found.A recent study in China suggested that air conditioning aided the transmission of coronavirus infection between people in a restaurant.The study has been published in peer-reviewed Emerging Infectious Diseases journal published by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention of the United States.It was conducted on 10 Covid-19 patients from three families who dined at the same restaurant in China’s Guangzhou. The first infected person - who had come from Wuhan - had lunch at the five-floor restaurant without windows on January 24, said the study, and members of other two families sat at neighbouring tables.While the first patient experienced fever and cough the same day, the members of other families became infected by February 5.The study concluded that the most likely cause of this outbreak was droplet transmission. Since droplets remain in the air only for short time and travel short distance, said the study, the strong airflow from the air conditioner could have propagated the droplets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-staying-at-home-and-want-to-use-ac-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-ZToEjpKIT5DuT99xw4wz5M.html
19-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases cross 15,000, death toll rises to 507||The number of coronavirus disease cases in India climbed to 15,712, including 507 deaths, in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data on Sunday morning showed.According to the health ministry’s data at 8am, there were 12,974 active cases, 2230 people have been sent home after being cured of the coronavirus disease and 507 people have died till date.Also read: What to read during, after a pandemicMaharashtra has 4,227 Covid-19 cases so far, including 211 deaths, which is more than thrice the number of fatalities than the state with the next-highest toll. There are 365 people who have been cured. After Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh accounted for the most deaths at 70, followed by Gujarat that had 53 fatalities. The central state has seen 1,534 cases of the coronavirus disease to date, excluding the deaths.The number of dead in Delhi was 42, the fourth-highest among all states in the country, and there were 1,893 Covid-19 patients and 72 who have been cured or discharged, according to the Union health ministry.According to Union health ministry official Lav Agarwal, roughly three in four people who have died are above the age of 75 and nearly 83% of those confirmed to have been infected had other illnesses as well. Also read: Early measures reason for fewer cases in India, says WHO regional directorThe ministry of health data shows that the pandemic has now spread to 56% of India’s districts and 15 districts across nine states account for half the cases.The latest data also comes a day before India opens up its unaffected and relatively less affected areas for business and other activities with social distancing and other norms in place from Monday.Also read: Flights, trains unlikely to begin on May 3, GoM looks at May 15According to the Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE), the number of confirmed cases stood at 2,328,600 and there were 160,706 fatalities across the world at around 8am India time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-cross-15-000-death-toll-rises-to-507/story-UhT7D2Sr3uE3fncU0RCOKP.html
19-04-2020||India||125 stranded Bahrain nationals evacuated from Pune amid lockdown||As many as 125 Bahrain nationals stranded in Pune due to the Covid-19 outbreak were evacuated from Lohegaon airport on Saturday. A special flight of Gulf Air evacuated 125 Bahrain nationals from and flew them to Chennai to take others on board, said a senior official of the Pune International Airport.One passenger with high temperature could not get on the plane and was referred to a city-based hospital for further tests.According to Kuldeep Singh, Airport Director, Pune, arrangements were made with limited areas of the airport being open for the passengers’ movement to ensure focused cleaning. “Flight GF-7753, A321 departed for Chennai with 125 passengers at 0436 pm with one passenger with high temperature detained and referred to a hospital,” said Singh.The entire operation to bring these nationals to the airport began at 7 am with tourist buses and taxis used to pick up the nationals from various parts of the city, most of them were picked up from Kondhwa.Ali Abdulla Al Noaimi, Chargé d’affaires, Embassy of the Kingdom of Bahrain, New Delhi, said the Kingdom of Bahrain supports India’s efforts to combat the pandemic.“We had a list of all the Bahraini citizens who were in various parts of the country. Some were tourists, some seeking medical services, and most of the nationals were students,” said Ali Abdulla Al Noaimi.Across India, there are 167 Bahrain nationals in cities like Pune, Delhi, Chennai, Kochi, Hyderabad, and Mumbai. “We began contacting them over the past two weeks and then decided to bring most to Pune as it had the largest contingency of Nationals (126) who were mostly students followed by Chennai which has 44 nationals for medical services,” said Ali Abdulla Al Noaimi. With all the information in place, the Ministry in Bahrain arranged a special flight in accordance with the Indian Ministry of External Affairs to arrive in Pune. The Consul General of the Kingdom of Bahrain, Mumbai, Ali Al Balooshi was in Pune to see to the travel safety of the nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/125-stranded-bahrain-nationals-evacuated-from-pune-amid-lockdown/story-6Bel7MyrT1kiyAub1A9VxJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Over 300 Covid-19 cases in a day: Maharashtra crosses grim milestone for third time this month||After the relatively low numbers of Covid-19 cases in the past two days, Maharashtra on Saturday registered a jump in the number with 328 more infections, taking the state’s tally to 3,648.Of these, Mumbai recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 184 people testing positive for the disease.“328 new COVID-19 cases have been recorded in the state on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 3,648 in the state. Highest 184 of the new cases have been recorded in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai area followed by Pune which reported 78 cases,” a statement from Maharashtra health department said.Saturday was the third time this month that single-day numbers crossed the 300-mark in Maharashtra. The state also recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking its toll to 211, the state health department said.According to civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 16 new cases were reported in Mumbai’s Dharavi area on Saturday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases surged to 117 in Dharavi with 10 deaths reported till now, according to ANI.The areas around Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded single-digit rise in Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Thane recorded six cases, while Thane rural and Bhiwandi recorded three cases each. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded five cases, while Navi Mumbai recorded two. Vasai-Virar and Panvel recorded a case each. In Palghar, the number of cases reported on Saturday was seven.There were 11 positive cases in Mira-Bhayandar, eight cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Akola, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nandurbar recorded one case each. Raigad recorded five cases, Satara saw four cases and Solapur saw two cases.“We expect the cases to dip after the two 14-day incubation cycles, which began on March 22, when over 2.20 lakh people came to Mumbai airport. If the containment is good it will go down,” said TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education & Research.Officials said the mortality rate in Maharashtra is also seeing a gradual decline. However, the state’s mortality rate is still double that of the country’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-maharashtra-crosses-grim-milestone-for-third-time-this-month/story-ZNdG2VuArJ5NrMqXyP7qRN.html
19-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Flights, trains unlikely to begin on May 3, GoM looks at May 15 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Flights, trains unlikely to begin on May 3, GoM looks at May 15Restrictions on air and train travel may continue beyond May 3, when the 40-day lockdown in India to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic comes to an end, at least three people who attended a Group of Ministers (GoM) meeting on Saturday said on condition of anonymity. Read moreCovid-19 lockdown: Odisha announces Rs 100 crore employment programme for 4.5 lakh urban poor familiesWith the Covid-19 lockdown affecting livelihood of millions of poor in urban areas, the Odisha government on Saturday announced an emergency programme ‘Urban Wage Employment Initiative’ worth Rs 100 crore that would start from April 20 and continue till September this year. Read more Covid-19: Most rapid tests negative in Rajasthan and Punjab; other states get ready for the exerciseIn the first round of rapid-testing in Rajasthan to detect carriers or super spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus most tests results were negative, officials said on Saturday, as other states started working on conducting tests from Sunday. Read more‘Mistake is a mistake’: Trump warns China of ‘consequences’ for Covid-19 outbreakPresident Donald Trump on Saturday said China should face “consequences” if it was found to have been “knowingly responsible” for the novel coronavirus outbreak. Read moreDelay in insuring IPL set to sting BCCIThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is set to face massive losses after failing to insure this year’s Indian Premier League against cancellation due to a pandemic. Why? Because by March, when the BCCI got in touch with their insurance company to get the cover for this year’s IPL, the company had omitted COVID-19 from their coverage clause. Read more Coronavirus survival tips: Do what you can to restore the weekendSo far, life has had a law. Weekdays were followed by weekends. You worked through the week and then played, whether this meant going trekking, grabbing your camera to get some shots, or heading to a café. Read more Priyanka Chopra, Shah Rukh Khan come together for One World special with Lady Gaga, Beyonce. WatchBollywood actors Shah Rukh Khan and Priyanka Chopra with Lady Gaga, Paul McCartney, Taylor Swift, Billie Eilish,The Rolling Stones and Beyonce kicked off a global special of music, comedy and personal stories in what Gaga called a “love letter” to front line workers battling the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreZoom vs Skype: Which video conferencing app should you usePeople around the world are now very dependent on video conferencing apps to communicate, work from home and conduct online classes. User activity and downloads of these apps have also seen a huge surge since the Covid-19 lockdowns began. Read more Watch: Diyas light up India’s monuments on Heritage Day to hail Covid-19 warriors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-trains-unlikely-to-begin-on-may-3-gom-looks-at-may-15/story-68vVy0EjfbxVGvYwME5SAI.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Karnataka decides to open up parts of economy to business from April 20||Karnataka has decided to open parts of its economy to business again from Monday amid the coronavirus lockdown. The state government has decided to allow construction activities to resume and technology companies to start their work, besides government departments, industrial townships and SEZ’s according to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. The CM was briefing the media after a meeting with his senior advisors.The chief minister stated that the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) would continue till May 3. Yediyurappa also said that inter-district and interstate travel is still prohibited. All government departments, SEZ’s and industrial townships including technology parks would work at a third of their strength. Earlier on Saturday, Yediyurappa had said that two-wheeler vehicles would be permitted to move around without passes but late in the night, the CMO issued a statement saying that based on public feedback, it had been decided to scrap this move.The CM also said the administration would double down on enhancing measures in Covid-19 containment zones including 32 identified in Bangalore and eight other hotspots across the state, to ensure there was no spread of the virus. The administration has made wearing masks mandatory. Agricultural activities had earlier been exempted from any restrictions across the state. 25 new fresh Covid-19 positive cases were registered in the state bringing the cumulative total till Saturday to 384 which includes 14 deaths and 104 people being discharged. Eight of the 30 districts in the state are completely Covid-19 free and have not reported even a single case till date.Karnataka government’s move to ease lockdown restrictions, however, sparked criticism from the opposition. JD(S) leader and Member of Legislative Council, Basvraj Horatti asked the government to reconsider its decision as Covid-19 cases were increasing in the state. He also said, allowing movement of two-wheeler vehicles without passes would render the lockdown meaningless and coronavirus may spread to rural areas too.Meanwhile, in a controversial statement, Karnataka Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu claimed that gargling hot water mixed with turmeric and salt, thrice a day, could cure coronavirus. Sriramulu said he is no doctor but claimed that he had read an article on how this was an effective cure and had been successful in China. However, late in the evening, he tweeted out saying that he had merely made a suggestion and did not mean that the remedy could cure coronavirus.The minister had made the original statement in Bellary where, in another faux pas, food kits were distributed by him and local legislator Somashekar Reddy. The leaders were seen violating all social distancing norms as hundreds gathered in queues, jostling and pushing one another to avail of these free food kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-karnataka-decides-to-open-up-parts-of-economy-to-business-from-april-20/story-4y1aolboTjRq2UT8wZnfxH.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Odisha announces Rs 100 crore employment programme for 4.5 lakh urban poor families||With the Covid-19 lockdown affecting livelihood of millions of poor in urban areas, the Odisha government on Saturday announced an emergency programme ‘Urban Wage Employment Initiative’ worth Rs 100 crore that would start from April 20 and continue till September this year.Announcing the programmme, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said 4.50 lakh families residing in 114 urban local bodies across the state would be benefitted by it. With cooperation of Mission Shakti groups, the programme will be implemented from this month till September this year.The beneficiaries will receive their payment by the end of each week. Under the programme, developmental works such as cleaning of drains, remediation of water bodies, remodelling of playgrounds and parks, construction of public toilets will be undertaken. Local artists will also be employed for wall painting and mural paintings.Last month, Patnaik had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the state to grant unemployment allowance to over 36.10 lakh NREGS workers who are sitting idle due to lockdown. In his letter to PM Modi, the chief minister had demanded that Rs 380.39 crore for Odisha, one fourth of the wage rate as per MGNREGA, as unemployment allowance.Odisha had also announced a package of Rs 2,200 crore for the poorer sections of the state including Rs 1,000 cash assistance to each of the 94 lakh beneficiaries under the Food Supplies & Consumer Welfare Department and Rs 1500 to each of the 22 lakh construction workers. Besides, financial assistance of Rs 3,000 was announced for each of the 65,000 street vendors across 114 urban local bodies to deal with the Covid-19 lockdown.With another 15 days remaining for the lockdown to end, Odisha officials are worried about its impact on the state’s economy. The harvesting of rabi crops has taken a major hit with farmers forced to do distress sale of vegetables. Rabi crops including paddy, maize and millet have not been damaged but procurement has been hit hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-odisha-announces-rs-100-crore-employment-programme-for-4-5-lakh-urban-poor-families/story-nG0N4uu3NrX6gZ8LcRjghI.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Most rapid tests negative in Rajasthan and Punjab; other states get ready for the exercise||In the first round of rapid-testing in Rajasthan to detect carriers or super spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus most tests results were negative, officials said on Saturday, as other states started working on conducting tests from Sunday.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also advised antibody tests in Covid-19 hotspots which will ensure faster detection of cases and give more time to authorities to contain community spread. Once a person tests positive after the antibody test, the PCR test has to be done to confirm the result, which takes anywhere between 24 to 48 hours. While antibody test is based on blood samples, the PCR test is based on throat swab.Most state government officials on Saturday said they have received the rapid test kits (RTKs). They, however, said the kits were very less as compared to the demand. India had received 6,50,000 kits from China on Friday, which has been distributed to the states. Most states have set up additional quarantine centres to keep the persons, who test positive in rapid testing.Rajasthan got 10,000 rapid test kits on Friday and 52 samples were tested, all of which were negative. On Saturday, 5,000 tests were conducted in Jaipur’s walled city, from where most number of cases have been reported. Rohit Singh, additional chief secretary, health, said the rapid tests would help the government in the ongoing containment exercise as people tested positive will be quickly isolated to prevent further spread. “This is part of our strategy to use an optimal mix of both types of tests for effective containment in an aggressive manner,” he said.Rajasthan became the first state to conduct the rapid tests on Friday as 52 people in the walled city were tested with these kits. All of them tested negative. The state will get 1 lakh testing kits soon, said health minister Raghu Sharma on Saturday.The Chhattisgarh government would be procuring high-quality Covid-19 rapid testing kits from a South Korean company within the next 10 days, the state’s health minister TS Singh Deo said Saturday.“As per the tender, the kits will arrive in the next seven to ten days. The South Korean company based in India was the lowest bidder. The rate we have been able to close at (Rs 337 per kit) is the lowest in India,” he said.The Chhattisgarh government had earlier cancelled two short tenders for the purchase of rapid testing kits in the last 15 days. The state has reported 36 cases of Covid-19 out of which 24 people have been discharged.Chhattisgarh is the second state after Andhra Pradesh to import kits from South Korea. Andhra Pradesh received one lakh kits from South Korea on Friday, which was dispatched to districts on Saturday. “The rapid antibody tests would commence in a day or two and it would improve the efficiency of the testing significantly,” special chief secretary (health) K S Jawahar Reddy said at a review meeting conducted by the chief minister on Saturday.A Punjab government official said that the state has 10,100 rapid testing kits from ICMR and these are being used for testing in 24 hotspots identified by the government. The state government will collect all the data available after rapid testing exercise on Saturday, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state health department’s official spokesperson for Covid-19.This is second batch of antibody tests kits received by the state. On Monday, the state received 1,000 kits, which was used to conduct tests in Mohali and Jalandhar. Total seven of the 1,000 tested were found to be positive, another state government official said.In Uttar Pradesh, the first tests from the kits in Meerut and Saharanpur have come negative, officials said, adding that 8,500 kits received would be used in each of the 17 worst Covid affected sub-divisions of the state.The officials in Bihar, Uttarkahand and Himachal Pradesh said that they have received the kits though the number was inadequate considering the demand to conduct the tests. “The number of kits we have received (3,400) so far is very less against our demand,” said National Health Mission Director Nipun Jindal in Himachal Pradesh. Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, said, “This is the first tranche of antibody-based rapid test kits we received. The department is formulating a comprehensive strategy for its prudent usage.” Bihar has received 6,240 rapid test kits.Karnataka’s health and family welfare department secretary, Jawaid Akhter said the 11,400 kits given by the Centre have been sent to NIMHANS for testing to ensure the efficacy of the kits. “Once they are certified by our local authorities, they will be deployed in different districts of the state over the next few days,” he said. Rajasthan also gave 100 kits to SMS medical college in Jaipur for their reliability, after which a go-ahead will be given for their distribution throughout the state, officials said.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the 42,000 RTKs received on Sunday will be used to conduct random tests in the 71 containment zones of the city. Jammu and Kashmir health commissioner, Atul Duloo, said that 12,000 kits were received by the government on Saturday and will be used soon in hotspots for testing.In Kerala, 25,000 rapid test kits have arrived, said a senior official of the health department, adding these kits will be used in worst-hit Kasaragode and Kannur districts in a couple of days. Since there is no threat of massive community spread, the use of these kits will be minimum in Kerala, he said. On Saturday four fresh cases were reported taking the total of positive cases to 399. Maharashtra government has not received the kits. “We are yet to receive antibody tests kits. We will have to follow certain protocols before starting to conduct the tests even after receiving them,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department, Maharashtra.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-most-rapid-tests-negative-in-rajasthan-and-punjab-other-states-get-ready-for-the-exercise/story-NjnoIFgKuckzHK2CV1oLzO.html
19-04-2020||India||Actor Ajaz Khan arrested for comments during Facebook live, faces serious charges||Actor Ajaz Khan of ‘Big Boss 7’ fame was arrested by Mumbai’s Khar police on Saturday for promoting enmity between two groups and for waging ‘war against the country’. These charges, if proved, could see him face a tenure in the jail extending to a life sentence.According to Khar police, Khan made objectionable comments in a Facebook live session following which he was called to the police station on April 18 for an inquiry and was later arrested. Khar police booked him under sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups), 121 (Waging, or attempting to wage war, or abetting waging of war, against the Government of India), 117 (Abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505(2) (Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code.Gajanan Kabdule, senior police inspector at Khar police station confirmed the arrest. “The accused has posted an objectionable post on Facebook and Twitter and we have arrested him. Investigations are currently on,” said Kabdule.Adil Khatri, Khan’s advocate said, “The police have applied very serious sections on him, which are baseless. They applied section 121 Indian Penal Code which is a very serious section and in this, the accused may be punished with life imprisonment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-ajaz-khan-arrested-for-comments-during-facebook-live-faces-serious-charges/story-ezq1iF6R1LQk1p8lwJ1JeL.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Students stranded in Kota won’t be evacuated, says Chhattisgarh government||Hours after a minister in Chhattisgarh claimed the government is planning to evacuate students from the state stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel spoke to his counterpart Ashok Gehlot on Saturday and decided against bringing them back during the Covid-19 lockdown.This came after Uttar Pradesh sent hundreds of buses to evacuate approximately 7500 medical and engineering aspirants from Kota, often described as India’s coaching capital for competitive examinations.The Chhattisgarh chief minister appealed to the parents of the students not to panic and said the government is committed for their safety and security.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The Chhattisgarh government has decided not to violate the guidelines of lockdown like Uttar Pradesh did on Friday and hence we will not evacuate the students. We are making a list of students stranded at Kota and other places and then the government will make all necessary arrangements for them,” Vinod Verma, an adviser to Baghel, said while speaking to HT.Verma said the news of the evacuation of Uttar Pradesh students created pressure on the Chhattisgarh and other state governments but they don’t want to violate any rule during coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Yogi Adityanath’s Kota evacuation plan puts Nitish Kumar in oppn firing lineOn Saturday morning, revenue and disaster management minister Jai Singh Agarwal said while speaking to HT that in the meeting with chief minister Baghel, officers were instructed to make a list of students stranded in Kota and that serious attempts to evacuate them from Kota will be made. Agarwal made a similar announcement on Twitter in which he claimed that “proper arrangements to bring back the Chhattisgarh students from Kota will be made.”The Chhattisgarh government also issued a statement on Saturday evening and claimed that the proper arrangements will be made for the students will be made by both Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh government. Also read: Sheer number of students swamp UP’s Kota evacuation plan, buses fall short“Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has assured CM Baghel that there is no need to worry about children living in Kota and all the necessary arrangements are being made by the Rajasthan government for all the students living in Kota,” the statement said.It said a nodal officer has also been appointed by the Rajasthan government as well as helpline number, 07442325342, has been started for the stranded students.“Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said that if a child has any problem in Kota, then his parents should inform their respective district collector with complete information so that their problems in Kota can be resolved,” it added.Kota draws thousands of students from all over the country, who enrol in institutes to prepare for IIT-JEE and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for undergraduate engineering and medical courses, respectively.The students have been stranded in Kota since the ongoing nationwide lockdown was initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease outbreak.District authorities in Kota have said around 30,000 students are still in Kota and another 10,000 aspirants have returned to their respective states.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-chhattisgarh-students-stranded-in-kota-won-t-be-evacuated-says-cm-bhupesh-baghel/story-EFnw2oTRGbj6qxWozReoJP.html
19-04-2020||India||Spotlight on Oxford in vaccine race, GoM holds key meet: Covid-19 news today||United Kingdom’s experts believe a trial at the University of Oxford could give a crucial indication as early as next month on whether the world is on track for an early vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) said many countries would likely follow China in revising up their fatalities once they start getting the coronavirus crisis under control. Wuhan has admitted missteps in tallying its death toll, abruptly raising the city’s count by 50%. In India, a Group of Ministers (GoM) held a key meeting to discuss the pandemic situation on Saturday.15 districts across 9 states report over 50% Covid-19 cases: DataThe ministry of health finally updated on Saturday the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across districts, showing that the pandemic has now spread to 56% of India’s districts, but that 15 districts across nine states account for half the cases -- data that will come in useful as India opens up its unaffected (and relatively less affected) areas for business and other activities , albeit with social distancing and other norms, starting Monday. Read MoreCovid-19 outbreak: In vaccine race, all eyes on Oxford trial’s deadlineA vaccine for Covid-19 being developed at University of Oxford is one of four that has progressed to clinical trials – the first stage of a vaccine being tested on humans – but it accounts for the largest sample size, making it one of the most watched among all efforts.Read MoreCoronavirus update: Disease may affect brain, nervous system, say expertsThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can, in some instances, lead to disorientation or delirium, say neurologists treating Covid-19 patients. While the focus has so far been on the effect of the disease on the respiratory system, as doctors treat more patients, they are beginning to notice and document new patterns.Read MoreIndia under lockdown: Migrant labourer peddles 1,700 km in 7 days to reach homeMigrant labourer Mahesh Jena peddled 1,700km across India over seven days to reach home in Odisha’s Jajpur district. His biggest challenge: Keeping the wheels moving. Read MoreCovid-19: What to read during, after a pandemicGiven how popular the movie Contagion has become over the past few months, and the huge renewal of interest in the genre after the emergence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), know more about a huge volume of end-of-the-world fiction that’s out there.Read MoreGovt offices outside Covid hot spots to resume workGovernment offices across the country are set to become functional from Monday as states have allowed resumption of work for most departments, especially in the rural areas.Read MoreFlights, trains unlikely to begin on May 3, GoM looks at May 15Restrictions on air and train travel may continue beyond May 3, when the 40-day lockdown in India to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic comes to an end, at least three people who attended a Group of Ministers (GoM) meeting on Saturday said on condition of anonymity.Read More‘Trying to make e-learning immersive and constructive’: HRD Minister PokhriyalUnion HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ spoke to Hindustan Times about the CBSE and University exams, fee structures in schools during Covid-19,summer vacations, e-learning, and research linked to the coronavirus disease. Read MoreICMR study shows side effects of HCQ in health care staffSome side effects, such as abdominal pain and nausea have been observed in healthcare workers, who are a part of the study being conducted in India, to look at the prophylactic (preventive) effects of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday.Read MoreAfter China, others may revise death tolls: WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that many countries would likely follow China in revising up their death tolls once they start getting the coronavirus crisis under control. Wuhan admitted missteps in tallying its death toll, abruptly raising the city’s count by 50%.Read MoreAlarm in navy after 26 test positive for Covid-19 at Mumbai facilityIn the single largest case of Indian military personnel being infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the navy on Saturday said 26 sailors from a key naval base in Mumbai have been placed under isolation after testing positive for Covid-19.Read MoreSaad can join probe on 3-day notice: Kin of Tablighi Jamaat chiefTablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad could join Delhi Police investigation into defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, on a three-day notice, said a close relative of the religious leader on Saturday.Read MoreManmohan Singh to head Cong’s 11-member Covid-19 panelCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday constituted an 11-member consultative group under former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s leadership to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic and to formulate the party’s views on them.Read MoreEarly measures reason for fewer cases in India: WHO regional directorIndia has had fewer cases than it might have because of early and aggressive action to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organization (WHO) South East Asia Region, told Hindustan Times in an interview.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-oxford-in-vaccine-race-gom-holds-key-meet-covid-19-news-today/story-k1nsqTmEjmld0IwmHmXxUK.html
19-04-2020||India||Manmohan Singh to head Congress’ 11-member Covid-19 panel||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday constituted an 11-member consultative group under former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s leadership to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic and to formulate the party’s views on them.The group also includes Rahul Gandhi, Randeep Singh Surjewala, KC Venugopal, P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari, Jairam Ramesh, Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate and Rohan Gupta. This is the first time Rahul Gandhi has become a member of a party panel since he stepped down as the Congress chief last year.In a press release, the Congress said the consultative group will meet virtually daily.A member of the group, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the panel will give suggestions to the government on both health and economic challenges arising out of the pandemic. “Economic pandemic is even bigger than health pandemic. As Rahul Gandhi has said the Congress, as the opposition and the country’s oldest party, will continue to give its suggestions irrespective of whether the government accepts those or not,” he said.The member said they are duty-bound to put in the public domain the challenges and the solutions. “It is deeply felt by many in the country that the government is doing very little in terms of laying down a roadmap for kick-starting the economy...”He said the panel will hold consultations with chief ministers, former chief ministers, former Union ministers, Congress as well as non-Congress leaders and experts. “Apart from suggestions and solutions, the group will keep coming out with warnings to the government about the forthcoming challenges.”He said Rahul Gandhi, in his press conference on Thursday, gave constructive suggestions and offered positive criticism. “He happens to be the leader, who is a rallying point for the party even though he may not hold any post. That is why he is there with Dr Manmohan Singh, and Chidambaram... this committee will be able to lay down a futuristic road map for the country.”Both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have been interacting with Congress leaders from across the country through video-conferencing and urging them to play an active role in the fight against Covid-19. They have asked them to reach out to the highest number of people apart from assessing the work of the Centre and state governments in containing the pandemic.The Congress has repeatedly sought the ramping up of Covid-19 testing and personal protection equipment for health workers. It has also urged the government to spell out steps it plans to take to mitigate the woes of migrant labourers and farmers waiting to harvest their crops.Sonia Gandhi has written six letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking relief for different sections and to suggest measures the government can take in dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-to-head-congress-11-member-covid-19-panel/story-lBOdpI0rkQYehYfFHLigWM.html
19-04-2020||India||Migrant labourer, Jamaat attendee test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand; tally reaches 42||Two more people tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 42 from 40. Both the cases are from Haridwar.One of the two to test positive is a migrant labourer - the first such case in the state. The second patient is a close contact of a person who attended the event of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month.“A 24-year-old migrant labourer who initially worked in Rishikesh, and a 45-year-old female who is a close contact of a Jamaat attendee tested positive for coronavirus. The migrant labourer had come to Rishikesh from Hathras area in Uttar Pradesh to work, but he was caught by officials on March 30 near Roorkee and sent to a relief camp. He was caught when he along with three others were going back to Hathras by taking lift from a truck driver. We have isolated 24 more people and sent their samples for testing who lived in the same relief camp with the patient,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, chief medical officer (CMO) of Haridwar district.The samples for the migrant labourer were sent for testing on April 16 after he complained of sore throat. Test results of three more people travelling with him are awaited.Dr Naithani added that the second patient is a close contact of a Jamaat attendee who had tested positive earlier from the district.“We have isolated the 45-year-old lady who was staying in a quarantine centre since she was found to be a close contact of another positive Covid-19 patient. On Saturday, her two children were also isolated and their samples sent for testing. Her husband however, has tested negative but is still being monitored by health officials for any symptoms in future,” said the CMO.On Friday, a nine-month-old baby and a doctor from a military hospital in Dehradun tested positive along with another Jamaat attendee from Nainital district. On Tuesday, two Jamaat attendees from Haridwar district had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-labourer-jamaat-attendee-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-tally-reaches-42/story-8DOdtnzapO0R0LElqxeaqJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Migrant vendor couple becomes parents in Tripura, names newborn ‘Lockdown’||A migrant vendor couple from Rajasthan, who got stranded in Tripura after the coronavirus pandemic, became parents of a baby boy and they named him Lockdown. Sanjay Bauri and his wife Manju Bauri usually visit Tripura for six months of every year, to sell cheap plastic-wares. They visit other states as well. This time, their experience was different. “We faced so much trouble due to the outbreak of coronavirus and the lockdown. And our baby was born during the lockdown six days ago at a government hospital. He is fine,” Sanjay Bauri, father of the newborn, said while speaking to reporters. Also read: Early measures reason for fewer cases in India, says WHO regional director“As he was born during the lockdown, we have decided to name him lockdown,” he said.Sanjay didn’t take the risk to travel to Rajasthan’s Dausa district via road and railway as Manju was expecting. And after the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24, they became tensed.They came to Agartala railway station at Badharghat to find the trains were not running. Besides them, 61 other migrant vendors were also stranded due to the lockdown. “The railway police officers took us to two shelter houses. They helped us a lot and even in ensuring the safe delivery of my son. I am very thankful to them and the state government. We are now waiting to return back to Rajasthan after the conclusion of the lockdown,” he said.Also read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only onePinaki Samanti, superintendent of police of Government Railway Police (GRP) said they sent 63 migrant vendors at the two temporary shelter houses soon after the lockdown. They are also being provided with food, medicines and required things, he said.“We took one pregnant woman to state-run IGM Hospital a few days ago where she delivered a baby boy. The baby is fine. Medicines and other required things have been given for the mother and baby,” said Samanta. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-vendor-couple-becomes-parents-in-tripura-names-newborn-lockdown/story-kfOPPXUryzb88NwClDJ12N.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: MP migrant yearning to return home chops off his tongue at Gujarat temple, say police||A labourer from Madhya Pradesh who was apparently depressed because of the lockdown and yearning to return home chopped off his tongue at a temple in Gujarat’s Banaskantha district on Saturday, police said.While some reports claimed that it was a “sacrifice” to appease the goddess, police did not confirm them.Vivek Sharma (24), a native of Morena district of Madhya Pradesh who worked as a sculptor, was found lying unconscious and covered in blood at the temple of Nadeshwari Mataji at Nadeshwari village in Sui Gam tehsil on Saturday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “We found him holding his chopped tongue in his hand and rushed him to Sui Gam hospital,” said police sub inspector H D Parmar.The temple where the incident took place is looked after by the Border Security Force, while Sharma worked at another temple which is 14 km away.Also read: Early measures reason for fewer cases in India, says WHO regional directorAs per the preliminary inquiry, Sharma had become extremely homesick, and was restless ever since lockdown was imposed for containing coronavirus, banning inter-district or inter-state movement. A local BSF official said Sharma might have thought of offering his tongue by way of sacrifice to the goddess so that circumstances changed and he could return home.However, police said they can not ascertain what exactly happened until he recovers and his statement is recorded. Also read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only oneClick here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-mp-migrant-yearning-to-return-home-chops-off-his-tongue-at-gujarat-temple-say-police/story-IxQG4Gp492KaYYOFvEWF6L.html
19-04-2020||India||26 foreigners are among 29 arrested for violating curbs||The Ahmednagar police have arrested 29 people, including 26 foreigners, for religious preaching while visiting on tourist visa and violating assembly prohibition orders, officials said on Saturday. While the foreign nationals were remanded to police custody till April 24 by a local court in Ahmednagar on Saturday, the Indian nationals were remanded to judicial custody before being released on bail, on Saturday.These 29 people were among 35 people who were found to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin, New Delhi, police said. “These 29 were found along with six others, who tested positive while these 29 had tested negative - all 15 days ago. While the others are being treated, the others were in institutional quarantine until yesterday (Friday) and arrested today [Saturday]...,” said Police inspector Dilip Pawar of local crime branch of Ahmednagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-foreigners-are-among-29-arrested-for-violating-curbs/story-H8Vu9W7vhx3VKK8kvN1EiO.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Himachal Pradesh man who recovered from Covid-19 tests positive again||A person, who had earlier recovered from the novel coronavirus, tested positive for the infection again on Saturday, taking the number of active cases in Himachal Pradesh to 23, officials said. One more person tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 40, according to the officials. Recurrence of Covid-19 in one of the patients who had recovered from the infection has been reported from Una district, a health official said. As per the statistics provided by the state health department, one of the three cured patients in Una has again tested positive.Also read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only one However, details of the case were not immediately available. A total of 16 confirmed cases were found in Una and the chart now shows 14 active cases and two cured. After the latest development, 11 patients -- three each from Chamba, Kangra, and Solan districts and two from Una district -- have recovered. The fresh case was identified as a Tablighi Jamaat member who had recently returned from Nizamuddin in Delhi and is a resident of Amb subdivision in Una, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sandeep Kumar said. The DC told PTI that the man had returned to his home in Jaman Kuali village in Rajpur Jaswan panchayat around March 8-9 after attending a congregation in Nizamuddin last month.Also read: Early measures reason for fewer cases in India, says WHO regional director “We are surprised that he has been found positive over a month after returning from Nizamuddin Markaz. He may have come in contact with some other positive Covid-19 person. We are trying to find his primary contacts,” he added. Four persons were shifted to a private hospital outside the state, while two others have died. The two deceased persons include a 70-year-old woman from Delhi who was staying in Baddi since March 15 and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh on April 2. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-himachal-pradesh-man-who-recovered-from-covid-19-tests-positive-again/story-UhrXllJeNKMfPiTLldroJK.html
19-04-2020||India||Alarm in navy after 26 test positive at Mumbai facility||In the single largest case of Indian military personnel being infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the navy on Saturday said 26 sailors from a key naval base in Mumbai have been placed under isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. The sailors from INS Angre — a logistics and administrative support base under the Western Naval Command — are being monitored at the navy’s premier hospital INHS Asvini. These cases have been traced to a single sailor who tested positive for Covid-19 11 days ago. All the sailors live in the same residential complex. They are all in their 20s, except the oldest who is 47.“The detection of these Covid-19 cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening/testing carried out by the Western Naval Command after one sailor tested positive on April 7 (he is among the 26). All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic,” navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said.The first Indian sailor to test positive on April 7 contracted the disease from a retired sailor who was infected by his son who came to Mumbai from the US, a naval officer said on condition of anonymity. The navy hasn’t had any Covid-19 case on board any of its warships, submarines or air stations so far. INS Angre is under lockdown to prevent the spread of infection.The spokesperson said stringent quarantine and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and their families at INS Angre, with door-to-door screening being undertaken for identification of more cases, if any.The navy said it remained fully combat-ready and also prepared to participate in the national mission to fight the pandemic.In a recent address to naval personnel, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh stressed it was vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships remained free of the virus.Meanwhile, the army confirmed that a lady officer posted at the Military Hospital, Dehradun, has tested positive for the disease and the necessary contact tracing was being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarm-in-navy-after-26-test-positive-at-mumbai-facility/story-rCrUrjfo2anJdqLsKNTf7H.html
19-04-2020||India||3 health workers attacked in Indore, accused booked||A team of the state health department was attacked in Indore while conducting a survey on Saturday, officials said.The survey team in charge Praveen Chourey said, “Our team of three was doing its work when a man, identified as Paras, attacked them. He hit them with stones and slapped them. He also damaged the mobile phone of one of the team members, Vandana.”Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Harinarayan Chari Mishra said, “Two neighbours in the locality had a dispute between them when the health department’s survey team reached there. The accused thought the woman members was recording their dispute on her mobile phone, hence he snatched the mobile phone and damaged it.”Additional superintendent of police Jaiveer Singh Bhadauria said, “An FIR has been lodged against the accused.”The incident has come on a day that the police arrested three people in connection with Friday’s attack on sanitation workers in Dewas. In a video of Friday’s incident, which has since gone viral, the sanitation workers are seen being abused and attacked.Dewas police insector Sajjan Singh Mukati said, “The complainant Ashish, a resident of Rajaur village told the police that he along with Deepak and Chunki was clearing a drain in Koyala locality when one Aadil Khan and some others attacked him with sharp edged weapons while alleging that clearing the drains daily caused foul smell in the area. The accused also attacked his companions too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-health-workers-attacked-in-indore-accused-booked/story-1Xppcrbv5LhdsWCbT7uF4N.html
19-04-2020||India||Row over cost of ventilators in Madhya Pradesh||Authorities in Madhya Pradesh ordered an inquiry on Saturday following a complaint by ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers that the district administration in Chhindwara allegedly bought substandard and overpriced ventilators and blood pressure machines after Congress lawmaker Nakul Nath released ~25 lakh for the purpose from his constituency development fund. As per a district administration official, the amount from MPLAD fund was released to the administration which deputed the civil surgeon of the district hospital to purchase the machines. However, the BJP workers have complained that the price quoted for the equipment is five times its original cost and that the number of machines supplied is also less than what was ordered.“On receiving the complaint, I ordered payment to the company concerned to be stopped immediately until an inquiry is conducted. I have ordered an inquiry into the matter. Its report is expected in two days,” said Chhindwara collector Srinivas Sharma.On his part, Nath said, “It’s unfortunate. If there has been any irregularity in the purchase of the machines, the guilty should be given stringent punishment.”Meanwhile, an inquiry has also been ordered in Gwalior following complaints that wheat flour bags being distributed among the poor hit hard by the Covid-19 lockdown weighed only 7.5 kg to 8 kg while their packing says they weigh 10 kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-cost-of-ventilators-in-madhya-pradesh/story-Jl39rplEbtn9JdkEqz63oI.html
19-04-2020||India||India under lockdown: Migrant labourer pedals 1,700 km in 7 days to reach home||On April 1, Mahesh Jena followed his usual pre-dawn routine, but with an unusual plan in mind.At around 4am, after enduring a sleepless night, Jena, a slightly built 20-year-old with a shaven head and a boyish face, put on his blue jeans, his blue-and-gray striped t shirt, and his worn-out rubber slippers. He put his backpack on his shoulders, and happy with its weight, he slipped out of his tiny room and got on to his bicycle — a heavy relic of a bike with a 22-inch frame — and started pedalling. It was dark. Usually, he would head for his factory, a little over 10km away in the industrial zone of Sangli in Maharashtra.This time, he was headed home — to a small village called Bhanra in Odisha’s Jajpur, nearly 1,700km away.His backpack had a blanket, a quilt, a change of clothes, a few packets of biscuits (Parle G, Marie, and cream), a few sachets of soap, a steel tiffin Jena usually carried to work, bottles of water, and just under Rs 3,000 in cash. The bag weighed a little more than 10kg. He had no maps, and no phone. He felt no fear and little doubt. His head was clear — he would keep going till he reached home. If the cycle broke down, he would walk.Anything was better than the uncertainty and dread that had gripped him and his colleagues — all migrant labourers working in the metal and plastic factories in Sangli’s industrial zone, many of them from Odisha — ever since a national lockdown was announced on March 24.“The rumour was that all the factories would close for five months at least,” Jena said. “Everyone was very scared. How we will earn? How will we eat? How will we pay room rent? No one said anything to us about how we will survive, whether we will be paid.”On the news, Jena saw the crowds of migrant labourers leaving on foot. Many of his co-workers were talking of doing the same.“For 4-5 days, we were under great stress, we did not know what to do. I could not sleep. Do I go or not? Will I be able to make it? If I walk, I will cover 50 km a day… that will take me over a month! But then I thought, if I cycle, maybe I can do 100km or more in a day. That’s about 15 days. Not too bad.”Sitting and fretting in his rented room, Jena made his decision. On March 29, he called Manoj Parida, a cousin whose house he had grown up in, now a lineman in the Northern Electricity Supply Company in Jajpur district, and told him the plan.“I told him to stay back,” Parida said. “When he said he had run out of money, I sent Rs 3,000 through Google Pay. No one at home thought that he would cycle his way from Maharashtra. We thought it was almost impossible.”Jena decided not to tell anyone else. His plan was simple; try following the same route he took from Odisha to Sangli, but in the opposite direction.When he was first picked up by a contractor in his village, Jena and a group of men took a bus from Jajpur to Bhubaneshwar, a four-hour ride. From there, they took the Konark Express, which connects the eastern part of India to the western part, a distance of 1,932km from Bhunaneshwar to Mumbai, which it covers in 37 hours, 15 minutes. They got off at Solapur, a city in south-western Maharashtra close to its border with Karnataka, a day-and-a-half later. From Solapur, they took another bus to Sangli, a 12-hour journey.“That was going to be my route,” Jena said. “I did not think of anything more. I did not think about food, or water, or whether the cycle would last.”FIRST-TIME MIGRANTJena was born near a cycle market in Ludhiana. His parents ran a pavement food stall in the city. Struggling with money, they sent Jena back to their village in Odisha when he was 9 years old, to live with his uncle. In school, Jena had ambitions to join the army. Five years ago, his father had tried to kill himself. With less than Rs 500 in his pocket, Jena says, he boarded a train to Delhi and from there made his way to Ludhiana to see his father. Last year, his father was diagnosed with a kidney disease. Then an injury to his spinal cord left him debilitated.“I have two younger brothers, a younger sister,” Jena said. “My turn had come, I needed to earn. We were very badly off, no money, no house to call our own.”Nine months ago, Jena quit school without giving his Class 10 exams, and became one of the approximately 120 million migrant labourers in India.Chinmay Tumbe, an assistant professor of economics at the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad and the author of India Moving: A History of Migration, calls it the “the world’s largest and longest voluntary stream of migration.” Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Odisha are the three main sources of this mass migration.With no particular skills, Jena first found work in a plastics factory, loading and unloading consignments.“I felt like my neck would break,” he said. “I hated it.” He became an apprentice in a metal factory making water pumps, despite many of his friends warning him of the dangers of the job. Early on in his apprenticeship, he says, he followed a commotion to find that a worker had died at a foundry after being buried under huge slabs of iron.“I have seen people working there losing hands and legs,” Jena said. But he soldiered on. He learnt to cut, temper, and weld iron. For five months, he got no money. In January, he found a job that paid him Rs 12,000 a month at Jsons Foundry, which makes metal castings for the oil and gas industry. ON THE ROADBy the time the sun was out, Jena had passed by the densely populated city of Miraj (which forms a single municipality with Sangli) and taken a sharp northward turn on NH 160. On Day 1, he hoped to make it to Solapur, cycling all day, and resting when the sun went down. Soon after Miraj, he left NH 160 and got on to the Maharashtra state highway numbered 161. For hours, he rode at a steady clip past sugarcane fields. The first river he crossed was the modest Agrani, a stream that was successfully revived in 2017 to help alleviate the troubles of this drought prone area.When evening came, Jena found that he was not tired. In fact, he was enjoying the unhurried cadence of his cycling, the solitude of the road. He kept going.When he finally stopped for the night — at a temple — he was barely 40km from Solapur, and had cycled more than 150km. The only problem he faced on Day 1 was a puncture. A group of villagers asked him where he was coming from, and decided to help on hearing his story.“They let me sleep at the temple, got me food, got me milk, I got my puncture repaired,” Jena said. “I went to sleep thinking, I’ve done 150km! I can do this!”By that time, the contractor who brought Jena to Sangli, and a few of Jena’s colleagues had gone to the local police station to report his disappearance.CHECKPOSTSThe first day set a pattern that would repeat itself with a regularity that is extraordinary in itself. In covering the breadth of India alone on a cycle, Jena was barely troubled. He was helped everywhere he asked for it. He cycled all day and well into the night.“Nothing scary happened to me, and I never had a problem with food or water,” he said. “I began to enjoy myself. Especially going downhill in the hilly areas!”On he went on Day 2, from Solapur past the massive medieval fort of Naldurg with its beautiful lake, past shuttered sugar mills, past the corpses of dogs killed in road accidents, crossing into Karnataka somewhere in the middle of the day and realising it only after being stopped at a police check post.“only fear was the police,” Jena said.But even the police did not detain him, helping him on his way with food and water (it is worth noting here that Jena was lucky that he was not carrying the virus, or this story would have taken a very different route, tracing a “superspreader”.)“I was stopped many times at police check posts,” Jena said, “and each time I told them what I was doing, and I said, ‘I can’t possibly go back, you can keep me here if you like, or you can let me keep going’. They always let me go.”THE MAN AND HIS CYCLEIf Jena had a nemesis, it was the rate at which he suffered punctured tires — at least twice every day.“It got me down,” he said. “When I started, I had no idea this was going to happen so many times.On Day 3, as he was approaching Hyderabad, Jena got lost and went nearly a 100km in the wrong direction. At a village, a man told him a short-cut through hilly, forested terrain that would take him back to NH 65, and cut the distance by more than half. As he climbed the hill, the cycle’s rear tire got cut on a sharp rock. He climbed the rest of the way, around 10km, on foot.“At the top of road, I got back on to the cycle, balanced myself, checked my brakes, and then just let go,” Jena said. “It was wonderful, speeding all the way down like that on that empty road.”It was another 30km on foot before he found a village, though there was no one outside. He had to knock on doors before he found someone to fix the puncture.“Less than half hour later, the tire burst completely.”Again, Jena walked. At the next village, the owner of the cycle shop replaced the tube on his rear tear with a new one, but charged only for the cost of the tube itself.Soon after, he was on the highway skirting the mega city of Hyderabad, a third of his way done.“Now it was a straight, straight road to Vijayawada.”On this road, Jena’s path crossed that of a large group of migrant labourers on foot.“They were from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” Jena said. “They said that they had no money and they had no choice but to try and walk back to their villages. Some of them asked me if I would make it all the way to Odisha on a cycle.“I said, ‘with Bholanath on my side, I surely would.’” Bholanath is another name for Lord Shiva, a popular Indian deity. As he glided past the walkers, Jena congratulated himself on choosing to cycle.“I was not going to let go of the cycle at any cost,” he said. “Even if I had to walk with the cycle, I would walk with it, but I was certain that I wouldn’t let it go. If trains restarted, I would take the cycle on the train. If buses restarted, I would put it on the bus. I had a fear that anything could be stopped any time, and in that fear, my one hope was my cycle.”On Day 4, Jena reached Vijayawada, where it dawned on him that perhaps his family would be worried about his disappearance. He borrowed a phone from a stranger and called his sister.“When he called up, I was so angry for a moment,” said Mitali, his sister. “We were all distressed at home for days, with no news of him. I was angry with his stupidity, but we were also relieved. I told him, reach Jajpur and call again.”Jajpur was still nearly 900 km away, but by now Jena was in a trance. It was him, his cycle, and the road. For the next few days, he even forgot about the one thing that he usually obsessed about — where will money come from? Without a phone, he did not even have the distraction of making or receiving calls, or watching videos, or listening to music, or making photographs.He noticed that his route was becoming particularly beautiful, often densely forested, hilly, the roiling Krishna river on his right. He was going past the reserve forest of Kondapalli.“There was lots of beauty, it was amazing,” he said. “I felt like I could die doing this alone, and if I did die, it would be okay. If I lived, great, I would cycle.”Past the gigantic barrage on the Krishna at Vijayawada, Jena switched to NH 16, curving sharply upwards along the east coast towards his home.He began Day 6 by going past Srikakulam and crossing the bridge over the Nagavali river, which collapsed dramatically two years ago in June after the river flooded.By the end of the day, he crossed into Odisha, near the nondescript village of Gudipadar in Ganjam district. Soon he was going past the gorgeous town of Ganjam, where the Rushikulya river enters the Bay of Bengal, past where the Olive Ridleys nest, though he says he never noticed the sea, just a shimmer of blue too far to his right as he glided past familiar Sal forests. Then the road turned gently inland, and Jena was cycling past the oceanic Chilika lake.But it was only at Bhubaneswar, on Day 7, that he finally felt the relief of being on home turf. There was still a 100km to go.“I never fell ill except the pain that I felt on my feet and thighs due to the long hours of cycling,” Jena said. “I did suffer blackouts a couple of times. When the pain became unbearable, I stopped and rested. I felt very happy when I reached Bhubaneswar.”On the evening of April 7, he reached Jajpur town, just 5km from his village.He is still stuck there.“I called my uncle when I reached Jajpur and he told me to go to the police and tell them that I should be taken to the medical centre for quarantine,” he said , “and that’s what I did.”In quarantine for 14 days, Jena is yearning for home. He gets to see his uncle and his family every day, and they bring him food and talk from afar.The police have taken his cycle into custody too.“The police said, ‘we can’t trust him; someone who can cycle from Maharashtra, can easily escape from here’,” he said.It took him seven days to cover nearly 1,700km, roughly 242 kms a day. Is there something from his road trip that he regrets?“I was sure that I would meet ghosts,” Jena said. “I did not see a single one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-under-lockdown-migrant-labourer-peddles-1-700-km-in-7-days-to-reach-home/story-FTrl4Jlc0K7HOxO63cyonM.html
19-04-2020||India||Govt offices outside Covid hot spots to resume work||Government offices across the country are set to become functional from Monday as states have allowed resumption of work for most departments, especially in the rural areas.The Centre on Wednesday issued guidelines, which allowed activities like the conditional reopening of industries in rural areas and economic enclaves, to restart the economy from Monday outside the Covid-19 containment zones.In states such as Karnataka, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, the entire lower rung staff will return to work. Up to one-third of ministerial and subordinate staff will work on a rotation basis, orders issued by these state said.Thermal scanners and sanitisers have been made mandatory at all government offices and social distancing will have to be practised. Each office will have a nodal officer to ensure hygiene and social distancing, said an order issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa said two-wheelers in the state will be allowed to run without any passes even as interstate and interdistrict travel will remain prohibited. Punjab chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora said the state government has issued about 4,000 transit permits to over 120 companies to restart work. Haryana has ordered that no toll tax will be collected along state highways.To ensure a smooth supply of goods, restaurants, fuel stations and motor vehicle repair garages along highways have been allowed to function. The National Highway Authority of India has also announced no collection of toll tax along highways during the lockdown period.All mining activity in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh would resume, officials in these states said. While gatherings remain barred in most states, Uttarakhand has allowed weddings with just five guests. Sweet shops in West Bengal will open till 8 pm daily, whereas only takeaway restaurants have been allowed in other states.Technology companies in Karnataka and Telangana will become fully operational with social distancing norms. Construction works in all states would also resume with a condition of in-situ stay for workers at the construction sites. Contractors have been told to provide stranded migrant workers option to work at construction sites, if there is a shortage of labour.Industry leaders have said to restart factories to ensure pre-lockdown production levels will take a few months, with many saying the full production would start only by June end. Many said that the condition that factory owners would be liable if a worker tests positive for Covid-19 is a hurdle to the resumption of the production.“Small and medium factory owners cannot get the workers tested and without the tests, there is a risk of getting booked. Many of my friends are scared to open factories in such a scenario,” said a Jaipur-based factory owner, who was not willing to be named. Factory owners echoed similar sentiments in Punjab also.Many states have also allowed e-commerce companies to sell non-essential goods from Monday and prompted Congress leader Ajay Maken to demand that retailers in local markets be also allowed to open their shops. States like Himachal Pradesh and Kerala have allowed stationery and electronic repair shops to open during certain days of the week. As a large number of activities will start from Monday, state governments have issued instructions for enforcing the lockdown in the containment zones strictly. “We will double the enhancement measures in the containment areas,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-offices-outside-covid-hot-spots-to-resume-work/story-Ee4OefbHaPCahtnaovBulJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What to read during, after a pandemic||For years, I used to write a column on graphic novels (Cult Fiction) for Mint Lounge. I’m also deeply into SFF — just the kind of thing you would expect of a person of my age (indeterminate but I feel as old as Methuselah) and background (engineer who went to college at a time when engineering colleges were more liberal-arts inclined than even top liberal arts colleges). But my real specialty is end-of-the-world books. Given how popular the movie Contagion has become over the past few months, and the huge renewal of interest in the genre after the emergence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), this Sunday column is dedicated to the huge volume of end-of-the-world fiction that’s out there.You’d be surprised at just how many respected writers (Nevil Shute, Cormac McCarthy, Margaret Atwood, to name a few) have written end-of-the-world books. You’d also be surprised at just how many excellent new writers also have (Emily St Mandel, Peter Heller, Cixin Liu).In many of these books, the end of the world comes from a virus. In Stephen King’s The Stand, for instance, a virus called Captain Trips (also a nickname for Grateful Dead guitarist Jerry Garcia) kills 99% of the human race. Reacting to comparisons between Sars-CoV-2 and his fictional virus, King tweeted in early March: “No, coronavirus is not like The Stand. It’s not anywhere near as serious. It’s eminently survivable. Keep calm and take all reasonable precautions.” Michael Crichton’s Andromeda Strain is another book about a virus (and has more science than The Stand); Atwood’s Oryx and Crake is built around a human-created pandemic. In others, the end comes from a nuclear war. In Pat Frank’s underrated 1959 classic Alas, Babylon, Russia launches a full-scale nuclear attack on the US (the US eventually wins the war but at great cost to life and the economy). It’s understandable why a book written in 1959 would expect nuclear Armageddon to cause the end of the world. Nevil Shute’s 1957 novel, On The Beach is again built around the premise that a nuclear war has destroyed most of the world’s population and that the fallout is gradually but surely killing the rest. In still others — I am told these are particularly popular with survivalists in the US — the end of the world comes from a powerful electromagnetic pulse (EMP), which takes out all electric networks (and also all electronics) leading to the end of the world. And in some, a cosmic event results in the end of the world. In Neal Stephenson’s Seveneves, the destruction of the moon causes a hard rain to fall on Earth, although, warned two years in advance, some of humanity is by then safety ensconced in arks in space — waiting for a distant future when return to Earth may be possible. Of course, people who want a more non-fictional narrative of a pandemic could do worse than Daniel Defoe’s A Journal of the Plague Year (which is perhaps among the earliest non-fiction novels). It is set in London in 1665, the year the plague hit what was then one of the world’s greatest cities. The term end-of-the-world books is actually a misnomer, because none of these books really deals with a complete end-of-the-world scenario — either the tragedy is averted or the survivors find hope (at the end). Which is just as it should be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-to-read-during-after-a-pandemic/story-r8mJ2dMuUXtio6CbntOGqM.html
19-04-2020||India||Delhi govt wants curbs to remain after April 20||The Delhi government does not want to ease restrictions in the national capital on April 20 on the grounds that the city-state is a “high-risk zone” with over 1,700 cases and 10 of its 11 revenue districts have reported multiple coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, according to three senior officials familiar with the matter.In a proposal sent to Delhi’s lieutenant-governor (LG) Anil Baijal’s office for approval, the government has said that while the situation may be reviewed later, it was not in favour of easing curbs at the moment, the officials cited above said. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev is likely to issue an order Sunday to clarify what curbs will stay after April 20, this person added. The Delhi government decided to move the proposal on Friday evening after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) apprised the state administration of “large outbreaks” in several parts of he city, said a senior government official who asked not to be named.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the national lockdown -- first imposed on March 25 -- will be extended till May 3, but said some of the curbs would be lifted in places outside “containment zones” and areas where the potential of the virus spreading was low, to kick-start economic activity.“The file has not yet been returned from the L-G’s office. The document states that no relaxation in restrictions be allowed as of now. Two reasons have been cited. One is the high population density of Delhi. The second is the pace of spread of Covid-19 infection in the city,”said a senior government official who asked not to be named.A second official said that if no relaxations are done, it would mean that some activities that could start from April 20, as mentioned in the Union home ministry guidelines on April 15 -- e-commerce deliveries, factories in industrial estates such as Narela and Bawana if proper social distancing is maintained, in-situ construction activities in state development projects, allowing self-employed service providers such as plumbers and electricians to get back to work -- may not begin immediately.The L-G, on Saturday, gave approval to the government separately to maintain ‘status quo’ in all Delhi government offices/departments. The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also did not respond to calls and text messages seeking a comment.The L-G is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and the government’s proposal can be objected to or dismissed by him. In that case, a fresh proposal will have to be prepared. Senior government officials said given the severity of the situation in Delhi and to prevent any further spread of the infection, it is unlikely that the proposal will be turned down.A third official, however, said that the situation will be reviewed by the government in a few days to see if more activities can begin. At 1,893 cases, Delhi has the second most Covid-19 infections after Maharashtra, which has 3,648. The city has 76 “containment zones”, where the restrictions are stricter, movement is barred, and home delivery of essentials is facilitated by the administration.On Saturday, north-east Delhi, which till now was free of any “containment zones”, also came under the radar with its district magistrate Shashi Kaushal issuing three containment orders -- two for different lanes in Shastri Park, and one for Gautampuri. According to officials, all hospitals and clinics (veterinary clinics) and pharmacies will continue to function as they have through the lockdown, as will all grocery shops for essential supplies outside containment zones. Agricultural markets will continue to operate, but from the new locations where several of them have been moved in the past weeks, and will follow staggered timings. The one service that the government has added to the list of what will be permitted from April 20 is that all state hospitals -- other than the two dedicated for Covid-19 treatment (Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality) -- will open for general and out-patient examinations.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed; as will all public transport including buses, auto-rickshaws, taxis, cab aggregator services, e-rickshaws and the Metro. Goods transport and all essential services that were permitted through the lockdown will continue to operate.On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the number of new Covid-19 cases have reduced “a little bit” over the last three days, “but, we have to reduce it further”. “A lot will depend on how Delhi performs in the next few days. Yesterday (Friday), of 2,274 tests, 68 were found positive. A few days ago, Delhi was reporting as many as 180, going up to over 300, cases in a day,” he said in a digital media address. Experts said not allowing any relaxation at this time is a good move as ideally all containment zones should have tight restrictions and complete lockdown for at least 28 days. “Delhi has a lot of congested area. At least a third of the population lives in unauthorised colonies in close proximity to each other. Now, if you relax the restrictions for the sake of the economy, the purpose would hardly be served as most people will end up being quarantined and won’t be able to work anyway,” said Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine department in Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-wants-curbs-to-remain-after-april-20/story-7qDuWjtDx1hKSJlu89BVbJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: With 42,000 kits, rapid tests from today in Delhi||Delhi will begin deploying rapid testing kits (RTKs) across the Capital’s 77 Covid-19 containment zones on Sunday with state health minister Satyendar Jain saying that the administration has received 42,000 antibody kits -- a development that came after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) revised its guidelines to allow the diagnosis tool in hot spots.Health care workers will carry out random tests in all containment zones – nine new areas were added to the list on Saturday – simultaneously, Jain said on Saturday. “We have received 42,000 rapid testing kits from the Centre. Today (Saturday), all our technicians are being trained on how to use the kits, the precautions to be taken and other nuances. From tomorrow (Sunday), rapid testing will begin in the containment zones,” the Delhi health minister said.On Thursday, India received a batch of 550,000 RTKs from China after two deadlines for the shipment were missed. ICMR officials have said that RTKs are not meant for diagnosis but should ideally be used for surveillance purposes to establish trends. It initially wanted to use the kits in parts of the country unaffected by Covid-19 or not significantly affected to asess the extent of the disease’s spread. The apex body for biomedical research, however, revised guidelines after states appealed that they be allowed to be use RTKs in hot spots so that containment efforts stepped up accordingly. “I am writing to you with reference to the rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 testing. It is understood that many states intend to use these kits in affected areas… The National Task Force at ICMR has carefully reviewed the data evolving from various countries on use of such kits. Based on available evidence, the testing strategy for Covid-19 has been revised…,” ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said in a letter to all state chief secretaries and principal health secretaries. ICMR recommended that since the gold standard front-line test for Covid-19 was real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which is aimed at early detection, the rapid antibody test could not be a substitute for it. “The rapid antibody test is a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of the diseases within a specific area or perimeter. The rapid antibody test will only be of utility after a minimum of seven days of onset of symptoms,” it said.Unlike the RT-PCR, which detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid tests detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus. It can show results within 30 minutes. Once a person tests positive after the antibody test, an RT-PCR test is done to confirm the result.Till 8pm on Saturday, five district magistrates in Delhi told HT that they received a communication from the state health department that RTKs would be provided to them. “But we have not been told how many kits we will get,” one of the DMs said on condition of anonymity. A senior health department official, who asked not to be named, said the number of kits allotted to every containment zone will be directly proportional to the Covid-19 cases detected in the area.The nine new containment areas named on Saturday were: North-east A-97,98 and 99 near Buland Masjid; Shastri Park; A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony; Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari; Budh Nagar, Inderpuri; Oberoi Apartment; G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden; E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park and T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri.Rajasthan has received 10,000 RTKs so far, and on Saturday it tested 5,000 people in Jaipur’s walled city, from where the most number of cases have been reported in the state.In Uttar Pradesh, the first tests from the kits in Meerut and Saharanpur came back negative, an official said, adding that 8,500 kits received will be used in each of the 17 worst-affected subdivisions. The Chhattisgarh government will procure high-quality kits from a South Korean company within 10 days, the state’s health minister TS Singh Deo said. Chhattisgarh will be the second state after Andhra Pradesh to import kits from South Korea. Andhra Pradesh received 100,000 kits from South Korea on Friday and they were dispatched to districts on Saturday. “The rapid antibody tests will improve the efficiency of the testing significantly,” special chief secretary (health) KS Jawahar Reddy said at a review meeting.A Punjab government official said the state received 10,100 RTKs from ICMR and these were being used for testing in 24 hot spots. Officials in Bihar, Uttarkahand and Himachal Pradesh said while they received the kits, the numbers were inadequate. “The number of kits we have received (3,400) so far is too little against our demand,” said National Health Mission director in Himachal Pradesh, Nipun Jindal. Bihar has so far received 6,240 RTKs. Karnataka’s health and family welfare secretary Jawaid Akhter said the 11,400 kits given by the Centre were being checked for efficacy. Kerala received 25,000 kits, a senior official of the health department said, adding that the kits will be used in worst-hit Kasargod and Kannur districts. The Maharashtra government, however, said it did not receive the kits it demanded.ICMR experts say data about these rapid tests is still emerging and the understanding of their utility for diagnosis, evolving. Currently, the rapid tests are mainly useful for epidemiological studies (to know the distribution, patterns and determinants of disease conditions), and surveillance purposes, to get real time data. “Many states want to go in for aggressive testing in containment zones and want to make use of rapid testing in these areas as they have to test almost everyone with influenza-like illness in those areas. We have drafted the new protocol keeping in mind the requests of the states. However, rapid diagnostic test is ideally a surveillance tool,” an ICMR official said. As per the new ICMR protocol, only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illnesses such as fever, cough and cold over the last seven days or more in hot spot areas should be tested. Those who are found positive in the test must be quarantined for at least seven days. Those who test negative should also remain under home quarantine for at least seven days if they are in hot spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-with-42-000-kits-rapid-tests-from-today-in-delhi/story-NJqgCSYEYMzUDdb4hPoT1M.html
19-04-2020||India||Man kills 48-yr-old physically challenged son after he refuses to wear face mask||A 78-year-old man killed his 45-year-old physically challenged son during a quarrel that broke out over the son not wearing a facial mask while going out of the house during lockdown in north Kolkata on Saturday evening.The man then went to the local police station and surrendered. Police have arrested the accused and initiated a murder case against him.“It was around 7 pm that the accused Banshidhar Mallick came to the Shyampukur police station and said that he has killed his son Sirshendu Mallick around 5:30 pm. The son was physically challenged. The accused had strangulated the victim with a piece of cloth,” said a Kolkata Police top officer.Officers from the local police station rushed to the spot and the Kolkata Police’s homicide squad was also informed.According to investigating officers, the accused didn’t share a cordial relation with his son. They used to quarrel almost regularly. While the man is a retired employee of a private firm, his son was unemployed. He was suffering from physical disabilities since childhood.“Over the past few days, the man and his son were having fights regularly because every time the son went out of the house, his father insisted that he should wear a mask and the son refused. On Saturday, a heated altercation broke out for the same reason and the man killed his son in a fit of rage. He strangulated his son with a cloth,” said an officer of the local police station on the condition of anonymity.On March 12, the West Bengal government had made it mandatory for all citizens to wear masks especially in public places.Some areas in north and central Kolkata have been declared as Red Zones after multiple people were found to be infected with Covid-19 disease from those areas.“We have initiated a murder case. Further investigation is on,” said a top official of Kolkata Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-man-kills-48-year-old-physically-challenged-son-after-he-refuses-to-wear-face-mask/story-9TLIu7CufkhOXoMkqPW59L.html
19-04-2020||India||Rajasthan begins rapid tests to identify superspreaders||Rajasthan has begun rapid testing for the Covid-19 infection with the help of newly-acquired rapid antibody testing kits which will help speed up the testing time and detect carriers or superspreaders of the Sars-Cov 2 virus who could potentially infect others.Rajasthan acquired 10,000 rapid testing kits on Friday and 52 samples were tested, all of which were negative. On Saturday, 5000 tests were conducted in the walled city and other areas.The health department is going beyond random sampling to detect carriers of the Covid-19 virus who pose a risk to others. The ICMR has also advised antibody tests in hotspots of the coronavirus which will ensure faster detection of cases and give more time to authorities to contain community spread. Once a person tests positive after the antibody test, the PCR test has to be done to confirm the result.The random sampling done in clusters in Ramganj to detect Covid-19 cases has shown that 6 to 10 percent of people are infected, said Ajitabh Sharma, the nodal officer for Covid-19 prevention in Jaipur district.He said to prevent the spread of the virus; the focus is on identifying the asymptomatic carriers who can spread it further. He said the government has identified superspreaders such as provision store owners, dairy booth owners, milk suppliers and health workers and random tests will be carried out on them to find if any of them is a superspreader.Rohit Singh, additional chief secretary, health had said on Friday that 5000 rapid tests would be done in Ramganj on Saturday in addition to the ongoing PCR based tests. “This will help us in the ongoing containment exercise as the people who test positive will be quickly isolated to prevent further spread. This is part of our strategy to use an optimal mix of both types of tests for effective containment in an aggressive manner,” he said.With these kits, more than 500 samples can be taken in a day. Dr KK Sharma, director, public health said the kits will help doctors speed up the process of testing. Since the test results are known in 15-20 minutes, it will save time and more people can be tested, he said.He said the rapid test will detect asymptomatic persons who have developed antibodies against the virus and can become carriers and pose a threat to other vulnerable people.He said in the containment zone in Ramganj, spread in a 1 km radius of a hotspot, random sampling and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing will be continued as it is being done. In the 5 km buffer zone outside Ramganj, the antibody tests will be done to detect carriers who can then be confirmed through a PCR test.Rajasthan became the first state to conduct the rapid tests on Friday as 52 people in the walled city were tested with these kits. All of them tested negative. The state will get 1 lakh testing kits soon, said health minister Raghu Sharma.Meanwhile, 100 kits were handed over to the SMS medical college on Friday for testing their reliability. After the virology department approves the kits, a report will be given to the health department which will give the go-ahead for their distribution throughout the state.Due to a shortage of testing kits, around 5000 of samples have piled up and reports could not be given. Since there are many people in quarantine and some could be in serious condition, it is important the doctors get reports so they can act accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-begins-rapid-tests-to-identify-superspreaders/story-itq3M2ijjbwG4blulXYNhL.html
19-04-2020||India||53 new cases in Rajasthan, tally at 1,282||Fifty-three positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,282, but no deaths were reported.Bhilwara, which had emerged as a hotspot is free of the virus now. The last Covid-19 patient was discharged on Friday. Bhilwara had 28 cases and reported two deaths.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health said that 27 were reported from Bharatpur, 12 from Nagaur, five from Kota, two each from Jodhpur Ajmer and three from Jaipur. One case each was reported from Banswara and Jaisalmer.Jaipur remains a hot spot with 498 cases, of which 343 are from Ramganj. After Jaipur, Jodhpur has the highest number of 156 cases.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the situation in the state is under control and the state has taken all measures to prevent spread of the virus.“We want to strengthen the health infrastructure and testing facilities in the state permanently so that we are ready for future challenges because diseases will keep coming. But if we have the infrastructure then we can tackle them better,” he said.Sharma said he along with the chief minister held a VC with collectors, CMHOs, principals of medical colleges and other officials and have asked for suggestions to improve the infrastructure. “We want to take this opportunity to improve the CHCs, PHCs, sub-centres, district hospitals and medical colleges. We asked them to tell us what infrastructure is needed such as ventilators, ICU beds, x-ray machines, sonography machines, equipment in pathology labs so we have adequate infrastructure at the district level.”He said the government would provide budget from any means available, from SDRF, MLA LAD or CM relief fund.Rohit Kumar Singh said of the 1282 cases, 53 are evacuees from Iran who are housed in the Army wellness centre in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The total tests conducted in the state are 47,197 of which 39,092 have tested negative.He said 183 people have been cured and 93 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/53-new-cases-in-rajasthan-tally-at-1-282/story-ikHG1jnjL9gAdC1zTOd3oO.html
19-04-2020||India||Early measures reason for fewer cases in India: WHO regional director||Fewer cases in India are attributable to early and aggressive action to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organisation, South East Asia Region, of which India is a part.High engagement with people; finding, isolating, testing and treating cases and tracing every contact; readying hospitals; and protecting and training health workers are needed to combat Covid-19, she says. In addition, adequate staffing, clinical rotation and psycho-social support to healthcare workers is a must to prevent burnout.She speaks to Hindustan Time on Covid-19 lockdown and India’ efforts in slowing the spread of Covid-19. Here is the full interview:Q: How should lockdowns be lifted?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: Lockdowns must be lifted slowly, when six criteria are fulfilled -- transmission is controlled; health system capacities are in place to detect, test, isolate, treat cases and trace every contact; outbreak risks in health settings are minimised; preventive measures are implemented in social settings such as workplaces and schools; importation risks can be managed; and communities are fully educated, engaged and empowered to adjust to the “new norm”.Q: How do you rate India’s efforts to slow transmission?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: So far, the numbers in India are far less as compared to other countries, which can be attributed to early and aggressive measures that the country has been taking. The top-most leadership is driving a whole-of-government and whole-of-society response to the global pandemic.Q: How does WHO define community transmission?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: Community transmission is confirmed when the source of infection is not clear. In other words, when transmission in a given area is extensive, in multiple locations, without reported travel history to areas reporting community transmission, and without epidemiological links to known cases. But whatever the stage, the key action points remain -- engage with people; find, isolate, test and treat cases and trace every contact; ready hospitals; and protect and train health workers. That’s the only way to combat Covid-19.Q: Some states in India are adopting pool testing. Is it an effective public health tool?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: WHO is aware the Indian Council of Medical Research is going ahead with pool testing in some states, especially in the non-hotspot areas. While WHO is working on bringing out comprehensive guidelines, we welcome measures to scale up testing.Q: Given the shortage of kits, how can testing be scaled up?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: Good laboratory practices that produce accurate results are key to assure a good public health response. The availability of timely and accurate results can be threatened when testing demands outstrip capacity, such as when there is a backlog for testing and it is no longer possible to turn around results within 24 to 48 hours; the demand for laboratory reagents exceeds the capacity for supply; laboratory staff are exhausted and working hours need to be reduced; the number of incoming samples exceeds the capacity for safe pretesting storage; critical staff become infected or are otherwise unable to perform their duties (for example, being in quarantine); or laboratory instruments can no longer be serviced or properly maintained. Some of these constraints can be overcome by a proper risk assessment in the early phase of an outbreak and preventive solutions put in place in advance.Q: What are the WHO recommendations for testing when resources are limited?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: When resources are limited in areas with community transmission, prioritisation for testing should be given to people who are at risk of developing severe disease and vulnerable populations, who will require hospitalisation and advanced care for Covid-19; health workers (including emergency services and non-clinical staff) regardless of whether they are a contact of a confirmed case (to protect health workers and reduce the risk of nosocomial transmission); the first symptomatic person in a closed setting (for example, schools, long-term living facilities, prisons, hospitals) to quickly identify outbreaks and ensure containment measures. All other individuals with symptoms related to the close settings may be considered probable cases and isolated without additional testing if testing capacity is limited.Q: Does warm and humid weather slow Sars-CoV2 transmission?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: There is no evidence yet that the virus would not survive in high temperature.Q: What steps should India take to protect health workers?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: To prevent infection in healthcare settings, WHO recommends the use of contact and droplet precautions by health care workers caring for patients with Covid-19; and airborne precautions in settings where procedures and support treatments generate aerosols are performed.The correct use of personal protection equipment (PPE) is critical, in particular wearing appropriate PPE for the clinical setting, paying special attention to procedures to put on and remove it correctly, and adhering to hand hygiene and other infection protection and control (IPC) measures. When these precautions are applied correctly and consistently, alongside standard precautions and administrative, engineering and environmental controls, the risk for health care workers’ infections is substantially reduced or avoided altogether.WHO has also developed a risk assessment tool for health care workers exposed in a healthcare facility and a sero-epidemiological protocol to determine risk factors for infection among them, and is finalizing an in-depth epidemiological surveillance tool for health care workers’ infections.Health care workers caring for patients with Covid-19 are subject to long working hours, fatigue, occupational burn-out, stigma, physical and psychological violence, and back injury from patient handling. IPC measures must be complemented by occupational safety and health measures, psycho-social support, adequate staffing levels, and clinical rotation, to reduce the risk of burn-out, for safe and healthy working environment.Q; What is the WHO recommended treatment for Covid-19?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: No pharmaceutical products have yet been shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of Covid-19. However, a number of medicines have been suggested as potential investigational therapies, many of which are now being or will soon be studied in clinical trials, including the Solidarity trial co-sponsored by WHO and participating countries.Q: What is the progress on the Solidarity trial of four new therapies? When are results expected?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: WHO is working hard with international researchers to generate the evidence about which medicines are most effective for treating Covid-19. So far, 74 countries have either joined the Solidarity trial or are in the process of joining and more than 200 patients had been randomly assigned to one of the study arms. Each new patient who joins the trial gets us one step closer to knowing which drugs work.Q: Will President Trump’s suspension of funding affect WHO’s work?Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh: Right now, Covid-19 is the WHO priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-measures-reason-for-fewer-cases-in-india-who-regional-director/story-pzo670PRq3OzBFJjSkRQlK.html
19-04-2020||India||Govt injects Rs 36,000 crore of direct cash to farmers since lockdown began||The government has injected nearly Rs 36000 crore of direct cash for farmers in the lockdown period to get the severely affected farm sector back on course again, but transportion, shortage of labour and markets are yet to pick up pace despite relaxations from the ongoing lockdown. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi or PM-KISAN, the income transfer scheme for farmers, the government has transferred Rs 16927 crore to the bank accounts of nearly 84 million farmers since the country went into lockdown on March 24, according to official data. Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of Rs 6000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2000 -- one every four months. It was launched on 24 February, 2019, when the first instalment was paid. Cash transfers under the programme take place every four months: for the periods of December to March; April to July; and August to November.Under the state-regulated farm insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), insurance companies have paid Rs 2424 crore in claims in 12 states.Banks have also approved farm loans worth Rs 17,800 crore under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to 1.82 million farmers out of a total of 8.3 million applications. The payouts are aimed at easing the credit crunch in the farm sector. They will help fund operations for harvesting and sowing in the upcoming kharif or summer-sown season. Shortage of labour and transport facilities remain key hurdles for farmers, as social distancing rules are being enforced on farmers and markets. Transporters said despite the Union home ministry’s guidelines that allow several rural-economy sectors to resume operations from April 20, those employed in these sectors lacked “clarity” on various aspects.“There is still a lot of clarity needed from the government’s side on the guidelines and how and when businesses can resume their operations fully and all of us are still trying to understand this from local authorities,” said Pushkar Singh, the CEO of LetsTransport, a logistics firm. The biggest challenge, Singh said, is that a “lot of migrant workers who work in the logistics sector have left for their homes and it will be a tough task to replace all that workforce in a short period of time”.“The problem is that current harvesting is taking longer because of shortage of labour. This labour shortage could spillover to the summer sowing season as well,” said R Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-injects-rs-36-000-cr-of-direct-cash-to-farmers-since-lockdown-began/story-RXUWWjwDVTwRV5PPIbMxhJ.html
19-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Disease may affect brain, nervous system, say experts||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can, in some instances, lead to disorientation or delirium, say neurologists treating Covid-19 patients. While the focus has so far been on the effect of the disease on the respiratory system, as doctors treat more patients, they are beginning to notice and document new patterns.Neurologists are worried that some patients may be showing only neurological symptoms -- not other common symptoms such as fever and cough. If they are not monitored, diagnosis may be delayed. “Elderly patients with an infection, any infection including urinary tract infection, can develop delirium. The general symptoms with fever could be confusion (delirium, encephalopathy). Loss of taste and smell are likely at the level of receptors in the mucosa,” said Dr Vivek Mathew, professor of neurology at Christian Medical College, Vellore which is treating Covid-19 patients.A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on April 10 based on data collected from January 16 to February 19 at three Covid-19 care centres in Wuhan -- it included 214 hospitalised patients -- found that 36.4% showed neurological manifestations. Compared to patients with non-severe infection, patients with severe infection were older and had more underlying disorders. These patients showed fewer typical symptoms such as fever and cough but more neurologic symptoms. Global trends seem to bear out the truth of those findings. “In Covid-19, we have so far seen primarily respiratory symptoms or primarily gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms but in the past 10 days, cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (a condition in which a person’s immune system attacks the peripheral nerves) have been documented in other parts of the world ,” Mathew added.Dr Col JD Mukherji, principal director and head of neurology at Max Super Speciality Hospital who is treating some Covid-19 patients says it’s still early days for India . “The general symptoms of the disease are headache, loss of smell and taste, fever, confusion. In China, cases of strokes, seizure and muscle injury have also been documented. We are on a learning curve in India. All of us will start seeing these cases as the numbers rise,” said Dr Mukherji.He listed the four ways in which the virus can affect the brain: direct viral injury, causing symptoms like viral encephalitis; an excessive immune response called cytokine storm which can damage the brain; unintended host-immune response where the immune response damages some other structure altogether “like the five cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome documented in Italy”; and indirectly, “in those whose immune response has been deliberately reduced through medication due to conditions such as myasthenia gravis (a neuromuscular disease) or multiple sclerosis”.“There are no medicines for these neurological symptoms yet. If the entire body is in a cytokine storm, a monoclonal antibody can be used but they are expensive and may not be made available widely. In an Indian setting, some steroids can be used which needs to be studied and decided,” said Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, chairman, PSRI Institute of Neurosciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disease-may-affect-brain-nervous-system-experts/story-l54qQ2O3ehjtVUT2yEfi7J.html
19-04-2020||India||Bengal to begin pool testing to screen suspected Covid cases||The West Bengal government has decided to start pool testing of samples to detect asymptomatic carriers of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This will bolster the testing record of Bengal, which has been repeatedly drawing flak for its low number of tests for Covid-19.Till April 17 in Bengal only 4212 samples were tested. Compared to this Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh had done 17594, 18029 and 20298 tests respectively. Bengal’s population is around 100 million. To date, 287 persons have been infected and 12 persons have died.  If a negative result turns up, all samples are assumed to be negative. This method reduces the number of test kits used, compared to testing individual samples. This helps to increases the testing capacities and saves time, money and manpower.While pool sampling has already been started by the authorities in Uttar Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a few other states are also planning to start it. UP was the first state to start. Pool testing was used to contain the spread of the virus in Germany and Israel.“In order to increase the capacity of the laboratories to screen more numbers of samples it has been decided to use pooled samples for screening of suspected Covid-19 cases in West Bengal,” said an order issued by the state government on Saturday.A top official of the state health department said that pool sampling will be done for asymptomatic patients in those areas where prevalence of the disease is less than 2% of the population.“Samples will be collected from asymptomatic patients during community survey and surveillance. Those suspects who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients and are living in areas where the disease has spread will not be included,” said the official.Out of the 23 districts in West Bengal, at least 10 districts have not reported any case so far. Officials said that at least 81% of the cases are confined in urban areas with north and central Kolkata with the urban areas of Howrah reporting the maximum cases. There is also a high prevalence of the disease in North 24 Parganas.“We will take samples of five persons in one pool. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already issued some guidelines for pool testing and those will be followed,” the official said.“The more you test, the more you can detect asymptomatic carriers. Random sampling and pool testing are ways through which you can ramp up your testing record. This is a welcome step and the need of the hour,” said Dr Kunal Sarkar, head of the cardiac surgery department at Medica Superspecialty Hospital, one of the doctors who raised the need for pool sampling.“This will help us cover more persons in less time—who are presently not showing any symptom but may be carriers. This is a big step taken by the government,” said Dr Sukumar Mukherjee, a medical expert in the Covid-19 advisory panel set by the state government.Saturday’s order came a day after the division bench of Calcutta high court chief justice T B N Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee heard arguments on a writ petition and asked the government to inform what action was being taken to tackle the outbreak and how it was determining the cause of deaths, containing the spread of the disease and protecting medical staff and doctors by following guidelines of the ICMR and World Health Organization.The main contention of the petition is that the West Bengal government is not following the guidelines of the WHO and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on testing, data sharing and safety precautionsGoverner alleges PDS scamBengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has alleged that there is a scam in the public distribution system (PDS) in the state, an allegation that was echoed by the leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Taking to social media, Dhankhar wrote on Saturday, “Covid-19 has to be unitedly fought on the ground and not in media/public relations. No politics at all. Worried-PDS SCAM getting bigger by the day. PDS system is in virtual political hijack-a crime. Free ration for needy and not coffers. Defaulters be sternly dealt @MamataOfficial.”The BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Singh Bista and Alipurduar’s MP John Barla have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging a scam in PDS. Bista has also spoken to Governor Dhankhar in this regard. Dhankhar’s tweet came two days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee acknowledged deficiencies in delivering ration to the needy and also removed the state food and supplies secretary.“There is a problem with ration distribution in only about 10% of cases. We have to look into it and solve the problem,” she had said on Thursday.The state government has said that nearly 7.5 crore people will receive free ration for six months. The state’s population stood at 91.3 million, according to the 2011 census.The BJP, however, has demanded the resignation of the state’s food and supplies minister Jyoti Priya Mallick.“What’s the gain in making the secretary a scapegoat? It’s the minister who needs to be removed if he does not resign on his own,” BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said on Saturday.Mallick refused to comment, saying that the chief minister had asked every leader and worker of the party to refrain from indulging in trading political barbs in the time of crisis.On Saturday, Left leaders and workers, too, staged demonstrations in various parts of the state, including in the districts of Jalpaiguri, Nadia and Kolkata, alleging poor handling of relief work and PDS distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-begin-pool-testing-to-screen-suspected-covid-cases/story-PwJ6GNetLYiLrx8ysjNE5K.html
19-04-2020||India||Kerala gets ready for 200,000 expat workers||Kerala is preparing for the return of at least two lakh expatriates, mainly blue-collar workers, from West Asia by creating quarantine facilities for them even as the state has reported a slump in the Covid-19 cases while they mount across the country. Officials said it will be a huge challenge given over half of the total Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been traced to those who had returned from the region.Kerala on Saturday reported four cases that took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 399 while at least seven patients were discharged from hospitals. The number of people under observation in the state is now down to 67, the state health department said.The state expects the expatriates to return in batches after the extended lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread ends on May 3. They will be lodged in quarantine homes before they will be allowed to return to their homes only when it is confirmed that they have not contracted the disease, the officials cited above said. Many Covid-19 quarantine centres have come up near international airports in the state. But the officials said they are not sufficient and vacant flats, houses and houseboats were being considered for quarantining them. Work is in progressing in Alapuzha to convert houseboats into quarantine homes and makeshift Covid-19 hospitals.Around half of the two million people from Kerala working in West Asia live in the United Arab Emirates, which has threatened to impose restrictions on workers from the countries that refuse to take back their citizens from the country. “Kerala is really indebted to its expatriate population for its development and progress. We will try our best to bring them back. We know they are going through distressing times. We are with them. Once they return, we will screen and quarantine them,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi twice seeking his intervention in bringing the expatriates back.Irudaya Rajan, a migration expert at Thiruvananthapuram’s Centre for Development Studies, said the state faces three issues of retaining migrant workers from other parts of India, return of the expatriates from West Asia and the remittances that will go down. “It has to do a fine balancing act. Migration is there in the DNA of Keralites. If not the Gulf, they will find another place. But at least six months, it has to struggle,” said Rajan. In 2018-19 alone, remittances from expatriates amounted to Rs 88,000 crore. Kerala’s Gross State Domestic Product that year was ₹7,72,894 crore. K C Sajith, a Non-Resident Indian from Kerala in Bahrain, said many countries have evacuated their people from West Asia. “We know India’s numbers are large. But at least the country could have airlifted patients and pregnant women who are stranded. Some of us really feel we are in no man’s land. We hope post-lockdown, it [evacuation] will be expedited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gets-ready-for-200-000-expat-workers/story-g0az74llN4cPw0qwyh5V9M.html
19-04-2020||India||Govt plans hubs to manufacture renewable energy equipment||The Centre has written to the states and port authorities asking them to identify land parcels of 50 to 500 acres for setting up hubs for manufacturing renewable energy equipment to meet domestic demands as well as to attract firms shifting base from China amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “It may be stated that in a time when many companies are planning to shift their manufacturing base from China, it is opportune time for India to bring policy changes for facilitating and catalysing manufacturing in India,” the Union new and renewable energy ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The pandemic originated from China, where it has disrupted supply chains and promoted many companies to think about shifting their manufacturing base to other countries. Japan has allocated a package of $2.2 billion to help its manufacturing firms shift production out of China due to the outbreak. The Tuticorin Port Trust, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have expressed interest in setting up renewable energy parks, according to the ministry. The Centre is separately planning to utilise vacant land belonging to the railways to set up solar power plants of 30 gigawatts (GW) capacity. The railways plans to set up plants to generate 10 GW under the first phase.According to officials aware of the development, renewable energy secretary, chaired a meeting with representatives of manufacturing companies last week to discuss. The ministry is in touch with trade commissioners and representatives of various countries to invite foreign firms to invest in India, they added. India also reached out to the US India Strategic Partnership Forum, a non-profit organisation, earlier this week and sought collaboration to attract investments by American firms, the ministry said. “These hubs will manufacture equipment like silicon ingots and wafers, solar cells and modules, wind equipment and ancillary items like back sheets, glass, steel frames, inverters, batteries etc,” an official said on condition of anonymity. India has around 10 GW of wind equipment manufacturing capacity and imports nearly 85% of solar cells and modules. “To incentivise domestic manufacturing, the government of India has already announced provisions to enable levying of basic customs duty on import of solar cells and modules,” the ministry said. The ministry has also set up a Renewable Energy Facilitation and Promotion Board to facilitate investment in the sector. “The ministry has also strengthened the clauses in Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) to boost investor confidence. ... Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation Limited and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency have reduced their repayment charges to 2% for enhancing the fund availability for new projects in the sector. IREDA [Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited] has brought out a new scheme for project-specific funding to promote RE [renewable energy] manufacturing in India,” the ministry added. India’s renewable energy sector has also been tasked to meet its power generation target of 175 GW by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-hubs-to-manufacture-renewable-energy-equipment/story-tBCuSFvfQ3Lba5HiQq1HyN.html
19-04-2020||India||Centre offers apps to help states track Covid-19 quarantine breakers||The Union government’s telecommunications department is offering states the ability to mass track people using mobile network tower data, offering a platform that can let ground-level authorities create virtual geo-fences for those meant to be in quarantine, as well as a second service that can let officials send out SMS messages to people in a specific area for Covid-19 containment efforts.Officials in several states have acknowledged previously that they use mobile network information to monitor those meant to be under quarantine, but the Centre’s pitch to other states that are not using such services at present details how these tools work and the sort of legal authorization behind it. The first service, a mobile device surveillance system called Covid Quarantine Alert System, uses cellphone tower – also called a base transceiver station (BTS) – data to determine the approximate location of a person. If this person has been put on a watch-list, the system throws up an alert if their phone goes out of that geographic area and connects to a different BTS, according to an official who asked not to be named.To put someone on a watch-list, state authorities will need to send the person’s phone number to the department of telecom (DoT). An alert will also be sent if a mobile number if switched off for too long, the official quoted above said, adding that the tracking will not work if people leave their phones behind.“As on April 16, we tracked the movement of 70,422 persons in states including Bihar, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh. The service is authorised by the home secretary of the respective states and is allowed under the provision of section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph’s act for public emergency,” the person quoted above said.The law invoked, telegraph act’s section 5(2), is used for legal interception of telecommunications that is allowed in the Indian constitution under specific conditions, such as for national security and to prevent a crime. Breaking quarantine is a criminal offence under Section 188 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, which has been invoked since India declared the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a health emergency.The second service, called Covid-19 Savdhan, too has been deployed by some states. “Covid-19 Savdhan allows messaging in a targeted geographic area, we can send message to targeted groups, narrowing it down to one mobile tower. It is of great use in the hotspots and containment zones. This is again being done in Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Goa, Sikkim, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” the functionary quoted above said.To get more states to start using these utilities, the Union government first reached out through the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The DoT will now write to the chief secretaries of those that have not adopted it, the person quoted above said, adding that both services are free of charge. The official also said that states will not be passed on the names of the mobile phone users. “It is a non-intrusive way of checking if a person is within the tower area; we don’t monitor the phone usage,” this person added. A second official who occupies a senior post in the telecom department, said the tools have been developed by C-DOT to help health and disaster management authorities. “Covid Savdhan application, in particular, enables authorities to reach out to all mobile subscribers in any particular containment zone up to the level of individual mobile tower and convey targeted messages about health, well-being, water supply etc by means of SMS in local language,” this person added.The messaging service is available in all regional languages, and so far 26 million messages have been sent out through the platform for Covid-19 related communication till now. C-Dot is a government agency that develops computer applications for use in telecommunications.Experts said for the government legally use such surveillance mechanisms,there needs to be an order issued by the Union as well as the state governments. “The systems of mass surveillance which are being deployed are being done without any clear legal authority or limits. While the Telegraph Act does permit the government to place people under surveillance, it also contains safeguards which must be followed. It also remains an open question how the Central government’s cellphone tracking data will integrate with the data gathered by the Aarogya Setu app,” said Apar Gupta from the Internet Freedom Foundation, who was one of the lawyers in a PIL filed by the PUCL that led to the codification of the guidelines under section 5(2). “While there is a concept in health about disaster and epidemic tracking, those are applied only to people who fall sick. These steps are larger in ambit and the fundamental right to privacy is breached. The government should be transparent and issue orders, while letting people know that this is a temporary measure, that a complaint officer will be instated, and talk about how the data will be dealt with once the pandemic is over,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima of the digital rights group Access Now. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apps-to-help-states-track-quarantine-breakers/story-BncME2tvp3zeOoVqtEtDFI.html
19-04-2020||India||Flights, trains unlikely to begin on May 3, GoM looks at May 15||Restrictions on air and train travel may continue beyond May 3, when the 40-day lockdown in India to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic comes to an end, at least three people who attended a Group of Ministers (GoM) meeting on Saturday said on condition of anonymity. One Union minister said that there was a suggestion in the meeting chaired by Defence minister Rajnath Singh at his house that air travel may be started on May 15. These and other suggestions from a free-wheeling discussion attended by ministers including Textile minister Smriti Irani, aviation minister Hardeep Puri and others, will be conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a final decision.“There was a discussion on restarting air operations. The aviation minister also said that the planes being parked were also leading to an expense,’’ said one of the attendees. Puri declined comment.Meanwhile, Air India opened up international bookings from June 1, 2020 and bookings on select domestic routes from May 4, 2020. ``There were no specific dates discussed about when air and rail travel will start,’’ said an official who attended the meeting. “t is perhaps fair to say that it will take time. It will certainly go beyond May 3. In fact, it will be perhaps the last thing that is allowed.’’As PM Modi takes a final call about when to restart travel, another minister told HT that one of the suggestions at the meeting was on special trains to ferry migrants who are stranded. “It could be a non-stop train from Thiruvananthapuram to Bhubaneswar for example,” this person added. “We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people,” Singh tweeted after chairing the meeting. He said the guidelines to allow limited activities after April 20 and the measures announced by Reserve Bank of India amid the coronavirus crisis were also appreciated.``We were all glad that the Prime Minister had the foresight to announce the lockdown before any one else,’’ said Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan who attended the meeting. He added that there was no shortage of food or essential supplies in the country.“The GoM appreciated disbursement of Rs 31,000 crore to more than 332.5 million beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to mitigate the problems of economically weaker sections of population,” said another official who attended the meeting .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-discuss-curbs-on-air-travel-special-trains-for-migrants/story-xjsJX05bmaitDJ4SZkLZPJ.html
19-04-2020||India||15 districts across 9 states report over 50% Covid-19 cases: Ministry data||The ministry of health finally updated on Saturday the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across districts, showing that the pandemic has now spread to 56% of India’s districts, but that 15 districts across nine states account for half the cases -- data that will come in useful as India opens up its unaffected (and relatively less affected) areas for business and other activities , albeit with social distancing and other norms, starting Monday. The data also shows that five districts, Mumbai, Indore, Jaipur, Pune and Ahmedabad, account for around a third of all cases. The concentration is similar to that seen in other countries. In the US, New York State, for instance, accounts for 33% of all cases and New York City alone, 19%. In China, Hubei province accounts for 81% of the total cases.To be sure, the data released by the ministry is only for 12863 cases . According to the ministry, on 18 April, there were 14,378 cases. The number of dead stood at 480. The ministry’s dashboard lags HT’s dashboard by a few hundred cases usually. HT’s dashboard is based on data from the Covid19india.org tracker and state health departments. According to the data, 11,783 cases for which districts are known, have been reported from 406 districts, nearly 56% of the 731 districts in the country. All the analysis is based on these numbers -- 11783 cases across 406 districts. There are 1,080 other people who have been found positive from Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in Delhi. They have not been classified into any specific district -- perhaps because they come from all over and the March congregation of the Jamaat has emerged a super-event, infecting thousands directly and indirectly. On Saturday, the ministry said in a briefing that 4,291 Covid-19 cases around India are linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz cluster, and that the event has resulted in around 40,000 people being quarantined.Even though 406 districts have reported cases of coronavirus, the 11,783 cases are not evenly distributed among them. More than 50% of these cases come from just 15 districts across nine states. These 15 districts are either predominantly urban areas or have a significant share of urban population. About one in three cases reported in India come from just five districts – Mumbai, Indore, Jaipur, Pune and Ahmedabad. Together, 4,137 cases have been reported from these five districts alone. Of them, Mumbai has the highest number of cases: 2070, or 17.6%, of all cases in the country. (See map) Of the 406 districts which have reported cases, 226 have reported fewer than 10 cases. This analysis is important because it could decide which districts can partially lift lockdown restrictions after April 20. Of them, 68 districts have reported only one case, 41 have reported two cases, while 64 districts have reported three to five cases each.That most cases are largely confined to big cities is evident with the city-level figures as some cities have more than one district. For instance, none of the 11 districts of Delhi appear in the list of 20 districts with the highest number of cases, but if Delhi is seen as one unit (say a single district), it appears in fifth place. Add to it 1,080 positive Tablighi Jamaat members, and Delhi is second to only Mumbai in terms of number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-districts-report-over-50-covid-cases-data/story-qYdP6zXkNkcPOeRXybRjjK.html
19-04-2020||India||Trying to make e-learning immersive and constructive: Pokhriyal||Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ spoke to Hindustan Times about the CBSE and University exams, fee structures in schools during Covid-19,summer vacations, e-learning, and research linked to the coronavirus disease. Edited excerpts:Covid-19 struck at a time when thousands of students were waiting for their CBSE Class 12 exams to finish. Will it be possible to conduct the remaining exams, or are you considering alternative measures to promote students?The safety of teachers and students is our prime concern. We also need to ensure social distancing in the examination room. Keeping these considerations in mind, and to ease the pressure on the minds of students, I directed CBSE to reschedule the board examinations for Class 10 and 12. In view of these concerns, will now be conducting board examinations of 29 core courses, instead of 83 courses. The decision on the conduction of examinations will be taken by undertaking extensive consultation with various education authorities and by keeping all aspects related to entrance exams, admissions dates, etc, in mind. CBSE will give notice of about 10 days to all stakeholders before starting examinations.Is there a possibility that there won’t be any exams?Our students, their parents and teachers are all prepared for the circumstances that may occur. It cannot be predicted now what the situation will be on May 3. Many of our schools are functioning as quarantine centres. It has to be seen what decision the government takes. I would assure students not to be anxious, we will continue to support them in all possible ways. Is it possible to get the answer sheets evaluated during the lockdown period?Due to present situation and countrywide lockdown, CBSE has not been able to continue its evaluation work. The board will come out with further instructions for evaluating and dates for restart of evaluation work in various evaluation centres after rightfully assessing the situation. The safety and health of our teachers is as important for us that of students.Similarly, universities are also unable to conduct exams. Do you think it is possible to hold online exams?To assess the possibility of conduction of online exams for higher education MHRD has constituted a task force under UGC. We will issue the guidelines on the basis of that report. Does the HRD ministry plan to recommend early declaration of the summer vacations to coincide with the lockdown period?MHRD has not recommended early declaration of the summer vacations to coincide with the lockdown period. We believe that pandemic should not be a reason to stop. We are trying our best to find opportunities to make sure learning continues.MHRD has set up a task force under NCERT to deliberate on the academic calendar. To ensure that learning does not stop, MHRD recommends the use of e- learning platforms -- like Diksha, Swayam, Swayam Prabha, e–patshala, Nreor.You have been focusing on online learning. Can it be an effective substitute to classroom learning?I agree that the pandemic has derailed the classroom process, but at the same time I would encourage all the students to continue learning using e-resources. E-Learning provides wider opportunities for enhanced learning, flexibility of learning at your convenience, uniform quality content delivery, reusability of content, less paper for hand-outs and books, saves time by enabling quick access to information, and the ease of research across subjects.The teachers and students are putting in remarkable efforts to make sure that the learning does not stop. We are putting in our efforts and resources to make e-learning more immersive and constructive, and to nurture the capability of turning this crisis into an opportunity.Questions are being asked about the digital divide when it comes to online learning. Has the HRD ministry made any efforts or conveyed concerns related to this issue to the IT ministry?To address the digital divide, MHRD has tied up with Information & Broadcasting ministry to air Swayam Prabha channels on their DTH platform, Tata Sky, and Airtel DTH. Earlier, Swayam channels were be available on DD-DTH, Dish TV and Jio TV App. Now a student anywhere in India can request the DTH service provider for these channels without any extra cost as these are free-to-air channels. Swayam Prabha is a group of 32 DTH channels providing high quality educational curriculum based course contents covering diverse disciplines.We are also trying to explore the option of All India Radio to transact the curriculum to students so that we can reach the last person in the queue.You have appealed to private schools to not pressure students into paying quarterly fees. You have also asked schools not to lay off teachers. Have you planned any further steps or consultation?Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has urged the citizens to give priority to human values in the time of this pandemic. In line with the same, I have appealed to all the private schools, given the difficult circumstances of the unprecedented health emergency. It is recommended to the private schools to not to charge the increased annual feel from the parents. Also, to not to take the fees for three months together. Further, schools should be disbursing timely salary to their teachers and entire staff.In case schools continue to demand high fees or remove teachers, will there be some action?I feel the state education ministers will handle these issues in appropriate manner.Have you looked at the research carried out by educational institutions under HRD? How satisfied are you?To monitor and coordinate the research and development,we have recently formed a separate and a new research division within the ministry. Earlier, monitoring work was undertaken under the respective bureaus.In respect to Covid-19, IITs are doing remarkable research on technology initiatives to control infections. More than 250 projects have been undertaken in the following areas -- personal protective equipment, testing kits, sanitisation, medical equipment and robots, surveillance, pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment, and data analytics/AI to model epidemic patterns and disease dynamics.Since the entire focus has shifted to the coronavirus, the biggest educational reform, the New Education Policy (NEP) is held up. What is its status?We are coherently working at a faster pace on the New Education Policy. We will submitting it to the Cabinet soon.Seven IITs issued a statement that they were boycotting the Times Higher Education ranking because of doubtful criteria. How does the ministry view this development? Do you support the IITs?It has come to my notice. They feel the ranking agency has worked in an arbitrary manner. There must be some instances because of which they felt so. I also sometimes feel that there should be an understanding of the Indian context. I will speak to the directors of the IITs and if needed also look at the parameters of the ranking agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trying-to-make-e-learning-immersive-and-constructive-pokhriyal/story-ceSMNPJfyLImilbMoS5hUK.html
19-04-2020||India||328 new cases push Maharashtra tally to 3,648||Maharashtra on Saturday registered a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases as 328 people tested positive for the disease and took the state’s tally to 3,648, the state government said. The number of people tested positive was more than double of those diagnosed with Covid-19 on Friday--118. Of the new cases recorded on Saturday, 184 were from Mumbai, which now has a tally of 2,268, followed by Pune with 78. This is the third time this month that the state has reported over 300 cases in a day. Maharashtra also reported 11 Covid-19 related deaths on Saturday, taking the toll from the disease to 211.Officials said the trajectory of the cases needs to plateau by April 21 for it to remain under control. “We expect the cases to dip after the two 14-day incubation cycles, which began on March 22 when over 2.20 lakh people arrived at the Mumbai airport, end. If the containment is good, it would go down,” said T P Lahane, director, directorate of medical education and research.Officials said the mortality rate in Maharashtra has also undergone a gradual decline even as it is still double that of the country. After touching the 7%-mark on April 12, the mortality rate is decreasing primarily due to early admission of Covid-19 patients to hospitals and also due to concentrated efforts to treat patients with underlying illnesses, officials said. The mortality rate on April 14, 15, 16 and 17 was 6.84%, 6.61%, 6.41% and 6.05%. Lahane said the mortality rate is slowly decreasing because of early admissions of patients to hospitals. “Earlier, most patients died between the first day and third day of admission. Now, it happens after six to seven days after admission in critical cases. When they are in the hospital, we can monitor their lungs, blood-pressure etc.”A health department official also attributed the reduction in deaths in the last few days to a more “focused” approach of treating patients with comorbidities. “More attention is being given to patients with underlying illnesses with early admissions. It helps hospitals to treat them well so that they do not become critical cases,” an official said requesting anonymity.The state government on Saturday started 25 more dedicated hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. With this, the number of such facilities has gone up to 55 with a total capacity of 6,660 beds, said Rajesh Tope, state health minister. The state government has also got permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research to start six new laboratories for Covid-19 tests, state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said. The total number of laboratories in the state has now gone up to 42 that with a capacity of 7,600 tests daily. The Maharashtra government also on Saturday issued orders that its employees will start working from Monday with 10% strength. The new order also made attendance of secretaries, joint or deputy secretaries, mandatory. Women officers can be exempted from it by orders of the departmental heads. On March 23, the state government had issued orders that it would operate with only 5% of the staff.The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation or municipal corporation buses will be used to ferry government employees from Monday. With the suburban railway network shut due to the lockdown, the buses will be operational between 7 am to 11 am and 4 pm to 7 pm, a state government order state. The state government has also decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to all the registered construction workers for them to tide over hardships caused by the lockdown. An order in this regard came days after hundreds of migrant workers gathered outside the Bandra railway station demanding they be sent back to their homes last week. The one-time monetary help will be credited into the bank accounts of over 1.2 million workers, officials said. The assistance will cost the state government around Rs 250 crore.The state on Friday allowed construction work in cities, including Mumbai and Pune, with a rider that prior permission from civic authorities will be mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/328-new-cases-push-maha-tally-to-3-648/story-WP0uG8kqh05BiyCDIIKOFL.html
19-04-2020||India||Sharjeel Imam charged with sedition in Jamia riots case||The Delhi police on Saturday filed a charge sheet against Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam for his alleged role in instigating riots outside Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) by allegedly delivering a seditious speech during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in December last year. Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28 for the speech on December 13 two days after protesters outside JMI clashed with police during a march against the law. At least 100 people were injured in the violence while at least four buses were torched, over 100 two-wheelers and other vehicles damaged.Delhi police spokesman Anil Mittal said they have filed a supplementary charge sheet against Imam for instigating and abetting the Jamia riots. “During investigation, on the basis of evidence collected, sections 124 A IPC [Indian Penal Code] and 153 A IPC, for sedition and for promoting enmity between classes, were invoked. In this case, the first charge sheet was filed in February against the rioters arrested by a Delhi police’s special investigation team that is probing the violence. A supplementary charge sheet in continuation of the earlier charge sheet has now been filed in the court of the metropolitan magistrate, Saket,” Mittal said.Days before his arrest, a video purportedly showing Imam talking about blocking the Siliguri Corridor, or Chicken’s Neck, in West Bengal to isolate the northeastern states from the rest of India for a month was widely circulated on social media. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video. The speech led to registration of cases against Imam, who faces life imprisonment if convicted, in at least five states including Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.Imam’s mother, Agsan Rahim, had then said her son’s speech was misconstrued and taken out of context and that he is innocent. However, she could not be contacted for comments over the latest development.A 20-member group of scholars, filmmakers, advocates and writers released a statement on Saturday calling the recent arrests of scholars a witch-hunt. The group, which includes Manisha Sethi, advocate Yug Mohit Chaudhary and Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar, among others, said that instead of engaging with protesters, the state has chosen to detain and arrest them under harsh penal provisions. It said that while the crime branch is already probing the case of the riots in Northeast Delhi, the Delhi police’s special cell has filed a separate First Information Report (FIR) under which the scholars were being arrested. “This FIR has enabled the stitching together of a political narrative where a direct link is sought to be made between anti-CAA protests and the widespread violence that rocked the Northeast Delhi at the end of February,” the statement said.Earlier this month, Meeran Haider, 35, a PhD student and the president of Rashtriya Janata Dal’s youth wing’s Delhi unit, was arrested for his alleged role in instigating the Northeast Delhi riots. His party leaders have denied the allegations.The CAA’s passage in December to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims, who have entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014, triggered protests across the country. Opponents of the law insist it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out the Muslims and links faith to citizenship in a secular country. They say it could result in the expulsion or detentions of the Muslims unable to provide the documentation if the law is seen in the context of a pan-India NRC. A process carried out in Assam to detect undocumented immigrants led to the exclusion of around two million people from the NRC in 2018.The Centre has maintained there were no immediate plans for implementing a pan-India NRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharjeel-imam-charged-with-sedition-in-jamia-riots-case/story-dxoTsW3cNgJbdslxHGu4hI.html
19-04-2020||India||Govt to vet Chinese stakes in India to avert takeovers||All investments from China will now be subjected to scrutiny in India, according to a new government order revising the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to curb “opportunistic takeovers/acquisitions of Indian companies due to the current Covid-19 pandemic”.The move comes a week after housing finance lender HDFC said in a regulatory filing that China’s central bank had raised its stake to over 1%, a disclosure that prompted political leaders such as Congress MP Rahul Gandhi to urge the government for steps to protect Indian companies.Investments from an entity in a country that shares a land border with India will now require government approval, according to the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) notification issued on Friday, which did not name China. The target of this move, however, is clear since the other neighbours with which India shares a land border – Pakistan and Bangladesh – have already been under such scrutiny due to national security reasons. The order also requires government’s approval in transferring ownership of a domestic company to any “existing or future” foreign investor belonging to these countries.“The change in the policy will now make it mandatory for all foreign investment from China, Pakistan and Bangladesh to go through government’s scrutiny. So far, permission was mandatory only for investments coming from Pakistan and Bangladesh,” according to an official who asked not to be named. Bangladesh, China, Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal and Myanmar share borders with India, but there are some exemptions for Nepal- and Bhutan-based entities, this person added.Shortly after the announcement, Congress leader Gandhi said in a tweet: “I thank the government for taking note of my warning and amending the FDI norms to make it mandatory for government approval in some specific cases”.Indian shares, in line with global indices, have tanked since the Covid-19 pandemic began taking hold in early March. The index Sensex has lost over 17% since March 2, the day the first new Covid-19 cases were detected in the country.Experts said the takeover threat is not completely ill-founded. Vikram Doshi, partner, tax and regulatory, at global consultancy firm PwC India said, “Covid-19 will impact several businesses, especially ones that are highly leveraged. It will open up takeover opportunities in many sectors.”“This press note is an attempt to place a check and give the government an opportunity to review such takeovers and investments coming into India from specific jurisdictions,” he added.Atul Pandey, partner at law firm Khaitan & Co said, “The recent notification by the government primarily intends to stem any attempts by Chinese firms to take control of Indian firms which have been affected and weakened by Covid-related lockdowns.” “However it is important to note that this notification will have the force of law once necessary amendments are introduced to the relevant FEMA [Foreign Exchange Management Act] regulations. Similar steps are also being taken by the European Union and other jurisdictions like Australia,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-vet-chinese-stakes-in-india-to-avert-takeovers/story-gWhGXgbOBRWpJIogOzv6LL.html
19-04-2020||India||ICMR study shows side effects of HCQ in health care staff||Some side effects, such as abdominal pain and nausea have been observed in healthcare workers, who are a part of the study being conducted in India, to look at the prophylactic (preventive) effects of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday.The ICMR said that it was conducting a two-arm study on the prophylactic (prevention) and therapeutic (treatment) effects of HCQ against Covid-19.“The average age of those who showed side effects against the drug was 35 years. The most common complaint was of abdominal pain that was reported by about 10% of those who took the medicine; 6% reported experiencing nausea, and the other effects were of less proportion such as 1.3% complaining of hypoglycemia [low blood sugar levels],” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR, who is supervising the trials on behalf of ICMR.Of those healthcare workers who reported adverse drug reaction, about 22% suffered from some underlying medical conditions, such as diabetes, blood pressure, cardiovascular or respiratory disease.“We observed that despite being healthcare workers themselves, about 14% had not even got their ECGs done to check their heart function before. It seems they were aware of their health condition which made them volunteer to take the medicine so that they would get protection against infection,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.Another observational study is being done to know its treatment benefits among Covid-19 patients,The observational study is being done in a cohort of 480 Covid-19 patients, who will be given a specific doze of HCQ along with the antibiotic, azithromycin, for eight weeks. “It will take about two and a half months to get done with the study and know the results as we are working under restricted research conditions because of the lockdown. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences is the nodal site for both the studies,” said Gangakhedkar. On whether any study was being done in India to check the efficacy of the anti-viral drug, Remdesivir, which has shown promise in stopping the replication mechanism of coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, Dr Gangakhedkar said that India was a part of World Health Organization’s (WHO) SOLIDARITY trial, and Remdesivir was one of the trial arms.“It is the Gilead company’s product, and they say in about 68% of the Covid-19 patients, it has been effective in reducing oxygen support. However, this conclusion is not a part of any clinical trial but an observational study for which the drug was given to patients on compassionate grounds. Now it has started a trial on 5,500 patients to check the dosage efficacy of five days vs. 10 days. However, even an interim analysis of it isn’t out yet. There is some time before we get any concrete evidence, and in some time, if we find it’s working, we will act accordingly,” said Gangakhedkar.“Though Gilead company has a patent on this drug molecule, during pandemic situations, company’s charge some royalty from generic manufacturers and allow them to manufacture the drug,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-shows-side-effects-of-hcq-in-health-care-staff/story-NNWpm5nlmjuPX3o4V9oNGL.html
19-04-2020||India||Kerala to convert at least 2,000 houseboats into isolation wards||Kerala officials on Wednesday said they would turn the state’s houseboats into isolation wards for Covid-19 patients.State public works department minister G Sudhakaran said work is on to make at least 2,000 wards in houseboats.“Boat owners have agreed to the district administration’s proposal, and these wards will be ready by April-end,” Sudhakaran said. There are 700 licensed houseboats in the district and some of the double-decker boats have over six bedrooms. Many in the film industry, as well as entrepreneurs, own houseboats in Kuttanad, often termed the rice bowl of Kerala owing to its paddy production.The state is expecting an influx of expatriates in the wake of reports that some West Asian nations are planning to impose severe restrictions on countries that refuse to take back their citizens. The United Arab Emirates has announced a warning in this regard. Among three million Indians in UAE, at least one –third are from Kerala ,so the state is in a hurry to prepare two lakh beds by May first week.“We are happy to hand over our boats. Most of the boats are idle as there are no tourism activities in last two months and we don’t see any revival of business in the coming months also. By handing our boats over, we are joining the global fight against the virus. We see it as our duty and we will provide all help,” said Kevin Rozario, general secretary of the All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Association. He said it is easy to covert boats as they have all facilities of a resort. In case of an emergency, like railways compartments, boats can be taken to secluded spots to keep the contagion in check, said health experts. During the 2018 floods, houseboats and fishermen had played a stellar role by saving many marooned. Alapzuha district collector M Anjana said work was in full swing and all boats will be anchored at the finishing point of the Nehru trophy boat race. The Nehru trophy boat race conducted in August is a major tour attraction of the state. The state tourism department is also helping the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-convert-at-least-2-000-houseboats-into-isolation-wards/story-yeIM6DoBsOxSAxfRigpkVK.html
19-04-2020||India||47 districts in 23 states, UTs have zero Covid cases: Govt||As many as 47 of India’s 731 districts have not reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 28 days, the ministry of health said in its daily briefing on Saturday. These districts are spread across 23 states and union territories. Another 22 districts, across 12 states, have not reported new cases in the past 14 days, the ministry added. The numbers assume significant as India eases lockdown restrictions in some areas (those unaffected by the pandemic) starting Monday. The ministry also gave out the fatality rate thus far (3.3%) and the recovery rate (13.82%). According to its data, 75% of the dead are over the age of 60 years (42% are over the age of 75), numbers that are in keeping with global trends where most of the fatalities are old. According to the health ministry, the total number of fatalities as on Saturday is 480. This number differs from that in HT’s dashboard which is updated on the basis of information from state health departments and the tracker at Covid19india.org. The ministry also said that almost 30% of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India are related to the Tablighi Jammat’s March meeting at its HQ in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.“Of the 14378 positive cases reported so far in the country, 4291, which is 29.8% of the cases, are linked to this single source -- the Nizamuddin Markaz cluster,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, in a briefing. Epidemiologists refer to events such as this as super-events -- because they cause a significant number of cases across a wide geography. Agarwal added that 23 states and union territories have reported cases caused directly or indirectly by the meeting. “Some of the high disease burden states in India have a majority of cases linked to the congregation -- 84% cases in Tamil Nadu, 63% in Delhi, 79% in Telangana, 61% in Andhra Pradesh and 59% in Uttar Pradesh. Also, some of the low disease burden states have most of their cases linked with this cluster such as Arunchal Pradesh’s sole positive case, 32 of the 35 cases from Assam and 10 of the 12 cases reported from Andaman Islands,” he said, adding that at least 40,000 people in quarantine are directly and indirectly connected to this super event. “That’s why following lockdown and social distancing measures by every single person is important in containing the spread of the disease,” said Agarwal.The experts say lockdown has played its part in keeping the numbers low so far.“Implementing lockdown has been crucial in delaying the infection rate; it obviously cannot be stopped completely. However, a stricter implementation would have resulted in even lower number of cases, which is why we have to be very careful how we lift lockdown,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine specialist, Safdarjung Hospital.Of the 480 deaths reported so far, 83% involved patients with so-called co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney or heart ailments, the ministry said. Globally too, those with underlying medical conditions are at high risk of developing severe symptoms when infected by the SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and need to be extra careful.Close to 2000 people who were infected have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-districts-in-23-states-uts-have-zero-covid-cases-govt/story-vUZX9eivYeaBE8pgCFHgfN.html
19-04-2020||India||Govt readies for spike in MGNREGS demand||The Centre is preparing for a surge in the demand for jobs under the flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) as tens of thousands of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread have returned to their homes.The MGNREGS will restart on Monday with a focus on irrigation and water conservation works. It is among the activities, including the conditional reopening of industries in rural areas, that the Centre has allowed outside the so-called Covid-19 containment zones from April 20. The lockdown was extended until May 3 earlier this week.The government has made an initial provision for 2807.6 million person-days of work—the highest ever—under the flagship scheme for the financial year (FY) 2020-21 with unemployment rising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The MGNREGS last year generated 2767.6 million person-days of work largely due to drought in parts of India. This year, despite predictions of a normal monsoon, the Centre has arranged for more MGNREGS work.Between FY 2018-19 and FY 2016-17, the world’s largest job guarantee scheme generated 2565.6 million, 2313.1 million and 2209.3 million person-days of work.Officials said the higher person days of work may also push the government to inject more money into the scheme; the government has to pay higher wages due to an upward revision from April 1.The Centre has announced between Rs 13 and Rs 34 increase in wages under the scheme, which is the highest in six years. There was no wage increase last year in 10 states. In one case, the wage rate was lowered. The new wages will help 128 million MGNREGS workers.Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar reviewed his ministry’s flagship schemes on Thursday and cleared the release of Rs 7,300 crore under the MGNREGS to clear pending dues for FY 2019-20 and to meet wages due for the first fortnight of FY 2020-2021.According to officials aware of the matter, Tomar advised his ministry to help four million people, who have received some money under the rural housing scheme or Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana, to quickly complete building their houses. The Centre has so far released Rs 800.63 crore to the states out of Rs 19,500 crore budget under the scheme, they added.The officials said the focus, however, remains sharply on MGNREGS. They indicated that large projects that involve many workers might be avoided for some time to adhere to the social distancing norms in place to beat the pandemic. Work like building farm ponds, cattle sheds or houses under the PMAYG will be pushed, for now, the officials said.Himanshu, an economist at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University who uses only one name, said it is clear that the government will have to pump in more funds as a huge section of Indian workforce will see MGNREGS as its lifeline in this situation.Economist Reetika Khera said the government should consider paying wages even if some people are unwilling to go to work because of the health risks involved. “We also have to bear in mind that like us, the MGNREGS workers will be nervous about joining work that involves gatherings. This will be an impediment to claiming their legal right. In this situation, the government should give 10 days of wages to every MGNREGS worker for three months. Further, the government must fix the issue of failed and diverted payments arising due to the Aadhaar-payment bridge system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-readies-for-spike-in-mgnregs-demand/story-d5eUqvTTmmj3MXzt8KnthP.html
19-04-2020||India||29 Tablighi Jamaat members arrested in Ahmednagar after quarantine ends||Twenty nine people, including 26 foreigners who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, were arrested on Saturday for religious preaching while visiting on tourist visa and violating prohibitiory orders, police said.They had been quarantined till Friday.While the foreign nationals were remanded to police custody till April 24 by a local court in Ahmednagar on Saturday, the Indian nationals were remanded to judicial custody before being released on bail.These 29 people were among 35 people who, police say, had attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s two-day congregation at its headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. Cases were registered against them at various police stations in Ahmednagar.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“These 29 people were found along with six others who tested positive for Covid-19 while these 29 had tested negative 15 days ago. While the positive cases are being treated, the others were in institutional quarantine until yesterday (Friday) and arrested today. The court remanded the foreign nationals to police custody and granted bail to three Indian nationals who had tested negative,” said Police inspector Dilip Pawar.Of the 35 people who were booked - 29 were foreign nationals while six were Indians. Three foreign nationals and three Indians tested positive, while the 29 others were sent to institutional quarantine. Among the three foreign nationals who had tested positive, one is from Indonesia, one from Djibouti, and one from Ivory Coast.Among the 26 arrested foreign nationals, 8 are from Ivory Coast, 3 from Tanzania, 4 each from Indonesia and Brunei Darussalam and Djibouti, and one each from Iran, Benin and Ghana.Out of the group of 35 people, 14 were found in Kazi Masjid in Jamkhed, 10 were found in Bhaldar Markaz Masjid in Nevasa, and 11 in Mehraj Masjid in Ahmednagar.Cases against them were registered on April 5 under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act, Maharahstra Covid 19 Regulation, Epidemic Diseases Act, the National Disaster Management Act and the Foreign National Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-tablighi-jamaat-members-arrested-in-ahmednagar-after-quarantine-ends/story-ZhDOBEMNLuZnkwQCi1HjyI.html
19-04-2020||India||GST waiver will make domestic PPEs costlier than Chinese products, advise tax experts||Government’s tax experts have advised the finance ministry against removing Goods and Services Tax (GST) on personal protective equipment (PPEs) because producers would not be able to avail credit of taxes paid on inputs of PPEs making domestic products costlier than PPEs imported from China, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.The implication of removing GST on PPEs has been considered after the government received several requests on the ground that the exemption would lead to reduction in prices and hence would benefit the masses in fight against Covid-19, they said requesting anonymity.“GST is a value-added tax and collected at each stage of the supply chain on net basis. Exemption would block input tax credit (ITC) as manufacturers of PPEs will pay GST on inputs but cannot claim ITC because the final product is tax-free. Thus, it will increase the cost of manufacturing,” the first person said.The official said a PPE manufacturer pays 5% GST on fabric and 18% on other inputs, including services. The manufacturer gets tax offset from the 12% levy on the final product that makes net GST on the product to zero.“While GST exemption to PPE would make output GST as zero, the ITC ( GST suffered on inputs) would get blocked (not usable) and would get added to the cost,” a second official said.Therefore, while consumer does not gain from GST exemption, the compliance burden would increase for manufacturer, he said. “The manufacturer would be required to maintain separate account of inputs, input services and capital goods used for manufacture of PPE. In case he is not in a position to maintain separate account, he shall be required to reverse the input tax credit on all inputs used in manufacture of PPE,” he said.“While GST exemption to PPE, would lead to blockage of input tax credit for the domestic manufacturer, import would get price advantage over the domestic product. And substandard Chinese products will flood Indian market,” he said.The government on April 9 exempted crucial medical equipment required to fight Covid-19 from basic customs duty and health cess for six months making imports cheaper up to 22%.“Distorting the rate structure at the cost of domestic supplier may not be desirable in a situation where the government is the single largest buyer, which distributes PPEs for free,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-waiver-will-make-domestic-ppes-costlier-than-chinese-products-advise-tax-experts/story-ayq9AqdoWSuNxcIhOnz81O.html
19-04-2020||India||4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only one||The Tablighi Jamaat congregation in its central Delhi headquarters, the Markaz, has been linked to over 4,000 Covid-19 cases in the country, the government announced on Saturday. The Jamaat has been linked to 4,291 of the country’s 14,378 coronavirus cases in the country; nearly three out of every ten cases.But India isn’t the only country in the world that has had to suffer due to Tablighi Jamaat workers unwittingly turning their sect into the country’s virus super spreaders.In several countries - mostly in south and south-east Asia - the Tablighi Jamaat has been linked to 3,000 more cases, and counting.Like neighbouring Pakistan where over 500 of the country’s 7,500-plus cases are prima facie linked to the Jamaat workers. One key hotspot in Pakistan was the Raiwind Ijtema, the annual event in March that, according to the police, was attended by about 100,000 people. The Jamaat puts the size of this congregation at twice as much.Also read: As Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases rise, Delhi govt gives them a different nameBut it is in Malaysia where a Tablighi Jamaat congregation at a sprawling mosque complex on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur is seen as the source of hundreds of new coronavirus cases in the country and far beyond. Malaysia has linked over 1,500 of its 3,500 Covid-19 cases to this congregation.In February, the mosque complex hosted its annual congregation attended by over 15,000 people who dispersed before countries started ordering the shutdown. Some of them are presumed to have come to India.It was only when Telangana confirmed that six people who had attended the Delhi event had tested positive that an alarm was sounded.According to data compiled by Hindustan Times, Jamaat workers have been reported to have tested positive for the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes the coronavirus disease. For example, 79 of the 5.900 Covid-19 cases detected in Indonesia are linked to the Jamaat.Back in India, the Jamaat challenge appears to be finally in grips in national capital Delhi where the government has traced down hundreds of more people with links to the Jamaat and sent them to quarantine centres. The city hasn’t reported a Jamat-linked positive case in two days.Also read: At Delhi’s Covid-19 review, no answers to 2 crucial questions on Tablighi JamaatOn Saturday, the union health ministry said the Tablighi Jamaat workers account for 63 per cent of the city’s 1,700 cases. But it is worse in Tamil Nadu and Telangana where 84 per cent and 79 per cent of the state’s Covid-19 patients, respectively, are linked to the Markaz.The health ministry said Tablighi Jamaat-linked Covid-19 cases had been reported from 23 states and union territories. In Arunachal Pradesh, the congregation has been linked to its only coronavirus case.The headquarters of the religious sect had emerged as the biggest coronavirus disease hotspots last month after authorities discovered nearly 2,300 workers living in the building in circumstances that made social distancing impossible. Initial tests indicated 24 of them were already positive when officials moved them out, sending them to state-run quarantine facilities. A nationwide manhunt was also launched for the thousands of others who had been to the Markaz earlier and had headed back to the states for missionary work.This week, the Home Ministry expanded this search to cover Rohingya as well after reports that some of them had also been associated with the Jamaat workers and attended the congregation.Over the next few days and weeks, the Centre needs to decide how to proceed against the 854 foreigners who were evacuated from the Markaz and other places in Delhi. They have been blacklisted from returning to India for the next few years. But once they complete their quarantine, the government intends to hand them over to their embassy to deport them. It is not clear yet if foreign nationals who have had FIRs registered against them would be allowed to leave at this point.Indian officials had recently prevented some Malaysians from leaving the country after their links with the Tablighi had surfaced.Malaysian deputy foreign minister Datuk Kamaruddin Jaafar this week told reporters that 17 nationals who took part in the Tablighi gathering in Delhi had been detained by authorities in India. He said they had been charged under the penal code, the disaster management law and the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-000-covid-19-cases-linked-to-jamaat-says-govt-but-india-isn-t-the-only-one/story-CGsIbXftyMbfL2AKPoh8PM.html
19-04-2020||India||Lockdowns work better for rich nations: Study||A hard lockdown may benefit developed countries more than developing and low-income countries, a new study has suggested, indicating that policymakers need to keep in mind the human and economic costs of sweeping restrictions in place to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The study comes at a time when the Indian government has extended the national lockdown till May 3 but partially relaxed curbs in some areas amid reports of high economic distress in agricultural and small sectors, and in rural areas.The study, by two social scientists at Yale University, used modelling and disease projection data by the Imperial College, London, and found that social distancing and other measures can save a large number of lives in high-income countries because practically any economic cost is worth bearing.But in lower-income countries such as Nigeria, India or Bangladesh, the benefits diminish. The value of benefits estimated for each country translates to a savings of 59% of US GDP, 85% of German GDP, but only 14% of Bangladesh’s GDP, or 19% of India’s, the study contended.“Assuming equally effective social distancing policies, the economic value of moving from a policy stance of no mitigation to social distancing is estimated to be 23.5 times more valuable for the United States compared to India,” Zachary Barnett-Howell, one of the authors of the study and a professor at Yale, told HT on email.The authors said the lower estimated benefits of restrictions were driven by the fact that large sections of the population in low-income countries are dependent on daily wages and small-scale work, which get shuttered. Moreover, many such countries have a relatively younger population, which is less vulnerable to Covid-19.“Not only are the epidemiological and economic benefits of social distancing much smaller in poorer countries, such policies may also exact a heavy toll on the poorest and most vulnerable. Workers in the informal sector lack the resources and social protections to isolate themselves …by limiting their ability to earn a living, social distancing can lead to an increase in hunger, deprivation, and related mortality and morbidity in poor countries,” the study said.Experts admit that enforcing a lockdown is a difficult decision in a country like India because policymakers have to weigh public health benefits with costs such as a sudden economic shock to a large section of people who rely on daily wages to make ends meet.A recent paper for the Centre for Economic Policy Research argued for limited relaxation in the lockdown to allow workers under 40, who are at lower risk of infection, along with antibody testing and suitable social distancing safeguards.“The trade-off is not really between public health and the economy so much as it is between lives and lives: lives that could be compromised by the pandemic on the one hand, and lives, on the other, that could be compromised by loss of incomes, employment, security and access to the necessities of life, including nutrition,” said S Subramanian, one of the authors of the paper ‘India’s Lockdown’ by Debraj Ray, S Subramanian and Lore Vandewalle. Ray, first author of the paper and a professor of economics at New York University, said that a complete lockdown minimised Covid-19 deaths, but not total deaths. “It is a question of lives vs lives, and not lives vs GDP. That is the difference between a developing country and an (economically) developed country. In the latter we can think of serious transfers that will compensate for loss of livelihoods. In the government of India relief package, the transfers are better than nothing, but they’re not enough to prevent the widespread hardship that will accompany a lockdown,” he said.“There are deaths one way or the other. The lockdown deaths will be hugely correlated with people’s economic status --- the poor bear the brunt of it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdowns-work-better-for-rich-nations-study/story-mQ0QeQDMpyASgU2fJDKVmJ.html
