20-04-2020||India||Farmer turns to Twitter to sell cabbages, fails to find a buyer||Bengaluru: Turns out a bumper crop is bad news for farmers in times of Covid-19.On April 18, vegetable farmer Kannaiyan Subramaniam uploaded a video of his cabbage field on social media platform, Twitter. Within hours, it went viral with several users commenting on the video, and tagging others to amplify the farmer received the help he sought.The 50-year-old vegetable farmer in Voddarahalli village in Karnataka’s Chamarajanagara district, located on the border with Tamil Nadu, said that he had nearly 100 tonnes of cabbage that was ready for harvest.Faced with the prospect of fresh and healthy cabbages rotting in the 3.5-acre land that he farms on lease, Subramaniam who is also the general secretary of the South India Coordination Committee of Farmers Movements, a farmers rights lobby group, posted a 15-second video in Tamil asking people to help him find buyers. He offered his entire crop for Rs 3 lakh, a sum that he said, would barely cover his initial investment. Since then, the video has received more than 305,000 views, 25,000 retweets, and plenty of gratuitous advice. Subramaniam is yet to find a buyer.In the past 24 hours, others have taken to social media platforms to seek buyers for their produce, including a watermelon farmer from Bijapur, a tomato farmer from Sarjapur; a banana farmer from Tuticorin.With markets shut and people homebound due to the lockdown, demand for produce across the country has crashed. Unable to sell much, vegetable farmers are saddled with massive losses. This is the story of thousands of vegetable farmers across India today.According to an April 8 report by Credit Suisse, a financial research firm, despite a bumper harvest in the Rabi season, the arrival of fruits and vegetables in the country’s wholesale markets has fallen by a whopping 50-95%, as only a fraction of the 7,000 wholesale markets have been functioning after the lockdown was enforced. In 2019-20, Indian farmers sold 284 million tonnes of horticultural produce worth Rs 5 lakh crore. Even assuming only a 50% fall in market arrivals over a month of lockdown, vegetable farmers would have lost in excess of Rs 20,000 crore.Subramaniam sold his previous harvest of cabbages for Rs 11.50 a kilogramme. “I’m not looking for profit. I would be happy if I can recover my cost and the cabbages reach those who don’t have enough to eat in these times,” he told Hindustan Times, two days after posting the video. Subramaniam’s plight illustrates how the already bumpy road from farm-to-fork has caved in during the lockdown. A few days ago, local newspapers in Karnataka reported that nearly 70 farmers in Shivamogga district were stuck with 2,000 tonnes of ash gourd as regular buyers from Delhi and Agra failed to turn up. ‘Petha’, the popular north Indian sweet is made of candied ash gourd.Similarly, Panruti in Cuddalore district is the jackfruit capital of Tamil Nadu. With the onset of summer, the giant, spiky fruits are everywhere but the demand has dried up. Some local businessmen and charitable organisations in the region pooled in money and bought the jackfruit from farmers. The lot was handed over to the local municipal authorities that door delivered vegetables. Anyone who purchased a three-kilo vegetable pack sold by the government at Rs 100 was given a free jackfruit; ordinarily, the fruit costs close to Rs 150.Subramaniam rang up the agri war room helpline set up by the Karnataka government, which functions between 8am to 8pm to help farmers’ with transportation passes, farm equipment access and disease management. “The officials told me they couldn’t do anything about procurement directly but offered to connect me to traders who could only pay Rs 2 a kilo. The traders said even that price could not be guaranteed,” he said. Usually, market agents from distant parts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka would visit Subramaniam’s farm and harvest the required quantity of cabbage themselves. If Subramaniam wanted to sell his produce at big market centres of Erode or Chennai for a higher price, he would harvest, sort, package and transport the vegetables directly to traders there. Since the lockdown, agents haven’t been able to come to his farm.“Hiring a mini-truck that can carry about 5-6 tonnes of cabbage to the market isn’t viable. During the lockdown operators charge more than Rs 30,000 for one consignment from my village to the wholesale market in Chennai,” Subramaniam said. One grocery retail chain sought to buy 3000 cabbages from him at Rs 5 apiece, but asked Subramaniam to deliver them at a collection center in Mandya 125 km away. He refused, because he felt that paying for transportation would have meant throwing good money after bad. “No matter how you dice it, there is no way I can even break even,” he said. “When the lockdown is lifted, demand will inch up but the loss-ridden farmers will not have the financial means to invest in a new crop. With a fall in production consumer prices will skyrocket. It’s a deadly spiral for both the farmer and consumer,” said Subramaniam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-turns-to-twitter-to-sell-cabbages-fails-to-find-a-buyer/story-ukTD9YuaR5yO82b2n8cnKO.html
20-04-2020||India||IIT-BHU joins 7 others in boycotting Times rankings over ‘transparency’ complaints||New Delhi: The Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), or IIT (BHU), on Monday joined seven other premier IITs and announced it will also boycott the prestigious Times Higher Education World University Rankings. The seven announced their boycott last week saying they are not satisfied with the transparency of the process.“There are questions over the rankings criteria. This issue has been discussed for a long time. We have also decided to not participate like some of the other IITs,” IIT (BHU) director Pramod Kumar Jain said.IIT Mandi director Timothy Gonsalves said his institute has not been participating in the rankings and will continue doing so. IIT Ropar, which along with Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science (IISc) was placed in the 301 to 350 bracket in the last rankings, will continue taking part in the exercise.“We are participating in the ranking exercise,” said Prof S K Das, IIT Ropar head. The rankings agency said its World University Rankings were well established as the global gold standard international benchmark for world-class research universities.“First published in 2004, our 2020 edition published last September included voluntary submissions from almost 1,400 institutions from 92 countries and regions,” it added in a statement.“If leading universities in a nation with such a proud heritage of scholarly excellence, and with such huge opportunities for economic growth decline to take part in the gold standard rankings, we believe it would be detrimental to those institutions, and to India as a whole.”It said transparency was at the heart of everything it did. “Our chief data officer visited Delhi in November 2019 to specifically engage with the IITs on our methodology, and in January 2020, our chief knowledge officer held a full one-day forum in Delhi for hundreds of guests, where the rankings data and methodology was front and centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-bhu-joins-7-others-in-boycotting-times-rankings-over-transparency-complaints/story-OacCXuaPaMKDpf4J75U5RM.html
20-04-2020||India||Uddhav warns those giving Palghar case a communal twist||Mumbai/New Delhi: Facing criticism for the lynching of three men — including two Hindu sadhus — in Palghar district, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a set of measures to bring the guilty to book, while warning against giving the incident a communal flavour. In a video message on Monday, Thackeray announced the setting up of a high-level police probe into the incident; the suspension of two police officials for dereliction of duty; outlined the nature of the incident and the action taken so far, including the arrest of over 100 accused; and summarised his conversations with home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the incident. On Thursday, a mob of villagers attacked and lynched three men — Kalpavruksha Giri, Sushil Giri and Neelesh Telgade — in Gadhchinchale village, 110km from Palghar on April 16. The first two were Hindu ascetics affiliated with a religious akhara in Varanasi; the third was their driver. They were reportedly headed to Gujarat to attend the last rites of their religious guru. But the crowd suspected them of being child-lifters, dragged them out of the car, and beat them with sticks. The police said they were outnumbered. A video of the incident became public on Sunday, sparking accusations from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the state government failed to ensure law and order. BJP supporters on social media also launched an attack on the Maharashtra government for what they alleged was negligence since the case involved Hindu religious figures. Thackeray said that the two sadhus had reached the Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli but were not allowed by local authorities to enter the area, and hence were returning through internal roads. “The police have already arrested more than 100 suspects including five key accused responsible for the incident. The key accused have been given police custody till April 30. We have suspended two policemen holding them responsible for the incident. Nobody involved in this heinous crime will be spared.” He also announced a high level probe by additional director general (CID) Atulchandra Kulkarni into lynching case.The Maharashtra CM issued a strict warning not to use the incident to inflame communal passions, and said he had apprised home minister Amit Shah about the case. “Even Amit Shahji knows that the incident had no religious connection as the village in which the incident took place has no such background. I have requested him to taken strict action against the people trying to spread communal tension using social media. We too are taking action against the bid to arouse religious sentiments using the incident.”State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that those who attacked and who died in the Palghar mob killings were not from different religions, and underlined that he had asked the Maharashtra police and the cyber cell to take action against anyone instigating communal hatred in the society or on social media. The CM also spoke to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, who had tweeted urging his Maharashtra counterpart to take strict action against the culprits involved in the lynching of the three men.While condemning the incident, the Congress — which is a part of the Maharashtra government — accused the BJP of communalising it. “We unequivocally condemn it. There is no place for violence in our civilised society and the strictest possible action must be taken against the accused,” Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a statement. But he added that there was no communal or Hindu-Muslim angle to the attack as was being sought to be projected; and the accused belonged to the tribal community. “Tragically, BJP and its echo system as also a section of media are attempting to project the incident with communal overtones.”The BJP rejected the allegation. Sunil Deodhar, a national secretary of the party, said the allegations that tribal people attacked the trio suspecting them to be thieves is fabricated. “No adivasi attacks those in saffron robes, unless they have been brainwashed for years. I am familiar with the area and it’s a stronghold of the communists who hate those in saffron,” he said. On Thackeray’s statement, Deodhar said that the CM was “beating around the bush, instead of addressing the issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-warns-those-giving-palghar-case-a-communal-twist/story-cxGaH7r4p9x8As92iHszYL.html
20-04-2020||India||78 new cases take Delhi’s Covid-19 count to 2,081, including 47 casualties||The total number of people affected by coronavirus in Delhi has gone up to 2,081 after 78 new cases on Monday, the government said.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin and testing status released late night, the active number of cases is 1,603. A total of 431 have recovered while 47 of those who had contracted Covid-19 have died.It said 25,900 people in the national capital have been tested so far including 1,513 on Monday. Out of total number, 2,801 have tested positive and 20,712 have tested negative. A total of 2,711 results are pending. The number of tests per million of the population is now 1,282.Delhi continues to be the state with the second largest number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra whose number is more than double of the national capital’s. The total number infection in the country on Monday rose to 17,656.Earlier Monday, the Union health ministry in its briefing said Delhi was among the states where the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases is less than 20 days.In another development, the Delhi government has increased the total number of containment zones in the capital to 84, up from the 79 notified Sunday evening to stop coronavirus from spreading to new areas.It also decided to carry out random rapid testing in the hotspots to get a clearer picture of the extent of the spread of the pandemic, particularly given that many people who had tested positive over the weekend did not show any symptoms.To carry out the random testing, the government will send 22 prison vans that have been converted into mobile labs into these containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-new-cases-take-delhi-s-covid-19-count-to-2-081-including-47-casualties/story-mK02g1edCUsIK4fNaODYbM.html
20-04-2020||India||New guidelines for soldiers set to join duties after leave||New Delhi The Indian Army on Monday came out with a fresh of instructions for soldiers who have completed their leaves, temporary duties and courses, and are required to rejoin their units on priority.The army said all its personnel be classified as ‘green’ (who have completed 14 days of quarantine), ‘yellow’ (those who need to undergo 14 days quarantine) and lastly, ‘red’ (who are symptomatic and require isolation and further treatment in Covid hospitals). According to the instructions, the top priority bracket includes soldiers whose units or duty stations are within 500km by private transport from their place of leave, all ranks of the operationally-critical Northern Command and personnel belonging to Army Medical Corps, Army Dental Corps and Military Nursing Service who are at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The second highest priority for rejoining duty has been accorded to “all ranks of Eastern Command plus officers and key appointments of other Commands as decided by the respective Commands”.“The guidelines for rejoining have been planned in a phased manner considering the numbers of individuals rejoining from leave/temporary duty/courses and the requirement for smooth reporting, quarantine and onward dispersal to units,” two senior army officers said.The new orders said soldiers would rejoin duties only on the receipt of specific instructions from their units, formations and establishments. “Any individual whose leave station is within 500km of unit/duty station is allowed to directly report to unit using private transport only. Those who are not within the 500km limit will report to nearest unit/station headquarters in private vehicle only,” the instructions said.“All personnel reporting back from leave, temporary duty and courses will be classified as ‘yellow’ and will undergo 14 days quarantine at the reporting station/unit. They will subsequently be moved from reporting station to duty stations and units in army vehicles, special trains, etc.,” the instructions said.The army clarified in case such personnel do not move under the supervision of military authorities, they will continue to be considered ‘yellow’ and would have to undergo a 14-day quarantine again.According to the instructions, Indian Army soldiers from Nepal, who are on leave, will remain at their home stations till the situation in the neighbouring country stabilises or the government opens the border for the movement of personnel.“Requisite move instructions will accordingly be passed to such personnel from their parent units, headquarters and establishments,” the instructions said.The army clarified that the latest instructions will not apply to soldiers in hotspots or containment zones. “Individuals in hotspots/containment zones will follow strict ‘no movement’ till the areas are denotified. The leave-granting authorities will decide on the use of the exception of areas officially declared as hotspots/containment zones by the central/state government,” the instructions said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-guidelines-for-soldiers-set-to-join-duties-after-leave/story-Atp8EgUTN8pJAuoHpDLJmM.html
20-04-2020||India||Indore tally nears 900; Centre sends team for review||Bhopal: A central government team on Monday visited Indore, one of the hostspots of the coronavirus disease in the country even as the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh’s business centre rose to almost 900, according to a statement from the department of public relations.IThe number of Covid-19 positive cases in Indore was 897 as on Monday evening and the total number of cases in the state, 1485. Of the positive cases in Indore 52 have died so far. The number of death in the entire state is 76.The central government on Sunday set up six inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) to assess the situation at major hotspots of the viral disease in the country and monitor measures being undertaken to control the situation. The teams, after assessing the situation, are also supposed to issue necessary directions to the authorities concerned. Each of the teams is being led by additional secretary level officers.According to the statement , the central team visiting Indore comprises additional secretary in ministry of Agriculture Abhilaksh Likhi, head of department community medicine, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College (VMMC), Delhi  Dr Jugal Kishore, director, Ministry of Health and Family welfare Dr Anil Ranga, joint advisor National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA)  Nawal Prakash and director Department of Food and Public distribution Simerjit Kaur.The team met with commissioner, Indore division Akash Tripathi, inspector general of police Vivek Sharma, collector, Indore Manish Singh, deputy inspector general of police Harinarayan Chari Mishra, Indore Municipal Corporation commissioner Ashish Singh and others.Talking to the officers Likhi said: “Corona is a global pandemic. Concerted efforts are required to tackle it. The arrangements in Indore will be further strengthened to control the situation. Strict compliance of lockdown restrictions should be ensured.”The central team sought feedback from the authorities on the implementation of the different measures being undertaken to fight Covid-19 and supply of essential items to people during the restrictions.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “We welcome the central government’s team. The suggestions from the team will help us fight Corona more effectively.”State Congress president Kamal Nath said: “We welcome the central government’s team visiting Indore which is now placed on the top position in the country due to growing infection of Corona. We expect that under the team’s guidance the situation will be controlled and it will further improve in Indore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-tally-nears-900-centre-sends-team-for-review/story-mecawvFybCjMEc4RVNYwJJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Aggressive testing must to prevent 2nd wave of Covid||New Delhi: A working paper by a team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) suggests that there will be a second wave of ,Covid-19 infection unless new cases are aggressively traced, localised and isolated.The paper, released on Sunday evening, looks at various scenarios in which a lockdown is lifted in cities affected by Covid-19 infections. It also considers the most restrictive scenario when the lockdown continues to be imposed indefinitely: lockdown until May 31; lockdown until May 3 as currently planned and so on. In all cases, researchers have considered that infected cases are being isolated with 90% compliance.Researchers have then modelled the impact of nine interventions on infections in Mumbai and Bengaluru. These interventions include only case isolation; social distancing of those aged 65 years and above; lockdown for 26 days; lockdown for 40 days; lockdown continues; phased emergence from lockdown with various restrictions. Based on demographic data of Mumbai and Bengaluru, the team found that if the lockdown were to continue indefinitely, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in Mumbai till September are likely to be a fraction compared to no intervention scenario. The fatalities reduce to 530 as compared to 27790 in the no intervention scenario. If the lockdown were to be lifted on April 20 and people returned to normal activities, the number of fatalities will still rise, but slowly. Even if the lockdown were to be lifted only after May 3, the relaxation of restrictions will lead to fatality numbers going as high as with no-interventions, but gradually.“This delay may allow better mobilisation of resources for aggressive testing, tracking, and containment that can change the course of the epidemic,” the paper said.Bengaluru offers a similar scenario. If the lockdown were to continue indefinitely, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the city are likely be far fewer: 30 compared to 21,200 in the no intervention scenario. These projections were made until September 2, 2020, for Mumbai and July 22, 2020, for Bengaluru, according to Rajesh Sundaresan, corresponding author of the paper.The team of researchers has arrived at these trends based on a simulation of the infection spread in Bengaluru and Mumbai using a model which builds a fine-grained replica of a city, and mimics various interaction spaces, such as households, schools and workplaces, according to a statement by IISc.“If there are 10 million people in Bengaluru, the city’s model also has that many individuals,” said Sundaresan, professor at the Department of Electrical Communication Engineering at IISc, in the statement. He added that the model also takes into account population densities, age distribution, household size distribution, commute distances and several other parameters.“We have to increase identification of cases by active case finding and enhanced testing, ensure isolation and quarantine and continue proper physical distancing, cough etiquette, respiratory hygiene. We have to get used to the new normal now or cases will rise steadily. Plans will have to be developed for migration, transit inter and intra districts and states after lockdown also,” said Giridhar R Babu, professor and head, lifecourse epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-must-to-prevent-2nd-wave-of-covid/story-YnItNq5ETUctj4SXIxeeIP.html
20-04-2020||India||12-yr-old migrant worker dies after walking 100km||Raipur: A 12-year-old girl died in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur after walking about a hundred kilometers over three days through dense forests to reach her village from Perur in Telangana’s Mulgu district, where she had gone along with 13 migrant workers including her uncle to work in chilly fields before the nationwide lockdown, officials said on Monday. The workers began walking from Telangana’s Perur on April 15 and Jamlo Madkami, the girl, died upon reaching Chhattisgarh on April 18 and prompted the Bijapur district administration to quarantine the 13.Bijapur Collector KD Kunjam said that the girl’s post-mortem examination was done on Monday and the body was handed over to the family .Bijapur’s chief medical and health officer, Dr BR Pujari, said the girl’s post-mortem was conducted on Monday and added she tested negative for Covid-19. “...the exact reason behind the death is yet to be ascertained. Her viscera has been preserved. It will be sent for further examination to ascertain the cause of her death,” he said. Pujari said she appears to have died because of electrolyte imbalance.“Since she travelled on difficult terrains for three days, she could have suffered muscle fatigue and that may have led to some imbalance. Secondly, as per the people who were walking with her, she fell from a hillock and sustained injuries also,” he said.Pujari said the workers took a forested route to reach their village because of closure of roads due to the lockdown. “She [Madkami] walked along with the group and crossed difficult terrains of Maoist-affected forested areas and on Saturday evening she collapsed in Bhandarpal,” said Pujari. He added the route is extremely treacherous.Madkami was about 50 kilometers from her Aded village when she died.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said hundreds of workers have returned to their homes on foot from Telangana through dense forests since the lockdown was imposed in March and extended last week until May 3. “The forest routes are surrounded by Maoist-affected areas. Hence no one can monitor their movement,” said a police official involved in anti-Maoist operations, who did not want to be named.The lockdown triggered an exodus of migrant workers from bigger cities in March as tens of thousands of them left jobless because of the curbs imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic began leaving for their homes on foot. This prompted the Centre to direct the states and Union territories to seal their borders and ensure the migrant workers are taken care of in shelter homes. Migrant workers have recently gathered in cities like Mumbai and demanded that they be sent home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-yr-old-migrant-worker-dies-after-walking-100km/story-8LHJHm2F61mDJZXqGd4SGP.html
20-04-2020||India||India signs pact with S Korean firm for 500,000 testing kits||New Delhi: The Indian government signed an agreement with a South Korean company on Monday for acquiring 500,000 testing kits to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19, with the first lot expected to be delivered on April 30.The deal marks the first purchase agreement signed by the Indian embassy in Seoul and the testing kits will be supplied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is playing a key role in shaping India’s efforts to contain the Coronavirus pandemic.The kits will be delivered to India by the South Korean firm, Humasis Ltd, in four lots from April 30, said a statement from the Indian embassy in Seoul. The agreement was signed in the presence of Indian ambassador Sripriya Ranganathan.Humasis Ltd, whose factory is located at Gyeongi-do in South Korea, is “sourcing raw materials for production of these diagnostic testing kits from India”, the statement said. “This collaboration forms an important part of efforts to augment India’s testing capacity in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic,” it added.Over the past few weeks, India’s Central and state government agencies and private companies have sourced 450,000 testing kits from different Korean companies.“This cooperation is in keeping with the special strategic partnership between India and [South Korea] and the shared commitment of our leaders to pursuing a people-first approach,” the statement said.The cooperation is also in keeping with the assurance by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and South Korean President Moon Jae-in that the two countries will continue to consult and support each other and share experiences in the common fight against Covid-19, it added. India has turned to a wide range of countries, from the US to China, to source medical supplies and equipment needed to counter the spread of the Coronavirus. Indian missions around the world have played a key role in the sourcing of these supplies, arranging clearances from local authorities and coordinating with airlines to transport the goods to India.Last week, Chinese firms supplied 650,000 testing kits on two cargo flights.Officials had then said Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million Personal Protection Equipment kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits by the government and private firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-signs-pact-with-s-korean-firm-for-500-000-testing-kits/story-krpZcmk6E8TJPyYE8swjaL.html
20-04-2020||India||59 held for attacking health workers, cops in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fifty-nine people were arrested in Bengaluru on Monday for attacking health care workers and police officers when they arrived in the Padarayanapura area to quarantine some individuals, officials said.The group of health workers and the police visited the area on Sunday night to shift to quarantine some primary and secondary contacts of people who recently returned from a gathering of Tabligi Jamaat and tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin has been linked to at least 4,000 cases since last month.The officials planned to shift the contacts of the attendees to designated quarantine zones in order to move them away from the area that has already been declared a containment zone, the police said.When the team reached the spot, a group of people attacked them after breaking barriers put up to restrict movement in the area, visuals of the incident showed. On Monday morning, the police arrested 59 people over the incident. Home minister Basvaraj Bommai said that five FIRs were registered, including under sections of the National Disaster Management Act.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa condemned the attack and the damage to public property, saying that such acts will not be tolerated. His remark came on a day the Karnataka government decided to extend the complete lockdown over the Covid-19 outbreak, with no relaxations till May 3 across the state. The state previously hinted that it could conditionally lift some restrictions in phases beginning April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/59-held-for-attacking-health-workers-cops-in-bengaluru/story-knZA5VstjSjeia2PveZl3N.html
20-04-2020||India||Infosys puts off promotions and salary hikes, freezes hiring, says no layoffs||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, IT giant Infosys has said pressure on margins could be visible in the near term, but the company is seeing increased client interest in cloud services.Infosys CFO Nilanjan Roy, through a video conferencing call, said the company has stopped hiring, promotions and salary hikes in an attempt to manage costs in order to offset the damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the lockdown.“Infosys will honour all hiring commitments it has made,” Roy said.He further added that retail, travel and hospitality, energy and oil segments have been the most affected in the current environment. According to Roy, cards and payments sectors will also struggle.COO Pravin Rao said that the IT major is not looking at any Covid-19-related layoffs “at this stage”.Rao said that the firm’s employees will return to offices in a phased manner. “We are in no hurry to get employees back to offices. Our first phase of returns, when it happens, will be likely to get 5% employees returning, and in the next phase will total about 15%,” he said.Rao said that the company will make 35,000 job offers in FY21.Infosys top brass also said it will honour the job offers it has extended to the markets, in order to enhance the skill-sets it can bring to recovery-focused client environments.“Considering the business uncertainty emanating from Covid-19, the company is unable to provide guidance on revenues and margins for FY21 at this stage. The company will provide guidance after visibility improves,” the company said in its stock exchange filing.CEO Salil Parekh said Infosys team has achieved 93 per cent remote working on Monday and has been ensuring consistent service delivery for clients in this rapidly changing environment.“While the immediate short-term will be challenging, looking ahead, we can see that there is a strong interest to consolidate with partners with high-quality and agile service delivery and strong financial resilience. I am confident we will emerge from this stronger,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infosys-puts-off-promotions-and-salary-hikes-freezes-hiring-says-no-layoffs/story-a06wD1baqvkErsDzcJQmDK.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam to continue with strict lockdown measures till May 3||Brushing aside speculations about a lot of relaxations after April 20, the Assam government made it clear on Monday that strict lockdown measures will be in place till May 3.“Our fight against Covid-19 continues. The idea among the public that there would be a lot of relaxations isn’t true. Strict measures for the lockdown will continue till May 3,” said Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna.He added that relaxations announced by the Centre will, however, be allowed in the state with strict monitoring. Government offices in Assam will start functioning from April 21.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.While senior officials will have to come to office regularly, only 30% of Grade III and Grade IV employees will be allowed to come to office at one time based on a duty roster prepared by respective offices. Social distancing and other safety precautions will have to be in place.All activities related to agriculture, food processing, drugs, medical units, manufacturers of fertilizers etc, will be allowed to operate provided they keep their workforce in one place and ensure their transportation. E-commerce activities will also be permitted.Assam’s director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said that strict action would be taken against those flouting lockdown guidelines.“From today police would try to play more of a facilitating role. But our enforcement duty related to lockdown will continue. We will facilitate all those who fall under exempted categories, but if anyone flouts the rules we will be very strict,” he said.Since the lockdown began, 735 offensive and fake posts on social media have been removed, 45 people arrested for posting such things, over 200 counselled and 85 cases registered against misuse of social media. Over 25,000 vehicles have been seized by the police till date.“I would like to reiterate that there would be no relaxation of lockdown norms. All rules will have to be followed and anyone flouting including things like not wearing masks in public and spitting or urinating in public will be dealt with strictly,” said Mahanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-to-continue-with-strict-lockdown-measures-till-may-3/story-CGx9Kx5aI4tOsMTObpLMON.html
20-04-2020||India||‘Improper sampling, Bihar missing out Covid-19 cases’: AIIMS-Patna chief||The top official of Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) warned on Monday that Bihar could be missing out a large number of Covid-19 cases because of incorrect methodology of sample collection.The disclosure came as Bihar reported 20 cases of coronavirus — the biggest spike in a day so far. Seventeen of the cases were reported from Biharsharif in Nalanda district and three from Jamalpur in Munger district during the last 24 hours.The district administration had sealed Biharsharif and enforced containment measures, similar to a hotspot.“Improper methodology of sample collection could be a reason for the large number of negative cases in the state,” AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh told HTFollow coronavirus latest updates here.Of the 11,319 samples tested so far, Bihar has reported only 113 positive cases.Dr Singh cast aspersions on the acumen of non-AIIMS personnel in collecting nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples for Covid-19 confirmatory test.He raised this point after two recent samples, which tested positive at AIIMS, turned out to be negative at the ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) here. Both are institutes of the Central government.Dispelling any ambiguity in reporting samples at AIIMS, Dr Singh said, “We engage specialist doctors from the ENT department to collect nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples of suspects. In our case, you will always get proper yield. I don’t think any other institute, which conducts RT PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) in the state, engages ENT specialists for samples. They mainly rely on technicians.”Stressing that the government should emphasise on proper sample collection by specialists, he said, “If a sample tests positive, there is 99.9% probability of the sample actually being positive. However, if a sample tests negative, there is every possibility of the patient being positive (false negative), but the result being negative because the virus strand may not have been tapped due to improper sample collection. A large number of patients can thus be left out of the net,” he added.A 32-year-old woman from Khajpura who tested positive at the AIIMS on April 18, had tested negative at the RMRIMS on Monday. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Choudhary confirmed this fact.The AIIMS had collected nasopharyngeal sample of the woman that tested positive on April 18.“The remaining extract of the woman’s nasopharyngeal sample, along with fresh oropharyngeal (throat swab) sample, collected on April 19 was sent to the RMRI. The nasopharyngeal extract of ours, tested positive at the RMRI as well. However, the oropharyngeal swab of the patient, collected by RMRI technicians, tested negative at the ICMR laboratory,” said Dr Neeraj Agarwal, dean of AIIMS-Patna and also the nodal officer of the institute for coronavirus.“As such, Sunday we collected four samples — two nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs each —from the woman and sent them for re-tests at our laboratory as well as the RMRI to check for any discordant results,” he said.Patna civil surgeon Dr Choudhary said, “The samples of recent tests, performed at RMRI, have tested negative, while we await results of tests done at AIIMS.” Another 35-year-old patient from Raghopur block of Bihar’s Vaishali district who tested positive at the AIIMS on April 15, tested negative during a re-test at the RMRIMS and the AIIMS, less than 48 hours later. The patient died on April 17 before his second report tested negative later in the evening.The AIIMS, however, said the patient died of “coronavirus” and “multi-organ failure”. “In medical science, any test report is always based on probability. If a sample tests positive, the actual chance of positivity is 67%. Similarly, if a sample is negative, actual chance of the patient being negative is only 37%. It is for this reason that a Covid-19 patient is tested twice within 24 hours before he or she is discharged from any facility. Even after discharge, a patient is advised to be under 14-day home quarantine,” said Dr Agarwal.The Khajpura woman did not have any travel history or prospects of having come in contact with any Covid-19 patient. In fact, 17 samples of those who came in contact with her, including her husband, have tested negative.Efforts to reach out to Pradeep Das, director of the RMRIMS, about the veracity of his laboratory results, proved futile as he did not respond to this reporter’s phone calls or text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/improper-sampling-bihar-missing-out-covid-19-cases-aiims-patna-chief/story-OUdhQo3Sprtw1ainTYI75J.html
20-04-2020||India||‘Thank you to Mahindra Group for...’: Mike Pompeo’s shout-out for India’s help||India’s Mahindra Group has temporarily repurposed its auto-plant in Auburn Hills, Michigan to make protective equipment for healthcare workers at the frontline of the fight against the coronavirus.It has been making aspiration boxes and face shields with polycarbonate material used for auto windshields, The Detroit News reported last week. Aspiration boxes protect healthcare professionals at the time hospitalized Covid-19 patients are being taken off tubes, when it can get “messy”.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo gave it a public shout-out Monday, in a post on Twitter, with a link to the news article: “Thank you to the Mahindra Group for rising to the occasion and using your facilities to manufacture life-saving equipment.”The Mahindra plant’s protective gear for doctors and nurses is part of a larger effort by the auto industry to repurpose their manufacturing facilities to help make up for the shortfall of critical medical supplies such as ventilators for hospitalized Covid-19 patients and protective equipment healthcare professionals, with a little push from the White House. Ford and General Motors, for instance, are making ventilators.Earlier this month, India had lifted restrictions on the export of antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine a the request of President Donald Trump, who has touted it as a “game-changer” in the treatment of Covid-19, which remains unproven.The Mahindra plant makes off-road utility vehicles called Roxor and it was closed in March because of the epidemic, which has hit Michigan state very hard, specially Detroit, home of the US auto industry.“We had the material on hand to get started,” said Rick Haas, CEO of Mahindra Automotive North America, told the Detroit News, referring to the windshield material already in the inventory. “We’re also making face masks, but we’re having challenges keeping supply and material in house. Everyone is trying to do that.”The aspiration boxes, which were designed locally, have been much in demand here and and abroad reportedly and the company plans to ramp up its manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thank-you-to-mahindra-group-for-mike-pompeo-s-shout-out-for-india-s-help/story-neILifegY4PoTuhNJlI3lN.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam transfers Rs 2,000 each to 86,000 migrants stranded in other states||The Assam government on Monday transferred a sum of Rs 2,000 each as financial relief to 86,000 people from the state stranded across the country due to the ongoing lockdown.“We were able to reach 4.3 lakh people from the state stranded across India due to the lockdown. Today we extended a one-time ex gratia amount of Rs 2,000 to 86,000 of them. Another installment will be considered during the ongoing lockdown,” Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The Assam government has already provided Rs 25,000 each to 647 patients from the states who went outside for treatment and are stranded now. A sum of 2,000 USD has also been given to those from Assam who went abroad for short stints and are stranded.In order to provide relief to those stranded in other states, Assam had started a helpline and those in need were asked to give a missed call. Those who called were sent a web link and asked to fill up a form giving their details and bank account information.Those details were then sent to the districts to where the applicants belong in order to verify their claims. A total of 4.3 lakh unique calls were received by the government of which 2.28 lakh filled the forms and out of that 1 lakh bank accounts were found to be eligible.The process also enabled the state government to get an idea of the number of people from the state who are outside the state for employment. Karnataka with 68,000 has the highest number of people from Assam followed by Tamil Nadu with 36,000 and Kerala with 34,000.“This data along with details of their family members will be helpful when these people plan to return to Assam. We will be to monitor their movement and keep track of their health,” Sarma said while addressing a press conference.The minister informed that the state has got 9,600 rapid test kits from the Centre. The Assam government is attempting to procure more of those kits from China. Earlier the state had procured 50,000 PPE kits from China.“As of now we have to wait for 6 hours to get results of tests, but now we will be able to know about a person’s status through the rapid tests within 15 minutes. From Wednesday we will conduct rapid tests in our government hospitals,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-transfers-rs-2-000-each-to-86-000-migrants-stranded-in-other-states/story-2egcxIvzAnpo2EvwOwgr9K.html
20-04-2020||India||Karnataka rules out relaxation of lockdown after attack on health workers||The Karnataka cabinet on Monday decided to continue the current lockdown measures in force till May 3 without any relaxation in the state after initially hinting that curbs would be lifted in phases.“It has been decided that there would be no relaxation in lockdown which is on currently. The existing arrangements will continue,” chief minister B S Yediyurappa told reporters.Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar at a briefing in the evening said, “It was a unanimous decision to continue the lockdown. If required we may revisit the decision after 4-5 days. Right now we have decided to go ahead with the current restrictions till May 3.”Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The decision came as the government reviewed the situation following an attack late Sunday night on health workers and civic administration officials by some residents of Padarayanapura ward in Bangalore. Videos of the incident went viral shortly after the incident.The health workers had gone there to shift to quarantine several primary and secondary contacts of some of members of the Tablighi Jammat who had attended its congregation in Delhi last month and had tested positive for Covid-19. They were to be shifted to hotels designated as quarantine zones. The area where these people lived is very densely populated and has been declared as a ‘red’ containment zone in the city.The health workers and some BBMP (civic body) staff apart from a few police officials were seen being attacked by a mob.An upset Yediyurappa condemned the attack and damage to public property saying such acts would not be tolerated and those guilty would be brought to book under law.On Monday morning, police arrested 59 people including a woman rowdy sheeter called Firoza. Home minister Basvaraj Bommai said that five FIRs have been registered and that cases have been registered under the Disaster Management Act. All the arrested people will be handed over to the Crime Branch of the police for further investigation and prosecution, sources said.Minister Suresh Kumar said that the state was contemplating bringing in an ordinance on the lines of those in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala to confer special powers to the government to enforce containment measures and also provide protection to health workers. The UP ordinance also ensures that those who destroy government property are made to pay for it, while the Kerala one provides for imprisonment of up to two years and a fine of up to Rs 10,000.“We are examining similar legislation by other states and will bring an ordinance in the state in this regard,” he said.The incident also has led to a political slugfest with several BJP leaders saying that the local MLA had a hand in the violence. Former minister and Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan who represents the area, however, denied having a role in the violence. “I had asked the officials not to go in the evening/night and that I myself would help them in the morning,” he said.Yediyurappa hit back at Khan saying, “Who is he to dictate whether officials should go to an area of not?”Former chief ministers Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal (Secular) and Siddaramiah of the Congress too backed the government and said action should be taken against whoever was responsible for the violence on Sunday night.Eighteen new cases of Covid-19 emerged in the state on Monday, taking the total number of affected people to 408 out of which 112 have been discharged and 16 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-rules-out-relaxation-of-lockdown-after-attack-on-health-workers/story-ojokZJq8njhP7V0QHXzfwM.html
20-04-2020||India||Afghan Prez Ghani thanks India for supplying HCQ, wheat amid Covid-19 pandemic||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Monday thanked the Indian government for providing large consignments of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol tablets and 5,000 tonnes of wheat as aid during the Covid-19 pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi responded to Ghani’s tweet by saying India and Afghanistan share a “special friendship” and would combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) “with solidarity and shared resolve”, just as they have fought terrorism.“Thank you my friend Prime Minister @narendramodi, and thank you India for providing 500K tablets of hydroxychloroquine, 100K tablets of paracetamol, and 75,000 metric tons of wheat that the first consignment of it (5,000) will reach AFG in a day or so, for the Afghan people,” Ghani tweeted.Ghani also thanked the Indian government for “further commitments to supply more items including medicines and equipment as availability increases in India”. He added, “In the difficult times of #Covid19, closer cooperation between allies and friends will prepare us better to fight this menace and save our people.”People familiar with developments said the first consignment of 5,022 tonnes of wheat, out of a total of 75,000 tonnes being gifted to Afghanistan, was shipped in 251 containers from Kandla port in Gujarat to Chabahar port in Iran. This is perhaps the first time the Iranian port, granted a special exemption from US sanctions, has been used to ship supplies to Afghanistan during a humanitarian crisis.The consignment of wheat left Kandla port on April 12, and reached Chabahar port on April 15. The consignment was then transported by road to Afghanistan, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The remainder of the 75,000 tonnes of wheat will be shipped from India in the coming weeks. “This humanitarian gesture is meant to ensure food security during the difficult times of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said one of the people cited above.India’s ambassador to Kabul, Vinay Kumar, met Afghan public health minister Ferozuddin Feroz and acting defence minister Asadullah Khalid on Sunday and handed over 800,000 hydroxychloroquine tablets and 170,000 paracetamol tablets for use by the health ministry and security forces.Feroz thanked India for its humanitarian aid and also recalled India’s extensive support to Afghanistan in the health sector, including the construction of hundreds of health centres, support for the Indira Gandhi children’s hospital and supplies of equipment and medicines.India has pledged more than $3 billion for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, making it the largest donor to the war-torn country in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-prez-ghani-thanks-india-for-supplying-hydroxychloroquine-wheat-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-s9iZwJGGwRQD2EdbGysF0N.html
20-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: India reports 1,553 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike so far and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India reports 1,553 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike so farWith a staggering 1,553 fresh cases of coronavirus, the highest single-day spike so far, reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 17,656 on Monday, according to health ministry data. Read more. China sends 24 flights with Covid-19 medical supplies, 20 more this weekChinese companies are expected to send about 20 planeloads of Covid-19-related medical supplies to India over the next one week, a senior government official said. Read more. Govt to use FCI’s surplus rice for making hand-sanitiser, ethanol-blended petrolThe government on Monday allowed use of surplus rice available with Food Corporation of India (FCI) in making of hand-sanitiser, and blending with petrol at a meeting of the National Biofuel Coordination Committee (NBCC) chaired by petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan. Read more.14 new Covid-19 cases reported in Kashmir, total count mounts to 368Fourteen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Kashmir on Monday taking the total number of people infected with the coronavirus disease in Jammu and Kashmir to 368. Read more. Tulips in full bloom in Srinagar, but no visitors amid Covid-19 lockdownThis year over 1.3 million tulip bulbs in Srinagar will quietly wither away over the next week without catching an eye of a visitor because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has led to the enforcement of the ongoing nationwide lockdown till May 3. Read more. ICAI live revision classes for CA inter and final students from April 22As per the notification, the online classes will start from April 22 and will provide a strong impetus in the learning efforts of the students and enable them to revise their syllabi sitting at their homes for intermediate and final levels of the CA course. Read more. Healthcare workers bravely block anti-lockdown protestors. Medical staff around the globe is working on overdrive as the world deals with the outbreak of novel coronavirus. However, these healthcare workers in Denver are fulfilling their commitment to public health protection in more ways than just one. Read more. Fan asks Shah Rukh Khan when should a superstar ‘call it quits’ after flops. His reply is epicThough Shah Rukh Khan once reigned the box office, his last few releases failed to set the cash registers ringing. During an Ask Me Anything session on Twitter, one of his fans seemed to hint at his recent unlucky streak and asked how, as a superstar, does one know when to change careers or hang up one’s boots after a decline. Read more. Go Joe! Play G.I.Joe: War on Cobra on your smartphones for a childhood throwbackFor a lot of us summer vacations were about cartoons on TV and action figures. While this lockdown is no summer vacay, we do have a chance to bring cartoon and action figures together through a game. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-reports-1-553-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-so-far-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8NucjEIr01xMPTdDTBcfTP.html
20-04-2020||India||Six new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM Pinarayi Vijayan denies rift with Centre||Six new cases have been reported in Kerala on Monday even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan made it clear that the state had no differences with the Centre on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier in the day, the state was forced to withdraw some concessions announced to ease the lockdown after the Union Government toughened its stand saying these measures would be against its earlier directive to implement the lockdown till May 3.“We have been following the directive of the union government. There is no tiff or differences with the Centre,” he said adding some of the directives of the state were misunderstood due to some confusion. He said the state has no plan to allow dining in restaurants and barber shops will not be allowed till the lockdown was lifted.The CM said all the new cases were reported from Kannur in north Kerala, one of the four districts in the red zone. Out of 408 total cases, 286 have been discharged and 46,323 people are under observation in the state. He said the state has the best recovery and least mortality rates in the country.When asked about the Sprinklr controversy, the CM refused to say anything. “I have better things to do. I don’t have any plan to go after such controversies,” he said. The Opposition Congress has sought his resignation saying the state’s valuable data was handed over to an American software firm.At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the state IT department had inked an agreement with the US firm to process a huge volume of data collected by grassroot health workers of the state. Though no money was involved in the contract the opposition alleged that it was a breach of privacy and vital data. Later, it was found that the state cabinet and law department were not consulted before signing the deal and the data firm had tied up with many global pharmaceutical giants.As the controversy flared up, state IT secretary M Shivasankar, also the CM’s private secretary told the media on Saturday that he had taken the decision personally, as the pandemic situation was getting out of control in the state. Later, he also appeared in a promotional video of the deal which was removed from the Sprinklr’s website after the controversy cropped up.“We direly needed an entry that could wet a considerable amount of health data to identify the infection pattern to streamline the containment strategy. Spirnklr agreed to provide the service without charge. The arrangement did not warrant the prior vetting of the finance or legal departments. It was my decision at a desperate time,” he said justifying the deal. But the opposition said he owned up to save the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-denies-rift-with-centre/story-wlDVyQ9rCmiAsbuy695j6L.html
20-04-2020||India||Bleach, silence and personal water bottles: Ministry officials return to work||Deepak, 28, carries a bright yellow backpack labelled Kisan Shakti as he moves along the first floor of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Deepak is one of the five members of the housekeeping staff tasked to sanitise the building four times a day. The assistants to the senior officials sitting outside the offices get up from their seats as Deepak sprays the disinfectant on the tables and couches. “We have been doing this since last month, once a day,” says Deepak. “Now we use this bleaching liquid more frequently than before.” The change in schedule comes with the government’s latest directive, asking deputy secretary and above officials to rejoin office on Monday after nearly a month of work from home. A third of the junior staffers are also supposed to come to office, according to rosters decided by the head of the departments. Joint secretary and above ranks officials have been coming to office since last week. Thermal scanners, masks and sanitiser are the new buzzwords in the corridors of North Block. At the very entrance, temperatures are scanned as CISF officials offer sanitiser to those entering the premises. Officials not wearing masks are an anomaly. While the ministries have provided masks to the employees, many have chosen to invest in their own with varying versions from surgical masks to extra-protective ones. However, even with over a third of the staff returning to work, there is silence in the corridors. “Can you get us two cups of coffee or tea, but swacchta se (maintaining cleaniness),” a senior official asked a member of his team only to be told that the canteen wasn’t serving anything today.“Officers would socialise earlier,” said a second ministry official. “But now the canteen is shut, there is no chai (tea), so there is no charcha (conversation).” There are also officers carrying their own lunches and personal water bottles from home. “In the post-corona world, new rules to live and work by are being laid down,” a third official said. “Most of us now carry own lunches, make our own tea and even bring water bottles from home. It’s a lot more self-reliant than the ministries were earlier. I even make sure I switch off the lights in my room before I go home.”“I drink my milk tea at home in the morning,” added the third official as he laughed. “In office, it’s only green tea for me.” Moreover, most officials operate from within the four walls of their room. While senior officials have their own chambers, in case of junior officials extra care has been taken to ensure not more than two are in the same room. “We have nearly eliminated the paper-trail,” the first official said. “Only the most confidential documents are on paper anymore. Moreover, we have critically reduced the number of meetings, even while at work we operate on phone, whatsapp and video calls on the NIC platform.” “We have a four-day rotational shift,” said a CISF official posted outside one of the ministries in North Block. “After that we get break days and then return to work.” The CISF officials are the ones who sanitise and thermal scan those entering the buildings. In many cases, officers are only calling supporting staff who have their own private vehicles and live nearby. “I have only one multi-tasking staff,” said the first official. “And the only reason he was called in is because we needed to go through certain files.”But with Delhi still in lockdown, and a lack of public transport, many junior staffers are finding it increasingly difficult to reach work. “Junior-level officers normally travel using DTC buses and the metro,” an official told Hindustan Times. “There was a proposal to provide a transport allowance, but when there’s no transport, how will the allowance help.”“Commuting has been tough as there aren’t enough vehicles for junior staff. We are supposed to carpool with others and tying up gets a bit tough. They have asked to try getting private cars for whoever can manage,” one government official said requesting anonymity. Ministry staff has also expressed concerns over lack of social distancing measures while car-pooling. “Social distancing is not maintained when you have to pool with others. The entire point gets negated,” another ministry personnel said.In certain cases, the ministry provides a vehicle for junior staffers while other times many senior officials have taken to sending their own cars to pick and drop the officials. “I picked up one of the members of my team from Bengali market today,” said the first official. “He doesn’t have a car.”Drivers working for the officials live nearby and normally walk to office. “We walk to office and drive the officers when needed,” a driver who has been working with one of the ministries’ for the last thirty years said. “The new thing about my job is that along with cleaning the car, I now sanitise it using a spray as well.”According to Abdul Khan, a Delhi Police officer posted outside the Central Secretariat, the place has never been as eerily quiet before. “Earlier we would have lots of people in this area,” Khan said. “Tourists, visitors and officers all would be here. There would 400-500 people waltzing in the lawns. Now a lot fewer of them come in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bleach-silence-and-personal-water-bottles-ministry-officials-return-to-work/story-MxANV6uoyuQxF7Hdie5oPN.html
20-04-2020||India||Lockdown no bar as BRO reconstructs bridge in Arunachal Pradesh in 27 days||Amid the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) reconstructed a bridge linking to border areas with China in Arunachal Pradesh in just 27 days.The 430-foot long multi-span bridge over Subansiri River at Daporijo in Upper Subansiri district was inaugurated on Monday by Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu through video conferencing in view of the lockdown.The bridge, the only line of communication to Daporijo and other places on the other side of Subansiri River, also connects the Siang belt with Upper Subansiri and was in a dilapidated state and it was risky for vehicular movement.“The bridge is a strategic link towards the line of actual control (LAC) between India and China. All supplies, rations, construction materials and medicines pass over this bridge,” the BRO said in a statement.The CM lauded the BRO for constructing the bridge on war footing despite the lockdown. It has been named after martyr Hangpan Dada from the state who died fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir and was awarded Ashok Chakra posthumously.Work on the bridge started on March 17 and was completed on April 14 while adhering to all Covid-19 precautions. The BRO builds and maintains road networks in India’s border areas.The reconstructed bridge will allow heavier vehicles to cross including those for the Army’s requirements and transportation of heavy construction material. “Now that this strategic 430-foot multi span bridge is completed, hassle free communication is restored to Daporijo and 451 villages as well as all forward locations along line of actual control (LAC) where our security forces are deployed,” Khandu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-no-bar-as-bro-reconstructs-bridge-in-arunachal-pradesh-in-27-days/story-m2eCDCU3ze3IX52QDFD2RK.html
20-04-2020||India||14 new Covid-19 cases reported in Kashmir, total count mounts to 368||Fourteen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Kashmir on Monday taking the total number of people infected with the coronavirus disease in Jammu and Kashmir to 368.Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said that 85 per cent of the total cases in the union territory were from Kashmir.“14 new cases have been reported, all from Kashmir. The total number of cases now stands at 368 with 55 in Jammu and 313 in Kashmir,” he said.Thirteen people had tested positive on Sunday with 12 of them from Kashmir.In a statement, the government said that 15 new patients had recovered from the Covid-19 disease and were discharged with seven patients from the government medical college in Baramulla, six from Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Science, Srinagar and two from Chest Diseases Hospital, Srinagar.At least 91 cases have been reported from Bandipora, 79 in Srinagar, 44 in Baramulla, 33 in Kupwara, 26 in Jammu, 22 in Shopian, 20 in Udhampur, 14 in Ganderbal, 13 in Budgam and in single digits in the rest of the districts.While Jammu had recorded its first positive case on March 9, Kashmir’s first Covid-19 positive case was reported on March 18.So far, 71 patients -58 in Kashmir and 13 in Jammu-- have recovered from the disease while five people have died.Of the total 368 cases, 292 are active ones with 251 in Kashmir and 41 in Jammu.The government statement said that till date, 61,774 people have enlisted for observation with 6,463 in Home Quarantine (including facilities operated by the government.), 292 are in hospital isolation and 229 in hospital quarantine. The statement also informed that the surveillance of 34,670 people had been completed while 20,115 people are currently under home surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-kashmir-total-count-mounts-to-368/story-OY7ougMGat9LSHwSfn2LxH.html
20-04-2020||India||Govt to use FCI’s surplus rice for making hand-sanitiser, ethanol-blended petrol||The government on Monday allowed use of surplus rice available with Food Corporation of India (FCI) in making of hand-sanitiser, and blending with petrol at a meeting of the National Biofuel Coordination Committee (NBCC) chaired by petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan.At the meeting of NBCC, it was approved that the surplus rice available with FCI could be converted into ethanol for utilization in making alcohol-based hand-sanitizers and ethanol-blended petrol (EBP), an official statement said.“National Policy on Biofuels, 2018 ... envisages that during an agriculture crop year when there is projected over supply of food grains as anticipated by the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, the policy will allow conversion of these surplus quantities of food grains to ethanol, based on the approval of National Biofuel Coordination Committee (NBCC),” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-use-fci-s-surplus-rice-for-making-hand-sanitiser-ethanol-blended-petrol/story-b0GTo4dWn6XAddim2yWHhI.html
20-04-2020||India||One more dies in Karnataka after drinking sanitiser, five others fall ill||One more person died late Sunday night and five others fell ill after drinking hand sanitiser in Karnataka’s Dharwad district, police said.On Sunday morning 45 year-old Basvaraj Venkappa Kurvinakoppa, said to be an alcoholic, had died at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubli after drinking sanitiser because alcohol is not available during the lockdown.Late Sunday night, his elder sister Jambakka Kattimani (47) who had also consumed the sanitiser died. Kalghatgi police station inspector Vijay Biradar said on phone that 13 other people in Gambyapur village are believed to have drunk the sanitiser for its alleged ‘alcohol content.’Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Several people addicted to alcohol are desperate as wine shops have been shut since the lockdown began on March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus.Inspector Biradar said “We have detained five more of those who drank the sanitiser and have sent them to Kalghatgi Medical Hospital where they are ill but their condition is stable. Search is on for the rest. I request whoever has consumed to come forward and get treated.”He also appealed to people not to drink sanitiser as it has several chemicals which can prove to be fatal. Basvaraj Venkappa Kurvinkoppa is said to have procured the ‘alcohol laced sanitiser’ from a temporary settlement of Lambani tribals nearby. Kalghatgi police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-dies-in-karnataka-after-drinking-sanitiser-five-others-fall-ill/story-Y1LvfOp00o8u6GJkwYBomJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Delhi containment zones rise to 84, West district has the most. Complete list here||The Delhi government on Monday raised the total number of containment zones in the capital to 84, up from the 79 notified last evening in an effort to stop the Sars-CoV-2 virus from spreading to new areas.The health department expanded the list of containment zones in the national capital hours after it was decided to carry out random rapid testing in these hotspots. This would help the government get a clearer picture of the extent of the spread, particularly given that many people who had tested positive over the weekend did not show any symptoms.As part of this plan, the government will send 22 Delhi Police’ prison vans that have been converted into mobile labs into these containment zones. In all, the government has decided to modify 25 prison vans.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic.The highest number of containment districts are in West district which has 14 containment zones. On Monday, the government had found 35 new cases in Tilak Nagar and 30 in Tughlakabad Extension. Officials said these areas have been covered in the new list.Here is the full list: 1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone 10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi 13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi 14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi 16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi 36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi 48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi 49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi 51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi 52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi 53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi 55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi 68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi 69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 110091||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-containment-zones-rise-to-83-west-district-has-the-most-complete-list-here/story-74WgD1n5GBmcMG18Z1bJGM.html
20-04-2020||India||Bengal govt asks medics not to return home daily amid Covid-19 outbreak||West Bengal government has asked frontline medical staff in state-run hospitals not to return home daily after work in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among doctors and nurses.Earlier, the state government had announced that doctors, nurses and other medical staff in government hospitals would get a one-week holiday every second week.“On Sunday, the government issued an order urging frontline medical personnel in government hospitals to stay in their headquarters. They have been asked not to commute daily to their homes to prevent the spread of viral infection,” said a senior official of the health department.The order was issued after healthcare facilities in Bengal took a hit, as multiple patients who were being treated in general wards and some frontline medical staff who were treating those patients tested Covid-19 positive.Dozens of doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff in multiple state-run hospitals were asked to quarantine themselves after the incidents came to light.Some frontline medical workers, especially from among those posted in government hospitals in districts in and around Kolkata, have been returning home daily after work.“This is not desirable since it puts a daily physical and mental strain on the medical personnel. Besides, it also puts them at immense risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease,” he added.The state government has made arrangements for accommodation for doctors and nurses in hotels and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-asks-medics-not-to-return-home-daily-to-curb-covid-19-spread/story-ERYhnS5323NAteMsiaWLFL.html
20-04-2020||India||Cong panel featuring Rahul, Manmohan discusses MSME, migrant workers’ issues||New Delhi: The newly formed Congress consultative committee, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, met for the first time on Monday and discussed the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, smooth crop procurement and the issue of stranded migrant labourers due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the deadly coronavirus.After the meeting, the opposition party reiterated its demand for immediate direct cash transfer of Rs 7500 in all Jan Dhan, pension and the PM-Kisan scheme accounts to enable the poor and the needy to sustain themselves during the lockdown period.Giving details of the meeting, former union minister Jairam Ramesh said the Congress panel will prepare a detailed plan for revival of MSME together with steps to ensure smooth crop procurement of wheat, mustard and gram besides resolving the pressing issue of stranded migrant workers and submit it to the central government in a day or two.Congress president Sonia Gandhi had on Saturday formed the consultative committee under the chairmanship of the former Prime Minister to deliberate on current matters, including those related to the Covid-19 outbreak, and formulate the party’s views on various issues.The 11-member group also comprises former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary in-charge organisation KC Venugopal and former union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh.The other members of the group are technology and data cell chairman Praveen Chakravarty, spokespersons Gaurav Vallabh and Supriya Shrinate, apart from social media department head Rohan Gupta.Ramesh said the panel will meet every other day to discuss the important issues faced by the country due to the pandemic.“We have worked out a very concrete MSME revival package which we will submit to the central government in a day or two,” Ramesh said, addressing a news conference through video conferencing.He said both the former Prime Minister and Rahul Gandhi insisted that absolute priority be given to the MSME sector, which has social and economic importance and is the second largest employer after agriculture.Ramesh said the Congress will also make positive recommendations to the government to ensure smooth crop procurement and resolution of the problems of the stranded migrant workers.He said the party once again urged the government to submit through direct benefit transfers Rs 7500 in all Jan Dhan accounts, all pension accounts of the elderly, differently abled and widows, and also those under the PM-Kisan scheme.“I am sure a compassionate and a responsible government can find funds to provide for the vulnerable,” he said when asked if the country had funds of this nature to spare.“It is the matter of priorities. It is absolutely essential for the survival of tens and thousands of people who need immediate assistance to tide over the crisis,” added Ramesh.He said the Congress will keep giving constructive suggestions to the government and hope it will take those positively. Rahul Gandhi too had also advocated constructive support to the government in his press conference last week.“We need to work with the government in these difficult times with a positive mindset. We are extending our hand for constructive cooperation and hope the government will come down from its pedestal and accept our positive suggestions. We are giving these suggestions on behalf of the people of India,” Ramesh said.The panel in its next meeting will discuss the lockdown exit strategy after May 3 and steps beneficial for the migrants, students and farmers.Ramesh also alleged that the Centre was busy “destabilising” the Madhya Pradesh government and was “caught napping in preparation for managing” the Covid-19 pandemic as a result of which the action got delayed.“The government did not act on time while dealing with the crisis and was busy in toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh. The government only woke up on March 23 but this is no time to play politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-panel-featuring-rahul-manmohan-discusses-msme-migrant-workers-issues/story-If0V8RfGLfw5Y2XcAoYBrI.html
20-04-2020||India||IBF urges Centre to formulate stimulus package for broadcast sector||The Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) has sought the government’s support to deal with the economic crisis in the television broadcast sector as a fallout of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, according to a statement issued by the foundation on Monday.In its letter to Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, the IBF appealed to the government to take steps to help the sector. It listed 18 points including an 18-month regulatory moratorium for the sector, extension of moratorium period for GST payment, phased resumption of production activities, The IBF statement said the broadcasting business had been hit, both on the demand and supply side, which had not only led to cash flow problems but also resulted in existential crisis for many of its members. The cash flow difficulties of the members were further compounded, it said, because payments from Bureau of Outreach & Communication (BOC) and other state government advertising agencies running in several hundreds of crores had not been made.IBF president NP Singh said the broadcast sector was facing the brunt of the slowdown on account of complete cessation of production of television shows, cancellations of live sporting events and scheduled advertisements. Singh said while the not-for-profit industry body welcomed the compliance and statutory relaxations granted by the government on 15 April, “the broadcast sector is seeking a stimulus package from the Government in the form of economic relief and regulatory flexibility so that all Broadcasters especially the smaller businesses can be helped to get back on track”.The industry body also asked the government to reduce GST rate on Digital services (B2C), automatic refund of input credit and immediate processing and issuance of Lower withholding order (LTDS)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ibf-urges-centre-to-formulate-stimulus-package-for-broadcast-sector/story-XWKCZvDA2lsble9LC26qKI.html
20-04-2020||India||Bengal school allegedly flouts lockdown, distributes food among students||On a day the Centre sent two teams to Bengal to review allegations of violation of lockdown orders, a government-aided school in Murshidabad district on Monday allegedly called hundreds of students to distribute rice and potatoes in lieu of their regular mid-day meals. This happened even as reports of more Covid-19 cases were being reported from different parts of the state. To ensure the safety of children, the government had earlier asked all schools to give the food items to their guardians. All schools in Bengal are closed.The Lalnagar High School in the district’s Hariharpara community block allegedly violated the orders and distributed 3 kg of rice and potatoes to each of the hundreds of students most of whom came in uniform. Only a few guardians came to collect the midday meal. Photos and videos of the incident went viral in the region.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The school authorities had announced on public address system that on Monday, they would distribute rice and potatoes. When I reached the school to collect them on behalf of my son, who studies in class 7, I found hundreds of students standing in queue,” said a villager who did not wish to be named.“Most of the students appeared to be completely unaware of social distancing norms. They were standing close to each other and some were even playing in the field. I did not see any school official asking them to go home and send their guardians instead,” he said.The father of another student said, “I was told by the school authorities that only students will be given the food items.”The headmaster, Sarwardi Biswas, claimed no midday meal was handed over to students. He said, “I was instructed to give midday meal items only to guardians and I carried out the order. Not a single student was given the food.”“There are 547 students in my school who were entitled to receive the rice and potatoes today. In all, 533 guardians came to the school to take it on behalf of the children,” he said.The headmaster also rubbished an allegation that students were given food in smaller quantities. He said, “The rice and potatoes were weight in front of the guardians. I don’t know why they are alleging that they got less than three kg of each item.”An assistant teacher of the school, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “We told the headmaster that students were not supposed to be in the school but he asked us to keep mum.”Hariharpara block development officer Purnendu Sanyal said, “We instructed the schools to distribute the midday meal only among the guardians. I was not aware that Lalnagar High School flouted our direction. I am looking into it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-school-allegedly-flouts-lockdown-distributes-food-among-students/story-2yK9wC5B22Sgk8YtmTHbLI.html
20-04-2020||India||Tulips in full bloom in Srinagar, but no visitors amid Covid-19 lockdown||This year over 1.3 million tulip bulbs in Srinagar will quietly wither away over the next week without catching an eye of a visitor because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has led to the enforcement of the ongoing nationwide lockdown till May 3.The tulips, which have turned the 30-hectare Siraj Bagh into a sea of colour, haven’t had a single visitor to enjoy its blooming splendour since March-end, officials said amid growing concerns over the jolt to tourism in Kashmir Valley during high season due to the viral outbreak.“Covid-19 is wreaking havoc on the tourism sector, one of the mainstays of our local economy. The tulip plantation was increased from 1.2 million bulbs in 2019 to 1.3 million this year. We’re hopeful that it would give a fillip to tourism. Alas! The flowers will wither away over the next few days,” said Farooq Ahmad Rather, director, floriculture, Jammu and Kashmir.The picturesque tulip garden --- one of the biggest in Asia and located on the foothills of Zabarwan range and on the banks of majestic Dal Lake – grew over 55 varieties of red, yellow, pink tulip bulbs this year. The garden attracted 258,000 visitors, including many local Kashmiris, last year. The corresponding figure for 2018 was 190,000.“This year, we had increased the variety of tulips and the plantation area, as we’re hoping for more footfalls,” Rather added. The state horticulture department spends around Rs 70 lakh annually for the regal garden’s maintenance. “The tourism sector is reeling under a massive loss because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The setback will affect all those who are associated with the sector such as hoteliers, transporters, traders and houseboat owners,” Rather said. “Around 258,000 people visited the garden last year, of whom over 100,000 would have been tourists helping our local economy,” he added.The Tulip Garden was opened in 2007 on a slope with multiple terraces and overlooking the scenic Botanical Garden. The state floriculture department had imported tulip bulbs from the Netherlands and other European countries for the garden. Besides tulips, hyacinths, pansies, daffodils and ranunculus make the garden a one-stop destination for revellers during spring.Usually, the shelf life of a tulip is 15 days but floriculturists have increased the life span by adding late-blooming varieties. “Earlier, we used to grow only early and mid-blooming varieties. But the addition of late bloomers has ensured that the Tulip Garden remains open for a month around this time of the year,” said Shayeq Rasool, state floriculture officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tulips-in-full-bloom-in-srinagar-but-no-visitors-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-am5scMWrotuPQpOotU2kRM.html
20-04-2020||India||‘Will not make it to father’s funeral,’ says Yogi Adityanath, stresses on lockdown||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s father Anand Bisht died on Monday morning and will be cremated in Haridwar at a funeral ritual, which his son will not be able to attend due to the nationwide lockdown in place.“I will not be participating in the funeral program on April 21 due to the lockdown and the strategy in place to defeat the coronavirus pandemic. This is an appeal to all the members of Purvashram that the least number of people should attend the funeral program and continue to follow the lockdown,” Adityanath said in a series of tweets in Hindi.“I had a great desire to see my father at the last minute, but I could not see him because of my duty to pursue the country’s fight against the global coronavirus pandemic in the interest of 23 crore people of Uttar Pradesh,” the Uttar Pradesh chief minister added.Bisht, 89, was admitted to the gastroenterology department of the AIIMS after his health deteriorated. His condition was critical for sometime.He died at 10.44 am, according to Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi.Bisht’s last rites will take place in Haridwar in Uttarakhand on April 21, Media Advisor to the Chief Minister Mrityunjay Kumar said in a statement.Earlier in the day, when news of his father’s demise reached him, Adityanath continued with a meeting with state government officials.Adityanath also appealed to his mother and acquaintances to follow lockdown norms and urged only a small number of people to attend his father’s last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-make-it-to-father-s-funeral-says-yogi-adityanath-stresses-on-lockdown/story-sHldyAVVkseTwWMgvWj0OJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India inks deal with South Korean firm for 500,000 testing kits||The Indian government signed an agreement with a South Korean company on Monday for acquiring 500,000 testing kits to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19, with the first lot expected to be delivered on April 30.The deal marks the first purchase agreement signed by the Indian embassy in Seoul and the testing kits will be supplied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is playing a key role in shaping India’s efforts to contain the Coronavirus.The kits will be delivered to India by the South Korean firm, Humasis Ltd, in four lots from April 30, said a statement from the Indian embassy in Seoul. The agreement was signed in the presence of Indian ambassador Sripriya Ranganathan.Humasis Ltd, whose factory is located at Gyeongi-do in South Korea, is “sourcing raw materials for production of these diagnostic testing kits from India”, the statement said. “This collaboration forms an important part of efforts to augment India’s testing capacity in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic,” it added.Over the past few weeks, India’s Central and state government agencies and private companies have sourced 450,000 tests (both reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR and antibody tests) from different Korean companies.“This cooperation is in keeping with the special strategic partnership between India and [South Korea] and the shared commitment of our leaders to pursuing a people-first approach,” the statement said.The cooperation is also in keeping with the assurance by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and South Korean President Moon Jae-in that the two countries will continue to consult and support each other and share experiences in the common fight against Covid-19, it added. India has turned to a wide range of countries, from the US to China, to source medical supplies and equipment needed to counter the spread of the Coronavirus. Indian missions around the world have played a key role in the sourcing of these supplies, arranging clearances from local authorities and coordinating with airlines to transport the goods to India.These supplies have included RT-PCR testing kits, rapid antibody tests and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Last week, Chinese firms supplied 650,000 testing kits received in two cargo flights.Officials had then said Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million PPE kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits by the government and private firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-inks-deal-with-south-korean-firm-for-500-000-testing-kits/story-hr28p3p5HrcOm7SyXKfwKP.html
20-04-2020||India||India reports 1,553 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike so far||With a staggering 1,553 fresh cases of coronavirus, the highest single-day spike so far, reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 17,656 on Monday, according to health ministry data. “A total of 17,656 confirmed cases have been reported in India including 2,546 people who have recovered. A total of 36 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health said.This takes the country’s total death toll due to the Covid-19 pandemic to 559.A total of 2,546 coronavirus patients have recovered from the disease so far, the health ministry official said during the daily media briefing on the coronavirus pandemic.“This takes the cure percentage to 14.75 per cent,” he said.Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka and Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days.“The number of districts where no case has been reported in the last 14 days has increased to 59. Goa is now Covid-19 free,” he added.The ministry official said that the Health Ministry has informed that India wants to work with G-20 nations to develop a vaccine to combat the deadly Covid-19 disease.He further said that ministry has also issued guidelines regarding precautionary measures to be adhered to in government offices, some of which have reopened on Monday after a nationwide lockdown spanning over three and a half weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1-553-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-so-far/story-C2RyknXJ2iOf6YK49QX7HN.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: As controversies break out, Bihar cracks the whip||The Bihar government has sought an explanation from officials of the Nawada district administration allegedly responsible for issuing an inter-state pass to BJP legislator Anil Singh to visit Kota in Rajasthan in violation of the guidelines for the Covid-19 lockdown.Action was also taken by authorities over the house-warming party organised by Bihar education minister Krishna Nandan Verma’s personal assistant Pintu Yadav after first information reports (FIRs) were filed against several key officials who attended the gathering in Jehanabad.Verma, who found himself at the centre of a controversy as the party violated the guidelines for the lockdown, recommended the removal of his personal assistant.Bihar’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar reiterated chief minister Nitish Kumar’s position that the spirit of lockdown must be maintained by all amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and said show-cause notices had been served to officials of the Nawada district administration to explain how the inter-state pass was issued to the legislator from Hisua so that he could travel to Kota to bring back his daughter.“This is not the right time to bring back students from Kota, as the country grapples with the pandemic. This is a fight all have to fight together despite the known hardships, as caution and patience are the two things most required at this juncture,” the chief secretary said.The BJP is part of Bihar’s ruling coalition and the opposition parties played up the issue, accusing the government of double standards.Congress leader Shakti Sinh Gohil alleged the BJP legislator was also provided a government vehicle to travel to Kota. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said many VIPs had been issued passes in Bhiar, whereas the poor were left to fend for themselves.A senior officer, who declined to be named, said that at a time when air, train and road travel had been stopped across the country, except for essential services, issuing a pass for a person to travel to another state couldn’t be justified. “The axe will fall on some officials,” he said.The Bihar Legislative Assembly also issued a show-cause notice to the driver of the MLA’s vehicle.“The vehicle was provided to the MLA in the capacity of the whip, but how could that vehicle be taken to another state?” said an officer, adding the driver was asked to explain why action should not be taken against him.With the house warming party in Jehanabad creating embarrassment for the state government, the education minister was quick to wash his hands off his personal assistant. The state government ordered the suspension of Jehanabad’s sub-divisional police officer and the circle officer of Makhdumpur.“The law will take its own course. If anything wrong has happened, there will be consequences,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-after-political-row-bihar-cracks-the-whip/story-07Lxx5S1Lu91skwkxqXinN.html
20-04-2020||India||Problems mount for trans people during Covid-19 lockdown||As reports about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) began to make their way into news cycles in February, malicious posters began appearing at bus stops and railway stations in Hyderabad that blamed transgender people for the spread of the virus. While no one knew who printed these posters, their content was disturbing. The posters said HIV-positive transgender people were spreading the virus, and that they ought to be stoned. Transgender activist Vyjayanti Vasantha Mogli said the posters created fear among many people of the community. The only added to the troubles that transgender people already face, she said. As the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown continues, several members of the community said the livelihoods of hundreds of transgender people remain disrupted, with many struggling for their daily needs. Many are worried they will be thrown out by landlords if they are unable to pay rent. And transgender people who are HIV-positive are complaining about difficulty in accessing critical medicines. Cuttack-based transwoman Meghna said food was running out for many members of the community in the state. “Around 70% of the community in Odisha is dependent on begging or sex work, and it is rare that a transperson has savings to fall back on,” she said. Non-governmental organisations and community networks are providing support but that, she said, isn’t enough. “The government needs to provide for us,” she said.R Subrahmanyam, secretary of the ministry of social justice and welfare, said that before the lockdown, the ministry asked 25-odd organisations working for the welfare of the transgender community to identify people with financial constraints. He said 5,000 people were given Rs 1,500 as assistance. “We have also said that, in case, there is anyone looking for more assistance, they need to get in touch with these organisations, who will [work] with us for help,” said Subrahmanyam. Problems have been exacerbated for those who are HIV-positive and need monthly doses of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) medicines. Mogli said while some don’t have access to medicines, others are facing the problem of having to come out as HIV-positive to caregivers. In addition to that, HIV treatment is only provided by the government to those who are registered with authorities. For those without a valid medical record, said Hyderabad-based Harshini Mekala, a simple HIV test can help. “The test takes about three hours to show if a person is HIV-positive,” said Mekala. Grace Bano, who lives in Tuticorin, said that most transgender people benefiting from social schemes are based in urban areas.“Several transgender people, including those who are HIV-positive, are suffering in villages. We had to run a campaign to reach out to 250 people in Tamil Nadu alone,” she said. An HIV-positive transwoman living in Mumbai, who is a volunteer with the government and has arranged doses for a few months from the ART centre for those registered with the government, said on condition of anonymity: “For those from states who had to stay back in other states they were visiting, there is no availability of medicines.” Amit Kumar of the All India Sex Workers Network, a collective representing more than 500,000 sex workers, said transgender sex workers are more vulnerable.“Access to social schemes is more limited for them,” he said, adding some people in the network rely on the monthly grant of Rs 500 in their Jan Dhan accounts. The network had written to the National AIDS Control Organisation for assistance, especially for those from the trans-community. The HIV-positive transwoman in Mumbai said that in her area, only 70 out of the 500-odd transgender people have managed to get funds from the social justice ministry, and some are relying on Jan Dhan accounts for sustenance. Mogli said in several states, different schemes help transgender people in different ways. But several schemes require proof of identity. “Several people have papers prior to their coming out, and these papers are in a different name and of a different sex,” she said.She said among the steps the government needs to take is a rent moratorium for a few months for the community so that they aren’t thrown out of rented accommodation. “The government should also provide rations and cash for those in the community who are starving,” she added. Ayushman Bharat too must provide cover for Covid-19, especially for transgender people, she said. For states such as Telangana, which do not implement the Central scheme, state welfare measures should provide cover, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/problems-mount-for-trans-people-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-CcErvDMwKsjEVMpm0tNXxI.html
20-04-2020||India||Flight restrictions to be lifted when Covid-19 is controlled: Government||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said on Monday restrictions on passenger flights will be lifted only when the Centre is confident that the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been controlled. He added that no decision has been taken to restart flights.Puri’s comments came a day after aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) asked airlines not to accept bookings until further notice. DGCA said none of its circulars regarding the extension of lockdown allowed airlines to restart the bookings for journeys from May 4.Several airlines, Indigo and Vistara, stopped advance bookings after the order. The government has extended the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to May 3. “I want to once again say that flight restrictions that are in place as a result of India’s fight against COVID19 will be lifted once we are confident that spread of the virus has been controlled & it poses no danger to our country & people,” Puri tweeted.“Since some airlines did not heed our advisory & opened bookings & started collecting money from flyers, a directive was issued to them on 19th April restraining them from doing so,” he said in another tweet. The minister said airlines were informed that they will be given sufficient notice and time to commence bookings.The Centre also issued an advisory on 17 April asking domestic and foreign airline operators to issue full refund for bookings till May 3. The advisory was only for those passengers who booked flights during the first lockdown period (March 25-April 14).Authorities clarified that the order did not apply to passengers who booked flights prior to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-restrictions-to-be-lifted-when-covid-19-is-controlled-government/story-KICZrqdjadaf6MhiSOdU4M.html
20-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Indian Railways sets milestone, distributes 2 million free meals amid Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian Railways sets milestone, distributes 2 million free meals amid Covid-19 crisisThe Ministry of Railways, in its press release, said that these free meals were distributed during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown at approximately 300 locations across the country. Read more. Nothing communal about Palghar lynching, says Uddhav ThackerayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday warned of strict action against those trying to give a religious colour to the lynching of three men in Palghar last week. Read more. Aggressive tackling of Covid-19 cases needed to prevent 2nd wave: Research paperA working paper by a team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) suggests that there will be a second wave of Covid-19 infection unless new cases are aggressively traced, localised and isolated. Read more. Indian Army soldiers to be placed under ‘green, yellow, red’ categories to prevent spread of Covid-19The Indian Army on Monday came out with a fresh of instructions for soldiers who have completed their leaves, temporary duties and courses, and are required to rejoin their units on priority. Read more. IMA warns of ‘White Alert’, ‘Black Day’ over violence against doctorsThe Indian Medical Association on Monday called for an immediate end to violence and abuse against doctors and medical professionals across the country. The IMA asked the Centre to enact central law on violence against doctors and hospitals across the nation. Read more. JEE Main 2020 likely to be conducted in June, says HRD Minister Ramesh PokhriyalTalking to an English Daily, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said that the JEE main exam 2020 is likely to be conducted in June and the HRD Ministry is in consultation with the stakeholders like board of examination and IITs before the next dates of the examinations can be finalized and announced. Read more. Amitabh Bachchan calls mobiles most sacred invention after wheels: Read the actor’s blog hereThe actor has written about all the things he, and the world, has learned to achieve via the phone over this lockdown, including a short film shot with 11 other actors. Read more. Should get another chance like Azhar: Inzamam on Pakistan cricketer whose career ended ‘unfortunately’Sighting former India captain Mohammad Azharuddin’s example, Pakistan’s former captain Inzamam-ul-Haq said Saleem Malik should be given a second chance to give it back to cricket. Read more. Man dresses up as Spider-man, helps neighbours with essential itemsA post shared by Goodable on Twitter shows a few photos featuring Burak Soylu dressed as the superhero. The pictures show Soylu picking out vegetables and groceries that he delivers to those in need. Read more. Biggest one-day jump in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 casesMaharashtra recorded 552 Covid-19 cases in one day on April 19. It is the single biggest jump in the country since the outbreak. Maharashtra’s cases now stand at 4200, the highest for any Indian state. Mumbai alone recorded 456 cases on Sunday, remaining districts recording 96 cumulatively. Maharashtra has recorded 223 deaths so far, and has discharged 507 patients. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-indian-railways-sets-milestone-distributes-2-million-free-meals-amid-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gj2ZCDIowrB3UnFh1CfMrJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rate of doubling improves to 7.5 days, Kerala best at 72.2 days||The rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in India has now improved to 7.5 days, the government said Monday.“India’s Covid-19 doubling rate has improved to 7.5 days from 3.4 days before the lockdown,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said at the daily briefing.Eight states and a Union Territory – Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Chattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar have shown a doubling rate in less than 20 days.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.In Andaman and Nicobar Island, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Assam, Uttarakhand and Ladakh the rate of doubling is between 20 and 30 days, Agarwal said.In Odisha, the rate of doubling is 39.8 Days Kerala is best at 72.2 days.He said the country recorded 1,553 additional cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 17,265 total cases 543 deaths. Thirty six more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Agarwal said 2,546 people have been cured so far which translates to a recovery rate of 14.75 per cent. Fifty nine districts have not reported any new cases in the last 14 days.“Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka and Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. The number of districts where no case has been reported in last 14 days has increased to 59. Goa is now Covid-free,” Agarwal said.Raman Gangakhedkar of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who also addressed the briefing said 80 per cent of coronavirus patients are asymptomatic or show mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rate-of-doubling-improves-to-7-5-days-kerala-best-at-72-2-days/story-iAWjLS9E4uovkkKFg3YMnM.html
20-04-2020||India||China sends 24 flights with Covid-19 medical supplies, 20 more this week||Chinese companies are expected to send about 20 planeloads of Covid-19-related medical supplies to India over the next one week, a senior government official said.Requests for these flights between April 21 and 27 have been placed with the Civil Aviation Administration of China, the official said. The continuing cooperation is seen as a signal that the two countries are in sync on the Covid-19 battle despite some concerns that led India to impose restrictions on foreign takeover of Indian companies.Over the last two weeks beginning April 4, around 24 flights have taken off from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xi’an and Hong Kong to India carrying 390 tonnes of medical supplies.These include RT-PCR test kits, Rapid Antibody tests, thermometers, personal protection equipment.According to information compiled by the external affairs ministry, the major consignees were Imperial Life Sciences, HLL, Matrix Labs, Invex Healthcare, Max and companies of the Reliance, Tata, Adani group. There were four state governments in this list too: Karnataka, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan.The consignments from China included the 650,000 testing kits received in two cargo flights last week. Officials had then said that Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million PPE kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits by the government and private firms.Indian ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, last week described facilitating India’s imports of Covid-19-related medical equipment and keeping the drug production supply chain open the “best” signal from China for bilateral ties.India had also sent a plane load of medical equipment to China’s coronavirus-hit city of Wuhan when the crisis was at its peak in the neighbouring country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sends-24-flights-with-covid-19-medical-supplies-20-more-this-week/story-EXhtQdMSMgKd6ptETBX4yK.html
20-04-2020||India||5 more police staff from Delhi’s Chandni Mahal station test positive for Covid-19||Five more police personnel from Delhi’s Chandni Mahal police station have tested positive for the deadly Covid-19 disease on Monday, news agency ANI reported. Till now, eight police staff from the same police station have tested positive for coronavirus, according to the Delhi Police.Central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal police station was sealed on Thursday after two constables posted there tested positive for Covid-19 on the same day. Following the diagnosis, at least 26 other police personnel, including the station house officer, were quarantined.This was the first police station in the Capital to be sealed. Chandni Mahal was earlier declared a containment zone by the Delhi government that had placed severe restrictions on its residents, after many people from the area tested positive for the infectious disease. Security was beefed up in Chandni Mahal, a few hours after it was declared as one of the capital’s containment zones late on April 10 by the Delhi government.The administration has sanitised the entire area and is providing door-to-door delivery of essential commodities to the residents.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police [DCP] (central) Sanjay Bhatia had said that the two constables lived in the barracks inside the station because of which such an action was needed. Bhatia said the other police personnel of the station will now be working from the nearby Jama Masjid police station.With 110 new Covid-19 cases and 2 deaths in the national capital on Sunday, Delhi’s count of coronavirus positive cases has already crossed the 2000 mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-more-police-staff-from-delhi-s-chandni-mahal-station-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-k1ogNMqyitwpgIwyh1I5AL.html
20-04-2020||India||Nothing communal about Palghar lynching, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday warned of strict action against those trying to give a religious colour to the lynching of three men in Palghar last week.Thackeray said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah and apprised him of the details of the case.“Even Amit Shahji knows that the incident had no religious connection as the village in which the incident took place has no such background. I have requested him to take strict action against people trying to spread communal tension using social media,” Thackeray said on Facebook Live.“We too are taking action against the bid to arouse religious sentiments using the incident,” he added.Two sadhus or Hindu ascetics and their driver were lynched to death by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110km from Palghar, on April 16 on the suspicion of being child-lifters. Also read: Mistaken for thieves, 3 lynched to death by 200-strong mob in Maharashtra’s PalgharIt later emerged the sadhus—70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri—belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rite of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri. Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, the chief minister announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department’s (CID) chief Atulchandra Kulkarni.The Sena chief also listed the action taken by his government against those accused of being a part of the mob. “The police have already arrested more than 100 suspects, including five key accused responsible for the incident. The key accused have been given police custody till April 30,” he said. “We have suspended two policemen holding them responsible for the incident. Nobody involved in this heinous crime will be spared,” he added.He also said the two sadhus had reached Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli but were not allowed by local authorities to enter their area and hence were returning through internal roads.“The persons killed were sent back from the border of the Dadra Nagar Haveli amid the lockdown restrictions. Had they been given shelter by the authorities or coordinated with us, this could have been averted,” he said.Thackeray, who also spoke in Hindi, said he has also spoken to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the incident. Adityanath had called Thackeray urging him to take strict action against those involved in the lynching of three men in Palghar district.Taking a potshot at the leaders of the opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), who have attacked the government for the incident, Thackeray reminded them about incidents of mob lynching during the government under Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-communal-about-palghar-lynching-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-wlvkJUPFJmcxwm4hKPd7NP.html
20-04-2020||India||Indian Railways sets milestone, distributes 2 million free meals amid Covid-19 crisis||Indian Railways has achieved the milestone of distributing 2 million free meals amid the coronavirus crisis. The Ministry of Railways, in its press release, said that these free meals were distributed during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown at approximately 300 locations across the country.Various railway organisations teamed up to feed “hot cooked meals” to the needy and hope to “feed thousands of people every day,” the release added. The ministry said that stranded persons, daily wage labourers, migrants, children, coolies, homeless, the poor and “many who form the floating population” are the worst-hit due to the lockdown amid the coronavirus crisis.#IndianRailways crosses 2 million mark in distribution of free meals during the #lockdown period; about 50,000 persons daily are being provided meals on an average by RPF at approximately 300 locations across the country#IndiaFightsCoronaDetails: https://t.co/8FKNhLCEUq“Indian Railways staff from a number of Railway organizations have worked tirelessly since 28th March 2020 to provide hot cooked meals to needy people after the lockdown due to Covid-19,” the statement read. The food to the needy has been provided with the help of IRCTC base kitchens, RPF resources and contribution of NGOs. “Of these, about 11.6 lacs cooked meals have been provided by IRCTC, about 3.6 lacs meals have been provided by RPF from its own resources, about 1.5 lacs meals have been provided by Commercial and other departments of Railways and nearly 3.8 lacs meals have been donated by NGOs working with the Railway organizations,” the ministry stated. The Union health ministry on Monday morning updated the coronavirus tally in the country to 17,265. The figure includes 14,175 active cases, 2547 people who have been cured or discharged and 543 fatalities. With more than 4,000 coronavirus cases, Maharashtra remains at top of the tally with more than 4,000 cases followed by the national capital which has over 2,000 Covid-19 patients. Gujarat stands at the third spot with 1,743 cases followed by Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-sets-a-milestone-distributes-2-million-free-meals-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-fcf0je9lwksSnjWiyXKKCJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Top military conference deferred amid Covid-19 outbreak||A top military conference, chaired by the defence minister, has been postponed amid the coronavirus outbreak, a senior government officer said on Monday. The Unified Commanders Conference (UCC) was supposed to take place on April 22-23.The UCC was to be chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, the three service chiefs and a battery of senior officers of the armed forces and the ministry. Fresh dates are yet to be announced.The army had earlier indefinitely deferred a conference of its top commanders that was scheduled to take place in Delhi from April 13 to April 18.Such top conferences covers key issues such as the country’s security dynamics, emerging security scenarios, enhancing operational capability, taking steps to stay prepared for all challenges and budgetary aspects. Issues related to theaterisation would have also been discussed but the coronavirus outbreak has put many things on hold.The conferences were to take place at a time when there has been an unusual spike in ceasefire violations on the Line of Control by the Pakistan army to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the army was carrying out “targeted strikes” on terror launch pads along the LoC and eliminating the Pakistani infiltrators before they cross over to the Indian side.Singh, in an interview to PTI, said the armed forces are not lowering their guard at all while playing a significant role in the country’s overall fight to defeat the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-military-conference-deferred-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-wrexS6MY0DY9TUEogD9qrO.html
20-04-2020||India||Man stopped by cops for violating lockdown in Andhra’s Guntur, dies||A 28-year-old man died of cardiac failure when he was allegedly beaten up by the police for violating the lockdown in Sattenapalli town of Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on Monday morning, his family members said.The deceased was identified as Mohammad Ghouse, and had been suffering from cardio-vascular disease. “He went out to get medicines from a nearby medical shop, when the police stopped him at the local check post and thrashed him on his back. He collapsed immediately,” his father Md Adeem told reporters.The police themselves shifted him to the local government hospital, where he succumbed while undergoing treatment.Guntur range Inspector General of police K Prabhakar Rao announced suspension of Sattenapalli town sub-inspector of police Ramesh Babu. A case of death under unnatural circumstances (Section 174 of Indian Penal Code) was registered in the incident.The IG also ordered a magisterial inquiry into the allegations of high-handed behaviour of the SI.Rao, however, said according to preliminary inquiries, the SI had not beaten Ghouse, but only asked the latter to show a prescription since he was going to the medical shop. “Even as the SI was questioning him, Ghouse developed palpitation and collapsed there itself. He was taken to the nearby hospital, where the paramedical staff tried to resuscitate him, but he succumbed within minutes,” the IG said..The death of the Muslim youth led to a tense atmosphere in Sattenapalli town. Hundreds of his relatives and local Muslim organisations staged a demonstration in front of the police station demanding justice for the family and action against police officials who allegedly beat him up.Senior police officials led by Guntur rural SP Vijaya Rao rushed to the town to bring the situation under control. The police officials also assured the family of adequate compensation.The IG said as many as 21 cases of lockdown violations were registered in the last two days in Narsaraopet town hence police were strictly enforcing the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-stopped-by-cops-for-violating-lockdown-in-andhra-s-guntur-dies/story-QJr2xD6IUgkGep47tsGdqL.html
20-04-2020||India||IMA warns of ‘White Alert’, ‘Black Day’ over violence against doctors||The Indian Medical Association on Monday called for an immediate end to violence and abuse against doctors and medical professionals across the country. The IMA asked the Centre to enact central law on violence against doctors and hospitals across the nation.“Our legitimate needs for safe workplaces have to be met. Abuse and violence should stop immediately,” the IMA stated.The IMA stated that doctors and medical professionals across the country will light a candle at 9 pm on April 22 as protest and vigil against the violence and abuse. The IMA termed it as ‘White Alert’ to the nation.#IMA demands Special Central Law Against Violence on Doctor’s & Declares White Alert to the nation on 22.04.2020 & Black Day on 23.04.2020. pic.twitter.com/inFOSiJusIIt said that doctors across the country will work with black badges on April 23 and declare it as ‘Black Day’ if the government fails to enact central law on violence against doctors and hospitals. “The IMA has maintained utmost restraint and patience inspite of extreme provocations. Doctors have been abused, beaten up, denied entry and residence. Obstruction to cremation is the last straw that IMA can bear,” a statement released by the IMA read.Last week, residents of a Chennai locality protested against the cremation of a doctor from Andhra Pradesh who died of coronavirus in the city, saying it might lead to the spread of coronavirus in their locality, news agency PTI reported.Following the resistance, the doctor’s body was taken back to the hospital mortuary and was later cremated at another locality.Earlier this week, the Federation of Resident Doctors Association wrote to home minister Amit Shah, expressing concern over the attacks on doctors and medical staff at Lok Nayak Hospital in the national Capital and other states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana.In a series of tweets, lawyer Sonali Jaitley Bakshi said her father, late Union minister Arun Jaitley, wanted to pursue the formation of a law to deal with the violence against health workers.This comes when the nation battles the coronavirus crisis with doctors and medical professionals in the frontline of the challenge. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-warns-of-white-alert-black-day-over-violence-against-doctors/story-dZWief0bLk164WurbDl6jK.html
20-04-2020||India||Indian Army soldiers to be placed under ‘green, yellow, red’ categories to prevent spread of Covid-19||The Indian Army on Monday came out with a fresh of instructions for soldiers who have completed their leaves, temporary duties and courses, and are required to rejoin their units on priority. According to the instructions, the top priority bracket includes soldiers whose units or duty stations are within 500km by private transport from their place of leave, all ranks of the operationally-critical Northern Command and personnel belonging to Army Medical Corps, Army Dental Corps and Military Nursing Service who are at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The second highest priority for rejoining duty has been accorded to “all ranks of Eastern Command plus officers and key appointments of other Commands as decided by the respective Commands.”“The guidelines for rejoining have been planned in a phased manner considering the numbers of individuals rejoining from leave/temporary duty/courses and the requirement for smooth reporting, quarantine and onward dispersal to units,” two senior army officers said.The new orders said soldiers would rejoin duties only on the receipt of specific instructions from their units, formations and establishments. “Any individual whose leave station is within 500km of unit/duty station is allowed to directly report to unit using private transport only. Those who are not within the 500km limit will report to nearest unit/station headquarters in private vehicle only,” the instructions said.With Covid-19 cases spreading at a fast rate across the country, the army said all its personnel be classified as ‘green’ (who have completed 14 days of quarantine), ‘yellow’ (those who need to undergo 14 days quarantine) and lastly, ‘red’ (who are symptomatic and require isolation and further treatment in Covid hospitals).“All personnel reporting back from leave, temporary duty and courses will be classified as ‘yellow’ and will undergo 14 days quarantine at the reporting station/unit. They will subsequently be moved from reporting station to duty stations and units in army vehicles, special trains, etc.,” the instructions said. The army clarified in case such personnel do not move under the supervision of military authorities, they will continue to be considered ‘yellow’ and would have to undergo a 14-day quarantine again.According to the instructions, Indian Army soldiers from Nepal who are on leave will remain at their home stations till the situation in the neighbouring country stabilises or the government opens the border for the movement of personnel. “Requisite move instructions will accordingly be passed to such personnel from their parent units, headquarters and establishments,” the instructions said.The army clarified that the latest instructions will not apply to soldiers in hotspots or containment zones. “Individuals in hotspots/containment zones will follow strict ‘no movement’ till the areas are de-notified. The leave-granting authorities will decide on the use of the exception of areas officially declared as hotspots/containment zones by the central/state government,” the instructions said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-soldiers-to-be-placed-under-green-yellow-red-categories-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19/story-07zKVNFbu1K7hYpJCmaAcJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 3 each die in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, infections spike||Andhra Pradesh continues to report a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with every passing day despite a strict lockdown in force.In the last 24 hours, the state registered three deaths and 75 new cases of Covid-19, taking the death toll to 20 and total number of infections to 722, an official bulletin from the state medical and health department on Monday afternoon said. It is the highest number of positive cases in a 24-hoiur span in the state.The three casualties were spread across Anantapur, Kurnool and Krishna. Earlier, too, there was a death reported from Kurnool on Saturday night.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Among the 75 new cases that were reported in the last 24 hours, 25 cases were reported from Chittoor, 20 from Guntur and 16 from Kurnool, besides five from Krishna, four from Anantapur, three from Kadapa and two from East Godavari.The bulletin claimed that so far 92 people have been discharged from hospitals after they were completely cured of Covid-19. “Setting aside 20 deaths, there are at present 610 active cases in the state,” the bulletin said.Telangana also reported three deaths and 18 new cases as on Sunday night. At last count, the state had reported 858 positive cases. Though health department officials have not disclosed any details of the deceased, one of them is said to be an infant less than two months old.An official familiar with the development said the baby boy, who was born on February 23 in a shepherd’s family of Renivatla village of Maddur block in Narayanpet district, was brought to Niloufer Hospital in Hyderabad with high fever and cold on April 11.After the boy tested positive for Covid-19, he was immediately shifted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad where he died on Sunday. The infant’s parents, who did not have any primary contacts with any Covid-19 patient till now, have been kept in quarantine.The staff and the doctors who had treated the baby at the Niloufer hospital have also been quarantined for precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-3-each-die-in-telangana-and-andhra-pradesh-infections-spike/story-EdSGLaC477PlRCDzrAwivK.html
20-04-2020||India||Aggressive tackling of Covid-19 cases needed to prevent 2nd wave: Research paper||A working paper by a team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) suggests that there will be a second wave of Covid-19 infection unless new cases are aggressively traced, localised and isolated.The paper, released on Sunday evening, looks at various scenarios in which a lockdown is lifted in cities affected by Covid-19 infections. It also considers the most restrictive scenario when the lockdown continues to be imposed indefinitely: lockdown until May 31; lockdown until May 3 as currently planned etc. In all cases, researchers have considered infected cases are being isolated with 90% compliance.Researchers have then modelled the impact of nine interventions on infections in Mumbai and Bengaluru. These interventions include only case isolation; social distancing of those aged 65 years and above; lockdown for 26 days; lockdown for 40 days; lockdown continues; phased emergence from lockdown with various restrictions. Based on demographic data of Mumbai and Bengaluru, the team found that if the lockdown were to continue indefinitely, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in Mumbai till September are likely to be a fraction compared to no intervention scenario. The fatalities reduce to 530 as compared to 27790 in the no intervention scenario. If the lockdown were to be lifted on April 20 and people returned to normal activities, the number of fatalities will still rise, but slowly. Even if the lockdown were to be lifted only after May 3, the relaxation of restrictions will lead to fatality numbers going as high as with no-interventions, but gradually. “This delay may allow better mobilisation of resources for aggressive testing, tracking, and containment that can change the course of the epidemic,” the paper said.Bengaluru offers a similar scenario. If the lockdown were to continue indefinitely, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the city are likely be far fewer: 30 compared to 21,200 in the no intervention scenario. These projections were made until September 2, 2020, for Mumbai and July 22, 2020, for Bengaluru, according to Rajesh Sundaresan, corresponding author of the paper.The team of researchers has arrived at these trends based on a simulation of the infection spread in Bengaluru and Mumbai using a model, which builds a fine-grained replica of a city, and mimics various interaction spaces, such as households, schools and workplaces, according to a statement by IISc.“If there are 10 million people in Bengaluru, the city’s model also has that many individuals,” said Sundaresan, Professor at the Department of Electrical Communication Engineering at IISc, in the statement. He added that the model also takes into account population densities, age distribution, household size distribution, commute distances and several other parameters.“We have to increase identification of cases by active case finding and enhanced testing, ensure isolation and quarantine and continue proper physical distancing, cough etiquette, respiratory hygiene. We have to get used to the new normal now or cases will rise steadily. Plans will have to be developed for migration, transit inter and intra districts and states after lockdown also,” said Giridhar R Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-tackling-of-covid-19-cases-needed-to-prevent-2nd-wave-research-paper/story-4Z7o4P4L773XKUxi2oKb4M.html
20-04-2020||India||‘We shut ourselves out’: 9 members of a family recover from Covid-19||On the night of April 17, Anit Thapa, chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration that administers the hill region in north Bengal announced, “Today officially Kalimpong is a zero Covid district and I would like to thank the people of GTA region, the hospital nurses and doctors, the respiratory therapists who helped all of us to fight this pandemic.”The reason he was able to make this declaration was because all members of the Singh family that had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 3, were finally discharged on Friday evening. Nine members and a domestic help were admitted to the hospital, turning the hill district of Kalimpong into a Covid-19 hotspot. The Singhs — 12 of them — lived across three homes in Siliguri and Kalimpong, 65 kilometres away.On March 30, a 49-year-old woman died due to Covid-19 at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, two days after she was detected as being positive for coronavirus. This alerted the authorities to test the other members of her family: nine of them tested positive, including the woman’s husband, son, daughter, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and two toddler grand-nieces. Five were released earlier in the week, while the remaining four were discharged on Friday. The domestic help of the family was discharged as well. All the 41 persons who had been sent to quarantine centres after coming into contact with the family and the domestic help have been released.The 49-year-old had returned from Chennai accompanied by her 20-year-old daughter, who studies mass communication and journalism in the southern capital. They landed at Bagdogra airport, paid a visit to the Siliguri residence of her nephew, and then travelled home to their Kalimpong residence where five other members of the family, including the woman’s husband and son reside.Sneha, a second-year college student in Chennai, said her mother was the only one who showed severe symptoms. “In reality, all the family members, except for my mother, showed very little symptoms.”“The first thing I did after receiving the news of my aunt-in-law’s death was to go to the room of her son and daughter and tell them that I was their mother from that day,” Julie Singh, a family member, recalled.Within hours of the 49-year-old woman’s death, the administration took all other members of the family, and the domestic helps, who were already in home quarantine at that time, to a government centre. Three days later, on April 3, all members of the family, except Julie and her husband, Ajay, tested positive. However, Julie’s three-year-old daughter had tested positive, so Julie accompanied all the members of the family to the private hospital, where they were kept.“We all uninstalled Facebook from our phones to shut ourselves from the outside world. We watched movies and listened to music on YouTube,” said Sneha.“We had to accept whatever had happened as the law of nature,” she added.“You can imagine the situation,” Ajay, the nephew of the deceased, and who lived with her, said. “My aunt had just died and nine members of the family landed in hospital. My daughter is three-year-old and my niece is six months older than she is. My father is a patient of kidney transplant. My mother was shell-shocked with the news of my aunt’s death. My cousins had just lost their mother. One of them is still a minor. Whom could I not attend to? And how could I attend to so many of them while myself being in quarantine?” he said.Julie, his wife, would meet the other members of her family in the hospital wearing Personal Protective Equipment, as she herself was not infected with the virus, but was staying there to look after her young daughter, who was infected. She shared Buddhist chants with her family members. “For most of the time in the hospital, I meditated,” she said. “My husband also asked all our relatives and family members to keep calling my parents to keep them engaged and motivated.” “I kept receiving calls from family friends throughout the day. They also shared on WhatsApp different news of people’s recovery. All these mattered in those times, as I was really worried about my husband and the two grandnieces,” Manju Devi Singh, Ajay’s mother who was also hospitalised, said.With all members of the family now discharged, “finally, we are happy that the storm is over and the family is united all over again,” Sneha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-shut-ourselves-out-9-members-of-a-family-recover-from-covid-19/story-og2nz0BT9O0Jm0RPpqU8VO.html
20-04-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath won’t attend father’s funeral amid Covid-19 lockdown||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said he will not attend his father’s last rites on Tuesday to ensure the enforcement of coronavirus lockdown, news agency ANI reported. CM Adityanath’s father, Anand Singh Bisht, passed away at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi on Monday morning. The chief minister urged that there should be a minimal presence of people during his father’s funeral in view of the ongoing coronavirus lockdown.  “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s father left for his heavenly abode at 10.44 am. Our deepest condolences,” State Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish K Awasthi said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath says he will not take part in the last rites of his father tomorrow, to ensure enforcement of lockdown and to defeat coronavirus pandemic in the state. pic.twitter.com/PPjy9xxLgBBisht was 89 and retired as a forest ranger in the year 1991. He was undergoing treatment at AIIMS Delhi and died of multi-organ failure, a doctor said on Monday. Bisht, admitted the hospital since March 13, was on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU).“He had multiple issues; his kidneys and liver were not working optimally; he was on dialysis and other life-saving measures and was being treated by a multi-disciplinary team of specialists...,” said a senior doctor at the hospital, requesting anonymity.He had liver and kidney-related issues, and was admitted to the hospital with an acute liver infection, doctors said. He also suffered from critically low blood pressure, extreme dehydration and severe infection.My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of Anand Singh Bisht ji, father of UP CM Yogi Adityanath ji. May his soul rest in peace.May God give Yogi ji and his family members strength to bear the loss.Scores of political leaders and diplomats condoled Bisht’s death including Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath.“My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of Anand Singh Bisht ji, father of UP CM Yogi Adityanath ji. May his soul rest in peace. May God give Yogi ji and his family members strength to bear the loss,” Kamal Nath tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-won-t-attend-father-anand-singh-bisht-s-funeral-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-TypidF6jjYunFsvvvTDwrI.html
20-04-2020||India||Flight restrictions to be lifted when Covid-19 is controlled: Govt||The restrictions on domestic and international flight operations will be lifted when the government is confident that spread of the novel coronavirus has been controlled, and poses no danger to Indians, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday, amidst reports of some airlines doing open bookings.In a series of tweets, the minister also said a directive was issued on Sunday to airlines, restraining them from doing open bookings since they did not heed to government’s advice in the matter.“I want to once again say that flight restrictions that are in place as a result of India’s fight against COVID-19 will be lifted once we are confident that spread of the virus has been controlled and it poses no danger to our country and people,” he tweeted. The minister said,”since some airlines did not heed our advisory and opened bookings, and started collecting money from flyers, a directive was issued to them on 19th April restraining them from doing so. They were also informed that they will be given sufficient notice and time to commence bookings.” While government-run Air India stopped the bookings after the government’s advisory, private carriers ignored it and continued taking bookings for travel after May 3, prompting the aviation regulator DGCA to issue a circular on Sunday. “All airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets... Further, the airlines may note that they shall be given sufficient notice and time for restarting operations,” the circular said.All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo flights and special flights, permitted by the DGCA, can fly during the duration of the lockdown.Meanwhile, several passengers have posted their complaints on social media against Indian airlines for not refunding booking amounts for flights cancelled due to the coronavirus lockdown, and instead issuing credit vouchers for future travel.On April 16, the aviation ministry said that passengers can ask airlines for full refunds if the bookings were done during the first phase of lockdown for travel up to May 3.  However, the government has not taken any decision so far on whether full refunds should be issued to passengers who booked their tickets before the lockdown began for travel during the March 25-May 3 period.  The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14, and was later extended by 19 days till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-restrictions-to-be-lifted-when-covid-19-is-controlled-govt/story-IJXVmNRjO58kFXIrv79TXN.html
20-04-2020||India||Govt says Covid-19 situation ‘especially serious’ in Mumbai, Kolkata, Jaipur, Indore||The Covid-19 situation is “especially serious” in Mumbai, Pune, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and a few other places in West Bengal, and violation of lockdown measures risk the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Centre said on Monday.In a communication to state governments, the home ministry said there have been several incidents of violence against Covid-19 frontline healthcare professionals, complete violation of social distancing norms and movement of vehicles in urban areas. These should be stopped, it said.The Centre’s note case as the death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 543 and the number of cases climbed to 17,265 in the country on Monday.Meanwhile, Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to enquire about the lynching of three people in the state’s Palghar area, according to news agency PTI.During the telephonic conversation, Thackeray apprised the home minister about the incidents and the steps taken to nab those involved in the incident, PTI quoted officials as saying.The Maharashtra government has ordered a high-level investigation into the Palghar mob lynching incident in which three people were killed on Thursday night. “Police have detained 101 people involved in the killing of three Surat-bound people in Palghar. I have also ordered a high level inquiry into these killings,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Twitter.Deshmukh also warned officials against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were allegedly seers.There are 4,203 confirmed coronavirus cases in Maharashtra of which 223 people lost their lives, according to Union health ministry data.In Madhya Pradesh, out of the 1,407 cases, 70 people have succumbed to the disease.The central government has constituted six inter-ministerial central teams to make on-spot assessment of the Covid-19 situation in these places and issue necessary directions to the four states - Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and West Bengal - for redressal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-covid-19-situation-especially-serious-in-mumbai-kolkata-jaipur-indore/story-1BkspkbpC281rowguOueuO.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Northeast reports fewer cases, Manipur has no new positive case as of Sunday||On Sunday, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh took to Twitter to make an announcement: his state, which was the first from the Northeast to report a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive case, is free from the viral outbreak, albeit temporarily.“I am glad to share that Manipur is now coronavirus free. Both patients have fully recovered and have tested negative. There are no fresh cases of the virus in the state. This has been possible because of the cooperation of the public and medical staff and the strict enforcement of lockdown restrictions,” he tweeted.Manipur, as well as the region’s first Covid-19 patient, was a 23-year-old girl, who had tested positive in March upon her return from the United Kingdom (UK). She was discharged from the hospital on April 12 after she recovered from the viral infection, the CM said.On Sunday, the second patient from Manipur, a 65-year-old man, who returned to the state after attending the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15, was also declared to have recovered.The region’s other states, which have recorded fewer cases in comparison to most parts of the country, are also announcing the recovery of their patients.The seven states from the Northeast, excluding Sikkim, have reported 52 Covid-19 positive cases to date. Assam topped the list with 35 cases, followed by Meghalaya at 11. Currently, Assam has 15 active cases and has also reported one death, a Jamaat follower.“The lone Covid-19 positive person of Arunachal Pradesh has now been declared virus-free,” state CM Pema Khandu tweeted last Friday.“The process of discharging patients would continue and by the end of April we hope to release all Covid-19 patients from our hospitals,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday. Around 82% of cases in Assam are asymptomatic, the minister said. “Earlier, we were collecting only throat swabs for tests, but now on we will be taking both throat and nasal swabs to ensure that there is better monitoring,” Sarma said. Assam is also planning to use rapid testing kits in government-run hospitals to ensure that there is faster detection of cases after the kits are made available. The state has tested over 4,800 samples and the rate of testing has been 120 people per million. Tripura had recorded two Covid-19 positive cases and last week one of them -- a 45-year-old woman with a travel history to Guwahati -- was discharged from hospital. The other patient, a Tripura State Rifles jawan, is recovering well and is likely to be discharged soon.Mizoram was the second state in the region to record a Covid-19 case when a 50-year-old pastor, who had travelled to the Netherlands, tested Covid-19 positive on March 24, a day after the first case from the region in Manipur was reported.“There is good news, as there is considerable improvement in the patient. He has no fever and we hope that he will fully recover within a few days,” Mizoram health minister R Lalthangliana told HT over the phone from the state capital Aizawl.Nagaland has a unique distinction of its lone patient getting transferred to Assam’s tally. The 33-year-old Dimapur-based businessman was first listed in Nagaland’s tally but later transferred to Assam, as he tested Covid-19 positive in Guwahati. Meghalaya was the last state in the region to record a Covid-19 positive case after a 69-year-old doctor from the state capital, Shillong, contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, on April 13. Though the doctor died later, 10 people, including his family members and assistants, have tested Covid-19 positive. These are the only Covid-19 active cases in Meghalaya.Most states in the Northeast had sealed their interstate borders and also with neighbouring Bangladesh and Myanmar prior to the Central government’s move to initially implement a 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak from March 25 and further extend it by another 19 days till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-has-no-covid-19-case-as-of-sunday-says-cm-biren-singh/story-sfBnD2QbbIK4Aq5rxW2kLO.html
20-04-2020||India||Amit Shah dials Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray over Palghar lynching that killed 3||Union home minister Amit Shah called up Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday to enquire about the lynching of three people in Palghar last week, PTI reported.The three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were heading towards Gujarat’s Surat in a car to attend a funeral late on April 16. Their vehicle was stopped in Palghar district and the men were dragged out of their car and beaten to death on suspicion that they were thieves.The dead men were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).Also read: Mistaken for thieves, 3 lynched to death by 200-strong mob in Maharashtra’s PalgharThe news agency said Uddhav Thackeray talked about the Palghar lynching incident and the steps taken to nab those involved in the crime over the phone with Amit Shah.Police have detained more than 100 people involved in the killing of the three Surat-bound men. The Maharashtra government has also ordered a high-level probe into the Palghar mob lynching incident.“The police have arrested all those accused who attacked the two sadhus, one driver and the police personnel on the day of the crime itself,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said earlier. “Nobody guilty of this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible,” Thackeray said in a tweet.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also urged the Shiv Sena chief to take strict action against the culprits involved in the lynching of the three men in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-dials-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-over-palghar-lynching-that-killed-3/story-dzdrSU9PqJY38IGZa6kdCO.html
20-04-2020||India||China seeks FDI policy revision aimed at shielding Indian firms’ takeover||China on Monday asked India to revise what it described as a “discriminatory” change in foreign direct investment (FDI) regulations aimed at preventing opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms amid the Covid-19 crisis.The Indian government brought China under the ambit of regulations preventing such takeovers and acquisitions on Friday, with authorities saying any Chinese investments would now require the government’s approval. The revision of the FDI policy came close on the heels of China’s central bank buying a 1.01% stake in HDFC in the first quarter of 2020.“We hope India would revise relevant discriminatory practices, treat investments from different countries equally, and foster an open, fair and equitable business environment,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement that was Beijing’s first formal response to the tweak in India’s FDI regulations.Ji said the “additional barriers” set by India for “investors from specific countries violate WTO’s principle of non-discrimination, and go against the general trend of liberalisation and facilitation of trade and investment”.The Chinese side also contended the changes in India’s FDI rules “do not conform to the consensus of G20 leaders and trade ministers to realise a free, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open”.There was no immediate response to Ji’s remarks from Indian officials though people familiar with developments said the Indian government couldn’t allow vulnerabilities created by the Covid-19 pandemic to be exploited by any country, including China.Also Watch | Chinese threat amid Covid impact: Why India changed FDI rules One of the people cited above, on condition of anonymity, said: “A pre-emptive action was needed to protect Indian assets from hostile acquisitions and takeovers, particularly start-ups that have little money power. The necessity is not just felt by India, but many other countries, including powerful G20 nations, which have expressed serious concerns about Chinese designs.”The person added: “The actions of Chinese investors, with tacit backup from their government, are not fair business as usual. Hence there is a need to protect our domestic interests.”The people said there was no bar on the entry of Chinese firms into India or investments by them, but all proposals will have to go through the government.“This is not just targeted at China but all countries that share borders with India. It is surprising why China is so perturbed, if it believes in ethical business,” the person cited above said.Earlier, only investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh required the Indian government’s approval for security reasons. Without naming China, an order issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) on April 17 said the scope of the policy had been widened to cover all neighbouring countries that share a border with India.Ji noted that China’s cumulative investment in India exceeded $8 billion as of December 2019, “far more than the total investments of India’s other border-sharing countries”. She added, “The impact of the policy on Chinese investors is clear.”The revision of the foreign investment policy by the DPIIT will make it “much difficult for companies from countries sharing land border with India, including China, to invest in the country”, Ji said.Ji contended Chinese investments have “driven the development of India’s industries, such as mobile phone, household electrical appliances, infrastructure and automobile, creating a large number of jobs in India, and promoting [mutually] beneficial and win-win cooperation”.She also noted that Chinese enterprises were actively making donations to help India fight Covid-19 and sought to urge India to create a “favourable investment environment” that would help drive recovery after the pandemic.“Where companies choose to invest and operate depends on the country’s economic fundamentals and business environment. Facing the economic downturn caused by Covid-19, countries should work together to create a favourable investment environment to speed up the resumption of companies’ production and operation,” Ji said.The Indian government’s tweak in FDI rules followed concerns that Chinese firms, including its mammoth state-run companies, could take over Indian companies at a time when their valuation has taken a massive hit because of the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic that originated in Wuhan nearly four months ago.According to the DPIIT’s order, “an entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route”. The order also requires the government’s approval for transferring ownership of an Indian company to any “existing or future” foreign investor belonging to the countries that share a border with India.Bangladesh, China, Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal and Myanmar share borders with India, but there are some exemptions for Nepal and Bhutan-based entities.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on April 12 cautioned the government against takeover threats. “The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The government must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-seeks-revision-of-fdi-policy-aimed-at-protecting-indian-firms-from-takeovers/story-Jx5jw68fLMFaVuBAoz9kIO.html
20-04-2020||India||Rapid testing for Covid-19 in Delhi ordered, 25 prisoner vans will be mobile labs||The Delhi government on Monday ordered use of 25 prisoner vans of Delhi Police to travel into the city’s 79 containment zones to carry out large-scale random testing. A government source told Hindustan Times that the decision to quickly modify 25 such vans had been taken.The government targets close to 40,000 rapid tests in these containment zones over the next 3-4 days.Two vans will be assigned to each of Delhi’s 11 districts; the other three will be kept on standby at the headquarters.The decision was taken a day after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed concern that 186 people who had been infected by Sars-Cov-2 on Saturday were asymptomatic. This has reinforced suspicions that “silent spreaders” were unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients.Also Watch | Covid-19 | ‘Delhi received 42,000 rapid testing kits, trial run initiated’: Satyendar Jain The Delhi government has not eased any restrictions clamped under the national lockdown because the city-state is seen as a “high-risk zone”. All 11 revenue districts in the state are now designated as virus hot spots. The government will review this situation on April 27.A top government official said the large number of positive cases had convinced the city government to go in for extensive testing. The availability of the testing kits had made this possible.Of the asymptomatic patients who had tested positive yesterday, the official said 35 cases were reported from Tilak Nagar, 30 from Tughlakabad Extension, 5 from Nabi Karim, 3 from Sadar Bazar and 2 more from Nizamuddin.These prisoner vans will go into the containment zones with police cover.In case there is resistance or untoward incidents, the possibility of deploying para-military forces is not ruled outThere is some concern in the Delhi government that there were instances where police officers aren’t as proactive as the city administration would like them to be after the Chandni Mahal police station chief and some other personnel tested positive. The government had responded to this concern by extending Rs 1 crore ex-gratia cover to police personnel also besides asking them to take all precautions in handling people in Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-for-covid-19-in-delhi-ordered-25-prisoner-vans-will-be-mobile-labs/story-CE6i6PiC0WekJPHFTvNL0H.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Social reformer Sri M’s foundation urges people to support the needy||The Covid-19 pandemic has massively hit the economically weaker sections of the society. The daily wage earners, the homeless and the migrant labourers are still facing difficulty in procuring even a meal a day. In such times, it’s the NGOs that have come forward to extend help. The Satsang Seva Mission is one such initiative by The Satsang Foundation (TSF), which is enabling distribution of cooked food and other essentials to those in need. READ | This is how good Samaritans are helping Delhi survive in lockdownDuring the initial days when the lockdown was announced, a number of migrant construction workers appeared before a gated colony in Noida, saying they hadn’t eaten for a number of days. A member of TSF, who resides in that colony, cooked and fed a cluster of about 15 of their families. Upon informing TSF about this situation, dry rations were organised for the labourers living in this location. Sri M, TSF’s founder and social reformer, says, “While the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister is working round the clock to deal with the situation, solutions to such serious situations can only be found through public cooperation and active participation.” Joining the fight against Covid-19 crisis, the foundation distributed Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks and sanitizers to health care providers. And the volunteers of the foundation in Delhi got some cloth masks made from requisitioned tailors — who are currently out of work — after sourcing some surplus cloth from exporters. About 400 regular three ply masks were also provided to cancer patients at the night shelters outside All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Besides, the NGO has carried out several activities, for the larger cause of humanity. Bela Mahendru, executive secretary of TSF’s Delhi Kendra, adds, “We distributed 470 ration bags for four weeks, in Noida and Gurugram, and also provided AIIMS, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital with a number of N95 and 3 ply masks. Dry ration was also provided to feeding about 8,000 people in a shelter for the homeless at Yamuna Pushta. Currently, we are distributing 10,000 cloth masks to the families of daily wagers, slum dwellers and the homeless throughout the city. We have also received a request to provide dry ration to 500 homeless rickshaw pullers.” READ | The power of social media: Strangers across India connect to help the needyBut this pandemic can’t be fought alone. That’s why Sri M encourages everyone to help each other brace the present situation where lockdown is essential to stop the spread of coronavirus. “It will be a good idea to help the lesser privileged understand how to protect themselves and assure them that this shall also pass. You may add to these activities by joining hands in any way, including funding the projects [for relief] to the best of your ability. This is our nation, and it’s our duty to guard it and contribute to its well-being.” Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-crisis-social-reformer-sri-m-s-foundation-urges-people-to-support-the-needy/story-LkeZBEpTgUsjCPadDbq4YN.html
20-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Goa, now Manipur says it has no Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After Goa, now Manipur says it has no Covid-19 casesManipur on Monday became the second state after Goa to report there were no cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after two patients recovered, chief minister N Biren Singh said. Read more 15 contacts of Ferozepur constable test negativeFifteen of 35 primary contacts of the 27-year-old Punjab Police constable who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Wara Bhai Ka village on April 17 have tested negative for the infection. The reports came in late on Sunday evening. Read more Show us the way home, moan Chandigarh’s rickshaw pullersThere is no work, no earning, no certainty of food and no home to quarantine in. Such are the conditions of a majority of the rickshaw pullers in Chandigarh. Rameshwar a rickshaw-puller of Uttar Pradesh says, “Every year, at this time of the year, I used to return to my village to harvest wheat. Read more US newspaper publishes 15 pages of obituary as Covid-19 crisis continuesLeading American daily Boston Globe published 15 pages of obituary in its Sunday edition, as Massachusetts reels under Covid-19 crisis. Massachusetts has had more than 38,000 cases of the virus and more than 1,700 deaths. Read more Can chase any score: Only 1 Indian in Nasser Hussain’s list of batsmen he would pay to watchNarrowing down the best batsmen across generation in cricket is an extremely difficult task to say the least. Former cricketers and coaches are often put in the hot seat and asked to name the best according to them. Read moreCoronavirus: West Bengal educational institutes to remain closed till June 10With the central government extending the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 till May 3, 2020, the Department of Higher Education in West Bengal on Saturday decided to close all the educational institutes in the state till June 10, 2020. Read moreNew iPhone 12 leak shows smaller TrueDepth notch, more screen spaceApple tipster Jon Prosser shared two images on Twitter last night and they look like schematic drawings of the next-gen iPhone 12 handset. Read moreThis feline couple has strong Raj and Simran vibes. WatchWho doesn’t remember the iconic Bollywood duo of Raj and Simran from Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge? The way they initially met on the Euro rail to the way they choo-choo-ed away to their happily-ever-after in a train - they are the epitome of the ‘enemies-to-lovers’ trope we all have come to love so much. Read more Watch| ‘They go after churches...’: Donald Trump on mosque retweet amid Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-goa-now-manipur-says-it-has-no-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R76amx7pbvzOthkWz9RTIO.html
20-04-2020||India||Will stand by Maldives in this ‘challenging time’: PM Modi tells President Solih||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, President of the Republic of Maldives, over the prevailing coronavirus situation in the island nation. In a telephonic conversation, the leaders talked about the “health and economic challenges” the coronavirus pandemic poses for the Maldives.The Prime Minister tweeted about his conversation with President Solih and said that India will stand by the Maldives in this “challenging time”.Spoke on phone with H.E. President @ibusolih about the COVID-19 pandemic, and the health and economic challenges it poses for the Maldives.“The special bond between India and Maldives strengthens our resolve to fight this common enemy together. India will stand by its close maritime neighbour and friend in this challenging time,” the Prime Minister tweeted out. This comes a day after President of Kazakhstan, Qasym-Jomart Toqayev, thanked India and PM Modi “for the donation of medical supplies to Kazakhstan to contain the coronavirus”. “Sincerely thank the Government of India and personally Prime Minister @NarendraModi for the donation of medical supplies to Kazakhstan to contain the coronavirus. This high mark of friendship & solidarity is made even at a time when India banned export of drugs abroad. @MEAIndia,” Toqayev tweeted out. PM Modi replied in a tweet, “India and Kazakhstan are strategic partners and cooperation and demonstration of solidarity during such challenging times further strengthens the bond of friendship between the two countries”.India has reported 1553 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday morning. The ministry updated the coronavirus tally in the country to 17,265. The figure includes 14,175 active cases, 2547 people who have been cured or discharged and 543 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-stand-by-maldives-in-this-challenging-time-pm-modi-tells-president-solih-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-BRL5jacX96soewHjTiGL3J.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 situation serious in Mumbai, Kolkata, Jaipur, Indore: Home Ministry||The Centre on Monday said the Covid-19 situation is “especially serious” in Mumbai, Pune, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and a few other places in West Bengal, and violation of lockdown measures risk the spread of the novel coronavirus.In a communication to state governments and union territories, the home ministry said there have been several incidents of violence against Covid-19 frontline healthcare professionals, complete violation of social distancing norms and movement of vehicles in urban areas. These should be stopped, it said. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 543 and the number of cases climbed to 17,265 in the country on Monday, according to the Union health ministry.The situation is “especially serious” in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra, Jaipur in Rajasthan, and Kolkata, Howrah, East Medinipur, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri in West Bengal, the ministry said.“Violation of lockdown measures reported, posing a serious health hazard to public and risk for spread of Covid-19,” it said.The central government has constituted six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) to make on-spot assessment of the Covid-19 situation in these places and issue necessary directions to the four states -- Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and West Bengal -- for redressal.The teams will submit their report to the central government in the larger interest of the general public, the ministry said.“The IMCTs will focus on compliance and implementation of the lockdown measures as per guidelines, supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of relief camps for labourers and poor people,” a home ministry spokesperson said.The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was further extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-serious-in-mumbai-kolkata-jaipur-indore-home-ministry/story-fEZvFbcIYJUlSDXU8VUtLP.html
20-04-2020||India||Rebuked by Centre, Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan falls in line on Covid-19 lockdown||Kerala has withdrawn the additional concessions announced for the relaxation during the lockdown, after a letter from the Centre to all the chief secretaries of the state to stick to the guidelines it has issued.Kerala government said this happened due to some communication gap. Earlier, the state government had defended its decision to relax the norms saying the Centre was informed about it.The additional activities allowed by the state included the opening of local workshops, barber shops, restaurants, book stores, allowing bus travel in cities and towns for a shorter distance, two passengers in the back seat of four-wheeler and pillion riding on scooters.Also Watch | Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac on new lockdown rules  The Union home ministry had taken strong objection to the Kerala government’s decision, saying it amounts to dilution of its lockdown guidelines.“Such additional activities allowed by government of Kerala amount to dilution of guidelines issued by MHA and violation of MHA order dated 15 April 2020 issued under Disaster Management Act 2005. I would urge you to rectify the guidelines of the Government of Kerala in line with the consolidated revised guidelines without any dilution and ensure strict compliance of lockdown measures,” the letter from Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said.Four districts in the state - north Kerala’s Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram - are in Covid-19 red zone with the most of the infections. Eight, including state capital Thiruvananthapuram, are in the orange zone with few cases and two are in the green zone with no cases. There are 14 districts in the southern state.State authorities had said the relaxations will be applicable to the orange and green zones only.Kerala had on Sunday reported two new cases of the coronavirus disease, which took the number of infections in the state to 401. Out of the 401, there are 270 people who have been discharged and 129 are in hospitals. There are 55,590 people under observation, down from almost 200,000 at one point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-withdraws-lockdown-concessions-after-centre-s-objections/story-rCNzPqMAU0CBBA0kKy9oWK.html
20-04-2020||India||After Goa, now Manipur says it has no Covid-19 cases||Manipur on Monday became the second state after Goa to report there were no cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after two patients recovered, chief minister N Biren Singh said.Goa said on Sunday that last of its seven Covid-19 patients had been declared as recovered and no fresh cases were registered after April 3 in the coastal state.“I am glad to share that Manipur is now Corona free.Both patients hv fully recovered and have tested negative.There are no fresh cases of the virus in the state.This has been possible because of cooperation of public &medical staff and strict enforcement of lockdown (sic),” Biren Singh tweeted.The northeastern state had reported only two cases of the coronavirus infection, according to the Union health ministry figures.Authorities had said on Sunday that Manipur’s second Covid-19 patient had tested negative for the first time since undergoing treatment. Prof Ch Arunkumar, medical superintendent of Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) hospital in Imphal where the patient is admitted, said on Sunday that the man tested negative in his fourth test. The man had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2.Manipur had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 24 and the patient was discharged on April 12 after being cured. She is at home for the mandatory 14-day quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-goa-now-manipur-says-it-has-no-covid-19-cases/story-jKtGwRQkT6klwIQX6Ipb5L.html
20-04-2020||India||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s father Anand Singh Bisht passes away||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s father, Anand Singh Bisht, who was undergoing treatment at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, has died of multi-organ failure, a doctor said on Monday.Eighty-nine-year-old Bisht, admitted the hospital since March 13, was on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU).“He had multiple issues; his kidneys and liver were not working optimally; he was on dialysis and other life-saving measures and was being treated by a multi-disciplinary team of specialists...,” said a senior doctor at the hospital, requesting anonymity.He had liver and kidney-related issues, and was admitted to the hospital with an acute liver infection, doctors said. He also suffered from critically low blood pressure, extreme dehydration and severe infection.“Honourable CM’s father left for his heavenly abode at 10.44 am. Our deepest condolences,” Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-s-father-anand-singh-bisht-passes-away/story-S2X1F07Udp8VDuhKD4kxeL.html
20-04-2020||India||5 times India dissed Pakistan’s propaganda during Covid-19 crisis||India has responded sharply to Pakistan government’s allegations of discrimination against Muslims, insisting that it was the Imran Khan government’s effort to divert attention from Islamabad’s poor way of handling its internal affairs.This isn’t the first time that India has panned Pakistan during the humanitarian crisis due to Covid-19 that has killed more than 1.5 lakh people across the world and infected over two million. In recent weeks, India has also noted renewed attempts by Pakistan-backed terrorists groups to infiltrate into India.Here are five such incidents during the Covid-19 crisis:April 19, 2020: The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) slammed the remarks made by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan where he accused the government in India of discriminating against the Muslims. The MEA said such remarks were an attempt to shift focus from Islamabad’s “abysmal handling” of its internal affairs. Khan had compared the Indian government’s treatment of Muslims to “what Nazis did to Jews in Germany”.April 17, 2020: Army Chief General MM Naravane said that during such time when India is sending is medical teams and exporting medicines to the world to battle coronavirus, Pakistan is exporting terror. “It is unfortunate that while the world has got together to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, our neighbour has resorted to firing heavy calibre artillery and killing of innocent people, including an eight-year-old boy to garner international attention,” he said during his visit to the forward posts in Jammu and Kashmir. His remarks came after a series of ceasefire violation incidents, especially in the Keran sector of the union territory in which eight civilians and five soldiers were killed in two weeks.April 10, 2020: India took a jibe at Pakistan over its opposition to New Delhi’s leadership in dealing with the crisis in SAARC region. New Delhi said the degree of seriousness of each member nation of the SAARC in collectively fighting the coronavirus pandemic can be gauged by their behaviour. The reaction came a day after Pakistan pledged to contribute US $3 million to the SAARC Coronavirus Emergency Fund as proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but demanded that any initiative to deal with the situation must be brought under the bloc’s framework.April 4, 2020: India once against hit out at Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan for commenting on domicile rules for Kammu and Kashmir, saying repeated attempts to interfere in India’s internal affairs will not make its “untenable” claims acceptable. In its response, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that Pakistan has no locus standi whatsoever on any aspect pertaining to it. Khan had criticised India’s new domicile rules for Jammu and Kashmir, calling them an attempt to alter the demography of the union territory.March 16, 2020: India slammed Pakistan for raising the Kashmir issue during a video conference between SAARC countries to discuss ways to tackle the deadly coronavirus disease Covid-19. The government said that Pakistan’s attempts to politicise a humanitarian issue by its unwarranted statement on Kashmir during the video conference on coronavirus reflected very poorly on it. Speaking further on the SAARC emergency fund, the MEA said: “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the Prime Minister is today in an advanced stage of implementation. Assistance in material and services has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka. These SAARC countries have also made early commitments to the fund.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-times-india-dissed-pakistan-s-propaganda-during-covid-19-crisis/story-3OmGtHqjvYUDXIb3xF76yL.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 2.0: Areas where eateries are open from today||As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address last week, states across the country will partially lift curbs on coronavirus lockdown from today. However, some states like Delhi, Punjab, Telangana and Karnataka have decided not to ease the lockdown restrictions until May 3. On Sunday, Telangana became the first state to extend the lockdown till May 7. With partial ease in lockdown restrictions across the country, are eateries operational in certain areas?In its revised guidelines on activities and operations exempted during the lockdown period from April 20, the Ministry of Home Affairs had said that dhabas (eating joints) along the highways will be allowed to operate from April 20 “with a stipulated minimum distance”.The MHA said that bars and restaurants across the country will remain shut until the lockdown ends on May 3. The Kerala government, however, announced that hotels and eateries will be operational in 10 of its 14 districts from Monday - a move the Centre has objected to. The government has eased restrictions for districts falling in ‘orange’ and ‘green’ zones. The easing of curbs will not apply to four districts that fall in the ‘red zone’ - Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram. Restaurants in Kerala’s ‘orange’ and ‘zone’ will remain functional till 7pm with social distancing norms in observance. “People will have to keep it in mind it is a temporary arrangement so we expect responsible behaviour. We advise people to come out if it is necessary only,” said state director general of police Loknath Behra.E-commerce platforms across the country are allowed to sell essential commodities such as food, pharmaceutical and medical devices during the lockdown, the MHA said last week. Food delivery options will be available in non coronavirus affected areas during the lockdown. Telangana, however, has announced that food delivery mobile applications will not be allowed to operate in the state from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-0-are-eateries-open-in-your-area-from-today/story-xdfUGo2aYj3hwp4IaudIJO.html
20-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh minister, with convoy, visits seer 250 km away during lockdown||Amid nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, Chhattisgarh excise minister Kawasi Lakhma claimed that he travelled to Raigarh district to meet a saint.The minister, along with his convoy, traveled from Raipur to Raigarh, a distance of 250 kms, on Saturday.In Raigarh, while speaking to reporters, the minister said, “Ye to gopniya vala report ayaa mereko ..corona hai ..Isliye na mein koi karykarta ka meeting nahi liya hun …sirf timepass karne ke liye ..mein raato raat ..ek dharmsthal hai ..baba se darshan karke nikal jaane ke liye aaya hun (It is a time of coronavirus outbreak hence I have not informed any leader or party office bearer about my visit… Just for time pass...I came to Raigarh to meet a Baba).”When contacted by HT on Sunday, the minister said that the media is misquoting him. He said he went for a surprise inspection.“I am the excise minister of state and Raigarh district is the neighbouring district of Mahasamund where I am the minister in-charge. I got information that illegal sale of liquor is going on in Raigarh district, hence I went for a surprise visit. Since a mahatma was also staying in the same area I thought I would meet him but due to the outbreak of corona and lockdown, the mahatma also refused to meet me. Therefore I returned. Now, the media is misquoting me which is not correct,” said Lakhma while speaking to HT.Lakhma further added that saving peoples’ lives is the priority of our government.“We are not in a hurry to take any decision regarding the lockdown because this government is of common man. Presently, the lives of the people are important,” said Lakhma answering a question.When asked about supplying liquor online after lockdown, Lakhma said, “We are thinking on both online and shop distribution. We will see when the time comes.”Meanwhile, on Sunday evening, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said his government has been considering restarting a lot of economic activities in the state from Monday. The MNREGA work has been resumed in several villages.In his video address to people of the state, Baghel underlined that Chhattisgarh has set an example before the whole country for effectively controlling the coronavirus pandemic.Expressing gratitude to people for standing by the government in the period of crisis, the chief minister said, “The discipline, strength and grit shown by the people, to tackle the Corona crisis, since last one month, is unique”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-minister-with-convoy-visits-seer-250-km-away-during-lockdown/story-Pa0NXEDnURxY3E0a2QF45I.html
20-04-2020||India||Toll collection resumes on National Highways as per govt directives||Toll collection on National Highways across the country resumed on Monday in line with government directives, a move which is being opposed by transporters. The central government on March 25, had announced temporary suspension of toll collection following directives by the Ministry of Home Affairs in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) as well as highway developers resumed collection at toll plazas. Highways developer IRB Infrastructure Developers said all its Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) “have resumed their toll collection from 00.00 hours today” in line with the NHAI directives.Also read: Centre objects to Kerala govt ‘diluting’ lockdown restrictions A spokesperson of IRB Infrastructure Developers said, “we are pleased to have the directives from nodal agencies to resume toll operations. This seems to be a positive sign for the sector, with an indication leaning towards restoration of normalcy in phased manners for the nation.” IRB Infra’s projects SPVs collectively operate 50 toll plazas across India and all have now fully resumed their operations from Monday. In line with NHAI guidelines, all Project SPVs will be taking necessary precautions and care at toll plazas for highway users and employees manning the toll plazas. For this, the company has provided adequate masks, sanitizers, hand gloves, etc. to employees manning the toll plazas. However, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), protested against resumption of toll on national highways and said it will adversely affect rabi crop procurement, adding that over 85 per cent transporters are cash-starved small operators who will not able to sustain toll fee.Also read| Covid-19: These are new lockdown relaxation rules in your state AIMTC, the apex body for transporters that represents about 95 lakh truckers and transport entities, has sought suspension of toll till May 3. “As per inputs received from across the country, procurement of rabi crop will be disturbed, as more than 85 per cent, finance-starved small operators can’t sustain toll burden starting April 20. Tolls must be suspended at least till May 3,” AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal has said seeking the Prime Minister’s Office’s intervention. Atwal has said that more than 85 per cent of the transport fraternity have one to five vehicles and about 65 per cent of them are self-employed owner-drivers. AIMTC Secretary General Naveen Gupta said: “Only 15 per cent of the transporters own big fleets but they are also helpless... some have vehicles transporting essential goods while others are facing shortages of drivers.” He said the transport fraternity is financially broken and does not have finance for operations and bringing back drivers, which is a big challenge. AIMTC has sought a relief package from the government that includes Rs 15,000 per driver per month besides insurance cover to drivers and supporting staff. Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT) Coordinator S P Singh said in the past 21 days, the benefit of toll fee not being levied was hardly being passed on in the form of any reduction in truck rentals across the country. On March, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari had announced: “In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plazas across India.” This will not only reduce inconvenience to emergency services but also save critical time, he had said. The minister had also said that maintenance of roads and availability of emergency resources at toll plazas will continue as usual. Earlier, the road transport and highways ministry advised the NHAI to follow the home ministry’s guidelines about toll plaza operations following the lockdown. The prevailing condition may be treated as ‘Force Majeure’ for concession or contract agreement in terms of the finance ministry, it had said. The NHAI had rolled out the electronic toll collection programme across India in December on its over 500 toll plazas while doubling toll charges from the vehicles entering FASTag lanes without the tag. PTI NAM DRR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-collection-resumes-on-national-highways-as-per-govt-directives/story-PqEfWMzmiK7ccvzhEP66uK.html
20-04-2020||India||Centre objects to Kerala govt ‘diluting’ lockdown restrictions||The Kerala government’s decision to relax the norms of the Covid-19 lockdown on Monday has irked the Centre, prompting it to write to all chief secretaries to stick to the guidelines it has issued.However, amid confusion over easing of norms, the state government has defended its decision saying the Centre was informed about it.The Union home ministry has taken strong objection to the Kerala government’s decision to allow opening of restaurants and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in municipal areas among others, saying it amounts to dilution of its lockdown guidelines. “It has come to notice that some states/Union territories are issuing orders allowing activities which have not been allowed as per guidelines issued by MHA under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” Ajay Bhalla, Union home secretary, said in his letter.Additional activities allowed by the state include the opening of local workshops, barbershops, restaurants, book stores, allowing bus travel in cities and towns for a shorter distance, two passengers in the back seat of four-wheeler and pillion riding on scooters. Four districts—north Kerala’s Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram—are in the red zone with the most of the infections. Eight, including state capital Thiruvananthapuram, are in the orange zone with few cases and two are in the green zone with no cases. There are 14 districts in the southern state.State authorities had said the relaxations will be applicable to the orange and green zones only.Kerala had on Sunday reported two new cases of the coronavirus disease, which took the number of infections in the state to 401. Out of the 401, there are 270 people who have been discharged and 129 are in hospitals. There are 55,590 people under observation, down from almost 200,000 at one point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-objects-to-kerala-govt-diluting-lockdown-restrictions/story-z6xe4l2LAopE9PQC14AF7M.html
20-04-2020||India||UP becomes 7th state with over 1000 cases, Gujarat jumps to 3rd spot: Covid-19 state tally||India has reported 1553 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday morning. The ministry updated the coronavirus tally in the country to 17,265. The figure includes 14,175 active cases, 2547 people who have been cured or discharged and 543 fatalities.The number of coronavirus cases crossed the 17,000-mark today when several states and Union territories are set to introduce some relaxations in the coronavirus lockdown in “selected” areas. Uttar Pradesh has became the seventh state to report more than 1,000 coronavirus cases. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 4203 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 223 deaths so far while 507 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 2003 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 45 people have died from the infection while 72 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 1743 coronavirus cases and 105 recoveries so far. 63 people have died from the infection in the state.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1478 on Monday. The state has reported 14 fatalities, and 183 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1477 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 411 recoveries and 15 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1407 positive cases of coronavirus. 70 people have died from Covid-19 here while 127 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh1084 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 108 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 17 have died from the infection here.Telangana844 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 186 people have made a recovery from the virus while 18 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 646 positive Covid-19 patients and 42 cases of recovery. 15 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 402 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 270 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 390 Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. 111 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 350. 5 people have died from the infection while 56 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 233 and 219 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 87 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 31 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 339 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 12 deaths and 66 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 68 Covid-19 positive patients, 24 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 93 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 42 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 17 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 44 coronavirus patients, 11 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 26 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 13 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 15 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 25 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 42 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported 11 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura have reported two cases each and one case of patient recovery each. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the sixth day of the extended lockdown phase on Monday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4000-cases-in-maharashtra-up-becomes-7th-state-with-1000-patients-covid-19-state-tally/story-JxdP39LHp5b8xFJmrzeTOM.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: These are new lockdown relaxation rules in your state||States across India will on Monday partially lift curbs put in place during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections to get their sagging economies back in shape.Everything barring essential services has been shut from March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was clamped to arrest the spread of Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on April 14 that the national lockdown will be extended till May 3 but said some of the curbs would be lifted in places outside “containment zones” and in areas where the potential of the pathogen spreading was low, to revive economic activity. The Union home ministry issued an order a day after PM Modi’s address to lay down guidelines for the conditional lifting of some restrictions in areas with few or no infections, orange and green zones, respectively.Also Watch | Covid lockdown easing: What’s allowed from April 20? Here’s the full list It had, in its guidelines issued on April 15, allowed factories in special economic zones (SEZs) and export oriented units (EoUs), industrial estates and townships, apart from industries in rural areas, to open from April 20. Here’s what state governments say on the lockdown rules:MaharashtraMaharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases for any state in India, allowed industries to resume work in 20 of its 36 districts, which either don’t have any coronavirus disease cases or have very few cases.“We are allowing industrial operations in a limited capacity from Monday where the employers are ready to bear the responsibilities of the stay, food and transportation of the employees,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday. Industries in rural areas have also been allowed. Maharashtra has 1.026 million registered micro, small and medium enterprises, or MSMEs, of which around 450,000 are in areas where operations are being allowed from Monday.The Maharashtra government had on Friday issued guidelines for limited relaxation of restrictions from April 20 to May 3. These guidelines said farm-sector activities along with truck repair garages and eateries (dhabas) along highways will be exempted from the lockdown.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s civic body, has also issued a fresh set of directives and said it will allow from Monday certain public works during the lockdown. The civic body has said construction activities of public projects, construction, resurfacing, repairs, pothole filling of roads and bridges, works of laying and repairs of water supply, sewer and stormwater drain lines, construction repairs and pre-monsoon desilting of stormwater drains networks, and construction of health infrastructure facilities will be allowed to operate subject to observance of Covid-19 safety guidelines.DelhiChief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that restrictions will be not relaxed anywhere in the national capital, which has 78 containment zones to date, at least till May 3. These containment zones have been sealed and no one is allowed to either enter or exit. Police and local administration are facilitating doorstep delivery of essential items to the residents in these areas.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 hotspots in different parts of Uttar Pradesh, which have been sealed, will remain under complete lockdown and no movement of residents will be allowed. Agra, Lucknow, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Varanasi are among the 19 districts that have reported more than 10 coronavirus disease cases.The final decision on relaxation in these districts will be taken by the district magistrates.The decision of resuming operation in select factories and industries will also be taken by the district magistrates keeping in mind the advisories issued by the Centre in the view of the lockdown in districts that are Covid-19 free or have reported less than 10 cases.The collection of toll tax will also begin from midnight on April 20.In separate orders issued on Sunday, the Lucknow and Gautam Buddha Nagar district administrations said there will no relaxations on restrictions in these districts till May 3. The public works department (PWD) has been allowed to resume construction activities in the state while abiding by safety precautions.PunjabChief minister Amarinder Singh-led government said on Sunday it will not allow any relaxation in the coronavirus lockdown rules in the state until it ends on May 3.In a series of tweets on Sunday, Amarinder Singh said a curfew will remain in force across the state till May 3. Apart from essential services, only farmers involved in wheat procurement and those concerned with farming activities have been exempted from these restrictions.KeralaThe state has classified its districts into red, orange (A & B), and green zones. Out of Kerala’s 14 districts, four—north Kerala’s Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram—are in the red zone with the most of the infections. Eight, including state capital Thiruvananthapuram, are in the orange zone with few cases and two are in the green zone with no cases. The relaxations will be applicable to the orange and green zones only, said state authorities.Red zones continue to remain under lockdown owing to their identification as high-risk areas, limited restrictions have been relaxed in orange-A and orange-B zones. Public transport such as auto-rickshaws will be allowed to operate locally while abiding by certain rules in green areas.The Kerala government will also implement the odd and even scheme in the state from April 20 to allow movement of traffic.“By implementing the scheme, we can reduce the number of vehicles on the road by 40%. Three persons can travel in a car, including the driver. Relaxation will be given to women-driven vehicles and government vehicles,” Kerala police had said on Saturday.Hotels and restaurants will also open in 10 districts of Kerala on Monday. The government has also allowed farming, food processing units, construction, road construction and traditional sectors like handloom, coir and beedi to work, without crowding.TelanganaChief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has declared his government’s decision to extend the ongoing statewide lockdown till May 7, three days more than the Centre’s instructions.KarnatakaThe Karnataka government has extended the statewide lockdown till midnight of April 21. A cabinet meeting is scheduled to take place on Monday and the government is expected to make a final decision on the extension of the lockdown till May 3.A senior official said the state government will also take note of the Centre’s decision to permit limited activities with the intention of mitigating hardship faced by certain sections of society.HaryanaThe Haryana government has devised a system to allow selected industries to function between April 20 and May 3. A few industries that do not fall into red zones will be allowed to resume operations. Passes of three different colours will be issued to concerned persons—green ‘ordinary’ pass will be issued to select industries and business organisations, red passes will be issued to essential workers and blue passes to construction workers.Farmers, who will receive a text message from the state government, will be allowed to transport their produce to mandis.Committees have been constituted at block, town and city levels to accept applications in this regard and issue approvals.While shops and eateries along highways have also been added in the list of exemptions, these will be closely monitored by the state government.BiharDeputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said on Sunday work on close to 40,000 projects in the state will begin in more than 8000 of the state’s panchayats from April 20. The state government aims to employ over five lakh labourers for the pending projects.For government offices in the state, employees have been divided into Group A, B and C. Those in Groups A and B will have to be present in the office on working days, 33% of employees in Group C, including contractual worker, will have to report to their respective offices.Madhya PradeshChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that activities related to construction, agriculture, road repairs, and labour-related work that falls under the MGNREGA will be allowed to resume from Monday. However, Singh said that no exceptions will be made in Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain and other cities that have reported large numbers of Covid-19 cases.Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh director general of Police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi has said no interstate or inter-district movement will be allowed even after April 20.ChhattisgarhChief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said that limited economic activities will resume in the state from April 20 onwards. These include labour-work under MNREGA among others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-these-are-new-lockdown-relaxation-rules-in-your-state/story-EhQ7Qkc3EtN26fC8kPDtQK.html
20-04-2020||India||‘Bizarre’: India dismisses Pak PM’s tweet on discrimination against Muslims||India on Sunday rejected criticism by Pakistan’s top leadership of the “deliberate and violent targeting of Muslims”, saying such remarks were an attempt to shift focus from Islamabad’s “abysmal handling” of its internal affairs.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) had criticised what they described as the deliberate targeting of Muslims by the Indian government against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.External Affairs Ministry’s spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the criticism by saying: “The bizarre comments by the Pakistani leadership are an attempt to shift focus from the abysmal handling of their internal affairs. Instead of concentrating on fighting Covid-19, they are making baseless allegations against their neighbours.”In a reference to incidents of the oppression of Pakistan’s Hindu minority, Srivastava said, “On the subject of minorities, they would be well advised to address the concerns of their own dwindling minority communities, which have been truly discriminated against.”Also read: Imran Khan hits mute on Saarc Covid-19 pledge, India sends $1.7 mn reliefKhan had followed up on tweets by the Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission of the OIC and compared the Indian government’s treatment of Muslims to “what Nazis did to Jews in Germany”.“The deliberate & violent targeting of Muslims in India by Modi Govt to divert the backlash over its COVID19 policy, which has left thousands stranded & hungry, is akin to what Nazis did to Jews in Germany,” Khan tweeted. The deliberate & violent targeting of Muslims in India by Modi Govt to divert the backlash over its COVID19 policy, which has left thousands stranded & hungry, is akin to what Nazis did to Jews in Gerrmany. Yet more proof of the racist Hindutva Supremacist ideology of Modi Govt.In a tweet, President Arif Alvi, a close aide of Khan, accused the Indian government of suppressing the Kashmiri people through “extreme violence, torture and oppression”.In recent months, Khan has repeatedly criticised the Indian government’s attitude towards the country’s Muslim minority and the external affairs ministry has pushed back against his remarks, describing them as interference in India’s internal affairs. The Indian side has also targeted Khan for failing to counter cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistani soil.The OIC’s Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission had, in a string of tweets, condemned what it described as the “unrelenting vicious Islamophobic campaign in India maligning Muslims for spread of #Covid-19 as well as their negative profiling in media subjecting them to discrimination & violence with impunity”.Also read: Pakistan Supreme Court orders removal of health advisor to PM over Covid-19It urged the “Indian government to take urgent steps to stop the growing tide of #Islamophobia in the country and protect the rights of its persecuted Muslim minority as per its obligations under (international human rights) law”.India’s foreign minister was invited as a special guest to a meeting of foreign ministers of OIC states in the UAE last year, marking a high point in New Delhi’s often testy relations with the Islamic grouping.However, in recent months, the OIC has repeatedly criticised the Indian government’s handling of the situation in Kashmir and attacks on Muslims. The external affairs ministry has rejected this criticism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bizarre-comments-india-trashes-pak-pm-imran-khan-s-tweet-on-discrimination-against-muslims/story-NVocZ0GH2tSyxEpD4vcf2M.html
20-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0 relaxation in UP: No relief in 19 districts, DMs to decide for rest||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked various district magistrates to decide what restrictions will be eased amid the Covid-19 lockdown from today and inform the state government about the same. The chief minister, however, maintained that no leniency is to be given in areas that are categorised as coronavirus hotspots and containment zones.“All district magistrates should decide at the local-level after seeing the circumstances to give exemption in certain activities during the lockdown, and then inform the state government in this regard,” a statement released by Uttar Pradesh government read. The district officials will work out the modalities regarding opening of specified industries, banks and other units in the 56 districts that have reported less than 10 coronavirus cases.Adityanath said that the district magistrates of 19 sensitive districts and those where there are 10 or more cases of coronavirus must decide carefully and with alertness. “The district magistrates of 19 sensitive districts, where there are 10 or more COVID-19 cases, should also take a decision on the basis of ‘sajagtaa’ (alertness) and ‘satarktaa’ (carefulness). However, this decision will not be implemented in the hotspot areas,” he said.For coronavirus hotspotsAdityanath said healthcare services, sanitisation services and doorstep delivery will be allowed at coronavirus hotspots and all other activities will remain prohibited in these areas.Industrial activitiesFor the resumption of industrial activities in “select” areas, he said the decision should be taken “in mutual consultation of the district magistrates, divisional commissioners, DIGs, IGs, ADGs, SPs, SSPs and officials of the district industry centre”.Action should be ensured at the local-level for construction of expressway and highways, he said.Support to farmers“Farmers should get the minimum support price for their crops. Apart from purchasing crops at the purchase centres, arrangements should be made to purchase crops from their fields. Apart from the hotspots, massive sanitisation should be undertaken at all the places,” Adityanath said.Ensure migrant labourers reach home“They have completed the duration of quarantine, but even then they should be placed under home quarantine. Different teams should be formed at the district level, the teams should be given specific responsibility and their effective monitoring be done. Fodder for stray cattle should also be made,” the chief minister said.Adityanath also said that nearly 8,000 students from Uttar Pradesh who were studying in Kota have been brought back. All of them are under home quarantine.The chief minister also issued directives to ensure that there is no laxity in social distancing norms and lockdown measures are observed during the Ramzan which begins from April 23.“All the religious activities should be done from home,” he said. In his address to the nation on April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 3. The Prime Minister also said that certain areas, non-coronavirus hotspots and regions that are not facing the threat of Covid-19 spread, can resume some activities from April 20. These relaxations are not allowed in areas identified as Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-relaxation-in-uttar-pradesh-no-relief-in-19-districts-dms-to-decide-for-rest/story-xtNdpokK63ri4dHO65pegP.html
20-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases rise to 17,265, death toll at 543||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally rose to 17,265 with 1553 new cases and 543 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday morning.The increase in the Covid-19 numbers comes on a day several states and Union territories will ease the rules of the lockdown put in place to break the chain of coronavirus infections.According to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard, there are 14,175 active cases and 2547 people have been cured, discharged or migrated. Maharashtra neared the 5000-mark with 4203 Covid-19 cases and 223 deaths across the state. The ministry data showed 507 people have also been discharged from hospitals.Also read: Civic officials wanted to shift suspected Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru, face locals’ ireThe western state had recorded its highest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 552 more infections. Authorities in India’s most-affected state have said the spike was because of a backlog in Mumbai’s civic body and private laboratories.The spurt comes as a blow to the state’s health authorities after four consecutive days of relatively low numbers, which were 232, 286, 118 and 328 cases between April 15 and 18.Maharashtra crossed the 1000-case mark in 30 days on April 7 and the 2000-mark in just six days on April 13. The state went from 2000 cases to 3000 in three days and from 3000 to 4000 also in three days.Also read| Over 4000 cases in Maharashtra, UP becomes 7th state with 1000 patients: Covid-19 state tallyAfter Maharashtra, Delhi is the second most affected in the country with more than 2000 Covid-19 cases—2003 active, 72 discharged and 45 deaths. The national capital had crossed the 2000-mark on Sunday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the “coronavirus is spreading fast” and declared all 11 revenue districts of Delhi as hot spots and directed the administration to conduct a fresh assessment of the situation in the Capital by April 27. Also read| Covid-19: These are new lockdown relaxation rules in your state“We have witnessed an increase in the number of cases. Yesterday, out of the 736 test results processed, 186 tested positive and all were asymptomatic... This is a scary situation,” Kejriwal said during a press briefing.Gujarat has become the third most affected in the country and now has 1911 Covid-19 cases, out of which 105 people have been discharged and 63 have died.The number of confirmed cases stood at 2,403,963 and there were 1165,227 fatalities across the world, according to the Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at around 8am India time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-rise-to-17-265-death-toll-at-543/story-D2HkslFfl0nPRB3M4sL6IL.html
20-04-2020||India||Odisha cop suspended for entering Jagannath Temple during Covid-19 lockdown||A police inspector, who had barged into the Jagannath Temple in Odisha’s Puri with his wife and daughters on Sunday evening, was suspended for defying the prohibition of entry of pilgrims into the 11th-century shrine during the lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic.Deepak Jena, an inspector at the Badachana police station in Jajpur district, reached the temple with his family at around 7pm in a police vehicle with a yellow beacon.When a plain-clothed Jena along with his family was trying to enter the temple through the temple’s southern gate they were stopped by an on-duty havildar.However, all of them forcefully entered the temple that has been shut for the pilgrims since March 20 following Covid-19 outbreak.Police officials said the inspector and his family spent around half an hour in the temple and had a darshan of the deities. Singhadwar police inspector Geli Kumari Sahoo said the inspector was later detained along with the family.“He has been booked under several sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code). We will take necessary action against him as per law,” said Sahoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-suspended-for-entering-jagannath-temple-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ecbjV1U7Xia41fyJ7YOyAK.html
20-04-2020||India||Meerut hospital apologises for ad which said no entry to Muslims without Covid-19 test||A hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut has apologised for a controversial advertisement on Friday, which said that Muslim patients and their caretakers coming to the hospital must test negative for Covid-19 failing which they won’t be admitted.“The advertisement was an appeal to all the people to follow the government guidelines so that everyone stays safe. It has nothing to do with religion. We apologise as some word hurt people’s sentiments. The hospital never intended to hurt anyone’s sentiments,” said Dr Amit Jain, radio oncologist at Valentis Cancer Hospital, as reported by news agency ANI.A case has been registered against the hospital. “We have registered a case. We are taking action as per the evidence available,” said Meerut SSP Ajay Kumar Sahni.The advertisement by Valentis hospital said that in case of emergency, the patient and their attendants will be admitted but they will be tested for Covid-19 immediately. The cost for the test - Rs 4,500 each - will be taken from the patient.The reasons cited by the hospital included the alleged misbehaviour of the members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who, the ad said, had contributed to the spread of coronavirus infection in the country.“This is certainly wrong and we are sending a notice to the administration of the concerned hospital,” Meerut’s Chief Medical Officer Raj Kumar had said on Sunday. He said further action will be taken after a reply is received from them.In the second advertisement issued on Sunday, the hospital said it apologises if anyone’s sentiments are even slightly hurt.Referring to the coronavirus pandemic, the hospital said it wanted people of all religions to fight the emergency together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-hospital-apologises-for-ad-which-said-no-entry-to-muslims-with-covid-19-test/story-vUbSDxMAJQBWCFloKiXhTP.html
20-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| Covid-19: Infections with no symptoms raise concerns across states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Infections with no symptoms raise concerns across statesRoughly two-thirds of all Covid-19 cases in 10 major states comprise people who did not show any symptoms at the time of testing, according to state government data that reinforced growing evidence that “silent spreaders” were possibly unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients. Read moreUttarakhand starts screening 4000 migrant labourers after 1 tests positive for coronavirusA day after a 24-year-old migrant labourer in a relief camp in Roorkee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Uttarakhand government has stepped up screening of about 4000 other such workers across the state. Read moreLockdown relaxation: 40,000 projects to start in Bihar, highways eateries to openWork on about 40,000 projects will start in more than 8,000 panchayats of Bihar from Monday, as part of the state’s efforts to live up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of “jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” (life as well as livelihood), Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi has said. Read moreOver 81,000 Covid-19 cases reported worldwide in last 24 hours: WHOA further 81,153 people have tested positive for the coronavirus disease over the preceding 24 hours, taking the overall number of cases confirmed since the start of the outbreak above 2.24 million, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Sunday. Read moreIntensity of players will be higher when they return: India fielding coach R SridharFielding enjoys no less a status than batting and bowling in cricket, providing the third dimension to the game in an era of three formats and a packed schedule. World class fielding is the coming together of fitness, athleticism, agility, reflexes, hand-eye coordination and mental sharpness. Read moreSalman Khan says lockdown at farmhouse feels like Bigg Boss: ‘It’s beautiful here because no one is being eliminated’Actor Salman Khan went for a small two-day vacation to his farmhouse in Panvel with his family but has been stuck there for almost a month due to the countrywide lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus. Read more Remembering Gandhi in times of coronavirus: 5 quotes that will give you strengthIn Bhubaneshwar, Odisha, 26-year-old Mohan Mohapatra dresses up as Mahatma Gandhi, his body painted silver. He goes around distributing face masks and hand sanitisers in the slums. Read more Aarogya Setu app to get e-pass feature soonEarlier this month, a government official confirmed that the Aarogya Setu app would get the e-pass functionality in the coming days. Now, it seems that feature might be making its way to the app soon. Read moreWatch| Covid-19 vaccine update: India’s CSIR testing anti-leprosy Mw vaccine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-infections-with-no-symptoms-raise-concerns-across-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dR4DdxrNEQkW4m1GDWTTdI.html
20-04-2020||India||No lockdown relaxation in Delhi, but central govt employees will be allowed, say police||The Delhi Police have said that they will allow central government officials to go to their offices in the national capital on the basis of their ID cards. The order has been issued by Additional Commissioner of Police, Special Branch.The Delhi government has said that it won’t allow any relaxation for at least a week as the coronavirus spread appears to have gained pace. According to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Sunday, 110 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally in the national capital to 2,003. With two deaths, the fatalities jumped to 45.But, all the central government employees will be allowed to come to the national capital where their offices are located. The order by the Delhi Police issued on Sunday said, “Central government employees above the rank of Deputy Secretary will be attending their offices 100% and the lower level staff 30%. Since it is not possible to gauge who are within the 30%, all central government employees are permitted on the basis of their identity cards.”It also asked all the district DCSPs, ACSPs and SHOs to thoroughly and repeatedly brief the ground level staff.“It may be noted that several officers of the central government commute in hired taxis. Therefore, such vehicles carrying the officers be allowed on the basis of their identity cards,” the order further said.The Delhi government has started rapid testing in 78 Covid-19 containment zones and acquired 42,000 rapid-test kits. In a containment zone in south Delhi’s Tughlakabad Extension, 35 more people have tested positive for the virus, authorities said, making it possibly one of the largest such zones in the national capital in terms of number of cases.At a press briefing on Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal cited last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin area, and the large inflow of travellers from other countries to the national capital as reasons for the spread of the virus, and said Delhi was “fighting a difficult battle”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-relaxation-in-delhi-but-central-govt-employees-will-be-allowed-say-police/story-Xq2TtR7qqYqKjkaLoonSGJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Complete list of states with no relaxation in lockdown 2.0 restrictions||In his address to the nation on April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 3. The Prime Minister also said that certain areas, non-coronavirus hotspots and regions that are not facing the threat of Covid-19 spread, can resume some activities from April 20. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that all 11 districts in the national capital are under the ‘hotspot’ category, therefore, keeping in mind the surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, lockdown restrictions will not be eased in Delhi from April 20. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, on the other hand, said that if the economy remains shut, the country will bear significant losses. He allowed “some business activities” to resume in parts of the state from today.Here’s taking a look at the states that have not given a nod to lockdown measures to be eased from today onwards.  These relaxations are not allowed in areas identified as Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones. DelhiThe chief minister said that keeping in mind the present situation in the national capital, the administration has decided to provide no relaxation in the lockdown restrictions. “The situation will be reviewed again after a week,” he said.“There are as many as 77 Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi at present and all districts are categorised as hotspots,” Kejriwal said.PunjabCM Amarinder Singh-led government on Sunday said that it will not allow any relaxation in the coronavirus lockdown in the state until it ends on May 3. The administration has, however, given a nod to wheat procurement.TelanganaThe state on Sunday became the first in the country to extend the lockdown beyond May 3. Chief Minister KC Rao said that the coronavirus lockdown in the state will remain May 7 and that no relaxation in measures will take place. He said that the administration will impose “stricter” lockdown measures in the state.KarnatakaThe government said it will not ease lockdown restrictions in “select” areas until April 22. The lockdown, without any ease in restrictions, will remain across the state till April 21 midnight while a decision on whether the lockdown will be extended in the state beyond May 7 will be taken today. The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to ease lockdown measures only for regions free from coronavirus. The lockdown will remain in place for biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the state like Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain and other regions with coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-list-of-states-with-no-covid-19-lockdown-2-0-relaxation/story-pfE5K3Pn5LSZrgFEvC84hO.html
20-04-2020||India||Lockdown relaxation: 40,000 projects to start in Bihar, highways eateries to open||Work on about 40,000 projects will start in more than 8,000 panchayats of Bihar from Monday, as part of the state’s efforts to live up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of “jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” (life as well as livelihood), Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi has said.Taking to Twitter on Sunday, he said over five lakh labourers will get jobs as soon as work on the pending projects commences in 8,386 panchayats of the state. लॉकडाउन के दौरान 20 अप्रैल से निजी और सरकारी सेक्टर के दो दर्जन से ज्यादा उद्योगों को काम शुरू करने की जो छूट दी जा रही है, उससे सड़क निर्माण और मैन्युफैक्चरिंग में लगे कामगारों को बड़ी राहत मिलेगी। जिन तीन हजार उद्योगों को कुछ शर्तों के साथ अनुमति दी गई है, उनमें 900 से........ pic.twitter.com/iuU64ElsGKThe Bihar government has already issued order to open its offices from April 20 and fast-track official work.All government officers of Group A and B categories will have to be present in the office on working days, a General Administration Department order said on Saturday.As for Group C staff and those on contract, 33 per cent of the workforce will have to attend office, it said.The state government has also allowed dhabas (eateries) to open on the highways so that transport of goods can happen smoothly. The state government order says that at least one eatery should be open every 15 kilometres. All the district magistrates and superintendent of police have been given necessary instructions. Motor garages and repair shops will also open on the highways so that the trucks passing through these highways do not face any difficulty.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had held a review meeting with officials of various departments on Saturday on the measures taken in wake of the situation arising out of the Covid-19 crisis.Kumar, during the meeting, emphasised that practising social distancing during lockdown will help everyone stay safe, as per an official statement.He also asked officials to ensure the availability of the treatment for other diseases, apart from coronavirus, at hospitals so people do not face difficulties.With detection of one more Covid-19 case in Nalanda on Sunday, the total count in Bihar has risen to 87. Of them, two people have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-relaxation-40-000-projects-to-start-in-bihar-highways-eateries-to-open/story-tBi8IHrxnWTCuXag2P4nfK.html
20-04-2020||India||Silent spreaders trigger worry, relaxations come into effect: Covid-19 news today||Asymptomatic Covid-19 infections are higher than symptomatic infections in several Indian states, including Karnataka and Assam, according to state officials. The trend reinforces evidence that asymptomatic “silent spreaders” are unknowingly infecting others. Meanwhile, as limited and conditional relaxations come into place in certain areas today, Delhi has said it will not immediately ease curbs that have been imposed to contain the coronavirus disease.Covid-19: Infections with no symptoms raise concerns across statesRoughly two-thirds of all Covid-19 cases in 10 major states comprise people who did not show any symptoms at the time of testing, according to state government data that reinforced growing evidence that “silent spreaders” were possibly unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients. Read moreSilent spreaders make Covid a bigger challenge: ExpertsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that all 186 people who were diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) the previous day had exhibited no symptoms of illness, reinforcing evidence from other states that asymptomatic “silent spreaders” are unknowingly infecting others. Read moreCovid curbs relaxation: Factories to run at limited capacityState governments are expecting 10 to 25% of industries to restart operations on Monday in the first easing of lockdown measures for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as part of a staggered reopening of the economy, multiple officials said on Sunday. Read moreModi calls for unity, says virus doesn’t see religionThe coronavirus disease does not distinguish between race, religion, caste, colour and borders and humanity’s response to this “common challenge” should be based on unity and brotherhood, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, calling on Indians top to innovate a new work culture for the world. Read moreCoronavirus update: In Madhya Pradesh, Assam, chartered planes ferrying samplesA Beechcraft B 200 aircraft, which was otherwise used as official transport by the chief minister and governor of Madhya Pradesh, has become a key element to the state’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to people familiar with the matter. Read more No more tours, conferences: Lok Sabha secretariat draws austerity planTours by members of Parliament, canteens, conferences and many such expenses may come to a halt as the Lok Sabha secretariat, which runs the lion’s share of the Parliament establishment, has told its staff to not spend more than 20% of its budget in the first quarter (April-June). Read moreCovid-19 outbreak: Curbs in Delhi won’t be eased from todayDelhi will not immediately ease any restrictions clamped under the national lockdown because coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, even as several other states announced relaxing some norms beginning Monday to jump-start the virus-hit economy. Read moreNon-essential deliveries by e-tailers remain prohibitedE-commerce companies such as Amazon and Filpkart are not allowed to sell products unless they are in the essential items list, the Union home ministry said in an order on Sunday, clarifying an earlier announcement that did not specify if these companies could start delivering products such as laptops, mobile phones and appliances from April 20. Read more Tourism that generates jobs and revenue in the state worst-hit: Jai Ram ThakurHimachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about steps to fight the coronavirus disease, its impact on the state economy - particularly tourism and horticulture, and a possible bailout package for some sectors. Read more Donald Trump warns China of dire consequencesUS President Donald Trump on Saturday said China should face “consequences” if it was found to have been “knowingly responsible” for the coronavirus outbreak. “It could have been stopped in China before it started and it wasn’t, and the whole world is suffering because of it,” Trump said at a briefing. Read more Virus and the village: A Covid chronicleMost people aren’t leaving their homes in Abu Sayeed Ahmed’s Khairabari village in Assam’s Barpeta district. “They are following the official guidelines – washing their hands, sanitising their homes, sewing their masks,” said the 20-year-old. Read more How Covid-19 is affecting dialysis patientsKanchan Devi, 45, died last week after at least four hospitals were forced to refuse life-saving dialysis in the city. She had been on maintenance dialysis – a procedure to filter blood the way a healthy kidney does – twice a week for two-and-a-half years after she was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease. Read moreCovid-19 outbreak: Govt sets up national vaccine task forceThe central government on Sunday constituted another national task force on vaccine development and drug testing having representatives from the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) among others as members. Read moreCovid-19: 60,000 imported PPE kits fail quality testsAt least 60,000 of the nearly 200,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits donated by industry and philanthropic organisations have failed quality test over the past one month, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. Read moreDGCA tells airlines not to resume bookingsThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Sunday directed airlines to refrain from resuming online ticket bookings a day after civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri told them to restart the process only after a decision is taken to end the bar on domestic and international flight operations. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silent-spreaders-trigger-worry-relaxations-come-into-effect-covid-19-news-today/story-LwkP7AqK4mFSr4oBJUFdKM.html
20-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0 relaxations: What’s allowed, what’s not||Several states will ease the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions for people and some sectors in line with the Centre’s guidelines to gradually reopen the country and restart the slowing economy from Monday.These relaxations are, however, not allowed in areas identified as Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones. Moreover, at least three states—Telangana, Punjab and Delhi—decided on Sunday not to give any laxity in the lockdown restrictions.What will be allowed from Monday: * Private vehicles are allowed but only during emergencies like going to a veterinarian. Two people, the driver and one passenger at the back seat, can go out in a four-wheeler, but only one person is allowed on a two-wheeler* Office can open with staggered shifts and lunch breaks and people will have to maintain a distance of 10 feet while working and will have to wear face masks. Offices have also been asked to install thermal screening and hand sanitisers.Also Read: Covid curbs relaxation: Factories to run at limited capacity* IT companies have been allowed to call 50% of their staff to offices, other sectors have can call 33% of their workforce. More than four people should not be allowed in office lifts, and only big vehicles can be used during pickup and drop of employees* People who are 65-years-old or more and those with children aged five years or less can work from home* Amazon, Flipkart and other e-commerce platforms will be allowed to deliver only essential goods. Kirana and other grocery shops have been allowed but they will have to follow social distancing norms* The government has also allowed select construction activities from Monday. The real estate firms, however, cannot bring labourers from outside any state* Packaging and marketing of food products allowed but the companies involved in this business will have to follow social distancing. Brin kilns too have been allowed to operate* Electricians, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenter, courier services have been exempted from lockdown and can start operation. Cable and DTH workers can also carry out repair and augment supplies* All goods can be transported from Monday. The Indian Railways’ goods trains are anyway operating during the lockdown to ensure supply of essential items* Banks, ATMs, post offices, petrol and CNG pumps, hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, medical equipment centres will continue to operate. Ambulances, doctors and scientists can also go from one state to anotherWhat’s still prohibited:* Movement of passenger traffic by rail, road and air—except in places where they have been exempted—have been kept out of the list of exemptions. Metro trains also cannot operate* Taxis, auto-rickshaw and cab services will be shut till May 3* Educational and related institutions, industrial, commercial activity and hospitality services, unless they are specially exempted, are allowed to open or resumed * No cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, entertainment parks, sports complexes, bars, swimming pools, assembly halls or sports complexes can open * No one can hold any kind of social, political, cultural, religious, entertainment, academic and sports gatherings* Religious places, places of worship and religious congregations will also remain prohibited* During funerals, more than 20 people cannot be congregate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-relaxations-here-s-what-you-can-do-and-cannot/story-UNK5Ll5rkXjVuWMDrEsr7K.html
20-04-2020||India||DGCA tells airlines not to resume bookings||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Sunday directed airlines to refrain from resuming online ticket bookings a day after civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri told them to restart the process only after a decision is taken to end the bar on domestic and international flight operations. In a circular, the aviation regulator said that none of its circulars regarding the extension of lockdown allowed airlines to restart the bookings for journeys from May 4. The 21-day lockdown imposed to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic by ensuring social distancing was extended until May 3 last week. The Centre has, however, allowed certain activities particularly in rural areas outside the Covid-19 containment zones from Monday.“It has been brought to notice of all concerned that no decision to commence the operation of domestic/international flights from May 4 has been taken yet. In view of this, all airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets as described... The airlines may note that they shall be given sufficient notice and time for restarting of operations,” the DGCA circular said.Some airlines, including state-run Air India (AI), opened bookings on select domestic routes from May 4. This prompted Puri to advise them to do so only after the government takes a decision on restarting flight services.“The Ministry of Civil Aviation clarifies that so far no decision has been taken to open domestic or international operations... Airlines are advised to open their bookings only after a decision in this regard has been taken by the government,” Puri said on Saturday.A spokesperson for AI said they had now stopped online bookings. “Even if you see an option to book a flight, one will not be able to go to the payment section.”SpiceJet, GoAir and IndiGo did not respond to repeated attempts for a response to the circular.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-tells-airlines-not-to-resume-bookings/story-OwZ10clQqbe87nf9Ozt20O.html
20-04-2020||India||No more tours, conferences: Lok Sabha secretariat draws austerity plan||Tours by members of Parliament, canteens, conferences and many such expenses may come to a halt as the Lok Sabha secretariat, which runs the lion’s share of the Parliament establishment, has told its staff to not spend more than 20% of its budget in the first quarter (April-June).The Rajya Sabha secretariat, too, will put similar measures in place, officials said. The Lok Sabha secretariat said that only salaries and “extremely urgent” payments will be made in April and told its 2,000-odd staff “not to incur any expenditure without prior approval by their higher authorities.The internal circular, seen by Hindustan Times, said: “No payment other than ‘Salaries’ will be made during the month of April, 2020.” It also said: “Payment on Wages/Professional fee due for the month of April, 2020 will be made on May 1.”Parliament is trying to reduce costs to save money on a central government directive following the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent 40-day lockdown, which is expected to take a heavy toll on the economy. The Lok Sabha was allotted ₹811 crore in this year’s general budget, Rs 44 crore higher than the revised estimate of Rs 766.87 crore in FY 2019-20. But with expenditure being curbed, a large part of the money is expected to remain unspent. The Rajya Sabha has an annual budget of Rs 436 crore.Restrictions on spending by the Lok Sabha secretariat mean that payments to hired agencies, travel to international conferences in the coming days, study tours by parliament panels and rentals for a fleet of cars will stop in the first quarter of the financial year, said two senior officials who requested anonymity.Earlier this month, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu approved a 30% cut in the salaries of MPs, and the government issued an ordinance to stop releasing the annual ₹5 crore in annual Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) funds to individual MPs for two years, diverting the money to expenses related to Covid-19.Apart from the salaries and allowances of MPs, Parliament spends a hefty amount on annual maintenance contracts, canteens, international and domestic conferences, hosting foreign dignitaries, foreign tours of parliamentary delegations, payment to experts for appearing on Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV shows, appointment of consultants and for recruitment.Most of these expenses will stop up to June.The internal said payments other than “medical advance / repairs of important equipment/system/committed expenditure or any other expenditure related to prevention against spread of COVID-19 etc. will be deferred for the remaining quarters of current financial year.”The circular also asked all departments to give “account-wise weekly report on expenditure incurred during the first quarter of financial year 2020-21” to internal auditors.Parliament complex will reopen to its staff on Monday but only a limited number of employees are required to attend office. A separate circular has also given details of the restricted number of gates, toilets and lifts that will be open for the use of officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-tours-conferences-lok-sabha-secretariat-draws-austerity-plan/story-Eb9f45WCAfCH0Z8yQ28KUP.html
20-04-2020||India||Ganga water fit to drink at many stretches: CPCB||For the first time in many years, several stretches of the Ganga are conforming to Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) standards for the quality of river waters, a phenomenon that follows the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 and extended until May 3. In fact, some stretches of the river are recording CPCB’s “fit for drinking water” norm with basic conventional treatment.Experts say this is mainly owing to industries not discharging toxic effluents into the river and less withdrawal of water for industrial and agricultural purposes as part of the lockdown that has shut industrial activity and restricted agricultural work.This will change on Monday when several sectors start reopening gradually. Water quality experts said the lesson from the lockdown is to strictly ensure industries meet effluent discharge standards. More than 80% of the pollution in the Ganga is contributed by domestic sewage from surrounding towns and villages and the rest by industrial effluents, according to the National Mission for Clean Ganga.CPCB’s assessment of Ganga water from January 2020 had shown that most stretches of the Ganga from Garhmukteshwar in Uttar Pradesh to West Bengal were not only violating drinking water standard but also recorded hardly any dissolved oxygen (how much oxygen is dissolved in the water) and extremely high levels of total coliform (bacteria from human and animal waste).Many of the same stretches, according to CPCB’s real time water quality monitoring of the Ganga on Sunday, met the drinking water standards; the biological oxygen demand was < 3 mg/l, dissolved oxygen i >4 mg/l and ph 6 to 9. The biological oxygen demand is the oxygen needed by the river to sustain life. “There are many reasons for improvement in water quality in Ganga. Industries is one of them.... Some distilleries have also stopped discharging. Waste dumping by people around the river also contributes to higher BOD {biological oxygen demand} which may have stopped as people are in lockdown. Its difficult to identify any one factor,” said a senior CPCB official who declined to be identified.CPCB will soon release its analysis of Ganga and Yamuna water quality during the lockdown period from March 25. “Yes its true that we found dramatic improvement in water quality in many parts of the river but in some stretches we found that water quality has deteriorated after the lockdown was imposed. The reasons for this will have to be verified,” the senior official cited above added.Experts urge policy makers to learn from the lockdown experience as access to clean water is also a public health issue and can play a critical role in tackling outbreaks like that of Covid-19.“Industrial pollution is zero today. It is a major polluting factor for Ganga as it compromises the river’s capacity for assimilation. When sewage is mixed with industrial effluents, it is difficult for the river to assimilate the pollution. There is another reason for improvement and better dilution of pollutants. There were a very high number of western disturbances which brought rain and improved the flow in the river leading to better dilution. There are two key takeaways from this—industries have to become zero liquid discharge and environmental flow is a must in the river,” said Manoj Mishra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, descriptor.E-flow refers to quality, quantity and timing of water flows required to maintain life in the river.“Improvement in Ganga water pollution is a function of both quality and quantity. Water is not being lifted by industries so there is more flow in the river and the pollution is getting diluted. At the same time effluents are also not being discharged. It’s a same thing as you dilute something in a glass of water versus a bucket of water. Because of the harvesting season the agriculture sector also isn’t withdrawing much water now. If you leave nature on its own, it survives and comes back to life. This is a clear example but levels will go back up as soon as we reopen,” said Suresh Rohilla, senior director, water and waste water management, Centre for Science and Environment.Stretches that met “drinking water quality” standard on SundayStretches with biological oxygen demand (oxygen needed by the river to sustain life) is <3 mg/l, dissolved oxygen is>4 mg/l and PH is 6 to 9• Kannauj, bathing ghat and barrage in Kanpur, Fatehpur bridge, Narora, Varanasi bathing ghat 1, Sukartal Ghat, Bhitpur, and Ganga nullah, Murshidabad and Howrah Bridge in West BengalStretches with high pollution level on Sunday:• Allahabad nullah with BOD of 15.35 mg/l and DO of 1.04 mg/l• Haridwar nullah with BOD of 43.20 mg/l and DO of only 0.01 mg/l• Nullah at Patna with BOD of 30.13 mg/l and DO of 0.25 mg/lSource: CPCB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-ganga-stretches-now-cleaner-cpcb/story-kpWW5DuCMJJHwa9ds7XNqJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid tally climbs to 1,431 in Rajasthan||A 62-year-old man died and 80 more cases of Covid-19 were reported in Rajasthan, but the state administration claimed the pace at which Covid-19 is spreading in the desert state had slowed. The death toll in Rajasthan stands at 22 and the number infected at 1,431 as of Sunday.State health department said that in the last past five days the daily increase in the number of cases had slowed, indicating a flattening of the Covid-19 curve..Health minister Raghu Sharma said credited the decrease to the efforts made by the state government to stanch the number of new cases and the fatality rate which, he claimed, was lower than the national average. Sharma also claimed that those who had died of the virus also suffered from co-morbid conditions and their deaths could not be attributed to Covid-19 alone.On Saturday, Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that had the virus spread at the same pace as it did in the first phase of the lockdown (March 25 to April 14) ,the number of people infected would have been 1,679 but because of stringent measures adopted by the state, the number had been limited to 1,361 (as of Saturday evening).Health department data also showed that people in the 20-40 year age group were most susceptible to the virus in Rajasthan.Singh said the man who died on Sunday was a 62-year-old resident of Jaipur’s Raja Park and was admitted to a private hospital on April 16 with complaints of fever and breathlessness. His sample was taken and he tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday, April 18, and he died the same day, said Singh. It was the 22nd Covid-19 death in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-tally-climbs-to-1-431-in-rajasthan/story-uL6p2DCcYxKNyxpOZjat1M.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Call grows for law to protect doctors from violence||As cases of violence against health care professionals increase, doctors’ associations have urged the central government to formulate more stringent laws. Earlier this week, the Federation of Resident Doctors Association wrote to home minister Amit Shah, expressing concern over the attacks on doctors and medical staff at Lok Nayak Hospital in the national Capital and other states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana.In a series of tweets, lawyer Sonali Jaitley Bakshi said her father, late Union minister Arun Jaitley, wanted to pursue the formation of a law to deal with the violence against health workers.“Today, I want to talk about something VERY important! Our family has always had the utmost respect for doctors, nurses & everyone in the medical profession. But recent attacks on these warriors brought back one of the final memories I shared with my father. When he was admitted to AIIMS, he often spoke of how kind the hospital staff was to him & our family. Their love, patience, dedication was clear to see. However, it broke his heart to hear of patients’ families beating up doctors,” she tweeted.Bakshi went on to add, “…He then told me that post-recovery, he’d pursue govt. to introduce a strict law punishing those who assault medical staff. Sadly he could not- but I want to fulfil his vision & request GoI to pass this law soon. Friends, they save our lives - it’s time we stood up for them!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-call-grows-for-law-to-protect-doctors-from-violence/story-0KKCkwQA8i5UY1VDjDQnlM.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Big spike in Gujarat with 367 new infections||Gujarat on Sunday reported 367 new coronavirus disease cases, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,743. The state has become the third most affected in the country after Maharashtra, which has 3,648 cases and Delhi which has 1,893 cases.The death toll in Gujarat stands at 63, after 10 deaths were reported on Sunday.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare, attributed the overnight spurt in cases to a large number of test results sent back from government and private laboratories late on Saturday.“We have got 29,104 people tested, of which 27361 tests were negative. We were expecting the increase as many of those tested had symptoms and we are well prepared to deal with the situation,” she said. “Compared to the national average of 269 tests per million, we are conducting 447.8. More tests would result in identification of more positive cases quickly,” the principal secretary said.“On Sunday, 367 new positive cases were found. Ten deaths were reported from different regions,” Ravi said. She said that as many as 18,450 people are currently under quarantine, of which 2,681 are at government facilities and 231 in private. According to the data released by Gujarat’s health department, about two-thirds of the total cases in the state were reported from the capital, Ahmedabad, which has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot city. A statement by the health department said that of 1743 total cases, 1632 patients were stable and only 14 were on ventilator support. The government hospitals in the state have 1,061 ventilators and there are 1,700 ventilators in private hospitals, the statement said.The government also said a special 1,200 bed hospital in Ahmedabad has earmarked for Covid-19, a government statement said. The data showed that Covid-19 has now spread to 29 of the 33 districts in the state, which last month was restricted to five. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to allow factories in municipal corporation and town council areas to function from Monday. According to officials familiar with the matter, at a meeting chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, it was also decided that that these units would arrange accommodation facilities for the workers within the factory premises and ensure that the workers don’t have to travel much.Director General of Police, Gujarat, Shivanand Jha said necessary measures are being taken by the administration to prevent the transmission of corona virus in the state. “Strict vigil is kept to ensure that the lockdown orders are not violated,” Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-spike-in-gujarat-with-367-new-infections/story-EENpHN7PLmNThYvZ2We5cJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Karnataka Congress delegation meets CM, submits list of demands to tackle Covid-19||A delegation of senior Congress leaders met Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and presented a memorandum containing a list of suggestions and demands to tackle the Covid-19 crisis in the state. The delegation of the main opposition party included, leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shiva Kumar apart from several former ministers like R V Deshpande, Ramesh Kumar, G Parameshwara, Dinesh Gundu Rao, Ramalinga Reddy, Ajay Dharam Singh and other senior leaders.Congress said that there was a shortage of masks, glues, sanitizers, PPE kits required by doctors, nurses and other para-medical staff. The delegation members said that while the state required 12 lakh kits a mere 2.27 lakh was available, similarly only 5.46 lakh N-95 masks were available as was Hydroxychloroquine tablets of which only 2.8 lakh were available.Instead of the mere 152 tests done per million of population, the Congress delegation said the state should do at least 10,000 per million population according to WHO standards.Asking the state government to urge the Centre to declare this as a ‘national calamity,’ the opposition party leaders claimed that salaries have not been disbursed to the doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and ASHA workers. It also asked that insurance and other social security benefits given only to doctors should be extended to others.Stating that private hospitals and clinics were not functioning, Congress said this was inconveniencing non-Covid-19 patients and urged the government to ensure that they remain open. Accusing the government of not doing enough to aid the farmers, it urged that the losses suffered by them must be made good from the national calamity fund.Congress leaders also said that there was wide-spread discrimination in distribution of grants and reliefs by the government and asked that all legislators be treated on an equal footing. It also said ruling party members were taking credit for distribution of aid from the government by pasting their pictures on relief material.The delegation also asked the state government to help migrant labourers and said MNREGA should be effectively leveraged. Congress said that ruling party members were accusing a particular community of spreading the virus which it said was reprehensible. KPCC President D K Shivakumar said inspite of a BJP government in the state the Centre was meting out step-motherly treatment in providing flood relief, share of GST taxes and aid to fight coronavirus. It demanded that the CM lead an all-party delegation to Delhi to persuade the Central government to set right the injustice which it said was being meted out to Karnataka.The Chief Minister who gave a patient hearing to the opposition leaders said that he would look at the suggestions given in the memorandum.Meanwhile, the state recorded six new Covid-19 positive cases even as two more people died due to the virus. Till date, Karnataka has had 390 confirmed Covid-19 positive cases which include 16 deaths and 11 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-delegation-meets-cm-submits-list-of-demands-to-tackle-covid-19/story-VR6RzMiKryj25tTuzHQ8WN.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 20 new cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi; total count at slum is 138||Twenty new Covid-19 positive cases emerged in Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the Mumbai slum to 138.According to latest BMC data that came in on Sunday evening, 11 Covid-19 patients have died in Dharavi so far.On Saturday, Mumbai recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 184 people testing positive for the disease.On Thursday, Dharavi saw its highest spike in the number of coronavirus-positive patients, with 26 new cases. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, following which there has been a rapid surge in the number of positive cases, which may soon pose a grim challenge for civic authorities. Coronavirus cases are climbing steadily in the area and there are fears that the number of cases could be higher as many people with symptoms may not have been tested yet.The slums in Dharavi are spread over an area of more than 240 hectares and house around 8.5 lakh residents. With a population density of 66,000 people per square kilometre, it is one of the most congested areas of the city.The total number of coronavirus positive cases in Maharashtra has mounted to 3,648 till Sunday with the state registering 211 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-20-new-cases-emerge-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-total-count-at-slum-is-138/story-d18Ct3o8k35I3AGI2h5F4I.html
20-04-2020||India||Maharashtra govt orders probe into Palghar mob lynching||The Maharashtra government has ordered a high-level investigation into the Palghar mob lynching incident in which three people were killed on Thursday night, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday.“Police have detained 101 people involved in the killing of three Surat-bound people in Palghar. I have also ordered a high level inquiry into these killings,” Deshmukh tweeted from his official handle @AnilDeshmukhNCP.The Maharashtra home minister also warned officials against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were allegedly seers.ALSO READ | Mistaken for thieves, 3 lynched to death by 200-strong mob in Maharashtra’s PalgharHe further said that the police are keeping a close vigil on those who wanted to use this incident to create a rift in society.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reacting to the probe ordered said, “The Palghar incident has been acted upon. The police have arrested all those accused who attacked the two sadhus, one driver and the police personnel on the day of the crime itself.“Nobody guilty of this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible,” Thackeray said in a tweet.The incident occurred when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were heading towards Gujarat’s Surat in a car to attend a funeral on Thursday night.Their vehicle was stopped in Palghar district. The trio were dragged out of their car and beaten to death on suspicion that they were thieves.The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-orders-probe-into-palghar-mob-lynching/story-rA6a8yEKKtWqym800En0aM.html
20-04-2020||India||Non-essential deliveries by e-tailers remain prohibited||E-commerce companies such as Amazon and Filpkart are not allowed to sell products unless they are in the essential items list, the Union home ministry said in an order on Sunday, clarifying an earlier announcement that did not specify if these companies could start delivering products such as laptops, mobile phones and appliances from April 20.On April 15, the government put e-commerce in the list of what will be allowed once some curbs are lifted from areas with no Covid-19 outbreak. It seemed to suggest that sale of all products would be allowed, prompting trader lobbies to criticise this as discriminatory against brick-and-mortar retailers. “Supply of non-essential goods by e-commerce companies to remain prohibited during Lockdown 2.0 to fight Covid,” said a spokesperson of the ministry of home affairs citing the new order, which, he said, clarifies a misinterpretation of last week’s directions.Clause 14 (v) for e-commerce companies in revised consolidated guidelines on April 15 was technically misinterpreted as allowing the delivery of non-essential items, since the clause did not specify “essential or non-essential items”, a home ministry official said, asking not to be named. On Saturday, the opposition Congress too opposed the April 15 decision, saying the government was doing injustice to retail traders by allowing e-commerce companies to deliver non-essential items. Similar objection was raised by the Confederation of All -India Traders in a letter to the PM. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday the move will help in creating a level playing field.Amazon India, one of the biggest e-commerce websites, said Sunday’s decision will affect customers who may need some products essential to working or studying from home. “The new guideline will disappoint not only the consumers whose list of essentials had expanded to work from home and study from home products but also the thousands of small businesses, sellers and manufacturers across the country, who had geared up in the last 48 hours to provide millions of people with safe access to products,” a spokesperson said. The company said it will continue to follow guidelines and deliver essential products, and was working closely with authorities for expedited processes to make safe deliveries of priority products. On Sunday, CAIT issued a statement, saying it had “demolished sinister plan of e-commerce companies to trade in non-essential commodities”. Since March 25, when India was put under what is the world’s largest shutdown in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government has largely allowed only items of basic necessities to reach people.Efforts have been made to ensure that milk, vegetables, cooking oil, milk and such products reach people, with a special emphasis on doorstep delivery in many parts of the country, the official cited above said.When Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, he said that certain economic activity in regions that contain the outbreak successfully can be relaxed, but with “very strict guidelines on how people step out of their homes” . These allowed some construction and industrial activity as well as operation of offices with strict social distancing protocols, as long as these were in areas not classified as hot spots. Work by some self-employed individuals, such as cobblers and roadside vendors, was also put on the list of what could be allowed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-essential-deliveries-by-e-tailers-remain-prohibited/story-IQWV2cGmciq8eucWx7uuAM.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Curbs in Delhi won’t be eased from today||Delhi will not immediately ease any restrictions clamped under the national lockdown because coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, even as several other states announced relaxing some norms beginning Monday to jump-start the virus-hit economy.Hindustan Times reported on Sunday that the Delhi government did not want to ease restrictions on April 20 on the grounds that the city-state was a “high-risk zone”. All 11 revenue districts in the state are now designated as virus hot spots, with one remaining district (north-east Delhi) joining the list.At a news conference on Sunday morning, Kejriwal said the government will assess the situation after one week. “There have been instances where people without symptoms were found infected by Covid-19,” the chief minister said. “Delhi has 2% of the country’s population but 12% of the total active cases,” he added.Kejriwal said many people were facing difficulties because of the lockdown. “But if we give relaxations and if there is a shortage of ICU, ventilators, oxygen in hospitals and people lose their lives, we wouldn’t be able to forgive ourselves. Hence, the decision to not relax lockdown was taken,” he added.Out of 736 samples collected recently, 186 people were found to be infected by Sars-CoV-2 on Saturday and all of them were asymptomatic, he said, adding that the people did not suspect they had contracted the disease. “This suggests that they would have compromised with isolation norms and potentially spread the virus without even knowing. This is a scary situation.”At 2,003 cases -- 110 people tested positive on Sunday -- Delhi has the second most Covid-19 infections after Maharashtra, which has 4,200. The city has 80 “containment zones”, where the restrictions are stricter, movement is barred, and home delivery of essentials is facilitated by the administration.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the national lockdown – first imposed on March 25 – will be extended till May 3, but said some of the curbs would be lifted in places outside “containment zones” and in areas where the potential of the pathogen spreading was low, to revive economic activity.An order released by the Union home ministry a day after PM Modi’s address laid down guidelines for the conditional lifting of some restrictions.The Delhi government, however, decided to send a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday evening against the lifting of restrictions after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) informed it of “large outbreaks” in several parts of the city, according to a senior government official who asked not to be named.Kejriwal attributed the large number of cases in Delhi to heavy airport arrivals from Covid-affected countries and a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin recently.The tally of Covid-19 cases first jumped in India after the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Once the cluster – the largest single source so far in the country – was identified and isolated on March 30, daily cases surged. The number of cases in Delhi increased from 72 on March 29 to 2,003 so far – more than 1,000 cases can be linked to the Nizamuddin gathering.“If there had been no lockdown, the situation here would have been similar to Italy and Spain,” Kejriwal said.According to an order issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, the government will review the situation on April 27.Food distribution centres in Delhi also came up on the radar after a volunteer tested positive for Covid-19. Kejriwal said people linked to the centres will be among the first batches to be tested with rapid antibody kits.Of the first batch of 42,000 rapid testing kits that arrived in Delhi on Friday, some were used to evaluate 92 cured patients being discharged from Lok Nayak hospital for plasma therapy trial to treat other Covid-19 patients.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will continue to remain closed; as will all public transport including buses, auto-rickshaws, taxis, cab aggregator services, e-rickshaws and the Metro. Construction and other business activities, including the operation of non-essential factories will also remain suspended. Goods transport and all essential services that were permitted through the lockdown will continue to operate.Experts said earlier that the sectors that could have witnessed some relief included self-employed workers such as electricians and plumbers, construction activities in cases where the sites had provisions for safe accommodation of labourers, and activities in industrial zones.Animesh Das, a labour activist and member of the Delhi government’s minimum wage board, said: “Delhi has around 600,000 constructions workers of which roughly 500,000 are left in the lockdown. Rest managed to leave the city before it was strictly imposed. A significant percentage of them resides at the construction sites. Since relaxations are out of question at this hour, the government should take up an exercise of construction site visits and provide them with direct cash benefits. The workers and their families are currently in poor shape.”Public health experts said not allowing any relaxation at this time was a good move as ideally all containment zones should have tight restrictions and complete lockdown for at least 28 days. Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Delhi is vulnerable because of its high population density. Mobility is directly proportional to chances of transmission and that is already visible to some extent after the first phase of the 21-day lockdown. So, stricter restrictions are a necessary step at this juncture. Currently, Delhi is not in a position to relax the lockdown. To contain the transmission of the virus, people have to cooperate.”Amita Baviskar, a professor of sociology at Ashoka University, said: “Well-to-do families with salaries and savings will sail through. The crisis has hit the lower middle and working classes – small businesses, street vendors, domestic workers, daily wage labourers, and industrial workers. The government may give them two meals a day but they need cash for other necessities such as rent, medicines, school fees, mobile recharge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-curbs-in-delhi-won-t-be-eased-from-today/story-K3n2BLwyQpCpmX1d0O1UfO.html
20-04-2020||India||Sanitation staffer dies 3 days after being beaten up||A 29-year-old sanitation worker succumbed to his injuries at a Moradabad hospital on Friday three days after five men allegedly thrashed him when some drops of disinfectants he was spraying fell on one of them during a Covid-19 related sanitation drive at Motipura village in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur. Assistant police superintendent Arun Kumar said Kunwarpal, the sanitation worker, was spraying disinfectants when he got into an argument with Motipur resident Indrapal over the disinfectants that fell on him. He added that soon Indrapal’s four friends joined him and assaulted Kunwarpal. “Kunwarpal received serious injuries and was taken to a private hospital by some locals but when his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to... the hospital in Moradabad where he died on April 17 [Friday],” said Kumar. He added the police were investigating the case.Police said an FIR has been registered against the five accused under sections 147, 323 and 304 of the Indian Penal Code. However, no arrests have been made yet.Kumar said Kunwarpal’s brother, Harishankar, informed the police about the attack on his sibling on April 14. Harishankar said the accused also forced his brother to swallow some disinfectants. Kumar said they were awaiting Kunwarpal’s postmortem report. “We have registered the FIR and action will be taken against the accused based on the findings of the autopsy and investigation,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanitation-staffer-dies-3-days-after-being-beaten-up/story-2GZrAeKLc5jyLwpLnMVhCM.html
20-04-2020||India||Indore coronavirus clusters double in 9 days||The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has gone up by 237% and led an increase in the city’s containment areas by 103% since April 10, two officials said on Sunday.There were 82 containment zones in the city on April 10, which have since gone up to 167. Indore has the highest such zones in Madhya Pradesh.A hard lockdown is imposed to stop the spread of the disease once an area is declared a containment zone. No one is allowed to step out their houses in such zones and essentials are delivered to the people living there. A containment area can be as small as one lane in a residential colony.Indore reported the sharpest spike in the number of cases over the past few days. As many as 135 were diagnosed with the disease in the city on Friday and 49 on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to 891. A health official said the evening bulletin on Sunday may not be released. However, until 2 pm on Sunday, there was no change in Indore data. Madhya Pradesh has reported 1,407 Covid-19 cases. Three states have more cases than Madhya Pradesh. Indore reported 47 Covid-19 related deaths until Saturday and they accounted for 69% of the pandemic-related fatalities in Madhya Pradesh.Indore’s chief medical and health officer, Dr Pravid Jadia, said the trend over a couple of days shows the number of people identified as Covid-19 patients is on the decline. “In the coming days, it is going to improve further.” Jadia said the number of cases has risen due to an aggressive approach to identifying and treating patients.Of the total 12,940 Covid-19 samples tested in Madhya Pradesh on April 12, only 2,443 were collected from Indore, which had 411 cases by then, according to the health department of Madhya Pradesh. As many as 2,816 samples were collected from Bhopal, which had 158 cases. However, as the number of cases increased, the tests were also increased to 22,569 across the state on April 18.Indore’s collector, Manish Singh, underlined that mostly those people are testing positive who were quarantined as the administration had traced them based on contact histories. “Hence, the situation is improving by the day.”Bhopal-based public health expert Amulya Nidhi said there should have been an aggressive approach from day one for earmarking containment zones and then screening, testing, isolating or quarantining suspected patients as well as contact tracing until these areas were declared Covid-19 free.“Overconfidence of the government and too much bureaucratisation caused the problem. The local community was not taken into confidence,” said Nidhi. Nidhi added there could have been a better use of anganwadi, accredited social health activists etc for reaching out to more and more people for screening them. “Targeted focus on certain localities was a wrong approach. There should have been equal and effective planning for the rest of the city too,” said Nidhi, referring to his study of the government’s approach.Nidhi added people have been seen moving out in containment zones and as many as eight quarantined people escaped from a quarantine centre in Indore. “A good coordination among police, administration and health department was badly required.”Amulya said instead of strengthening the public health system, the government has turned to the private hospitals. “It is the government doctors and health workers who are fighting the disease not the doctors from private hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-virus-clusters-double-in-9-days/story-uU6NjQRonN2cX9N1I3uOfO.html
20-04-2020||India||Modi calls for unity, says virus doesn’t see religion||The coronavirus disease does not distinguish between race, religion, caste, colour and borders and humanity’s response to this “common challenge” should be based on unity and brotherhood, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, calling on Indians top to innovate a new work culture for the world.Modi’s comments come at a time when some sections of society have sought to introduce a communal element in the discourse surrounding Covid-19 at a time when nation is still in the midst of the battle against the pandemic that has left 558 people dead and infected 17,252 more in the country. “Covid-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together,” the Prime Minister said in an address to professionals from various fields on the social media platform LinkedIn.Unlike previous moments in history, when countries or societies faced off against each other, the world today is facing a common challenge, Modi said . The future will be about togetherness and resilience, Modi said.The next big ideas from India should find global relevance and application. They should have the ability to drive a positive change not merely for India but for the entire humankind, the Prime Minister said. Logistics was previously only seen through the prism of physical infrastructure — roads, warehouses, ports. But logistical experts these days can control global supply chains through the comfort of their own homes, he said. India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual, can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post Covid-19 world, he said.“Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity,” Modi said as he suggested the creation of a business grammar where the vowels A, E, I, O and U stand for adaptability, efficiency. inclusivity, opportunity and universalism.“Today, the world is in pursuit of new business models. India, a youthful nation known for its innovative zeal can take the lead in providing a new work culture,” he said.It has been a topsy-turvy start to the third decade of this century and Covid-19 has brought with it many disruptions, the Prime Minister said. “Coronavirus has significantly changed the contours of professional life. These days, home is the new office. The Internet is the new meeting room.For the time being, office breaks with colleagues are history,” he said. Modi said he too was adapting to the changes and most of his meetings, including with ministers and officials, were through videoconferencing.“The work place is getting Digital First. And, why not? After all, the most transformational impact of technology often happens in the lives of the poor. It is technology that demolishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminates middlemen and accelerates welfare measures,” the Prime Minister said.He cited the examples of the Jan Dhan Account, Aadhar and Mobile number , which together comprise the JAM trinity, to stress how these changes had empowered poorer sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-for-unity-saysvirus-doesn-t-see-religion/story-odKsutBpjYQ6hdv5lVWjMJ.html
20-04-2020||India||Bengaluru dentist helps save migrant labourer, newborn||When Shanti went into labour on April 14, she and her husband desperately began to walk in search of a hospital in Bengaluru. The couple from Odisha, who worked at construction sites on the city’s outskirts, had trudged for about seven kilometers when Shanti collapsed in front of a dental clinic. An employee at the clinic noticed Shanti and immediately called Ramya Himanish, a dentist who runs it and stays nearby. Shanti delivered a baby boy before the dentist could help them reach the nearest hospital. The dentist in between ensured Shanti’s bleeding stopped and the boy, who was presumed dead, was cleaned to help him breathe properly.“They [the couple] could not speak Kannada nor Hindi or English and from whatever little I could understand, they spoke some tribal dialect. The couple is very young, aged between 18-20. The woman, whose name I came to know eventually as Shanti, was too frail and in great pain. When I inquired, all we could understand was that they had no work for nearly a month and had not eaten for a day,” said Himanish.Even before she could get further details, Shanti collapsed next to the clinic and began bleeding heavily after delivering. Himanish said her first priority was to save her even as the baby was not moving and the husband assumed he was dead and wrapped him up in newspaper. She used dental sutures at her clinic to stop Shanti’s bleeding as she shifted her to a portion of her clinic where she could get privacy behind curtains. “...mine is a dental clinic with no paraphernalia of regular maternity hospitals. Once the condition of the mother stabilised, Himanish turned her attention to the child wrapped up in the newspaper. She realised it was a baby boy and his heart was beating, though it was faint. So she used whatever equipment available to clean the nose and mouth of the child to help him breathe freely. Mud and the birth fluid were hindering the baby from breathing. The moment the baby was cleaned up, he began to breathe and cry. “Shanti had woken up by then and I asked her to feed the child. All of us were in a shock till then and it was then I asked them whether they wanted to be shifted to the nearest hospital. But since, it is a large multi-speciality private hospital, the husband was afraid they would ask money. So, we called the government K C General Hospital and eventually an ambulance came and shifted them there.”Himanish said the husband had till then refused to talk to her or answer her questions. “I assume he was afraid that we would ask for money which is why he did not speak at all then and maybe also the shock that he thought that the child was dead. Also, he himself is very young, not more than 20-21.”A day later, the husband, who refused to disclose his name, called Himanish from the K C General Hospital. He could not clearly communicate as he knew none of the languages Himanish spoke. The dentist understood he wanted to thank her and say the child and mother were all right. “In all my 18 years as a dentist, I have never had such an experience. While it was very tense when the whole thing took place, I am happy that everything turned out well though I do not know how this has come to the notice of the media,” said Himanish.Attempts to get details of the couple from K C General Hospital were unsuccessful. The hospital said it does not disclose details of any of its patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-dentist-helps-save-migrant-labourer-newborn/story-YFojENQ7vTZ1BNlcNzOdyK.html
20-04-2020||India||Maharashtra records 552 cases, 12 deaths in highest single-day spike||Maharashtra recorded its highest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 552 more infections that pushed the toll in India’s most-affected state beyond 4,000 but authorities insisted the spike was because of a backlog in Mumbai’s civic body and private laboratories.The state now has 4,200 infections, of which 2,724 are in the state capital Mumbai, which recorded 456 new patients on Sunday. The spurt comes as a blow to the state’s health authorities after four consecutive days of relatively low numbers, which were 232, 286, 118 and 328 cases between April 15 and 18. The state also reported 12 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 223. Of these, six were in Mumbai, four from Malegaon and one each from Solapur and Ahmednagar.Maharashtra took 30 days to cross the 1,000-case mark on April 7, while it crossed the 2,000 mark in just six days on April 13. From 2,000 cases to 3,000, the state took three days and from 3,000 to 4,000, it took three days.Officials said the rise in Mumbai numbers was because of the backlog from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and some private laboratories. “We have to verify all the cases that we get, which takes time. Private labs send us the data first, then to BMC, so sometimes we observe discrepancy in reporting of cases,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare ) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. “We have increased the number of daily tests, so of course, the detection of new cases will rise. We shouldn’t say that the curve is falling depending on the data of one-two days. We have to consider data for at least a week before we can come to a conclusion,” he said.According to officials from the health department, the verification of private laboratory reports by government laboratories takes a few days. “It leads to a sharp spike in numbers on the day the verification is done,” an official said.Maharashtra has conducted 72,023 tests – the most by any state in India -- of which, 67,673 samples tested negative. A total of 507 patients have fully recovered. There are 87,254 people under home quarantine across the state, while 6,743 are under institutional quarantine. The number of containment zones in the state has reduced from 410 to 368, most of them in Mumbai. State authorities have so far screened 2.39 million people, with the help of 6,359 teams, as part of its containment strategy.Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a relaxation of lockdown restrictions in rural areas but clarified that strict curbs in containment areas and in Mumbai and Pune will continue till at least May 3. “We are relaxing restrictions in green and orange zones, which have zero or fewer Covid-19 patients, to a certain extent. The industrial operations in these zones will be allowed, but the employers will have to ensure arrangements for stay and food for the employees. The district borders will, however, remained sealed and no intra-district activities be permitted,” he said.The state government has also directed 10% of its employees to resume work from Monday. Maharashtra has only four districts (Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli) with no patients, while in 18 districts, the number (of Covid-19 cases) is in single digits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-crosses-4-000-mark-with-552-new-cases-12-more-deaths/story-CGGn4BnFSWnS3n63SJrafO.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid curbs relaxation: Factories to run at limited capacity||State governments are expecting 10 to 25% of industries to restart operations on Monday in the first easing of lockdown measures for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as part of a staggered reopening of the economy, multiple officials said on Sunday.The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in guidelines issued on April 15, allowed special economic zones (SEZs), and Export Oriented Units (EoUs), industrial estates and industrial townships to reopen before the extended lockdown ends on May 3. Restrictions have been eased on industries located in rural areas rural areas as well.The conditional relaxations announced by the Centre focus on the rural sector and daily-wage earners and do not apply to so-called hotspot districts where most of the coronavirus cases have been detected.On Sunday, the MHA said migrant workers stranded across states should be allowed to work in industries depending on their skills, reiterating that no inter-state transport will be allowed.The order may help industries to find workers. A large number of workers have left for their home states after the 21-day lockdown was enforced from March 25. “Finding skilled workers among stranded labourers may not be easy,” said an industry leader from Rajasthan. Most industry leaders also said they were bracing for teething problems in the first few days of reopening and expecting production to reach up to 50% of capacity by the first week of May.Punjab’s industry minister Sunder Sham Arora said more than 40% of the industrial units would resume their operations within this week albeit at reduced capacities. Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary for industries Rajat Bhargava said the capacity of industries was expected to gradually increase in the next fortnight. “Don’t’ expect a miracle. Kick-starting economic activity in a lockdown is more difficult than shutting it,” said an official of the Madhya Pradesh industries department on condition of anonymity. In Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases for any state in India, chief minister Uddav Thackeray on Sunday allowed industriy to resume work in 20 of the total 36 districts, which either don’t have any coronavirus cases or have very few cases. “We are allowing industrial operations in limited capacity from Monday where the employers are ready to bear the responsibilities of the stay, food and transportation of the employees,” the CM said. Industries in rural areas have also been allowed. Maharashtra has 1.026 million registered micro, small and medium enterprises, or MSMEs, of which around 450,000 are in areas where operations are being allowed from Monday.Punjab government officials are not expecting more than 12% of industries to start operations because most industrial units are in Covid-19 hotspots. Punjab’s home department has made it mandatory for all categories of industries employing 10 or more persons to make transport arrangements for their workers or accommodate them on their factory premises. “We don’t expect more than 10-12% of industrial units to resume operations in the next two-three days. Also, our containment zones are mostly in industrial towns,” said a senior government official, who did not want to be named. SAS Nagar (Mohali), Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Amritsar districts, where most of the small and medium industries are located, account for 65% of the 234 Covid-19 cases discovered in the state.In Uttar Pradesh, industry leaders were not sure whether partial lifting of lockdown will help in running their units efficiently. “We have conveyed to the government about problems which we are facing in restarting our units {in UP}. It will not be easy for us to resume production,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, Indian Industries Association, an industry lobby for MSMEs units. In the MSME segment, around 950,000 industrial units are registered in the state. Out of these, around 6,656 units are listed in the essential goods category and 5,720 are operational. All of them are working at less than half of their capacity, officials said.Suresh Aggarwal, president of the Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI), said he was not expecting more than 25% of the industries employing about 2.5 million workers to resume work on Monday. Rajasthan was the first state to notify conditions for a “modified lockdown” from Monday, which allowed running of all industries in rural areas; industrial areas established in municipal corporation or municipality limits, export- based units, and in special economic zones to function. Workers should be accommodated in on factory premises or nearby, the order said.“As per the conditions laid down by the government, masks and sanitizers are a must, which have not reached the industries. In such circumstances, it will not be wise to start the operations,” Agarwal said, expecting industries dealing with garments, mills (oil, flour,grains), health and surgical, plastic and packaging to start functioning in single shifts. In eastern India, the Jharkhand government has given permission to several big industrial units such as Tata Steel and Tata Motors in Jamshedpur and Dalmia Cement in Bokaro to start operations. Officials said all major steel, mining and cement factories have been allowed to operate.However, around 1,200 industries in Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority (AIADA)---the biggest industrial cluster in the state---will have to wait another 10 days for reopening. “All industries in rural areas are allowed. For others, we have given permission to most essential industries with specific guidelines to be followed for restarting 30% of their operation/production,” said A Dode deputy commissioner of the Seraikela-Kharsaawn district, where many industries are situated. In neighbouring Bihar, the government expects about 3,000 of the total 25,000 small industries to start functioning in rural areas and industrial belts on Monday, benefitting about 15,000 workers, government officials said. Principal secretary (industries), S Siddhartha, said industrial units will have to procure passes for their personnel tarting operations. and government officials have been deputed to facilitate the process. Dome 1,750 units located in 52 industrial areas and parks, set up by state’s industrial development authority, have been permitted to resume work, another official said.Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary for industries said 50 to 60% of 107,000 industries that are outside the 97 designated red zones in the state are expected to operate from Monday. Bhargava said the government had permitted software companies to run with 50% of employees and hardware units with 100 % “But most of these IT companies are located in red zones like in Visakhapatnam,” he said.“On the first day, we are hoping that 10% of industries might start their plants and gradually, the number of industries that commence works might go up in a phased manner. It will take a week to 10 days to stabilise,” Bhargava added.The 36 industrial areas in Goa would start functioning from tomorrow with 33% staff working in staggered shifts, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-relaxation-factories-to-run-at-limited-capacity/story-AjpzJvTK2eqpKtKNB6y5DP.html
20-04-2020||India||Migrants can go to work within state limits: Govt||The Centre on Sunday said that migrant workers -- many of whom are in relief camps across the country due to the Covid-19 lockdown -- will be allowed to work in the states they are currently in, and directed local administrations to help provide them transport while ensuring social distancing measures are followed. In a notification, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla underlined there will be no interstate movement of workers during the lockdown.The Centre on Wednesday allowed activities such as the conditional reopening of industries in rural areas outside the so-called Covid-19 containment zones from Monday to restart the economy as the lockdown was extended until May 3. The flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) will also restart with a focus on irrigation and water conservation works.The decision is expected to bring relief to the stranded workers, tens of thousands of whom were forced to leave for their towns and villages on foot last month as the lockdown left them jobless. Some were transported back to their homes by the government, and many were housed in relief and shelter camps. Workers have taken to the streets in different places across the country and demanded that they be sent back to their states.The Union home ministry’s order on Sunday said that workers in state-run and relief and shelter camps can be employed in the activities allowed from Monday. “Since additional activities, outside the containment zones, have been permitted in the consolidated revised guidelines with effect from April 20 (Monday), these workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MNREGA works,” the order said while underlining the ban on the interstate movement. The order said states and Union Territories will be responsible for providing transport to the workers wishing to return to their places of work, but they have to be screened for Covid-19 symptoms. It added local authorities will have to ensure the workers are registered and their skills are mapped to employ them suitably.The buses to be used for transportation should be sanitised and social distancing measures must be followed, the order said. The local authorities will also have to provide food and water to the workers when they travel to work, according to the Standard Operating Procedure listed by the ministry.The mass movement of the migrant workers last month prompted the Centre to order states to seal their borders as it could undermine the impact of the restrictions aimed at slowing down the spread of the disease.The Centre informed the Supreme Court this month that there were over a million migrant labourers in relief camps across the country. Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday reviewed the second phase of the lockdown. He said while some economic activities have been permitted, due caution has to be exercised to ensure that only genuine relaxations are given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-can-go-to-work-within-state-limits-govt/story-FVeQdtQjedItS1PN1GkhbN.html
20-04-2020||India||Silent spreaders make Covid a bigger challenge: Experts||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that all 186 people who were diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) the previous day had exhibited no symptoms of illness, reinforcing evidence from other states that asymptomatic “silent spreaders” are unknowingly infecting others.Asymptomatic infections are higher than symptomatic infections in several states, including Karnataka and Assam, according to state government officials familiar with the matter. At the INS Angre station in Mumbai, 66% of the Indian Navy personnel diagnosed with Covid-19 had no cough, fever or any other sign of the illness, according to Western Naval Command.Experts say that the expansion of testing from only symptomatic contacts of a confirmed Covid-19 patient to testing everyone who could have been exposed to the infection, irrespective of symptoms, is leading to more asymptomatic cases being detected n India.“People with no symptoms are either asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic. Some develop symptoms some days or a week later, but they begin shedding the virus and infecting others even before they develop symptoms. Young, healthy people are more likely to have a milder disease than older people and those with chronic illnesses,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and lung problems, and diseases of the heart and kidney, among others, exacerbate illness and raise the risk of complications and death. According to a study published in Nature Medicine on April 15, around 44% people with Covid-19 got infected by people who had no symptoms, with coronavirus-positive people being the most infectious two or three days before the symptoms appear. Another study from Asia published in March had found that asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic transmission accounted for 48% of the cases in Singapore and 62% in Tianjin, China.“Asymptomatic transmission has made containment of this pandemic such a challenge. Unlike Sars-CoV, where disease transmission started after people developed symptoms, around 40% of Covid-19 infection is spread by people before their symptoms appear. Contact tracing and quarantining people will have to continue for several months to break transmission,” said Dr Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.According to a study published in the journal Science on March 16, undetected cases of people with “mild, limited or no symptoms” were responsible for 79% of Covid-19 transmission before the lockdown in China, because infected and contagious people continued to congregate or travel.“This is why contact tracing is so important, where every contact of a known case is traced and tested irrespective of symptoms. Social isolation will have to be sustained for another one to two years to reduce the multiplier effect. A recent study from Stanford University has found many people who have mild or no disease remain undiagnosed but continue to infect others,” said Dr Ganguly.A modelling at Stanford University that tested 3,300 people in Santa Clara County in California for antibodies against Covid-19 to detect past infection found actual infections outnumbered confirmed cases by a factor of 50-85.  “These prevalence estimates represent a range between 48,000 and 81,000 people infected in Santa Clara County by early April, 50-85 times more than the number of confirmed cases,” said researchers in the yet-to-be peer-reviewed study published on April 17 in the preprint server medRxiv. Younger people who are healthy are more likely to stay asymptomatic, found a study in Nanjing in the Jiangsu Province of China, which followed 24 people who tested positive but didn’t show symptoms. In the one to three weeks after diagnosis, the seven who continued showing no symptoms had a median age of 14 years , according to the study published in Science China Life Sciences, which is the journal of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.As India widens rapid antibody testing for community surveillance and tests everyone in Covid-19 clusters and hot spots, the number of asymptomatic cases will grow, experts say. “Now that states are increasing rapid antibody testing, those who have been infected without knowing it because they had mild disease or did not get tested will be diagnosed, which will help us better understand if there has been a sub-clinical spread of the disease,” said a former health ministry official who asked not to be named.“Along with rapid testing, we must ramp up polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests to detect active infection and do it at the local level to speed up results, so that there is no lag in the containment response,” she said.Doctors say that until a treatment or vaccine is developed against Covid-19, the only protection against silent spreaders is wearing masks, social distancing and hand-washing. “Anyone can be a pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic carrier without knowing, so personal protection and social distancing must become the new norm,” said Dr Murhekar.Covid-19 transmission can be stopped only when cases are brought down to below one per million population, said Dr Ganguly.“To detect community transmission, we need to scale up testing, continue testing all severe acute respiratory testing for surveillance, and trace, test and quarantine all contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, irrespective of whether they develop symptoms or not,” said Dr Ganguly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silent-spreaders-make-covid-a-bigger-challenge-experts/story-SW0Mo3ExEPpCo9GHYMhBRN.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Infections with no symptoms raise concerns across states||Roughly two-thirds of all Covid-19 cases in 10 major states comprise people who did not show any symptoms at the time of testing, according to state government data that reinforced growing evidence that “silent spreaders” were possibly unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients. An analysis by HT found that 65% of Maharashtra’s 3,648 cases and 75% of Uttar Pradesh’s 974 cases did not show symptoms at the time of testing. In Assam, 82% of 34 cases were of people with no symptoms “They didn’t show any of the typical symptoms associated with the disease during treatment,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that all 186 people diagnosed with Covid-19 the previous day had exhibited no symptoms of illness.”Most of the Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana are asymptomatic,” Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, said.  To be sure, these numbers could include people who were both asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic, which means that a person was tested before they started showing symptoms. Doctors said exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 depended on the virus load, age and immunity. “If the load is not very high and virus is not virulent, the symptoms may not be there. But, it can be detected through test,” Kamboj added.Dr C Nagaraja, director of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases in Bengaluru, said younger people with good immunity may not show any signs of Covid-19 and that most asymptomatic patients were between 20 and 45. “Even older persons taking certain medicines may not show any signs initially. Those with weak immunity and co-morbid conditions show Covid signs faster,” he said. Globally, research has shown that people remain very infectious in the period before they show symptoms. In central Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district, a woman student who travelled with some members of the Tablighi Jamaat remained asymptomatic for 22 days while under observation but showed signs towards the end of the observation period, said district medical officer, Dr N Sheeja. Identifying such people is difficult unless extensive testing is done, say experts, and the numbers are expected to rise because rapid and pool testing mechanisms have been introduced by most states. In rapid test, a person’s blood is tested for Covid-19 antibodies, whose presence indicates that the person was infected by the virus and is now immune. In pool testing, samples of up to 64 people are tested together. If the combined test is positive, then all persons are individually tested to identify Covid-19 patients. Internationally, countries such as South Korea and China, where the number of Covid-19 have declined, started identifying the asymptomatic carriers early. In China, reports say around 43,000 asymptomatic persons have been identified and isolated. Similarly, in South Korea, more than 30,000 such people were traced, local reports said. Dr. Karan Peepre, medical superintendent, AIIMS, Raipur, said the only way to deal with asymptomatic people is quick identification through massive testing and isolation. Uttar Pradesh health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said identifying hot spots was crucial to prevent the spread by disease by symptom-free patients. Andhra Pradesh Covid nodal officer, D Arja Sreekanth, said the state is conducting door-to-door survey to identify such patients. “We are also testing all those above 60 years having co-morbid issues like diabetes, hypertension, past history of tuberculosis etc, though they might not have Covid-19 symptoms,” he said.Some experts, however, said asymptomatic patients are not a big threat if the chain of transmission is broken and the ongoing lockdown is an effective way to do that. “Lockdown is effective in breaking the (transmission) chain,” said Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research.(with inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infections-with-no-symptoms-raise-concerns-across-states/story-gT3GFcfIjUF3HFeBZOU8PI.html
20-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Eateries to open in 10 Kerala districts||Hotels and restaurants will open in 10 districts of Kerala on Monday after nearly a month of lockdown as the coastal state prepared to get its economy back on track after successfully controlling the spread of Covid-19.Out of Kerala’s 14 districts, four -- north Kerala’s Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram -- are in the red zone with the bulk of infections. Eight, including state capital Thiruvananthapuram, are in the orange zone with few cases and two are in the green zone with no cases. The relaxations will be applicable to the orange and green zones only, said state authorities.From Monday, restaurants and hotels in these two zones will remain open until 7pm and some private vehicles allowed on the streets but no overcrowding will be permitted. “People will have to keep it in mind it is a temporary arrangement so we expect responsible behaviour from them. We will keep a strict eye. We advise people to come out if it is necessary only,” said state director general of police Loknath Behra.On Sunday evening, many hotels in Thiruvananthapuram were seen making arrangements for the opening and said they needed a day to collect food and other essentials things. “For batter and dough we need time. It is good that social life is slowly picking up. At the same time we are aware of the norms and constraints,” said a spokesman of the district hoteliers and restaurant owners’ association. The establishments had shut on March 25 when a nationwide lockdown was imposed.Police said only three passengers will be allowed in a car, including the driver, and no pillion riding will be permitted on two-wheelers. The government has also allowed farming, food processing units, construction, road construction and traditional sectors like handloom, coir and beedi to work, without crowding. The state reported two new cases of coronavirus, which took the total number of infections in the state to 401, state health minister K K Shailaja said. Out of the 401, 270 have been discharged while 129 people are in different hospitals, she said in a statement. A total of 55,590 people are now under observation, down from almost 200,000 at one point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eateries-to-open-in-10-kerala-districts/story-6gZbPaDkEoY6rPO0X2e1QI.html
20-04-2020||India||Tourism that generates jobs and revenue in the state worst-hit: Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur spoke to Hindustan Times about steps to fight the coronavirus disease, its impact on the state economy - particularly tourism and horticulture, and a possible bailout package for some sectors. Edited excerpts:How many tests per million are being conducted to detect and diagnose Covid-19 patients in Himachal Pradesh, and what measures are being taken to contain the spread?Thirty-nine people have tested positive as on April 19. Out of these, 12 were cured, four went outside the state for treatment, and one person died. We are conducting about 200 to 250 tests daily in our three authorised institutions. This ratio is better than the national average, and on our request the Union government has provided 4,800 rapid testing kits. The state has been fortunate that the virus has not spread at the community level. This was possible because of the immediate steps taken -- a complete curfew was imposed in the entire state from March 24 and plying of vehicles was banned, which helped in breaking the cycle of spread.We started delivery of essential commodities to people’s doorsteps to effectively ensure social distancing. We have sealed the borders, and inter and intrastate movement has been banned. The Covid-19 hot spots in the state are in Kangra, Chamba, Sirmaur, Solan and Una. What is your plan for a graded relaxation of the lockdown in other areas from April 20?Our focus is on containing the spread in the hot spots and preventing the virus from spreading to the green zones in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Lahaul Spiti. We are planning a staggered exit plan bring back normalcy in the state and to revive economic activity simultaneously. Steps have been taken to facilitate curfew passes for farmers as their crops are at the harvesting stage. They are also being sensitised about social distancing. The horticulture department has been asked to ensure door- to- door or at least village-wise supply of pesticides and other plant protection resources. Tourism is a key income generator for the state, and a sector hit hard. What are the plans to revive the sector, and will there be an immediate bailout package?Tourism plays a key role in the economy of the state and this industry has suffered a lot. After this crisis is over, we will chalk out the strategy to revive the tourism industry. We are getting a lot of request for tax holidays and concessions in utility bills, because the tourist season has been a washout.This is also the time when fruits and flowers are supplied outside the state. What steps are being taken at the state level to ensure there is no disruption?We have taken several steps to ensure that farmers and horticulturists do not suffer hardships in pursuing farm activities and selling their produce. The supply chain of farm inputs and plant protection material is being maintained. Direct contact between farmers and the buyers is being established so that farmers can sell their produce at remunerative prices. Smooth transportation of horticulture produce is also being ensured. Himachal Pradesh is probably the first state to allow farm activities to run smoothly even during the curfew by maintaining proper social distancing.What are your expectations from the central government? are there any specific sectors that need assistance?Almost 36 hours after the lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for the poor. This includes, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna with eight different elements to address the needs of different sections of the vulnerable.Every sector in every state has suffered a blow. In our state, tourism, which generates jobs and revenue, has taken the biggest hit; industry is affected; those engaged in horticulture and apple harvesting are suffering. Owing to weather conditions, we get a limited window for the construction of roads, highways and hydel projects -- all of that has been disturbed. We’ve formed a task force, and I am confident that the country under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi will come out from this crisis.The issue of migrant workers has emerged as a serious concern. How are your coping with shortage of labour force from Nepal, Bihar and other places?As of now we have imposed complete ban on entry of people from outside the state. Still, there is sufficient number of labourers who permanently live in the state, particularly in apple growing areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-that-generates-jobs-and-revenue-in-the-state-worst-hit-jai-ram-thakur/story-4pYE7z7Ny3pk2GqsVU3VSM.html
20-04-2020||India||Virus and the village: A Covid chronicle||Most people aren’t leaving their homes in Abu Sayeed Ahmed’s Khairabari village in Assam’s Barpeta district. “They are following the official guidelines – washing their hands, sanitising their homes, sewing their masks,” said the 20-year-old. But a few people step out every day fearing they would die of hunger if they stayed in.’Ghar pe rahenge toh mar jayange’ (If we stay home, we will die). There must be nearly 4,000 people across villages in this district who eat at night based on what they earn during the day. So, they have been forced to come out and knock on other people’s doors,” he said.For India’s estimated 260 million rural poor, hunger is the biggest challenge thrown up by Covid-19 lockdowns. In March, the Narendra Modi government initiated bank transfers of Rs 500 rupees for 200 million poor women as part of a $23 billion relief package. But going out to withdraw this cash from their bank accounts is fraught with risk for many beneficiaries. “I happened to be in the market when the police beat up a bunch of people going to the bank to take out Rs 500 from their accounts. I ran for my own life,” Sayeed said.“There might have been some aberrations in the beginning. The police acted with sakhti (firmness) initially, but there’s really no need now. Thousands of people were going to the mandis (markets), so we had to shut them down. We don’t need to use violence or force. People in Assam have acted very maturely,” said Harmeet Singh, an additional general of police (ADGP) in Assam. “We have 13 helplines running for relief and 6 for psychological counselling. The police force has been turned into a relief force.”The district hasn’t registered any positive case of the coronavirus infection so far, but the villages have been nearly sealed. Apart from the police patrolling the borders, Sayeed said, “each village has put up its own barricade to prevent the entry of outsiders. Even the returning migrant workers can’t reach home anymore.”This situation isn’t unique to this village in Barpeta. As infections spread across cities and sometimes outside them, rural areas are facing multiple crises at once: from poverty to poor healthcare, from farm closures to fake news, from administrative gaps to police excess, from sweeping hunger to mass reverse migration.As the pandemic rips across the globe, infecting over two million people so far and confining the rest, it has thrown up challenges that even the richest and most resourceful nations apparently can’t overcome.In India, where the toll stands at 17,252 positive cases and 558 deaths, containing the numbers is as acute a need as feeding people and stopping the rumours.On April 1, as the pandemic entered its fourth month, the director-general of the World Health Organisation warned the world leaders of its “unintended consequences” for the “poorest and the most vulnerable.” The words bode ominously for many of India’s 649,481 villages where each new day of the epidemic marks a battle between self-sufficiency and disaster. As they tackle one problem after another, many people in the villages say they can at least rely on each other.ARM’S DISTANCE Take social distancing. In Rajasthan’s Viratnagar, the evening addas (get-togethers) are already a thing of the past, says Manish Naik, a social worker. “The shops open once a day between 6pm and 7 pm, and that’s the only time people see each other, but they are exchanging updates while keeping an arm’s distance.” In Ateli in Haryana’s Mahendragarh, neighbors are catching up roof-to-roof while wearing masks, says Komal Aggarwal, a college student. Even inside the house, where 21 people live as part of her joint family, new rules of interaction have been set. “We pass time by playing games, whether it’s carom board or antakshari, but we sit apart from each other while wearing masks. Even in the kitchen, where everyone is pitching in to cook, no more than three or four people go in at a time.” In Jharkhand’s Gumla district, villagers coming to the common service centre to collect cash sent to their Jan Dhan accounts. They stand in the spots allocated to them, says Kanchan Keshri, who runs the centre. “No one wants to touch another person,” Keshri added.The idea of physical distance has reached the remotest of places, but its execution varies widely. In Karnataka’s Challakere taluka, Naveen MS, a civil service aspirant, says many villages are grappling with the concept. “They just don’t know the meaning of it. In the slum areas, people are in close contact with each other. The men are still gathering under the trees in the evening to play their usual game of dice.” In higher-income areas, he said, some distance is being maintained between homes, but not inside the homes “where the emotional bonds are very tight”.“People baulk at the idea of social distance between mother and son, brother and sister,” he added.The outbreak has now spread to 364 of India’s 720 districts according to union health ministry data. As the numbers rise, many villages are securing their borders. Some panchayats are erecting bamboo barricades, and some are even setting up local task forces to stand guard. In a village in Maharashtra’s Satara district, says Prabhakar Sonwane, a lawyer, residents dug a moat to prevent entry and exit. “This old man who had a health emergency and was being taken to the hospital on a scooter fell into the trench and later died,” he said.RUMOUR MILLS In Jharkhand’s Gumla district, on April 8, a village mob attacked Anis Ansari from Basia Road for entering neighboring Bhadauli. “Rumours have gone viral in this area that infected Muslims are intentionally spreading the virus,” said Kanchan Keshri. While the seriously injured Ansari was taken to a hospital in Ranchi, a mob from Basia Road killed Bolwa Oraon from Bhadauli on suspicion of spreading these rumours. Three other men from Bhadauli were also attacked and suffered injuries. Jharkhand’s ADGP, ML Meena, confirmed the casualties.Such rumours are swirling across rural India. “WhatsApp, radio, television – there is no source of news that you can trust,” said Sonwane. “We have no idea what the situation is in Assam. One day you hear that there isn’t a single positive case in the state, next day you hear that there are 20 cases. On top of that, many people are using social media to create hatred between Hindus and Muslims,” said Sayeed. “The [state] government is using Twitter to release official information and bunk rumors, but only urban and educated people benefit from that. I think they should find a platform where everyone can access information equally and at the same time,” said Naveen MS.To make sure information reaches “the last man”, says Harmeet Singh, an additional director general of police in Assam, it must be circulated via multiple platforms. “In Assam, we first release the official statements on Twitter and Facebook and then take it further via YouTube, television and mobile phones including WhatsApp groups for every district. The police personnel are also asked to circulate the same information in their own personal networks. Early on, we released a very clear advisory for the public on how to deal with fake news,” he said. Initially, he said, “there was a bit of rumormongering. For example, there were posts exaggerating the number of those affected, which would cause confusion. These were pulled down. As of today, 40 odd people have been booked for spreading fake news and 200 counselled.”STRANDED MIRGANTS Worries about how their migrant-worker family members will make it back home, and how long they will have to spend in make-shift quarantine centres, are aggravating an already tense atmosphere in the villages. In the days following March 24, when the Prime Minister announced a three-week national lockdown, nearly 300,000 fled the cities even as road and rail transport halted.In west UP’s Hathras, Dalit-rights activist Sanjay Jatav says hundreds of wage workers have journeyed home. “Some of them walked from Delhi and Haryana. It took them three days to get here,” he said. Many of the returning migrants are kept in the district administration’s quarantine centres. On April 3, a migrant worker in Lakhimpur Kheri, Roshan Lal, killed himself after being allegedly beaten up by a police officer for missing quarantine attendance. Lal’s sister told reporters afterwards that he had left the centre to arrange for food for his family.Jatav and others in Hathras are also concerned about friends and family members stranded in the cities. “My brother is a machine operator at a factory in Badarpur in Delhi, and he hasn’t been able to come back since the factory closed. I wish someone would help him.” In his village in Latur’s Hisori taluka, Sonwane said, “There are around 1000 people and leaving aside 10 to 15 percent, everyone had migrated for work. Now, 95 percent of them have come back, but five percent are stuck in the cities without work or ration.” In Viratnagar, Naik says people are glad that wage workers have come back, but they are scared about the state of those in quarantine.“There are 25 people who came from Mumbai, and they are still being kept in a hostel outside the village. Their family members don’t know what’s going on, and they are very worried,” he added. Near his village, Domba, Keshri said two quarantine centres have come up. “But we don’t know if they have sufficient number of beds or if provision for regular meals.”In its response to a PIL filed at the Supreme Court, the home ministry acknowledged the scale of the problem. “This migration is not only dangerous for the migrant workers but also for rural India for which they have started the journey,” noted the status report filed on 27 March. The ministry estimates that 1.3 million people are housed in relief camps and shelter homes across India. It has ordered the local governments to use the state disaster relief fund to provide them food, shelter, clothing and medical aid wherever there are. The ministry has also instructed their employers to continue to pay their wages during the lockdown. The district officials are to screen and quarantine those workers who have already reached their destination as per standard health protocol. “The Government will shortly implement a system whereby the panic in the minds of these migrant workers is addressed keeping in view the socio-psychological issues,” the status report sent to the SC noted.There isn’t anything that their families can do in the meantime but sit at home. The country’s 3 million police officers must ensure that 1.3 billion people stay in, and many of them are using violence to get the job done. “The police patrolling is constant. Kaafi pitali ho rahi hai. (A lot of people are getting beaten up),” said Manish Naik about Viratnagar.“In Ateli, shops are allowed to open between 9am and 11am and people go out to buy essential supplies, but no one dares leave home after that,” said Komal Aggrawal. “People are being thrashed by the police if they are seen outside no matter how urgent their need,” said Sanjay Jatav about Hathras.FARM FEARS Cut off from their sources of income, people in the villages wonder how long they can carry on. An estimated 30% of India’s rural population falls below the poverty line according to a Mint analysis of the official figures. The average monthly surplus for rural households is limited to Rs 1,413.More than half of India’s workforce is engaged in farming, and the lockdown has affected every aspect of their work cycle: harvest, planting, procurement, labour, markets. “Kisan ka kamar toot gayi (this virus has broken the farmer’s back),” said Keshri. “People are harvesting their sugarcane crop in the villages here, but they can’t access the markets,” said Sonwane. “The farmers had taken private loans on high interest for the current crop, and those loans are not going to be waived.They are in great trouble,” said Sayeed. “I am harvesting the wheat crop in my own fields. We can’t employ farm labourers at this time. They are out of work completely,” said Manish Naik. In Challakere taluk, Naveen MS said the out-of-work labourers used up their savings to buy small stocks of essentials – vegetables, coconut – that they sold locally. “Now, they are borrowing from local moneylenders to continue the work.”Hunger is being discussed everywhere. “Majdoori nahin toh paise nahin. Paise nahin toh khana nahin. (No labour means no money and no money means no food),” said Jatav. “Morning to evening, people only talk about one thing here: how long will we survive if this continues,” Manish Naik.On 11 April, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) made a set of suggestions to the central government in anticipation of an extended lockdown. “We have requested that agriculture be given a relaxation or else the food security of India will be very adversely impacted. The wheat and rice crop is ready, but there is no labour available for harvest. If the farm produce doesn’t reach the markets and godowns, we are staring at a deep crisis of hunger,” said Ashok Dhavale, AIKS president. He pointed out that farmers, farm workers and unorganised labourers will be the first to face it. “We are demanding that 5 kilo of free ration be given to all of them for the next six months irrespective of whether they have ration cards or whether they are registered under this or that scheme,” he said.As part of the Indian government’s $22.6 billion economic stimulus plan, free food is to be distributed to 800 million families and free gas cylinders to registered beneficiaries. The measure signifies a huge relief for rural areas, but it’s all on the execution. The free ration is reaching some villages but not the others; some of the authorised shops are either hoarding it or charging people for it; some are distributing it selectively; and in some areas, the beneficiaries have no information about their entitlement.In the rural pockets of UP, Sumantra Goswami, an officer with the Prayaagraj district administration, says the delivery of free rations can be tricky. “Every day we are supplying bags of ration to multiple villages, but it’s difficult to reach some. At times, it takes us from morning to evening. Some areas are so remote, or the roads leading to them are in such bad shape, that no one agrees to carry the ration for fear that if their vehicle breaks down, they won’t find anyone to repair it because of the lockdown. We usually deliver the ration through our contacts in the relevant block or panchayat or police office, but the thing about UP is that unless you belong to the dominant caste or community in a village or have the support of the local political operators, you aren’t allowed to go in and intervene. In some cases, we also found that the village chiefs hoarded half of the relief supply sent to them to distribute,” Goswami said. As a result, he said, “we have villages where enough ration has reached to last two or three months, and then there are those that haven’t received any.”The AIKS has also demanded that the cash benefit to those below the poverty line be increased to R 5,000 per month. “Government is giving them grains, but families also need other essentials like milk and soap. How are whole families supposed to survive on R 500 a month. This is a cruel joke,” Ashok Dhavale said.Left to their own devices, many in India’s rural areas are drawing solace from knowing that they have each other. “My father grows his own vegetables, so when the neighbours can’t go to the market, they come to us,” said Komal Aggarwal from Ateli. Prabhakar Sonwane from Latur believes this lockdown is best survived in a village. “You have wide open spaces which reduce the risk of infection. And, in a village, one family can ask another for help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-and-the-village-a-covid-chronicle/story-VF687Qp7jrwEP2O5FgTKQI.html
