21-04-2020||India||Plan afoot for contactless checks at airports, Metro||New Delhi: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is preparing fresh Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for its security operations at airports and the Delhi Metro once the lockdown is lifted, and the measures may include contactless frisking, the use of Aarogya Setu app to identify Covid-19 patients entering security gates, and a reduction in passengers in train coaches, three officials familiar with the development said.For its own security personnel who come in direct contact with millions of passengers every day at Metro stations and airports, CISF plans sanitisation of hands after clearing every two or three people, personal protection equipment (PPE) for all staff, and sanitisation of X-ray machines and other equipment on a regular basis.Suburban rail services and air travel are prohibited at the moment to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. The government has not yet come up with guidelines on when these services will resume, and it remains unclear if they will be operational even when the second phase of the national lockdown ends on May 3. But officials believe that additional precautions will be needed, whenever the ban is lifted, and it can no longer be “business as usual”. Rajesh Ranjan, CISF’s director general, said the key objective was to ensure that both security personnel as well as commuters were protected from the infection, but with minimal inconvenience, and without compromising on safety. “We’re looking at changing the process for access at airports and Metro stations. The SOPs are in final stages and will be sent to the civil aviation ministry and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) soon,” he said.On contactless frisking, Ranjan said, “We are exploring how to use contactless frisking as much as we can. However, it will not be possible to make it fully contactless and pat-down searches will depend on person to person.”He added that the businesses inside airports and metro stations will need to have extra access control for their employees. CISF personnel will also be trained about the additional personal safety measures they have to follow — on duty, and after going back to their barracks.For Metro services, the proposed SOP entails reducing the number of passengers by at least half in each coach so that social distancing measures are followed.At airports, a second official said, the CISF is considering suggesting to the government that passengers be asked to download Aarogya Setu app before coming to the airport for a colour coded risk analysis to identifying Covid-19 patients. All CISF personnel across the country have already been told to download the Aarogya Setu application. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has consistently encouraged citizens to download the app, and even mentioned the possibility of it being used as an “e-pass” for travel and mobility. The Aarogya Setu is one of several contact tracing applications in use across the world. Every time two people who have installed the application come within metres of each other, the application creates a record that can later be pulled in case of these individuals develops Covid-19 and the other needs to be warned off being infected.The SOPs propose that passengers are asked to sanitise their hands at pre-embarkation security checkpoints and the security hold area. The paramilitary force is also likely to advise airlines to provide small bottles of hand sanitisers to passengers once they pass the security hold area, since CISF doesn’t allow liquids at airport security checkpoints. The SOPs pertaining to maintaining proper queues and distancing, and the use of PPEs, will also be followed in other government installations where CISF is deployed, the second official said. The force is augmenting its present stock of face masks, gloves, alcohol-based sanitisers, and other PPE kits so that they have sufficient numbers available for an initial period of three months.Apart from this, almost all 349 units of CISF across the country are distributing face masks, sanitisers, dry soaps, dry ration/cooked meals to the underprivileged in the surrounding areas on a regular basis while maintaining proper hygiene and distancing, CISF spokesperson Hemendra Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-afoot-for-contactless-checks-at-airports-metro/story-OqU6ZnwyFlNbDuBvnv5SHP.html
21-04-2020||India||Central teams visit hot spots across states||Mumbai/Bhopal/Lucknow: The inter-ministerial central teams formed to assess the situation in Covid-19 hotspot districts on Tuesday began their three-day visits to Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.A team led by additional secretary Manoj Joshi visited Mumbai’s Worli Koliwada area for an inspection of the containment area, which has the highest cases in Mumbai, 425. Another team led by Sanjay Malhotra, additional secretary, held a meeting with Pune’s divisional commissioner and other senior officials.A state government official, requesting anonymity, said the team raised concerns over the high mortality rate in Mumbai. “They were also concerned that containment in certain areas such as Dharavi was not being followed strictly,” the official said.Officials said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, health minister Rajesh Tope and other top Maharashtra government officials interacted with the central teams through video conferencing. Thackeray told the teams that the Centre should make arrangement for travel of six lakh migrant labourers stuck in Maharashtra and also study why a majority of Covid-19 patients in India are asymptomatic.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state by the pandemic.In Madhya Pradesh, a central team visited Indore’s containment zones, accompanied by several officials including divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi and district collector Manish Singh.Tripathi said the team visited various containment zones to see if the lockdown restrictions were being followed completely. The team wanted to know if the number of drones being used to monitor the movement of people could be increased. “The team looked satisfied with the arrangements.”In Jaipur, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said a central team met chief secretary DB Gupta, additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swarup and other officials before meeting him.Gehlot said he raised the issue of central procurement of equipment and absence of financial grant by the Centre to the states to fight Covid-19. The team will be in Jaipur for two more days, he said, adding that it expressed satisfaction with the implementation of lockdown and other measures for containment of Covid-19. “A five-member team of the Central government has arrived here for 4-5 days to help the state,” health minister Raghu Shara said.In West Bengal, central teams were allowed to visit the containment zones after a warning by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla. The teams had complained to the home ministry that local administration was not cooperating with them.Congress leader Ahmed Patel said a Central team should also be sent to Gujarat and the exercise should not be limited to select states. “Given the rising cases and lockdown violations was criteria for sending the central teams to states, I request [Union home minister] Amit [Shah] Bhai to deploy similar teams to Gujarat also,” Patel tweeted.The Centre has constituted two teams each for West Bengal and Maharashtra and one each for Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan for the assessment of the situation and for issuing necessary directions to state authorities and to submit their reports to the Centre.The teams will focus on complaints about the implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines, check the supply of essential commodities, measures to ensure social distancing, the preparedness of health infrastructure, the safety of health professionals and conditions of the relief camps for workers and the poor.Bhalla wrote to chief secretaries of all states and union territories on Monday asking them to comply with the Centre’s “revised and consolidated” guidelines issued on April 15 for easing of lockdown norms from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-visit-hot-spots-across-states/story-UhwxAXsGIXWGUY0wSAJJSL.html
21-04-2020||India||Odisha Covid cases rise, Naveen Patnaik looks to sarpanches to block influx from across the border||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik will chat with sarpanches of close to seven thousand gram panchayats across the State through video conferencing on Wednesday to seek their cooperation in keeping a vigil on the movement of people from across the border as nearly one-third of positive coronavirus cases in Odisha are due to those who sneaked in from other States in violation of the lockdown.Chief spokesperson of the Odisha government on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi, said that during his chat with sarpanches of gram panchayats on Wednesday, Patnaik would impress upon the criticality of their role in stopping the influx of people from across the border as it is practically impossible for the state police to close all the routes along the 3000-km long border connecting West Bengal, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Of the 79 positive cases in Odisha, 24 had travelled to neighbouring Bengal, which is slowly turning out to be a Covid hotspot.To oversee the lockdown and sealing arrangements along Odisha-Bengal border, DGP Abhay today visited Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts and ordered for tightening of the lockdown. A senior police official said that despite adequate police arrangements, it was not possible to stop people coming from Bengal as there were at least 37 pucca roads through which people could move into Odisha.“From today, we have stopped all ambulances from Bengal as hundreds were coming to Odisha using them. But how do we close other routes through farmlands in Jaleswar and Bhogarai area of Balasore. The local gram panchayat functionaries will have to play a key role,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-covid-cases-rise-naveen-patnaik-looks-to-sarpanches-to-block-influx-from-across-the-border/story-yyZHtXYC0mhAHjU8P4QhIL.html
21-04-2020||India||ICMR starts replacing defective RT-PCR kits||Kolkata: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has started replacing consignments of apparently defective RT-PCR testing kits from state-run laboratories that were providing inconclusive results, Shanta Dutta, director of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) in Kolkata, said on Tuesday.“ICMR has decided to replace the kits which, some states claimed, were yielding inconclusive results. These kits were supposed to be standardised by the medical colleges and kept in -80 degrees Celsius without which they would give inconclusive results,” Dutta said.“It appears that the state-run medical colleges neither standardized the kits nor did they maintain the right temperature. But as the tests need to be go on, these will now be replaced by kits from the National Institute of Virology in Pune,” she added.ICMR–NICED in Kolkata is a research institute under the Union health ministry and the regional Virus Research Diagnostic Lab (VRDL) for eastern India.“In Kolkata we have already replaced around 2,000 kits at IPGMER. We have also received some requests from School of Tropical Medicine to get their kits replaced. They are being replaced by kits from NIV Pune, which are pre-standardised,” Dutta said.IPGMER is short for the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research. In a series of tweets, the Mamata Banerjee government of West Bengal, which has been drawing flak for its slow pace of Covid-19 testing, recently accused ICMR-NICED of providing defective test kits.“The apparently defective test kits supplied by ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, are resulting in a high number of repeat / confirmatory tests and causing delays and other attendant problems at a time when we are batting a pandemic,” the state health department tweeted on Sunday evening.The state government also tweeted that there had been no problems earlier when the testing kits were being received directly from the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Recently, supplies to government labs in West Bengal have been routed through ICMR-NICED.Until April 21, West Bengal tested 6,182 samples. The state has 274 active Covid-19 cases. Fifteen people have died so far in the state of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-starts-replacing-defective-rt-pcr-kits/story-2InlTZBPZgyALFAba4kwxK.html
21-04-2020||India||Harvest season marked by staggered sales amid curbs||The coronavirus lockdown has made life harder for farmers during the ongoing harvest season as authorities enforce new rules to stagger crop sales in the usually chaotic mandis, or agricultural markets, where it is easy for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to spread.Social distancing rules have doubled the time and labour required to clear harvested stocks, farmers in Punjab and Haryana, two of the country’s largest producers of foodgrains, say. Cultivators are in the middle of winter-sown harvesting. Two key winter crops being harvested now, wheat and oilseeds such as mustard, account for nearly three-fourths of seasonal farm incomes. Authorities in Haryana and Punjab, two food-bowl states, have started issuing coupons or permits to farmers for ferrying grains to markets, which are being run with fewer staff. These trade stamps are being issued to farmers through commission agents, who act as intermediaries in the supply chain. Farmers in these states with harvests must move their grains on specified dates and at specified timings to contract sales at markets regulated under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act. “Earlier, it was easy to harvest field after field. Now, you can’t harvest all of your crop at one go. There’s no storage space on my farm,” Jaipal Singh Nain of Haryana’s Mukarpur village said, pointing to what he calls is a “trolley limit” imposed by the authorities. Officials are permitting no more than 50-60 quintals (100kg each), nearly as much as a tractor-pulled trolley or carriage can hold, Nain said. Farmers said they did not mind practising social distancing, but want governments to compensate them. “Two days of rain last week has spoiled nearly 25% of my wheat. The government should announce higher bonuses for wheat,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Muktsar. Labour costs have doubled because farmers are now being required to first hold the harvested crops before transporting them to the state-regulated markets on specified dates.Punjab is looking to harvest nearly 14 million tonnes of wheat, as India eyes a bumper harvest of the winter staple. The state has set up over 3,500 market yards to eliminate crowding, while Haryana has set up nearly 2,000. Since procurement, which refers to the government’s buying of the produce at federally fixed minimum support price, is staggered, both Haryana and Punjab will extend the date by which operations will be wrapped up, an official, requesting anonymity, said. “Of total wheat sown in 31 million hectares, 63-67% has already been harvested in the country,” the official said.Experts say they expect kharif or summer sowing to begin around the usual third week of June. “Completion of sowing of paddy may take longer time though through the transplantation method under which the crop is first planted in nursery beds before saplings are moved to larger fields,” said Arun Sundaresan, an agricultural scientist with Gromore, a hybrid seed manufacturer. Farmers with power tillers and mechanised farms should see the least disruptions to sowing, he said. Winter pulses were sown in 16 million hectares, official estimates show. Of these, harvesting has been completed for gram, lentil, urad, mung and field peas, the official cited above said. Sugarcane harvesting has been also been completed in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvest-season-marked-by-staggered-sales-amid-curbs/story-uQxfHJb3Lof2TKtQUwEjOI.html
21-04-2020||India||19 die in 24 hrs, Gujarat tally reaches 2,718||Gujarat on Tuesday reported 239 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,178. Nineteen people also died in 24 hours, the most in a day yet in the state, and took the toll to 90. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare, said : “Out of these 239 cases, 78 have been reported from Surat, 125 from Ahmedabad, 11 from Vadodra, five from Banskantha, three from Valsad, and rest from other districts.”Ravi added that the new cases have came from Ghatalodia, Dudheshwar, Daryapur, Chandkheda, Jamalpur, Berhampura, Maninagar, Raipur, Hathijan, Paharal, Naranpura, Danilimdi and Gita Mandir in Ahmedabad. These areas are located in Walled City of Ahmedabad. In Surat, most of the cases were reported from old city localities such as Udhana, Salabatpura, Pandesara, Katargam, Lalgate, Choryasi, Mithi Khari, and Limbayat. The principal secretary said that the health department is testing in large numbers in private and government hospitals. “We have got 35,543 people tested, of which 33,477 tests were negative. We were expecting the increase as many of those tested had symptoms and we are well prepared to deal with the situation,” she said.She added that as many as 30354 people are currently under quarantine, of which 3436 are at government facilities, 26590 in home quarantine and 327 in private.Gujarat’s health department data shows about two-thirds of the total cases in the state were reported from Ahmedabad and Surat.Out of 2178 cases, 1378 have been reported from Ahmedabad, followed by Surat-347, Vadodra-194, Rajkot-40, Bhavnagar-32 and rest are from other districts.The localities in Ahmedabad which have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots are Jamalpur from where 302 cases were reported till Monday, followed by Berhampur- 212, Khadia-109, Dariyapur-108, Danilimdi-91 and Shahpur-39.Similarly, the localities in Surat, from where the maximum number of cases have been reported, are Limbayat- 111 cases, Surat Centra- 59 cases, Varacha A- 43 cases, Udhna-31 cases, Rander-23 cases, Athwa Gate- 10 cases, Katargam- seven cases and Varacha B- sxi cases.The districts from where high numbers of deaths were reported are Ahmedabad-53, Surat-12, Vadodra-seven, Bhavnagar-five, and remaining from rest of the districts.The state Congress party also appealed to the government to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to workers on the front lines. “As the cases of number of corona warriors getting infected are increasing, we have requested the state government to provide PPE kits to medical staff, paramedical staff, police, teams involved in survey and other corona warriors part of emergency services teams,” said Manish Doshi, chief spokespersons, Gujarat Congress committee.State Bhartiya Janata Party’s spokesperson Bharat Pandya said that the government has distributed kits and masks and is making all efforts to contain the virus. “We are number one in terms of testing and also were distributing kits and masks in high number. This is time to create positivity and help people and the state government is doing that successfully,” said Pandya.The state government has also appointed five senior IAS officers to provide guidance and supervise the district administration along with effective implementation of the preventive measures taken for curbing the spread of the pandemic Covid-19. These appointed officers are Sonal Mishra, secretary (Narmada) for Bhavnagar, Mamta Verma (tourism Secretary) for Patan, AM Solanki (managing director (MD), Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation Limited) for Anand, Shahmeena Husain (MD, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited) for Bharuch, and Rajesh Manjhu (transport Commissioner) for Panchmahal.The charge of these districts is given to these officials in addition to their usual responsibilities, a government statement said.Meanwhile, on the first day of the state government’s decision to resume the industrial units in areas other than the municipal corporations and municipality limits of the state, around 6,000 industrial units have become functional.According to government officials, 40,000 to 45,000 worked reported for work in these 6,000 industrial units. “These units mostly consist of chemicals, ceramic tiles, cement and small scale industries. Considering the permissions granted to the industry in the state, more than 15,000 units are estimated to be operational in the next two days,” said an government official.The state government has also appointed a District Committee headed by the Collector to operate the industrial units in the state, keeping in view the strict compliance of the guidelines of the Government of India including social distancing, while providing employment-economic support to the working-class people during the time of lockdown.“The committee has been given the powers to withdraw the permission, if the industries violate or miss the guidelines of the central government,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-die-in-24-hrs-gujarat-tally-reaches-2-718/story-HSciNROkgGmWQuolyQUMEN.html
21-04-2020||India||Gulshan Ewing, pioneering magazine editor, dies of Covid-19 in London||Gulshan Ewing, pioneering editor of magazines in India who interviewed top Bollywood and Hollywood actors and encouraged a generation of writers, passed away on Saturday after being infected with the coronavirus in a care home in London, her daughter said on Tuesday. She was 92. Mrs Ewing, who belonged to a Parsi family in Mumbai, was editor of Eve’s Weekly and Star & Style. She was one of the first women editors of leading Indian publications since the mid-1960s, setting benchmarks in film journalism and focussing on women readers. A confidante of the late Madhubala, one of the most popular actors in Indian film history, Mrs. Ewing was part of Bollywood’s glamour set, interacting closely with leading personalities. She also interviewed Hollywood actors like Cary Grant, Gregory Peck, Danny Kaye, Kirk Douglas and Roger Moore. Mrs. Ewing was part of the group of eclectic Mumbai-based writers, editors and journalists in the Mumbai of the 1970s and 1980s that included prominent names such as Khushwant Singh, BK Karanjia, Dom Moraes and Vimla Patil.Her London-based daughter, Anjali Ewing, said: “There is a very lovely carefree photo with Madhubala and another lady but I don’t have any background on their relationship. She left Mumbai in 1990 for good”.“She kept in touch with a group of journalists from Eve’s Weekly throughout. She didn’t do any writing in London. She loved to encourage new talent. They always talk about how kind she was to them”, she added.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor is one of the writers Mrs. Ewing encouraged. He acknowledged her support for his early writing in his 1990 book, ‘The Five Dollar Smile and Other Stories’.Mrs Ewing was married to Guy Ewing, who grew up in Manchester and moved to India to work as a journalist. They married in Mumbai in 1955 and moved to London in 1990, settling in Richmond. Guy Ewing passed away in 2018.There are concerns that those infected by the virus and passing away in care homes are not being adequately monitored and provided for as Britain’s health authorities grapple with the pandemic that has so far killed over 16,000 people in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulshan-ewing-pioneering-magazine-editor-dies-of-covid-19-in-london/story-yGp0utgHsUkeXaNneyjUtL.html
21-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, Rajasthan deploys 400 OPD vans to treat other diseases||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday ordered the deployment of 400 vans which will be used as mobile outpatient department (OPD) units across the state to ensure uninterrupted health services for the public.The government has also decided to issue appointment letter to 9000 Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) and General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) that were pending for the last two years.Addressing newspersons through video conferencing, chief minister Gehlot said, “We have decided that 400 mobile vans will be deployed at sub-divisional headquarter and other places across the state, they will work as mobile OPD units.”He said the Chief Medical and Health Officers (CMHO) have been directed for the same and the units will be operational from Wednesday in rural and urban areas. Also read: Testing, quarantine more effective than lockdown to check Covid-19, suggests epidemiological model“The public can approach these vans for any general health related problem. The mobile units are instructed, if any person approaches with serious illness, the CMHO should be immediately informed to ensure that the treatment starts on priority at government or private hospital,” he said.The CM said regular patients are suffering as some hospitals have been dedicated to only to treat Covid-19 patients. The private hospitals should fulfil their responsibility but some are not doing so and the health department has issued notices to them. “Strict action will be taken against hospitals which deny treatment. It is the moral and social responsibility of private hospital to provide treatment to patients approaching them,” he said.Rajasthan has recorded 1,576 cases of Covid-19 so far.The government also decided to boost manpower in the fight against Covid-19 as it gave appointment letters to 9000 ANM and GNM from 2018 recruitment.Gehlot who also interacted with a five-member central team through video-conference, emphasised on a centralised procedure for the procurement of testing kits, ventilators, PPE and other medical equipment by the central government.He said that the centre should procure the equipment and make available to the states so as to avoid competitions among states.“The rapid testing kit results are inaccurate and it is a matter of concern.A research team of SMS medical college and Rajasthan University of Health Sciences is examining it. The further course of action in context of the rapid testing kit will be taken after the response from the Indian council of medical research and report of the research team,” said Gehlot.He also raised the issues of migrant labours, demanded a relief package by the central government to all the states, packages for reviving business and for social security of people among others. The central government should announce a relief package for states without any further delay, he reiterated.Earlier in the day, the Centre asked states to suspend rapid testing for Covid-19 for the next two days, following complaints from at least two states that the antibody testing kits were returning erroneous results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-rajasthan-deploys-400-opd-vans-to-treat-other-diseases/story-snZIRGYQjE0SaCULPYcMXO.html
21-04-2020||India||Team of scientists begin work on ways to revive Indian economy after Covid crisis||A team of Indian scientists associated with an autonomous technology think tank under the department of Science and Technology is busy preparing a white paper charting the course for the revival of Indian economy after the coronavirus pandemic gets over, says a Tuesday release from government of India’s press information bureau department.The while paper aimed to strategise on the revival of post-Covid 19 Indian economy will be prepared by the experts of The Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC) “by virtue of its mandate of thinking for future,” says the government release.The white paper focuses on Make in India initiatives, the commercialisation of indigenous technology and reduction of imports in a post-coronavirus India.“This document would mainly focus on strengthening Make in India initiatives, commercialization of Indigenous technology, developing a technology-driven transparent Public Distribution System (PDS), efficient rural health care delivery, reduction of import, adoption of emerging technology domains like AI, Machine Learning, Data Analytics and many more,” says the document.The white paper will soon be ready for submission to the decision-making authorities of the Government.Indian economy, like the rest of the world, is suffering due to the outbreak of the pandemic which is said to be the trigger for the worst recession seen since the great depression during the 1930s.India’s economic growth forecast has been cut down drastically by the IMF for the current fiscal at 1.9%, however, it predicts a robust revival in the economy by the next fiscal. The government has already begun relaxing the strict lockdown restrictions for a gradual resumption of some commercial activity—mainly in the rural sector and farming—which potentially allows for the resumption of 60% of the economy, says Nomura Holdings Inc. However, the output for the year started April 1 is likely to shrink by 0.4% compared with the growth of 4.6% the previous year. There are also concerns over labour shortages that could last for as long as six months and loss of jobs that could extend to 40 million before the end of the year, says a livemint report.Almost all sectors including manufacturing, trade, transport, tourism, education, healthcare have been hit and the government feels that the virus containment strategy also has a big role to play on the overall economic impact on the economy.The government has announced a fiscal relief package worth 1.7 lakh for individuals and businesses and the RBI has also undertaken steep rate cuts to ease the liquidity pressure on lenders and borrowers. The finance minister has promised to do more in the coming days while allowing the non-banking financial companies, housing finance companies, and microfinance institutions to function from April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-of-scientists-begin-work-on-ways-to-revive-indian-economy-after-covid-crisis/story-Z7yTOq1RI8kRwQWp0vSaQK.html
21-04-2020||India||Health ministry issues SOP for bringing back remains of Covid-19 patients||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) late Tuesday said the importation of human remains of confirmed/suspected Covid-19 cases into India is not recommended as it released a lengthy set of guidelines/standard operating procedures for bringing back bodies of those dying of coronavirus.It said that if human remains of the suspected/confirmed case of Covid-19 arrive at Indian airports, the concerned Airport Health Officer (APHO) will verify the death certificate mentioning the cause of death as confirmed Covid-19/suspected Covid-19.The APHO will also verify the no objection certificate (NOC) for the transportation of remains of the deceased issued by the Indian Embassies/ High Commissions/Consulates and the embalming certificate issued by an authorized agency.“The concerned airline shall ensure that the external packing of human remains (coffin) is undamaged. APHO to verify the documents and inspect the packing in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954,” the guidelines said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.It also suggested steps to be followed in case of damage to the coffin.“If there are any obvious signs of damage to the external packing (coffin), the handlers shall use full PPE, cover the coffin in plastic sheets to avoid any contact with the body/ body fluids before hand-over of the human remains to the concerned authority for final burial/incineration.”It said the personnel handling the human remains should follow the laid down procedures for donning and doffing of Personal Protective Equipment and follow other protective measures for Covid-19, like hand-washing with soap and water, etc. to ensure that they remain protected during the procedure.“The packaging (coffin) shall be buried/incinerated following the norms for burial/incineration for human remains with high risk pathogens. The handlers would be monitored for 28 days and the designated vehicle shall be disinfected as per the norms,” it said.“In all such cases, the APHO shall direct the concerned airline (carrying the damaged packing containing human remains) to carry out the disinfection of the aircraft as per the norms. In addition, the staff handling the cargo (Human remains in question) shall be quarantined for 28 days,” said the guidelinesThe ashes remaining after cremation pose no risk to the relatives who handle such mortal remains and will be cleared in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954, the SOP said.Any death onboard during the pandemic is to be suspected of Covid-19, unless proved otherwise.According to the SOP, “The pilot in command of the aircraft has to inform about the death onboard to APHO for taking appropriate measures. The crew will cover the dead body with sheets/blankets and move the passengers from nearby seats to other seats. If the remaining flight time is more than 8 hours, the pilot would seek permission to land at the nearest airport.”There is a separate set of procedures if the aircraft lands in Indian territory with an onboard casualty.“The pilot in command of the aircraft has to mention in the General Declaration, the details of any illness/symptoms reported/experienced by the deceased prior to death and submit it to the APHO.”All passengers will have to disembark before the body is handled inside the aircraft.“Trained staff from the airport, using full PPE, shall move the deceased from the aircraft seat to a wheelchair. The wheelchair shall be taken out onto the tarmac. At the tarmac, a nasal swab shall be taken by the State Health Authorities and sealed in triple layered package (refer to guidance on sample collection and packaging) for testing at a designated lab. Thereafter, the body shall be placed in an air-borne pathogen resistant body bag and hermetically sealed.”It said law enforcement agencies have to be informed as per the provisions of the rules. The relatives of the deceased, if not co-passenger(s), will be informed immediately.If applicable, the APHO will issue a brought/received-dead certificate.If the arrival of relatives of the deceased is expected to be delayed till the tst report is received, the body shall be kept in mortuary of the designated hospital, with full sanitization process.Under the SOP, “the body would be transported in a designated vehicle to the burial ground/crematorium. The guidelines for the disposal of a highly infectious dead body are to be followed.”According to the guidelines, “Autopsy in confirmed Covid-19 cases is not recommended. If report is Covid-19 negative, natural process as per law to be adopted.”The guidelines also prescribed the disinfection and decontamination of the aircraft according to approved procedures. The vehicle used for carrying the body will also have to be disinfected as also the tarmac area where the body is kept while drawing sample and during sealing.Under the SOP, airlines will provide the detailed list of passengers and crew to the APHO for further surveillance by the IDSP for next 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-sop-for-bringing-back-remains-of-covid-19-patients/story-Cw8U4PcFEAc69tZUGuvztJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Lockdown exemptions: Centre exempts prepaid mobile charging shops from lockdown||The home ministry has clarified that prepaid mobile recharge utilities have already been exempted from the national lockdown provisions enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. An official communication signed by the secretary of home ministry Ajay Bhalla also adds that food processing units and caregivers of senior citizens are also exempted from the restriction of movement imposed through the lockdown restrictions.The letter has been addressed to chief secretaries of all states and Union territories and it says that the clarification is being issued in response to certain queries received in reference to exemptions to specific services within the categories that are already allowed under the previous orders issued by the Central government.The Centre had announced fresh guidelines listing exemptions from the second phase of lockdown on April 15, which was modified twice on April 16 and April 19.The MHA missive adds that the exemptions are granted only on the condition of maintaining social distancing measures in offices, workshops, factories and other establishments.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe communication refers to permission granted for the resumption of select business activity with the aim to restart up to 40% of economic activity. Farm and agriculture sector has been given complete exemption from lockdown measures along with rural employment generation projects and other enterprises that employ daily wagers. A senior home ministry official confirmed that positive reports on resumption of these activities had been received. The second phase of lockdown ends on May 3.The home ministry has been consistently communicating on implementation of the lockdown measures with the states. It has also constituted central teams that are visiting states to monitor the implementation of strictures post April 20 when select relaxations came into effect. It had earlier cautioned West Bengal government for not following the Centre’s directives and allowing for a gradual easing of restrictions, considered to be counterproductive to the containment efforts. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-exemptions-centre-issues-clarification-on-prepaid-mobile-charging-shops/story-BBzrIUPtVqdZuu0nUgfCAK.html
21-04-2020||India||JD (U), BJP seek action as NDA leaders embarrass Nitish Kumar by defying lockdown||There was more embarrassment for the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Tuesday after it emerged that a Janata Dal (United) MP had broken lockdown norms and drove down from Delhi a week ago.Ahead of the news of JD (U) MP from Purnia , Santosh Kumar driving from Delhi, BJP MLA from Hisua, Anil Singh had created a furore by driving to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back his daughter three days ago.The antics of the two NDA leaders defying lockdown have not gone down well with either the JD (U) or BJP and both parties have demanded action against errant leaders.The state parliamentary affairs minister Sravan Kumar of the JD (U) on Tuesday demanded from the top leadership of both the parties, the BJP and the JD (U), to take cognizance of the breach of lockdown norms.“If action is taken against officials, the BJP leadership also should take action. I also expect that JD (U) leadership will also take note of travels by party MP and seek clarification from him. After all they are the public representatives,” said the minister.The BJP also echoed similar sentiments. “Bihar government under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Modi is working seriously and tirelessly to enforce lockdown and help the citizens. No one is allowed to violate the rules and regulation of the Lockdown. Our government will look into the matter in a very neutral manner, if anyone is found guilty of breaking the accepted official procedure of travel during lockdown. Everyone must abide by the rules and strictly follow the system,” said BJP spokesperson, Nikhil Anand.The Purnia MP did not respond to repeated calls made by the HT. However, a close associate of the MP, who is not authorized to speak to the media said that the MP came a week back and distributed ‘relief materials to needy. “After that he went into quarantine,” he said.This, incidentally, is not the isolated case of ‘preferential treatment to VIPs’ during lockdown. On April 11, a similar pass was issued to former ward councillor of Muzaffarpur by local administration to bring back his daughter from Kota. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekahar Singh accepted that “certain passes were issued under special circumstances during the first phase of lockdown.’These cases of lockdown violation at a time when the government has been maintaining that it will not evacuate thousands of students from Bihar stranded in Kota, has given the opposition an opportunity to attack Nitish Kumar.“Only students of lesser mortals will remain stuck outside state while the CM will give special relief to specials. How long these dual policies of the government continue? It seems that CM is not concerned with migrants and students stuck up elsewhere,” said leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.On Tuesday, Speaker of Bihar assembly requested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who represents Kota parliamentary constituency to ensure proper care of students stranded in Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-bjp-seek-action-as-nda-leaders-embarrass-nitish-kumar-by-defying-lockdown/story-6Q8f8OsKXRoHsQBLxAKD3J.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Full list of 87 containment zones in Delhi as of Tuesday evening||At least three more Delhi neighbourhoods were added to Covid containment zones in the national capital on Tuesday, taking the total number of coronavirus hotspots in the city-state to 87. The localities of Devli Extension in South Delhi, Harsh Vihar in Hari Nagar Extension (South East Delhi) and Krishna Puri in Mandawali of East Delhi were the latest additions to the list. The containment zones are sealed restricting movement of people in the area. The highest number of containment areas—15—are in the West District.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Here is the full list of Delhi containment Zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-full-list-of-87-containment-zones-in-delhi-as-of-tuesday-evening/story-dJk3NGFdJCNpn2UvA2haNL.html
21-04-2020||India||Focus inward for military needs in post-Covid-19 world, say top Army officials||India must turn focus inward for its military needs in the post-Covid world and make every effort to cut dependence on imported military hardware that could not only become cost prohibitive but also hard to come by in the coming years, three senior military officers said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.The armed forces will have to get rid of their traditional appetite for imported weapons and equipment, and work in harness with the domestic industry to guarantee self-reliance in defence, said the officers with direct knowledge of the military’s modernisation goals.Despite pursuing the Make in India programme vigorously to reduce military imports, the country was the second-largest arms importer in the world over the last five years, according to data published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute last month.“Indigenisation with Make in India as the dictum can no longer be a mere slogan. If the coronavirus crisis has energised us to produce ventilators, personal protective equipment and other gear for our healthcare workers in a matter of weeks, the focus in the coming times should be on fueling a new wave of innovation in the defence sector,” said the first officer cited above.Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for a raft of weapons and systems, including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers.“This is the time for us to look inward. The local industry is willing to support indigenisation, although it may not be able produce the best weapons and equipment. But if given the opportunity, it will reach global standards over time. It requires the full support of the armed forces. The temptation to import hardware will have to be resisted,” said the second officer cited above.From warships, fighter jets to air defence systems and helicopters, modern artillery gun systems to ammunition, the domestic industry has demonstrated that it has potential to contribute to building a stronger military, the second officer pointed out. One of the key responsibilities assigned by the government to the department of military affairs, headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, is to promote the use of indigenous military equipment in the armed forces.“After the 2016 Uri strike, the armed forces scrambled to fill worrying gaps in their arsenal, including ammunition. We can’t allow this to happen. Encouraging the domestic industry will help us get more bang for the buck and ensure we are not in dire straits in times of conflict,” said the third officer cited above.He added a robust indigenous defence industry would allow the armed forces to cut costs by holding lesser stocks of weapons and ammunition because production and supplies could be ramped up when required.“Storage in itself is cost prohibitive because high-grade weapons and ammunition require special storage conditions, including air conditioning. Round-the-clock security of large ammunition and weapon storage depots also adds to the cost,” he stressed.The draft Defence Production Policy-2018 visualises India as one of the top five countries in the aerospace and defence sectors in the coming years, with defence goods and services accounting for a turnover of Rs 1.7 lakh crore by 2025. It also seeks to drastically reduce India’s dependence on imported military hardware over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-inward-for-military-needs-in-post-covid-19-world-army-official/story-KebRctf22AY6buVe41TpyJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Palghar lynching: NHRC demands answers from Maharashtra police in four weeks||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to Maharashtra top cop over Palghar lynching case in which three people including two Hindu ascetics were killed, allegedly in the presence of police on April 16, 2020, during the national lockdown.A press release on Tuesday from the human rights body said Maharashtra DGP has been asked to submit a detailed report within four weeks which should also include action taken against the culprits and the relief offered to victims’ kin. “The death of three persons in such a cruel manner by the unruly mob that too during the countrywide lockdown, under extra vigil by the administration and police, amounts to gross violation of the right to life of the victims,” the NHRC notice said.The victims identified as 70-year-old Kalpavruksha Giri, 35-year-old Sushil Giri—both Hindu sadhus-- and their driver Neelesh Telgade, were lynched last Thursday in Gadhchinchale village, 110km from Palghar. The victims were reportedly attempting to go to Gujarat to attend the last rites of their religious guru but were attacked by a mob that apparently mistook them for child-lifters.A video of the incident went viral on Sunday, where unarmed policemen were seen watching the incident without making any intervention.The incident led to a political controversy with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacking the Shiv Sena led state government for alleged negligence and cover-up claiming its handling of the incident was political as it involved Hindus.The NHRC notice also cites media reports to question alleged police inaction.“The video of the attack on the deceased persons went viral, on 19.04.2020, which showed that police personnel were also present when the victims were being attacked,” the NHRC communication on the matter said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned against communalisation of the incident and he was backed by NCP chief Sharad Pawar who said it was not the time for settling old political scores. Also Read : ‘No time to settle political scores’: Sharad Pawar on Palghar lynching blameUddhav said swift action had been taken in the case with arrests of over 100 suspects including five key accused. He added that two policemen had also been suspended for dereliction of duty. A probe by additional director general (CID) has also been ordered into the case.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palghar-lynching-nhrc-demands-answers-from-maharashtra-police-in-four-weeks/story-FD9ocAr4eqqT602vuBcG2M.html
21-04-2020||India||Testing, quarantine more effective than lockdown to check Covid-19, suggests epidemiological model||Extensive testing to identify asymptomatic individuals and quarantining those diagnosed with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) with continued social distancing - not a lockdown alone - is the sole effective strategy to contain the pandemic in India, recommends the first India-specific epidemiological model for Covid-19’s spread in the country.“Lockdowns are not very effective, especially India-wide lockdowns, because the disease will inevitably flare up again after the lockdown ends,” said Gautam Menon, professor of biology and physics, Ashoka University, Delhi. “We stress that a comprehensive testing and quarantining regime is the only real long-term solution, until a vaccine is found.”Termed as INDISCI-SIM, the first detailed state-level epidemiological model for India has been developed by scientists from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science at Bengaluru and Ashoka University under the banner of the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19 – a voluntary group of more than 400 scientists.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.On Tuesday, principal scientific advisor to the government of India K VijayRaghavan in his reaction to INDISCI-SIM tweeted, “Thanks all involved. These are useful analyses and are being looked at carefully along with other inputs.”The model involves nine different detailed compartments – susceptible, exposed, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic, mild symptomatic, severely symptomatic, hospitalised, recovered and dead - and compares each stage with non-pharmaceutical interventions such as lockdown, quarantining and expanded testing to drawn an inference on propagation of the disease.“This is possibly the most vigorous model with several built complexities that can be further broken down to state, city or district levels,” said Bhalchandra Pujari, Centre for modeling and Simulation, SPPU. “In case of the virus and depending on a person, the patient may take one of these nine paths. Our model demonstrates how one phase of a typical population will travel from one compartment to another.”For instance, the window of recovery is highest for tested asymptomatic individuals followed by mildly symptomatic, while it’s the least for severely symptomatic and critical.“Model simulations do not quantify the economic costs of the lockdown,” said Pujari. “Extension or not of the lockdown after May 3, India must increase testing capacities faster than the propagation of the disease. Opening up transport pan-India is not a good idea as per our model.”Menon said INDISCI-SIM is the most detailed and versatile among current models for the disease’s trajectory in India.“We plan to release an on-line tool in which anyone can test different scenarios for themselves, including policy makers and other researchers. The program will also be made publicly available,” added Menon.Subsequent versions of the model will incorporate district level description, in addition to differing health care capacities across different regions and their implications for disease spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-quarantine-more-effective-than-lockdown-to-check-covid-19-suggests-epidemiological-model/story-SIOXB8SzEHugmI0D3bOXoN.html
21-04-2020||India||Fire at Mumbai hotel turned into Covid-19 quarantine centre; all safe||A fire broke out on Tuesday evening at a hotel-turned-quarantine centre in Mumbai’s Nagpada area. No one was reported injured in the incident. The fire broke out on the first floor of the Ripon Palace hotel, located on Belasis road in Mumbai central. It’s a five-storey structure. Five fire engines and four jumbo tankers were pressed into service to contain the blaze. There were 25 people at the facility. All of them have been rescued by the fire brigade.The fire brigade reported it as a level-2 fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-hotel-acting-as-covid-19-quarantine-centre/story-aU8qGPiDG85d6laLQEKlBP.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Harvests see staggered sales under lockdown||The coronavirus lockdown has made life harder for farmers during the ongoing harvest season as authorities enforce new rules to stagger crop sales in the usually chaotic mandis, or agricultural markets, where it is easy for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to spread.Social distancing rules have doubled the time and labour required to clear harvested stocks, say farmers in Punjab and Haryana, two of the country’s largest producers of foodgrains.Cultivators are in the middle of winter-sown harvesting. Two key winter crops being harvested now, wheat and oilseeds such as mustard, account for nearly three-fourths of seasonal farm incomes.Authorities in Haryana and Punjab, two food-bowl states, have started issuing coupons or permits to farmers for ferrying grains to markets, which are being run with fewer staff. These trade stamps are being issued to farmers through commission agents, who act as intermediaries in the supply chain.Farmers in these states with harvests must move their grains on specified dates and at specified timings to contract sales at markets regulated under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act.“Earlier, it was easy to harvest field after field. Now, you can’t harvest all of your crop at one go. There’s no storage space on my farm,” Jaipal Singh Nain of Haryana’s Mukarpur village said, pointing to what he calls is a “trolley limit” imposed by the authorities.Officials are permitting no more than 50-60 quintals (100kg each), nearly as much as a tractor-pulled trolley or carriage can hold, Nain said.Farmers said they did not mind practising social distancing, but want governments to compensate them. “Two days of rain last week has spoiled nearly 25% of my wheat. The government should announce higher bonuses for wheat,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Muktsar.Labour costs have doubled because farmers are now being required to first hold the harvested crops before transporting them to the state-regulated markets on specified dates.Punjab is looking to harvest nearly 14 million tonnes of wheat, as India eyes a bumper harvest of the winter staple. The state has set up over 3,500 market yards to eliminate crowding, while Haryana has set up nearly 2,000.Since procurement, which refers to the government’s buying of the produce at federally fixed minimum support price, is staggered, both Haryana and Punjab will extend the date by which operations will be wrapped up, an official, requesting anonymity, said.“Of total wheat sown in 31 million hectares, 63-67% has already been harvested in the country,” the official said.Experts say they expect kharif or summer sowing to begin around the usual third week of June. “Completion of sowing of paddy may take longer time though through the transplantation method under which the crop is first planted in nursery beds before saplings are moved to larger fields,” said Arun Sundaresan, an agricultural scientist with Gromore, a hybrid seed manufacturer.Farmers with power tillers and mechanised farms should see the least disruptions to sowing, he said.Winter pulses were sown in 16 million hectares, official estimates show. Of these, harvesting has been completed for gram, lentil, urad, mung and field peas, the official cited above said. Sugarcane harvesting has been also been completed in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvests-see-staggered-sales-under-lockdown/story-Qv20ckg9ApoJQngwDNDPQN.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Total infections in India now 18,985, casualties cross 600 mark||The number of people affected by Covid-19 India has risen to 18,985 while the number of deaths climbed to 603, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said Tuesday.A total of 3,259 people have been cured.Maharashtra continues to have the highest number of infections at 4,669 followed by Delhi with 2,081 cases and Gujarat at 2,066.Rajasthan with 1,576 cases, Madhya Pradesh (1,540), Tamil Nadu (1,520) and Uttar Pradesh with (1,294) are four other states with high incidence of Covid-19Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Four states- Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Goa - have no active Covid-19 cases. Earlier in the day, the government asked states to suspend rapid testing for Covid-19 for the next two days, following complaints from at least two states that the antibody testing kits were returning erroneous results.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that in the next two days, eight of its institutes will carry out field tests using the rapid testing kits in different states for validation purposes and to find out if certain batches of the kits are faulty, following which feedback will be provided to states and the general public.The government recently imported a large quantity of testing kits from China. Several other states have bought South Korean testing kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-total-infections-in-india-now-18-985-casualties-cross-600-mark/story-EDVIEGFDfQ0DmR1LyW7GbM.html
21-04-2020||India||New study suggests men take longer than women to recover from Covid-19||A new analysis of Covid-19 patients admitted in the isolation ward of a Mumbai hospital, and three families who tested positive for the virus, has found that men have a delayed viral clearance compared to women patients -- or, simply put, men test positive for the virus for a longer time than women.The analysis does not mention if men also remain symptomatic for a longer time.The yet-to-be-published paper uploaded in MedRxiv, a preprint server for health research papers, suggests that high expression of ACE2 (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) in the testes raises the possibility that testicular viral reservoirs may be playing a role in viral persistence among male patients.The study was conducted by 10 scientists from the Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Mumbai; Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York; Department of Microbiology, Topiwala National Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable Hospital, Mumbai, involved 68 patients -- 48 men and 20 women, with a median age of 35 -- admitted to Kasturba Hospital with infectious diseases. seven members of three families tested positive.Swabs collected at the time of diagnosis were tested using the Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method and subsequent swabs were collected at approximately 48 hour intervals until they tested negative. The median time for testing negative for male patients was six days, compared to four days for women, the study said.“ACE2 was determined to be highly expressed in testicular cells at the protein levels. Interestingly, very little expression of ACE2 was seen in ovarian tissue. Taken together, these observations demonstrate for the first time that male subjects have delayed viral clearance of Sars-CoV-2 (the virus that cause Covid-19). High expression of ACE2 in testes raises the possibility that testicular viral reservoirs may play a role in viral persistence in males,” the paper concluded.To be sure, the theory is still to be validated.“It is true that ACE2 receptors are present in the testicular cells and the virus may be binding there and staying for a longer time. But this is the only paper which is saying this could be the reason. At the moment, we cannot generalise,” said Dr Shobha Broor, the former head of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) department of virology, who has read the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-study-suggests-men-take-longer-than-women-to-recover-from-covid-19/story-cBslLC5ry4HP9gWJYtuF2J.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Kejriwal brings half of Delhi under free ration scheme||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal on Tuesday promised free ration to additional 30 lakh poor residents in the capital who do not have ration cards till the time they continue to reel under the economic impact of the global pandemic. The announcement took the total number of beneficiaries under the free ration scheme to 1 crore-- almost half of the city’s total population. Kejriwal didn’t specify the period till which the temporary relief will last but added that the provision was part of his government’s effort to provide the residents with food security during the outbreak. “As long as the impact of coronavirus lasts and the poor are unable to earn their bread, we will ensure their food security. We have a plan in place. 71 lakh people have already been given 7.5 kg of rations. Government has now decided to distribute free ration to another 30 lakh people,” he said. He said the decision to include another 30 lakh people was taken on Tuesday. The AAP government, he said, also decided to provide a kit to all beneficiaries containing items of daily needs besides the ration. “Every family with ration card and also those with e-coupons will be given a basic kit of provisions of daily needs including cooking oil, spices, pulses, sugar, salt, soap etc, along with their ration for the month of May when distribution begins at the end of April,” Kejriwal said.In another welfare measure aimed to cover several other temporary migrant workers who may not figure in the above two categories of the poor people, Kejriwal announced a food coupon scheme, which he said will be delivered through the people’s representative of the state.Under the coupon scheme, every MP and MLA representing the city-state will be given 2000 food coupons each to be distributed among the temporary migrant workers, who do not have either ration cards or e-coupons. The food coupons will make them eligible for receiving 5 kg of free ration. Delhi has 70 MLAs- 62 from AAP and 8 from the BJP—and 7 MPs—all from the BJP. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Providing the latest official figures, Kejriwal said that a total of 2081 coronavirus positive cases were reported in Delhi till Monday night. Over 20% of total patients—431 in absolute numbers-- have recovered so far while 47 people have lost their lives due to the virus. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi stood at 1603, he said.Kejriwal said that 80% of all deceased were over 50 years of age and 83% of all the coronavirus casualties had co-morbidities.“Those with co-morbidity make 83% of all coronavirus fatalities. Coronavirus worsens an existing medical condition like sugar, heart, cancer etc. Elderly people must be taken good care of and they must maintain social distancing measures,” he said.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-kejriwal-brings-half-of-delhi-under-free-ration-scheme/story-7mxskbvzFKdFL6Ahk3kxSN.html
21-04-2020||India||NFR modifies 315 passenger coaches to make 2500 isolation units for Covid-19 patients||Guwahati: The Guwahati-headquartered Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has modified 315 of its passenger coaches into 2,500 isolation units to cater to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in a bid to boost the government’s fight against the pandemic.“We’ve modified 315 passenger coaches as 2,500 isolation units, which will be made available to health authorities, as and when required,” Subhanan Chanda, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NFR said.NFR has also equipped the existing railway hospitals to meet the Covid-19 requirements, earmarking 170 hospital beds as isolation units, arranging about 800-bed quarantine facilities and recruiting additional doctors and paramedics to deal with any exigency.The effort is part of NFR’s six-pronged strategy to tackle Covid-19 related emergencies. NFR serves all seven north-eastern states, parts of north Bengal and neighbouring Bihar.“NFR has produced 2500 litres of hand sanitiser and 76,000 reusable face masks. It has also made 407 personal protective equipment (PPE) overalls,” Chanda said.NFR has unloaded 450 rakes in good sheds across the north-east to ensure that there is no shortage of essential commodities in this remote part of the country. The authorities have sent 25 parcel express trains carrying goods to Dibrugarh (Upper Assam), Dimapur (Nagaland), Mendipathar (Meghalaya) and Agartala (Tripura) to date. Besides, they have also used their facilities to provide 85,000 free meals to the needy amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nfr-modifies-315-passenger-coaches-to-make-2500-isolation-units-for-covid-19-patients/story-0P1iTzoOhfjpPDsXD3DSwI.html
21-04-2020||India||2 workers on way home amid lockdown stop to eat on tracks. Train runs over them||Two labourers, who had sat down to have breakfast on a railway track, were run over by an incoming freight train at around 8am on Tuesday in Chhattisgarh’s Koriya district. The victims were walking back to their native villages in Surajpur district amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Police said the incident took place between Udalkachhar and Darritola railway stations under Koriya district.City superintendent of police (CSP), Manendragarh, Karn Kumar Uike, said that the victims, Kaleshwar Rajwade (21) and Gulab Rajwade (20) along with two other workers started walking from Pendra-Marwahi-Gaurela district on Monday for their native villages in Surajpur district, located around 130km from Pendra, along the railway tracks.“The workers decided to walk along the railway track, as no transport service was available due to the ongoing lockdown. They walked through Monday night and reached a spot between Udalkachhar and Darritola stations on the Anuppur-Ambikapur rail route, located around 80km from Pendra. The victims were eating their breakfast on the railway track, while the other two workers had gone to fetch water. The victims didn’t see the incoming freight train because of a curve on the track. They were run over at around 8am on Tuesday,” said CSP Uike.The other two workers informed the police and later the victims’ bodies were sent for post-mortem examination.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over the workers’ death and instructed the district authorities to provide necessary assistance to the family members of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-labourers-on-way-home-on-foot-run-over-by-a-freight-train-in-chhattisgarh/story-Az2ZWt7lOLaU9Z4O07MtYP.html
21-04-2020||India||ICMR starts replacing Covid-19 test kits yielding inconclusive results||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun replacing consignments of “apparently defective” Covid-19 testing kits at state-run laboratories after they produced inconclusive results, a top official said in Kolkata on Tuesday.“ICMR has decided to replace the kits, which some states claimed were yielding inconclusive results. These kits were supposed to be standardised by medical colleges and kept at -20 degrees Celsius, without which they would give inconclusive results,” said Shanta Dutta, director of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) here.“It appears that neither the state-run medical colleges standardised the kits, nor did they maintain the right temperature. But as the testing needs to carry on, these will now be replaced by kits from the National Institute of Virology in Pune.”Standardisation is the process in which a kit is checked whether it is giving correct results before it is put to use for testing samples.NICED, part of ICMR, is a research institute under the Union health ministry and the regional virus research diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) for eastern India.“In Kolkata, we have already replaced around 2,000 kits at IPGMER (Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research). We have received some requests from the School of Tropical Medicine to get their kits replaced. They are being replaced by kits from NIV in Pune, which are pre-standardised,” Dutta said.In a string of tweets, the Mamata Banerjee government, which has been criticised for its low rate of Covid-19 tests, accused the ICMR and NICED of providing defective testing kits.“The apparently defective test kits supplied by ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, are resulting in a high number of repeat/confirmatory tests and causing delays and other attendant problems at a time when we are batting a pandemic,” the state health department tweeted on Sunday.The state government also tweeted there were no problems earlier when the testing kits were received directly from the NIV in Pune. Recently, supplies to government laboratories in West Bengal have been routed through NICED.Responding to the state government’s tweets, Dutta said: “Earlier, when kits were required in smaller quantities, they were imported, standardised and then distributed by NIV in Pune. But when the demand started rising, ICMR imported the kits and sent them directly to 16 regional hubs, including NICED in Kolkata.“The kits were then distributed to state-run medical colleges, where they were required to be standardised. But this is not being done because of lack of time and technical know-how. That’s why sometimes these kits are giving inconclusive results.”A few days ago, Dutta had said that NICED wasn’t getting enough swab samples from the state government for testing.Till April 21, the state tested 6,182 samples. There are currently 274 active Covid-19 cases in the state and 15 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-starts-replacing-defective-covid-19-test-kits-with-standardised-ones-from-niv/story-0f7FHidVqxS5SCOGnTXraM.html
21-04-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath’s father cremated in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand CM pays tributes||The last rites of Anand Singh Bisht, father of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, were conducted in Rishikesh on Tuesday in the presence of close family members, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and other ministers. Yogi could not attend the funeral due to the nationwide lockdown and the last rites were conducted by the deceased’s youngest son Mahendra Bisht. The mortal remains of 90-year-old Bisht reached his ancestral village in Pauri Garhwal on Monday evening in an ambulance from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, where he succumbed earlier in the day after undergoing treatment for the past three months.The UP chief minister had made it clear yesterday that he would not attend the funeral of his father as he was duty-bound to stay in the state while a national lockdown to fight coronavirus was in place.Anand Singh Bisht once worked with the Uttarakhand forest department as a range officer and used his knowledge of the area and the people very well as a social worker after retirement.Rawat paid tributes to the departed soul at Phoolchatti in Pauri Garhwal district and consoled the bereaved family.“The loss of social worker like Anand Singh ji will always be remembered by the state. The work done by him towards society will always be remembered. May God gives strength to the bereaved family to bear this loss,” said Rawat.Ritu Khanduri, a legislator from Yamkeshwar block in Pauri Garhwal from where Bisht hailed, said that despite his old age, Bisht’s enthusiasm for helping people never saw any decline.For Coronavirus Live Updates“I had known him for the past three years and he was like a father figure to me. From meetings to inaugurations of schools and colleges, helping children study better, I would always see him working for society,” said Khanduri.Sharing an anecdote, she said, “Once there was a programme at a school in the block, and there was a one-kilometre steep walk downhill. By the time we were seeing off the chief minister, he had already climbed up the hill, like a young boy.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-s-father-cremated-in-rishikesh-uttarakhand-cm-pays-tributes/story-wlFRSmOtaYa3gxPYDNKFFL.html
21-04-2020||India||Puducherry’s lockdown exit plan depends on Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister explains||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy says he will lift the lockdown only after assessing the situation in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. In an interview, he says that tourism will not be allowed in Puducherry for the time being and the Union Territory will implement the odd-even scheme for the movement of vehicles even if the lockdown is lifted. Edited excerpts:Q: Out of the seven coronavirus cases in Puducherry, only three are active now. How did you manage that?A: We had announced the lockdown on March 23 and sealed the border with Tamil Nadu. We had around 6000 foreign tourists from February 22 to March 20. Around 20% of them were staying on the day of the announcement of lockdown and 80% had already left. They were staying in around 300 hotels across Puducherry. These included those who stayed at Auroville. So, we identified around 550 people who came in contact with the tourists in hotels and other places and put them in quarantine. I also announced a prison term of one year for anyone violating the restrictions. We have been able to contain the pandemic through these measures despite the situation in neighbouring Tamil Nadu going beyond anybody’s imagination. The Prime Minister also told me you are a lucky person.Q: Are you satisfied with the Central assistance?A: Except rice, nothing has been given. I had also informed the Prime Minister that we have not been given the GST compensation for four months. We are yet to receive any additional grants. Besides, the arrears of the seventh pay commission haven’t been paid to us yet.Q: Are you allowing some economic activity in the UT?A: We have allowed agricultural activities, movement of foodgrains, harvesting, sowing, and opening of fertiliser, seeds and pesticide shops. We wanted to start government and unfinished construction but we are careful as far as industrial activity is concerned.Q: Will you lift the lockdown completely on May 3?A: Even if the Central government decides to lift it, we will take a call depending on the local conditions. But much depends on the situation in neighbouring Tamil Nadu where the number of coronavirus cases is significantly increasing every day. If the situation is serious there, we will not lift the lockdown. But whatever call we take will l be a well thought out one.Q: But what is your exit strategy whenever you decide to lift it?A: We will not allow any tourism in Puducherry for the time being. Similarly, we will not open our border with Tamil Nadu. We will go for odd-even formula in allowing movement of vehicles. We will allow two wheelers first and then four wheelers depending on the situation. As far as schools and colleges are concerned, the online classes have already started. We have told the government offices that only 33% of the staff will be allowed to come to work on a day, the officials will have to follow strict social distancing norms, use masks and sanitisers. Strict procedure will be followed in industries too. We have instructed that only 33% of the total capacity should be run, all buildings must be sanitised, employees should be from nearby places, they should go for health check-ups every day and insurance cover should be provided to them. We have told the industry to go slow and in a staggered manner. If any industry is found violating these norms, we will seal it.Q: What led to the fresh tussle between you and the L-G?A: The Central government announced 5kg of wheat or rice to every poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. When we wanted to distribute free rice and wheat to the poor people, the L-G [Kiran Bedi] stalled it. She directed that instead of rice or wheat, money should be given to them. She even raised the issue during her video conferencing with President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu. But I got the letter from union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan saying that besides rice or wheat we also have to distribute dal. I also complained about it to the Prime Minister with whom I spoke a day after his video conference with chief ministers on April 11. I told him that she is not allowing us to distribute free rice to the poor as provided by the central government. Moreover, I told him that we have not been provided with any financial assistance so far. The Prime Minister said he will look into it. I also spoke to home minister Amit Shah and complained to him as well. The L-G is also blocking distribution of free rice to APL [above poverty line] families during the lockdown period. I now have written to the central government about this also.Q: Did the Prime Minister and the home minister give any assurance to you in this regard?A: The Prime Minister heard it and the home minister assured me that he will talk to her (Kiran Bedi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-the-situation-is-serious-in-tn-we-won-t-lift-the-lockdown-in-the-ut-on-3-may-puducherry-cm/story-IJ16jksbaPxK27DXb2qApN.html
21-04-2020||India||MHA directs Bengal govt not to obstruct Central Covid-19 teams in state||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday shot off a letter to the Bengal government directing it to allow the two interministerial central teams sent to review implementation of lockdown measures in select districts to carry out their duties. The teams comprise public health specialists and officers of disaster management authority, the letter adds, whose expertise can be leveraged by the state for managing the Covid-19 pandemic.The letter further complains that the teams at Kolkata and Jalpaiguri have not been provided with requisite cooperation by state and local authorities. They have been restrained from taking any visits, interacting with professionals and assessing ground-level situation in the state, the letter alleges.Also Watch l ‘States fighting coronavirus, Centre fighting states’: TMC slams Modi govt“This amounts to obstructing the implementation of the orders issued by the central government under the Disaster Management Act and the directions of the Supreme Court,” the letter says.It urged the government to allow Central teams to work freely.“You are therefore directed to comply with the order and make necessary arrangements to the teams to carry out such responsibilities that been entrusted on them,” it said.The Trinamool Congress, on its part, alleged that while the states in India were fighting a battle against novel coronavirus, the Narendra Modi-led Central government was fighting some states instead of fighting the virus.“About 70%-80% of the districts chosen for the Central teams’ visits are from states ruled by opposition parties. Why no district from Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat is part of the list?” O’Brien, who is party’s Rajya Sabha member, asked.Two teams from the union government landed in Kolkata on Monday to visit seven districts to review implementation of the lockdown and moves taken by the health administration. Objecting to the visit, chief minister Mamata Banerjee termed the Centre’s decision as ‘unilateral’ and ‘undesirable’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-directs-bengal-govt-not-to-obstruct-central-covid-19-teams-in-state/story-q0gcBhxxMVxc4qkzPJy4EP.html
21-04-2020||India||Andhra CM wants focus on Kurnool and Guntur as Covid-19 cases spike||Andhra Pradesh continued to register a high incidence of Covid-19 with two deaths and 35 fresh positive cases being reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll of casualties in the state to 22 and the positive cases to 757.On Monday, the state had recorded three deaths and 75 new positive cases, the highest-ever in a single day that set alarm bells ringing in the state.An official bulletin from the state medical and health department said both the deaths on Tuesday had occurred in Guntur district, which has emerged as a hotspot for Covid-19 with 158 positive cases and six deaths. In the last 24 hours, the district reported nine new cases.Similarly, Kurnool district in Rayalaseema region has also become a matter of concern for the authorities. The district also reported five deaths and 184 positive cases for Covid-19, including 10 in the last 24 hours. Krishna district with 83 positive cases, Chittoor with 53 cases and Kadapa with 46 cases have also been causing concern for the authorities.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The health department has attributed the increasing number of cases to increase in the number of tests being done in the state in the last few days. In the last 24 hours, as many as 5,022 samples have been tested. A total of 35,755 samples have been tested since the epidemic broke out.Quoting the central figures, an official spokesman from the chief minister’s office said Andhra Pradesh stands at the top in terms of tests being conducted for Covid-19. “As against the national average of 290 tests per million people, AP is at the top of the list with 715 tests per million,” the spokesman said.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told officials to focus on the districts like Kurnool and Guntur which reported high incidence of Covid-19 particluarly after the return of Tablighi Jamaat members from a congregation in Delhi last month.The chief minister held a video conference with district collectors and Muslim religious leaders on the measures being taken to contain Covid-19. He appealed to the religious leaders to ensure that the people would offer Ramzan prayers at homes and not in congregations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-wants-focus-on-kurnool-and-guntur-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-a0ASBJcWRGH1iZXaVNdJhK.html
21-04-2020||India||Never before did science make such progress in just 3 months: ICMR on Covid-19||Dr R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on Tuesday said that it has never happened before in the case of any other disease when science had exhibited such progress. During a Covid-19 press briefing by Union Health Ministry, Gangakhedkar said that novel coronavirus is a “new disease” and in just three 3 months, science has shown progress and developed tests for the disease.Trials are under progress for the formulation of coronavirus vaccine, he said.  It is a new disease, in the last 3 and half months science has progressed & developed PCR tests, 5 vaccines have gone into human trial phase out of 70 vaccine candidates. It has never happened before in case of any other disease: R Gangakhedkar, ICMR #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/tuECCqRpnn“It is a new disease, in the last 3 and half months science has progressed and developed PCR tests, 5 vaccines have gone into human trial phase out of 70 vaccine candidates. It has never happened before in case of any other disease,” Gangakhedkar said.Gangakhedkar said that state governments have been advised not to use rapid testing kits for two days. “A lot of variations, kits will be tested and validated by on-ground teams and we will give advisory in the next 2 days,” he added. 4,49,810 samples have been tested so far. 35,852 samples were tested yesterday, of which 29,776 samples were tested in 201 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) network labs and remaining 6,076 samples were tested in 86 private labs: R Gangakhedkar, ICMR #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/ScpMIit6kfThe top ICMR scientist said that over 4 lakh coronavirus samples have been tested so far.“4,49,810 samples have been tested so far. 35,852 samples were tested yesterday, of which 29,776 samples were tested in 201 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) network labs and remaining 6,076 samples were tested in 86 private labs, Gangakhedkar stated. We have issued detailed guidelines to all states that while we focus on COVID19, all other services need to be provided, be it for dialysis,HIV/cancer treatments etc. At the same time required infection management prevention should be in place:Lav Agrawal, Jt Secy,Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/Z9dXWWV8hmDuring the press briefing, Lav Agrawal, joint secretary, health ministry, said that while the focus remains on tackling the coronavirus situation, “all other services need to be provided, be it for dialysis, HIV/cancer treatments etc. At the same time, required infection management prevention should be in place”.As per the updated data by the health ministry on Tuesday evening, the number of coronavirus cases in the country near 19,000. There are 18,985 cases of coronavirus cases in the country which includes 15,122 active cases, 3259 patients who have cured or discharged and 603 Covid-19 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-before-did-science-make-such-progress-in-just-3-months-icmr-on-covid-19/story-B9V7d90fX9dbbXRrfOfFjN.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Covid-19 rapid testing kits use suspended for two days due to ‘errors’||Country’s premier medical research body at the forefront of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 on Tuesday asked states to suspend rapid testing for the disease for the next two days, following complaints from at least two states- West Bengal and Rajasthan-- that the exported antibody testing kits were returning erroneous results.ICMR’s top scientist Dr Gangakhedkar said that in the next two days, eight ICMR institutes will carry out field tests using the rapid testing kits in different states for validation purposes and to find out if certain batches of the kits are faulty, following which feedback will be provided to states and the general public.“We received a complaint from one state yesterday that rapid kits were leading to lesser detections, so we took feedback from three states today,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.“We are learning that the positive samples of RT-PCR are showing too much variation (when tested by rapid kits) in the range of 6 to 71%,” he added, referring to the percentage of successful detection made by the rapid testing kits in positive cases.ICMR expert said this amount of variation was not good and it needed to be investigated. However, he added that some discrepancies were expected since the virus was new.“New tests show variation as the 1st generation ELISA is in the crude form, which needs to be refined, but these findings will not be overlooked,” he said.West Bengal was among the first states to complain about poor accuracy of the rapid testing kits distributed to states through ICMR network. Rajasthan, too, on Tuesday decided to suspend testing after complaining of a high rate of inaccuracy. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe ICMR expert said the rapid test kits were tested in Delhi before they were sent out to states and had shown 71% accuracy. He added that its accuracy percentage was growing with the passage of time as Covid-19 antibodies taken seven days to build. Gangakhedkar said that the issue could be raised with firms supplying the antibody testing kits if they were found to be malfunctioning.The rapid testing kits return results within minutes and are considered crucial for expanding testing capacity and for the containment strategy. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-covid-19-rapid-testing-kits-use-suspended-for-two-days-due-to-errors/story-iUw9gw1CL2KL5BwmApQ5sN.html
21-04-2020||India||Allahabad professor, 16 foreigners among 30 nabbed for alleged Jamaat links||Uttar Pradesh Police said they had arrested 30 people including a professor of Allahabad University and 16 members of Tablighi Jamaat from Indonesia and Thailand in Prayagraj late Monday night, for hiding their travel history and violating travel norms during lockdown imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Authorities had quarantined them on March 31 at different locations and arrested them Monday night after the quarantine period ended.Among those arrested seven are from Indonesia, nine from Thailand and one each from Kerala and Bengal. Caretakers of Abdullah mosque in Shahganj and Hera masjid in Kareli have also been arrested, said police officials.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Thirty people were arrested under the Foreigners’ Act, Epidemic Act and relevant sections of IPC. They will be produced in a court,” Senior Superintendent of Police Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said.Police said that the foreigners were charged with violating visa norms and failing to adhere to the Epidemic Act by not declaring the fact that they attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.They also did not come forward for screening for Covid-19.An FIR was lodged against 17 Jamat members at Shahganj police station and 12 persons at Kareli police station. Some ‘mutawallis’ (caretakers) of mosques were also charged with arranging illegal stay of foreign Jamatis without informing police and the local intelligence unit (LIU).Later, a professor of Allahabad University was also quarantined and an FIR lodged against him at Shivkuti police station after it was found that he too had returned after attending Nizamuddin event but failed to inform officials and even helped Jamaatis to stay at Abdullah Masjid, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-professor-16-foreigners-among-30-nabbed-for-alleged-jamaat-links/story-Q7W4UjdK4AabtD4NmL3aXL.html
21-04-2020||India||Govt to conduct tele survey on prevalence of Covid-19, cautions against pranksters||The government on Tuesday announced that it will conduct a survey to gather feedback from citizens on coronavirus. The survey will be conducted through phone calls. Citizens will receive a phone call from ‘1921’ on their mobile phones. The government urged the citizens to participate in the survey and cautioned against pranksters calling from any other number than ‘1921’.The survey will be conducted by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), Government of India.Govt. of India is going to conduct a 📞survey to gather citizen feedback on prevalence & distribution of #COVID19 symptoms✅Citizens will get calls on their mobile phones✅Call will be from 1️⃣9️⃣2️⃣1️⃣✅Survey by @NICMeity 🚨Beware of calls from other numbers✅Pls participate! pic.twitter.com/4gPNiZKlg7“People are informed that it is a genuine survey and are requested to participate in good measure when a call comes in from 1921 to enable proper feedback of the prevalence and distribution of Covid symptoms,” the release tweeted by PIB Maharashtra read. “Please be aware of any other calls by pranksters or calls from any other number in the guise of such similar survey,” the release added. This comes at a time when the number of coronavirus cases in the country have crossed 18,000. The Ministry of Health updated India’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,601 on Tuesday morning. The figure includes 14759 active cases, 3252 cured or discharged patients and 590 fatalities.The 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown was further extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The coronavirus lockdown will now come to an end on May 3. India entered the seventh day of the extended nationwide lockdown on Tuesday. The coronavirus pandemic has infected more than 2 million across the globe while nearly 2 lakh people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-conduct-tele-survey-on-prevalence-of-covid-19-cautions-against-pranksters/story-nuyeDj8YQMS09XsgrC3THJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: CISF to go for contactless frisking of passengers at airports, Delhi metro||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is preparing new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for operations at airports and the Delhi Metro after the lockdown that are expected to include contactless frisking and fewer passengers in each coach.The SOPs will also include use of the Aarogya Setu app to identify Covid-19 patients passing through security gates, officials familiar with developments said.For CISF personnel, who come in direct contact with hundreds of thousands of travellers every day at metro stations and airports, the force has plans for them to sanitise their hands after every two or three travellers. Personal protective equipment (PPE) will be provided to all personnel and X-ray machines and other equipment will be regularly sanitised, the officials said.CISF director general Rajesh Ranjan told HT: “Essentially, we want to make sure our men and commuters are protected from Covid-19 to the best possible extent without compromising on safety. We are looking at changing the process for access to airports and metro stations.“The SOPs are in the final stages and will be sent to the civil aviation ministry and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) soon.”Ranjan added, “We are exploring the use of contactless frisking as much as we can. However, it will not be possible to make it fully contactless and pat-down searches will depend on person to person.”Business outlets within metro stations, such as food stalls, will have additional access control for their personnel while CISF personnel will be informed about safety measures they have to follow, both while on duty and after going back to their barracks.An interesting aspect of CISF’s new SOP for the Delhi Metro is the reduction of passengers in each coach by at least half so that distancing norms are followed. Each coach usually has about 50 to 60 people during rush hours.At airports, another official said, the CISF is considering suggesting to the government that passengers be asked to download the Aarogya Setu app before coming to the airport for a colour-coded risk analysis for identifying Covid-19 patients. All CISF personnel across the country have already downloaded the application.Passengers will also be asked to sanitise their hands at pre-embarkation security check points and in the security hold area.The paramilitary force is likely to advise airlines to provide small bottles of hand sanitiser to passengers once they pass the security hold area since CISF doesn’t allow liquids to get across at airport security check points.The SOPs pertaining to queues and distancing, use of PPEs, gloves and masks will also be followed in government facilities where CISF is deployed.The force is augmenting its stock of face-masks, gloves, alcohol-based sanitisers and PPEs so as to have sufficient numbers available for an initial period of three months.Apart from this, almost all 349 units of CISF across the country are distributing face-masks, sanitisers, dry soaps, dry rations or cooked meals to the underprivileged in surrounding areas while maintaining proper hygiene and distancing, said CISF spokesperson Hemendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cisf-preparing-new-sops-for-checks-at-airports-delhi-metro/story-TQ6pOYOKXxcuaWg1L6j6OP.html
21-04-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks exemption for advocates from paying monthly rent for their rented office spaces||A plea filed before the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday stated that lawyers, who have been struggling to make their both ends meet because of lack of income due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), be exempted from the payment of monthly rent for their office spaces till the restrictions are lifted.The petitioner, advocate Aljo Joseph, who is an advocate-on-record at the apex court, cited that courts have not been functioning since the lockdown – initially enforced for 21 days on March 25 and then further extended till May 3 – came into effect. Most lawyers are facing an acute cash crunch, as they earn their livelihood on a case-to-case basis, he said.“The majority of the advocates have not been able to earn any money during this lockdown period. They are finding maintaining their office premises without any income for months a Herculean task,” the petition, filed through advocates Sriram Parakkat and Sachin Sharma, said.Joseph submitted that though many state governments and the Centre have announced schemes for benefit of the poor and the needy to tide over the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19, no such financial aid has been offered for lawyers’ benefit as yet.“The government ordered several directives and declared a moratorium and financial assistance to different sectors and class of people. But no policy has been announced by the government to support the hardship faced by the professionals, especially lawyers, to date,” the plea said.Lawyers, the petition claimed, are left with no other option but to pay monthly rent for their office spaces even when they have neither work nor income.“The government must issue a directive that the advocates and other professionals are exempted from paying monthly rent of their office premises during the lockdown period,” the petitioner urged.The case is yet to come for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-plea-seeks-exemption-for-advocates-from-paying-monthly-rent-for-their-rented-office-spaces/story-GQV8VuWAZJbHQMgjs1irjJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19 patient improves on plasma therapy, UP books thousands for defying lockdown: 10 points||Coronavirus cases in the country breached the 18,000-mark on Tuesday. The Ministry of Health updated India’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,601 on Tuesday. The figure includes 14759 active cases, 3252 cured or discharged patients and 590 fatalities.India entered the seventh day of the extended nationwide lockdown on Tuesday which will come to an on May 3.Here are the key development:1. In a veiled attack at the Centre, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that poor people are dying due to starvation and the government is busy making sanitiser from their share of rice.2. The number of coronavirus cases (Covid-19) in Gujarat crossed the 2000-mark after 127 more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported.3. The Rajasthan government has stopped rapid antibody tests after a team of experts questioned their use on the basis of results from confirmed Covid-19 cases, health minister Raghu Sharma said on Tuesday.4. The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) has withdrawn the consignment of defective COVID-19 testing kits from some of the state-run laboratories in West Bengal, a senior official of the medical body said on Tuesday. The NICED is ICMR’s nodal agency in the state.5. The Odisha government on Tuesday rushed rapid response teams to Bhadrak and Jajpur districts after the state recorded the highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases for the second time in a fortnight on Monday with 18 people including 10 from these two districts with travel history to Kolkata testing positive.6. The border between Delhi and Ghaziabad was sealed on Tuesday to contain the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.7. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday regretted the incidents where locals in Chennai opposed the burial of doctors who died of coronavirus. He urged everyone to respect the dedication of the health workers.8. The Uttar Pradesh Police has registered more than 24,000 FIRs and booked over 71,000 people so far for defying Covid-19 lockdown norms, news agency PTI reported.9. West Bengal administration got upset with Centre’s move of sending two inter-ministerial teams to inspect various aspects of the state’s battle against the coronavirus.10. A critical coronavirus patient admitted to a private hospital in Delhi showed signs of improvement and was taken off ventilator support after he was administered plasma therapy, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-patient-improves-on-plasma-therapy-up-books-thousands-for-defying-lockdown-10-points/story-bqhhlPbKo81MZASeu6IdaJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Pakistan removes nearly 4,000 names from terror watch list||Pakistani authorities have removed almost 4,000 names from a terror watch list, including nearly 1,900 names that were struck off since early March, according to a US-based tech firm that tracks watch lists globally.While Pakistan’s National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA) maintains a list of banned terror groups, separate lists of proscribed terrorist individuals are maintained by authorities in the country’s four provinces.The terror watch list of Punjab, Pakistan’s most populous province that has a sizeable presence of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), was analysed by California-based Castellum.AI for a report posted on the firm’s website on Sunday.At its peak in October 2018, Punjab province’s “proscribed persons data” or terror watch list had about 7,600 names, according to a report from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Castellum.AI said in its report that some 3,800 names had been removed from this list “without explanation or notification to the public”.The report further said that since March 9 this year, Pakistani authorities had removed some 1,869 names from the list. Of these, 1,069 names were struck off between March 9 and March 27, and about 800 were removed subsequently. All these names were placed in a “denotified” list, a term used in Pakistan to signify an official removal from a watch list.Castellum.AI contended LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhi, one of the alleged masterminds of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, was among those whose names were removed from the list. However, this couldn’t be independently confirmed.Moreover, Castellum.AI cited the removal of a terrorist named Zaka-ur-Rehman from Zhob in Balochistan for the reference to Lakhvi in its report, claiming the name was an alias. However, Lakhvi hails from Okara in Punjab, where he was born and is not known to have operated in Balochistan.Reports in the Pakistani media last week said names were removed from the terror watch list because it had “bloated” up to 7,000 names with multiple inaccuracies, such as the names of dead individuals, Afghan nationals, and names of untraceable persons.Castellum.AI said there was also no explanation on NACTA’s website as to why about 3,800 names were removed from the terror watch list since October 2018. It said it was also not clear “why Pakistan publicly maintains the Denotified List if the individuals on it are dead or their listings have multiple inaccuracies”.In February, Pakistan was given four months by the FATF to fully implement a 27-point action plan to counter terror financing and money laundering after the country failed to meet repeated deadlines to complete the programme. The FATF said Pakistan had so far delivered only on 14 of the points in the plan.However, reports have suggested that Pakistan may have got a reprieve because of the Covid-19 crisis, with the multilateral watchdog putting off a review of the country’s performance till October.“It is possible that these delistings are part of Pakistan’s efforts to implement FATF’s action plan, but not announcing removals or the reasons for them poses many challenges. FATF standards call for transparency in listing procedures,” Castellum.AI said in its report.“Transparency supports due process for affected individuals and facilitates compliance. Obligated entities within Pakistan, as well as financial institutions who process Pakistan-related transactions globally, need clarity to effectively comply with AML/CFT (anti-money laundering/counter-financing of terror) laws and regulations,” it added.Pakistan should clarify if individuals moved from the proscribed to denotified list are still a threat, state the reason for a list change, and identify the reason an individual was listed in the first place, Castellum.AI’s report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-removes-nearly-4-000-names-from-terror-watch-list/story-QVBsEDdLj1IK8dBVSx0dQJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala woman tests positive 19 times after 42 days in hospital||A 62-year-old woman in Pathanamthitta, in central Kerala has tested positive for coronavirus 19 successive times, which doctors say underlines the erratic behaviour of the Sars-CoV 2 virus that continues to worry health officials who are fighting hard to flatten the Covid-19 curve.The woman has been in hospital for the last 42 days.“The 62-year-old woman, who contracted the diseases after she came in contact with the Italy-returned family, tested positive even after 19 tests. She is not showing many symptoms also. We tried combination drugs several times,” said Pathanamthitta district medical officer Dr N Sheeja. She said she has sought the advice of the state medical board in this regard.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.She was admitted to the hospital on March 10 after she came in contact with a family which returned from Italy. The family infected eight others. Three-member family came to their home in Kerala’s Ranni on February 29 on a three-week leave and attended many functions before testing positive a week later and transmitted the disease to many others.“She doesn’t have other health problems now. Though she is asymptomatic she can transmit the disease to others. In Kozencherry government hospital we are planning to transfer her to Kottayam medical college hospital if the next result also turns positive,” said one of the doctors treating her. The late onset of the disease has now emerged as another worry for overworked health officials. In Kozhikkode (north Kerala) a person returned from Dubai on March 18, tested positive at least 29 days after he was exposed to the virus.The World Health Organization (WHO) had prescribed a 14-day incubation period for coronavirus but Kerala had extended it to 28 days to ensure that an asymptomatic person or a patient is disinfected completely.In Pathanamthitta a girl student, who travelled in a compartment in which some Tablighi Jammat members were also travelling, tested positive 22 days after her trip. Under observation she remained asymptomatic throughout but turned positive when her observation period was about to end. She was asymptomatic even after she tested positive on April 6, said doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-woman-tests-positive-19-times-after-42-days-in-hospital/story-mEfxaVkCBBLPl6ZvhFSjMN.html
21-04-2020||India||‘No time to settle political scores’: Sharad Pawar on Palghar lynching blame||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday cautioned opponents that the Palghar incident should not be used to settle old political scores. He said it should not have happened and called it an isolated incident. The responsibility to remain united in the time of crisis is on each and everyone of us, he added.Pawar was referring to the incident on April 16 night when three men from Kandivali in neighbouring Mumbai were travelling to Surat in a car. The vehicle was stopped and the trio was beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves.It later emerged that the sadhus — 70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri — belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced a high level probe by the Criminal Investigation Department. “The incident has nothing to do with the novel coronavirus. Whatever happened was unfortunate and should not have happened. It is condemnable. It happened due to misunderstanding. The state government and police acted swiftly. Over 100 people found involved in the primary investigation were arrested and put behind bars the very next day,” said the NCP chief in a video interaction with people.“But a picture is being created that Maharashtra’s law and order is in a bad shape and resignations are being demanded over an isolated incident. I personally feel political struggle and whatever games have to be settled can be done at a proper time, but this is not the right time for all this,” the veteran leader said without naming anyone.He said that all need to be united in the fight against this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-time-to-settle-political-scores-sharad-pawar-on-palghar-lynching-blame/story-0ZapxHyY3BwUusgR3BgcIN.html
21-04-2020||India||For second time Odisha records 18 Covid-19 cases in a day, 10 have a Bengal link||The Odisha government on Tuesday rushed rapid response teams to Bhadrak and Jajpur districts after the state recorded the highest single day spike in coronavirus cases for the second time in a fortnight on Monday with 18 people including 10 from these two districts with travel history to Kolkata testing positive.The government also asked people with travel history to West Bengal during the last 28 days, to quarantine themselves at home.The total number of Covid-19 infections in Odisha has now risen to 79. Previously, 15 cases were detected on April 3 and 18 on April 5, most of them from Bhubaneswar.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.On Monday night, five more people including a 12-year-old boy were tested positive in Balasore town which is now emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot. All five are family members of a 58-year-old man who had tested positive on April 18.Odisha health and family welfare department officials said the 10 workers of Jajpur and Bhadrak districts who had tested positive were working in West Bengal and had returned to Odisha in the last 28 days evading the lockdown by travelling in small vehicles or goods trains and other means.Chief spokesperson of state government on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi, said 24 of the 79 cases in Odisha had travel history to West Bengal where the number of Covid-19 cases is rising sharply. In Kolkata, 54 new cases were reported on Monday.Five people from Bhadrak, aged between 48 years and 66 years, had slipped through the Odisha-Bengal border between March 28 and April 9. Quarantined in their homes, they were all asymptomatic till they tested positive on Monday. Another five people of Jajpur district, aged between 28 years and 64 years, working as labourers in Howrah and Burrabazar area, too had returned from Kolkata in the last 28 days.Jajpur district collector Ranjan Das said one of the five Covid-19 patients detected in Bhadrak had travelled with five people from Jajpur in a van while they were returning from Kolkata on March 29. As the five got down at Sathipur on March 30 morning, the district collector appealed to residents of villages situated adjacent to Sathipur to inform the officials if anyone with travel history to Kolkata had reached the villages after March 30.“Most people from West Bengal are clandestinely trying to sneak into the villages. It’s not possible for the state administration and police to keep watch on every village. So the grampanchayats are extremely important in detection of potential Covid cases,” a health department press release said.A senior police official said though every effort is being made to seal the Odisha-Bengal border, many people were crossing over into the state in ambulances. Though all modes of passenger transport services have been suspended for over a week, a large number of people have been entering Odisha by smaller roads connecting the two states through private vehicles like cars, auto-rickshaw, mini-buses and trucks.“We have little way of knowing how many of them are genuine. Instead of going to hospitals in Kolkata, many of the patients from Bengal’s Midnapore district are flooding AIIMS Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. They may prove to be the greatest source of infection,” said the official.An AIIMS official said in the last one week, the number of patients from Bengal has gone up.With more and more people from Bengal entering Odisha through numerous roads, Odisha’s Director General of Police Abhay visited the state’s border with Bengal in Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts on Tuesday to oversee its sealing. Odisha has 38 villages that share the border with Bengal. Of the 38 villages, 35 are in Balasore and rest are in Mayurbhanj district.A two-year-old tribal girl in Balasore district was among the 18 who tested positive on Monday, making her the youngest Covid-19 patient in the state. The girl in Nilagiri block was running fever and had a cold following which she was taken to the district headquarters hospital in Balasore where her swab sample was taken. Officials said they were intrigued by the girl’s case as she did not have any travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-second-time-odisha-records-18-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-10-have-a-bengal-link/story-uULenB2MH7u87ttcOt00jN.html
21-04-2020||India||‘They gave strength to my family’: Covid-19 patient thanks health workers for recovery||A coronavirus patient in Karnataka who has successfully recovered from Covid-19 has thanked health workers and said that he is “completely healthy now,” news agency ANI reported.The man, who hails from Bengaluru, thanked health workers who took care of him while he was getting treated for coronavirus at the hospital. The man said that the health workers gave strength to his family and “maximum help”. He urged people to cooperate with health workers. Karnataka:A man from Bengaluru who recovered from #COVID19, says,"I am completely healthy now. I thank health workers who followed up when I was in hospital.They gave strength to my family.I received maximum help from them.I'm requesting everyone to cooperate with health workers" pic.twitter.com/H6zFUnaJmV“I am completely healthy now. I thank health workers who followed up when I was in hospital. They gave strength to my family. I received maximum help from them. I’m requesting everyone to cooperate with health workers,” he said. As per the Ministry of Health, Karnataka has reported 408 cases of coronavirus so far. 112 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state while 16 have died. The Karnataka health department on Tuesday said an 80-year-old man became the 17th Covid-19 fatality in the state while seven new cases of coronavirus were confirmed, news agency PTI reported.The elderly man died at a hospital in Kalaburagi in northern Karnataka. The patient also suffered from Parkinson’s disease.Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the man died at 9 am on Monday, PTI reported.“...last night at 9 pm the death report came, which confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive,” he tweeted.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 18,000-mark on Tuesday. According to the Ministry of Health, India’s total number of coronavirus cases jumped to 18,601 on Tuesday. The figure includes 14759 active cases, 3252 cured or discharged patients and 590 fatalities.India entered the seventh day of the extended nationwide lockdown on Tuesday which will come to an on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-gave-strength-to-my-family-covid-19-patient-thanks-health-workers-for-recovery/story-tNOfGKXLHBm0gpj3L66r9I.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: State funeral and martyr status for Odisha Covid warriors, cash and job for families||Even as Odisha experienced the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50 lakh and state funeral for government personnel who die during Covid-19 duty.The CM said that the State should be grateful for the bold and selfless service rendered by its doctors, health professionals and other support staff like ASHA workers during the pandemic.In a video message this afternoon, Patnaik said the war against Covid-19 is being fought by doctors and healthcare professionals on the frontlines, assisted by a huge army of support services.“In the absence of any cure or vaccine, those fighting the Covid war for us are taking a huge risk by putting themselves in the front. We propose to recognize and honour the valiant work being done by our Covid warriors. The state would treat them as martyrs,” said Patnaik, adding that a detailed scheme of awards will be instituted and given on national days.The CM said families of all government personnel (medical and others) who die during Covid-19 will continue to receive full salary till the date of retirement. Warning against any discrimination and harassment of the doctors and other health workers employed in the containment effort, Patnaik said any act against the doctors and the health workers is an act against the State.“If any act that will disturb or dishonour their work, very strict criminal action will be taken including invoking the provisions of NSA,” he said, referring to the attack on an ASHA worker in Nayagarh district, who was left scalded after a man poured hot gruel on her face during an awareness session on the spread of the virus.Last month, Odisha government had floated an advertisement to recruit around 8000 doctors, nurses, paramedics and multipurpose health workers, pharmacists, laboratory technicians and radiographers offering them lucrative amount to join the battle against the pandemic. To boost the morale of the health care staff, chief minister Naveen Patnaik also announced advance payment of 4-months salary to doctors, paramedics and workers engaged in health services in the State.The announcement came on the day when three doctors and 19 nurses working in a hospital in Jajpur district were sent into institutional quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-19 positive persons while treating them in the OPD. On Monday, 5 labourers of Jajpur district aged between 28 years and 64 years, working in Howrah and Burrabazar area of Kolkata had tested positive, 2-3 weeks after returning from there.“The recent confirmed cases had come in direct contact with some doctors & paramedical staff at the medical outdoor ward. So we have put all of them in quarantine. All their family members have also been advised to remain in home quarantine,” said Jajpur district collector Ranjan Kumar Das.Though Odisha did not have any positive cases for consecutive 3 days till April 19, on April 20 there were 18 new cases taking the total number of positive cases in the State to 79. Of the 18 new cases on Monday, 10 were due to the influx of people from Bengal defying lockdown. Revenue divisional commissioner (eastern) Anil Samal, who is camping in Balasore district that shares a large part of its border with Bengal, said around 2,800 people have trespassed into the Balasore from neighbouring States in the past two months.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“We’ve received information that people have trespassed into Balasore from WB through unauthorised ambulance rides and by crossing adjoining farmlands with WB border. Appropriate action will be taken against them for violating lockdown guidelines,” said Samal, who had a meeting with State DGP Abhay at Balasore today.The RDC said around 700 people who have returned from West Bengal and other neighbouring States have registered themselves. “Those who have returned in the last 14 days are being identified and placed under quarantine. Sample testing of these persons will be done on a priority basis. There are many other WB returnees who did not register, may be out of fear. So we have directed the local authorities and police to trace all these people and compulsorily put them in the government quarantine facility. Those violating private quarantine guidelines would be shifted to government centres,” he added.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-state-funeral-and-martyr-status-for-odisha-covid-warriors-cash-and-job-for-families/story-SOfOz3bDqwlwTkmxJ9VkNO.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Secularism, harmony not political fashion but passion for us’: Minister Naqvi on OIC statement||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said India is committed to maintaining unity in diversity and its secular fabric. In a statement issued in response to Organisation of Islamic Cooperation’s (OIC) comments about minorities in India, the minister said, “Secularism and harmony is not political fashion but it is perfect passion for India and Indians. This inclusive culture and commitment has united the country with fabric of unity in diversity.”Naqvi said the constitutional, social and religious rights of all the citizens, including those of minorities, is India’s constitutional and moral guarantee. “Traditional and professional bogus bashing brigades are still active in conspiring to spread misinformation. We should remain cautious of such evil forces and we need to work united to defeat their nefarious misinformation propaganda,” the minister said.He also urged people to observe Ramzan, which begins this week, inside their homes so that the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 can be checked.The OIC had on Sunday urged India to take “urgent steps” to protect the rights of its minority Muslim community and stop the incidents of “Islamophobia” in the country.Reacting to it, Naqvi said, “We are doing our job with conviction. The prime minister, whenever he speaks, he talks about the rights and welfare of 130 crore Indians. If somebody cannot see this, then it is their problem. India’s Muslims, its minorities, all its sections, are prosperous and those people trying to vitiate this atmosphere of prosperity, they cannot be friends of Indian Muslims.”He also said that India is “a heaven for Muslims and minorities”. The social, economic and religious rights of Muslims are more secure and stronger in India than in other countries, Naqvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/secularism-harmony-not-political-fashion-but-passion-for-us-minister-naqvi-on-oic-statement/story-knrKwrOyZQWeJjzVTvFZGO.html
21-04-2020||India||ICMR withdraws ‘defective’ Covid-19 test kits consignment from Bengal after complaint||The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) has withdrawn the consignment of defective COVID-19 testing kits from some of the state-run laboratories in West Bengal, a senior official of the medical body said on Tuesday.The faulty kits were replaced by those provided by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV), she said.The West Bengal government alleged that the COVID-19 testing kits supplied by the NICED, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) nodal agency in the state, a fortnight ago were “apparently defective” as they showed inconclusive results leading to repeated confirmatory tests and delay in diagnosis.The ICMR-NICED authorities said it could be possible because the kits have not been standardised and it is considering the matter “very seriously”.These materials (kits) had the approval of the US Food and Drug Administration, but it was learnt that these kits show error results when kept above 20 degrees Celsius. We are investigating the matter, the official said.West Bengal has so far reported 12 deaths and 330 cases of COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-withdraws-defective-covid-19-test-kits-consignment-from-bengal-after-complaint/story-IRxWtjrq2reX6GMyDZfczK.html
21-04-2020||India||Rs 70,000 cr Covid-19 package for power firms; cabinet approval expected soon||The government is working out a Rs 70,000 crore financial package for the power sector that is battling to stay afloat amid plunging cash inflows, sharp drop in bill collections and unchanged tariffs that are bleeding their balance sheets.Power tariff collections, the primary revenue source for distribution companies (Discoms) that carry electricity to homes, factories and the corporate towers, have fallen by nearly 80 percent in the last monthly cycle, top government officials told Hindustan Times.The nationwide lockdown has put a hard stop across India’s broader economy as factories have remained shut, construction activity suspended, and restaurants and shops, other than those selling essentials, closed since March 24.Despite a fast approaching summer with temperatures pushing 40 degree centigrade in many areas across the north-western plains, peak power demand has fallen sharply as economic activity remains restricted to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Current power consumption has dropped to 125 gigawatts as compared to 165-168 gigawatts in April 2019, triggering a dramatic collapse in discoms’ bill collections.Most discoms, officials said, have reported revenue collections that are equivalent to about one-fifth of their average collections last year, mirroring the fiscal brittleness of India’s power sector.From about Rs 55,000 crore that a discom used to earn during a 30-45 day cycle last year, the average collections during the last 30-odd days have fallen to about Rs 12,000 crore.The Union power ministry will now seek to fast-track a Rs 70,000 crore financial package that will aid the beleaguered power companies to navigate this difficult period.The package, which could be taken to the cabinet for approval as early as next week, is likely to offer a moratorium and restructuring of debt repayment by power companies spread over an eight-year period, officials said.A revision in the tariff structure, which will allow power companies to charge higher rates from consumers, is also a possibility after economic activity gathers pace and companies gradually start scaling up operations.The power sector has been hard hit with the lockdown since the producer has to pay for a fixed charge to keep the generation going despite much lower consumption.The Centre is looking to introduce several reforms including limiting cross-subsidies where industrial consumers pay a higher rate to enable discoms to keep rates of domestic consumers low.Thermal power companies that account for 70 percent of India’s power generation have had to put up with the system of paying for coal in advance and stocking these up by paying high railway freight rates despite falling demand, denting their cash position.“The last issue is being resolved through a Usance letter of credit or deferred payment of credit,” a power ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-70-000-cr-covid-19-package-for-power-firms-cabinet-approval-expected-soon/story-QJpV5trLmebMW9NEnl0ZnO.html
21-04-2020||India||‘When will India’s poor wake up?’: Rahul says govt making sanitiser for rich from poor’s share of rice||In a veiled attack at the Centre, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that poor people are dying due to starvation and the government is busy making sanitiser from their share of rice. “When will India’s poor wake up? You are dying due to starvation and they are engaged in disinfecting the hands of the rich by making a sanitiser from your share of rice,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi citing a news article. Sales of sanitisers have increased in the country after the Covid-19 outbreak as its use is encouraged to keep the virus at bay. Earlier, Rahul had asked the Centre not to charge Goods and Services tax on ‘small and big’ equipment related to Covid-19 treatment. The Wayanad lawmaker has also urged the government to ramp up coronavirus testing to contain the ongoing crisis. India has reported 18,601 cases, including 14,759 active cases, 3,252 cured/discharged and 590 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-s-poor-wake-up-rahul-says-govt-making-sanitiser-for-rich-from-poor-s-share-of-rice/story-4FL18nZeaB3P9017kmkcaM.html
21-04-2020||India||In its Covid-19 message, Mumbai Police urges people to ‘abort’ this ‘mission’||Amid the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country, Mumbai Police leaves no opportunity to drive home the government’s “stay at home” message with a comic spin. In a tweet posted on Tuesday, Mumbai Police conveyed that all those who are thinking of venturing out of their homes during the coronavirus lockdown should immediately “abort the mission”.The tweet carried a still from Ranveer Singh starer ‘Gully Boy’ featuring Alia Bhatt and read “That face when he says he is going out for a walk during lockdown”. Abort mission. We repeat - Abort Mission! #StayHome #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/vmZkFTXDbGMumbai Police is known for its witty and slapstick social media posts on matters of importance to the general public. Just yesterday, Mumbai Police tweeted a clip from a gaming video and posted, “Every player knows - when in a red zone, always stay at home!” Earlier this week, it turned to iconic numbers from ‘King of Pop’ Michael Jackson and encouraged everyone to stay at home to “beat” coronavirus. “It’s ‘Dangerous’ outside, ‘better do what you can’ - stay home to ‘beat Corona’!” the tweet read. It's 'Dangerous' outside, 'better do what you can' - stay home to 'beat Corona'!#NothingBadAboutStayingHome #TakingOnCorona https://t.co/ZGKoqkoidkIndia has reported 47 coronavirus deaths and 1336 new cases in the last 24 hours. According to the Ministry of Health, India’s total number of coronavirus cases jumped to 18,601 on Tuesday. The figure includes 14759 active cases, 3252 cured or discharged patients and 590 fatalities.In Maharashtra, coronavirus cases near 5000-mark while in Delhi the Covid-19 tally is slightly over 2000 cases.7 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-its-covid-19-message-mumbai-police-urges-people-to-abort-this-mission/story-rss28p8RVEiBvMOsgLO1VJ.html
21-04-2020||India||With 472 news cases, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally reaches 4,676||Maharashtra reported 472 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the country’s worst-hit state’s tally to 4676, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday morning.The agency also reported, citing the state’s public health department, that nine more deaths have been reported. Maharashtra has witnessed 232 fatalities related to Covid-19 till date.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Maharashtra had seen the second-highest single-day jump on Monday with 466 Covid-19 patients—after Sunday’s 552 cases. It’s capital Mumbai had also crossed the 3000-mark as 308 more people tested positive, taking the city’s count to 3032 on Monday.Monday was the 17th consecutive day the number of new cases in the state was in three digits. The has seen 4181 cases in April alone, after its first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient was reported on March 9. Also read: Mumbai civic body will not use drones to disinfect coronavirus containment zonesRajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, has claimed that the situation is improving and there was no need to be afraid as although the number is rising.“The doubling rate of the state has now reached up to seven days, up from two days. We are trying to increase it even further,” Tope said. He said the state is conducting maximum tests in the country. “So far, we have conducted 76,000 tests in the state and in Mumbai alone, 50,000 tests were conducted. We are also doing surveillance and contract tracing aggressively,” he added.However, the mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 5.30% (223 till Sunday) from 7.41% (148 last Monday (April 13). But it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.14% till Sunday, revealed data from the state medical education department.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Three new districts—Parbhani, Nandurbar and Chandrapur—have reported its first cases in the past few days. Only four districts of Nanded, Wardha, Bhandara and Gadchiroli do not have a single case, as of now.A lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections was imposed in the state from March 23 and lifted partially after 27 days on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-472-news-cases-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-4-676/story-zCR8Q1oHHaDE8ND5ASSJIN.html
21-04-2020||India||On Civil Services Day, President Kovind, PM Modi thank India’s ‘steel frame’||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday highlighted the role of civil servants in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic as India reported more than 18,000 infections and nearly 600 deaths.Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed his greetings to the civil servants as well as their families on Civil Services Day.“I appreciate their efforts in ensuring India successfully defeats COVID-19. They are working round the clock, assisting those in need and ensuring everyone is healthy,” PM Modi tweeted.The Prime Minister also paid tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and shared his speech form Civil Services Day in 2018.  Today, on Civil Services Day I convey greetings to all Civil Servants and their families. I appreciate their efforts in ensuring India successfully defeats COVID-19. They are working round the clock, assisting those in need and ensuring everyone is healthy.President Ram Nath Kovind said civil servants “have played a key role in implementing policies and programs for public welfare”.“In the present times too, the steel frame of our country, the civil service, has shown its strength and resolve in handling COVID-19 situation, with sensitivity and professionalism. Confident that our civil services will continue to serve in the best traditions of public service,” the President tweeted. In the present times too, the steel frame of our country, the civil service, has shown its strength and resolve in handling COVID-19 situation, with sensitivity and professionalism. Confident that our civil services will continue to serve in the best traditions of public service.Union home minister Amit Shah also extended his “warm greetings” to all civil servants and their families on Civil Servants Day.“They have played a pioneering role in India’s progress. Today at these challenging times their dedication, commitment and efforts to defeat COVID-19 are truly appreciable,” Shah tweeted.The government observes April 21 as Civil Services Day as an “occasion for the civil servants to rededicate themselves to the cause of citizen and renew their commitments to public service and excellence in work”, according to the department of administrative reforms and public grievances.Civil Services Day is observed on April 21 after country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel addressed the probationers of administrative services officer in 1947 at Metcalf House in Delhi. He had referred to civil servants as the ‘’steel frame of India’’ on this day. Prime Minister’s Awards for Excellence in Public Administration are presented to districts or implementing units for the implementation of priority programme and innovation categories as part of Civil Services Day.According to the department of administrative reforms and public grievances, the first such ceremony was held at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan in April 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-civil-services-day-president-kovind-pm-modi-thank-india-s-steel-frame/story-6Ui8Rl96JAXJ7gMPdm8UBJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Baby rhino gets separated from mom in Assam’s Kaziranga; efforts underway to reunite both||Amid the ongoing coronavirus lockdown across the country, authorities at Assam’s Kaziranga National Park are on a mission to reunite a baby rhino with its mother.The one-month-old calf got separated from its mother around Sunday in the Deopani area near the park which is spread across 430 sqare kilometres. Kaziranga is the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world and is home to around 2,400 members of the species.“The calf got separated from the mother and was found roaming around Deopani area close to the national highway. When we got the information from the nearby villagers, we went and rescued it around 11:00 am on Sunday,” said P Sivakumar, park’s director.“We tried to locate the mother but weren’t successful. Since there was a threat to the calf from tigers or other animals, we sent it to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC),” he added.Located at Borjuri village near the national park, the CWRC is the only facility in India where orphaned or injured wild animals are hand-raised or treated before returning them to the wild.Every year, the centre handles several baby rhinos, elephants etc. that are rescued during the annual floods that submerge most areas of the park.In the meantime, officials at Kaziranga have started looking for the mother who could be searching for her missing calf.“We have engaged our people in the Deopani area to trace the mother as she should be in that particular location. There are around 50 rhinos in that area. Without knowing the exact mother, we can’t release the calf into the herd as there is a possibility of an adult rhino attacking it,” said Sivakumar.Baby rhinos are extremely attached to their mothers who are very protective of them. The babies stay with their mothers for around three years before venturing on their own.“Since the baby is very small, it must have been suckling. As there is a threat to it if it’s left in the wild, it is better for it to stay at the CWRC till the mother is found. It’s a challenging task, but personnel at the centre are experienced and well-equipped to handle such babies,” said Bibhab Talukdar, founder of Guwahati-based wildlife NGO Aaranyak.Though the exact reason for the calf’s separation is not known, Talukdar said as a survival tactic. Sometimes mothers ‘run away’ from the baby to protect it when an adult male in heat approaches her, he said. “The calf is a male weighing around 70 kilograms. It was very dehydrated and weak. Its treatment and care are underway. Hopefully, we will be to feed it prepared milk using a bottle from Tuesday,” said Rathin Barman, in-charge of CWRC.Usually, the CWRC deals with orphaned or separated baby rhinos during the annual floods, but it rarely deals with such cases during the rest of the year. Last year, the centre had taken care of 5 rhino calves during floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baby-rhino-gets-separated-from-mom-in-assam-s-kaziranga-efforts-underway-to-reunite-both/story-RT07x0Xy0cIzG8q25FCpbO.html
21-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Madhya Pradesh CM expands cabinet amid Covid-19 lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expands cabinet amid Covid-19 lockdownMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan constituted his cabinet with five ministers on Tuesday, nearly a month after he was sworn-in as the central state’s head for the fourth time. Read moreKalimpong’s only Covid-19 hit family triggers panic, discrimination in north Bengal hillsWeeks after a woman in Bengal’s Kalimpong district died of Covid-19 and 10 members of her family were treated for the infection, people in the state’s hill region are acting under stress and fear. Read moreCoronavirus update: Rajasthan reports 52 Covid-19 new cases, most from JaipurRajasthan’s capital Jaipur reported 34 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of 52 from across the state Monday morning, taking the tally to 1628, news agency ANI reported citing health department officials. Read moreCovid-19 lockdown: States under pressure to bring back migrant workersThe Uttar Pradesh government’s move to evacuate its students from Kota in Rajasthan during the Covid-19 lockdown has brought the other states under pressure to act and ensure early return of their stranded migrant workers. Read more China may inject medics with newly developed Covid-19 vaccine to deal with any emergency: Health officialChina plans to inject its medics with coronavirus vaccines by the end of the year to protect and prepare them to deal with any emergency situation due to the pandemic, while 11 new confirmed COVID-19 cases were reported in the country with no deaths due to the virus, health officials said. Read more‘World is not starting for next one year, how can cricket start’: Shoaib AkhtarFormer Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar believes cricket will not start for atleast one year as several countries do not have adequate testing kits and hence, there can be no planning done and no series can be held. Read moreFacebook profiles of over 267 million users sold on dark web, hacking forumsFacebook profiles of over 267 million users were sold on the dark web and hacker forums for $623 (Rs 47,900 approx). These Facebook profiles don’t include passwords but contain details like email addresses, phone numbers, personal details and more. Read moreRonit Roy folds regular T-shirt to make a mask, video is viral. WatchYou may have seen several ways to make DIY masks at home. Most of these involve cutting a piece of cloth and then using a needle and some thread to stitch it together. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: Pity the poor passengerLet’s imagine some scenarios. Your cousin is getting married in another town. You know the date so you book air tickets for you and your family early enough. Read moreWatch| ‘US to add 75 million barrels of oil to strategic reserve’: Donald Trump||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-madhya-pradesh-cm-expands-cabinet-amid-covid-19-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cDNDGwhhPwh4Gw6kwhhnjK.html
21-04-2020||India||Gujarat breaches 2000-mark with 127 new Covid-19 cases||The number of coronavirus cases (Covid-19) in Gujarat crossed the 2000-mark after 127 more people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported.Gujarat had breached the grim 1000-mark last Friday.The new cases, which took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 2066, were reported from Surat with 69 and Ahmedabad with 50 patients. Rajkot and Valsad reported two cases each and Aravalli, Gir Somnath, Kheda and Tapi reported one each, the agency reported citing health department officials.The death toll due to coronavirus disease also rose to 77 in Gujarat as six more people succumbed to the disease.Also read: Delhi-Ghaziabad border sealed to check the spread of Covid-19Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary of the health department, said five of these deaths were reported from Ahmedabad and one from Bhavnagar.She added that all the victims suffered from co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease. The dead included four women and two men, all in the age group of 50 to 72 years, she added.Out of the 1858 active Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, 19 are on ventilator support and the condition of 1839 is stable, the official said.So far, 131 patients have been discharged after recovery in the state.Jamnagar and Morbi in Gujarat, which is now the third worst-hit state in the country, have not reported any fresh cases during the last 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-breaches-2000-mark-with-127-new-covid-19-cases/story-0F6GHkEUxmyUXo6uKPaQQI.html
21-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expands cabinet amid Covid-19 lockdown||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan constituted his cabinet with five ministers on Tuesday, nearly a month after he was sworn-in as the central state’s head for the fourth time.The five, including a woman and two former legislators, were sworn in by Governor Lalji Tandon at a simple function in the Raj Bhawan amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Narottam Mishra, Tulsi Silavat, Kamal Patel, Govind Singh Rajput and Meena Singh took the oath of office as Chouhan kept the size of his cabinet small on expected lines.The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader is expected to expand his cabinet after the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted on May 3.Cabinet’s compositionChouhan had been holding discussions with senior party leaders in Delhi in the past few days about the size and the possible faces in the cabinet.Silavat and Rajput are loyalists of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. They were ministers in Congress government too which was dislodged by the BJP last month. Also read: Congress targets BJP govt over variation in Covid-19 numbers in Madhya PradeshSilavat and Rajput, along with four other ministers and 18 Congress MLAs, resigned in March from the state assembly in their rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath.Mishra, Patel and Singh are also old hands and had served as ministers in the then BJP government.Caste and regional combinations were also taken into consideration while constituting the cabinet.Mishra from Gwalior-Chambal region is a Brahmin while Silavat from Malwa region comes from Scheduled castes. Patel from central MP represents the other backward classes while Singh from the Vindhya region is a tribal leader. Rajput, who is from Bundelkhand, is a member of the upper caste.Mishra and Silavat both have been health ministers in the then BJP and then Congress governments. Criticism over Covid-19Shivraj Singh Chouhan was sworn in as the chief minister on March 23. He faced flak from the opposition and on social media for running his government without a cabinet, particularly without a health minister, as the Covid-19 situation continued to worsen in the state.When Chouhan assumed office the coronavirus pandemic was rearing its head in the state with only seven Covid-19 cases registered in two districts. But in the span of about 29 days, the state has registered as many as 1485 Covid-19 cases with 76 of them dead and as many as 26 of its 52 districts affected.Madhya Pradesh has emerged as one of the worst managed states in the country during the period with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan blaming the then Congress government for the present situation in the state.Also read: What you need to know todayAt the same time, Indore has become one of the major hotspots in the country, prompting the central government to send a team on Monday to the city to assess and manage the situation.“To become a one-man army, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan put in peril the lives of 7.50 crore people of Madhya Pradesh. The CM is busy in his branding and publicity instead of protecting people of the state from Corona. In Madhya Pradesh, the situation is going from bad to worse,” Ajay Singh, senior Congress leader and former leader of the opposition, had said on April 10.Later, Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind urged him to impose a President’s rule in the state if Chouhan failed to constitute his cabinet.He wrote again to the President jointly with senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Monday to reiterate his demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-expands-cabinet-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-ElucijsTIkQfxL1TKkGmmN.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan stops rapid antibody tests, seeks guidance from ICMR||The Rajasthan government has stopped rapid antibody tests after a team of experts questioned their use on the basis of results from confirmed Covid-19 cases, health minister Raghu Sharma said on Tuesday.“We did rapid tests on 168 confirmed cases and only 5.4% of them tested positive for antibodies. So we have decided to stop the tests for now and sought guidance from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR),” Sharma said a day after the tests were stopped.On Friday, Rajasthan became the first state in the country to start rapid antibody tests after it received 10,000 kits for carrying out such testing. On the same day, 52 people were tested using the kits and all the results were negative.Sharma said doctors of the medicine and microbiology department at SMS Medical College used the rapid testing kits on positive patients to study their efficacy but were dissatisfied with results.“They advised us to stop the tests,” he said, adding the government will now await guidance from ICMR.“We have told them that we followed all the protocols for the rapid tests as set by ICMR,” Sharma said.The rapid antibody test is not a confirmatory test as antibodies may not immediately develop in a Covid-19-positive case and those may remain in cured patients.The confirmatory test for Covid-19 continues to be the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test.Rajasthan has so far recorded nearly 1,500 infections and 14 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-stops-rapid-antibody-tests-seeks-guidance-from-icmr/story-QHMRM6WI6kCTpOA2UIhmNI.html
21-04-2020||India||‘India heaven for Muslims’: Union minister amid allegations of ‘Islamophobia’||Days after the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation expressed concern over alleged incidents of “Islamophobia” in India, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said Muslims are prosperous in the country and those trying to vitiate the atmosphere cannot be their friends.The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Sunday urged India to take “urgent steps” to protect the rights of its minority Muslim community and stop the incidents of “Islamophobia” in the country.Asked about the OIC criticism, Naqvi said, “We are doing our job with conviction. The prime minister whenever he speaks, he talks about the rights and welfare of 130 crore Indians.” “If somebody cannot see this, then it is their problem. India’s Muslims, its minorities, all its sections, are prosperous and those people trying to vitiate this atmosphere of prosperity, they cannot be friends of Indian Muslims,” he told reporters.The minority affairs minister asserted “secularism and harmony” is not a “political fashion”, but a “perfect passion” for India and Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-heaven-for-muslims-union-minister-amid-allegations-of-islamophobia/story-Cc2cDtXw1obNvdiBlv5C5N.html
21-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi breathes cleaner air as PM2.5 drops to 35||Amid the coronavirus lockdown, countries across the globe have reported a significant drop in air pollution and witnessed improved air quality. According to the World Air Quality Index, countries like the United States, Spain, Italy, China, France, Mexico and the UK have reported a drop in the level of NO2 levels in April as compared to the same period last year. The most significant improvement in air quality was seen in New Delhi. Amid the lockdown, India’s national capital reported a drop in its NO2 levels. Nitrogen dioxide or NO2 is a gas emitted by motor vehicles and factories mostly and therefore, a drop in its level was indicative of reduced human activity outside the home amid the coronavirus lockdown.As per an analysis by experts at the nonprofit Center for Science and Environment, days after the coronavirus lockdown was put into force on March 25 in India, the level of particle pollution dropped by nearly 60% in New Delhi.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the air quality in the national capital on Tuesday (April 21) was recorded in the ‘satisfactory’ category with PM10 at 68 and PM2.5 at 35. The overall Air Quality Index in the national capital hovered around 68, as mentioned on the SAFAR website on Tuesday. This is a sharp drop in air pollution for the national capital which usually records ‘poor’ to ‘sever’ level of air quality with the AQI ranging between 100 to 300 and even higher in colder months. It is even predicted the air quality may touch “good” level in the national capital. “The overall Delhi AQI is the satisfactory category on 21st April morning as forecasted. The SAFAR model suggests AQI likely to improve further towards the lower end of the satisfactory category (may just touch good category) for 22nd April,” the website mentioned. Just a couple of months back in February, the pollution level in the national capital was deteriorating. The overall air quality in the first week of February stood in the “very poor” category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) docking at around 300, SAFAR has reported. But experts worry the clean air and unsullied skies are not here to stay once the lockdown is lifted. Selected business and economic activities resumed across the country on April 20. While the Delhi administration decided to provide no relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the national capital, some neighbouring states lifted few curbs.Experts fear that a return to the pre-lockdown situation, where factories resume operations and vehicles jam the roads again, pollution levels will rise again.“Currently, we have clean air due to the lockdown but this respite is short term. After the restrictions are lifted and human activities start, there will be a sudden rise in air pollution,” TK Joshi, member, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) task force on air pollution and health told HT’s business publication Mint.  PM10 and PM2.5 are particles (particulate matter) present in the air that are classified as pollutants and can harm human health. PM10 is particulate matter 10 micrometres or less in diameter while PM2.5 is particulate matter 2.5 micrometres or less in diameter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-spurs-drop-in-air-pollution-across-the-globe-experts-say-relief-could-be-short-term/story-nOmiaE9H0DaWXTfh23crlJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Through sea and forests: How workers are trying to reach home amid lockdown||Millions of workers and other people have been stranded across India since a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. Many have shown unprecedented grit and determination to return home despite restrictions on travelling.Around 1.5 million workers were stopped and kept in shelter homes and camps set up by state governments across India, where they got food at least twice a day.Many workers in cities such as Mumbai and Surat protested, demanding permission to return to their villages as they had no money. But some workers defied government orders and took different ways to reach homes. HT looks at five ways the workers took to reach their villages.Water routeOn Monday morning, a group of 27 migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha returned to their villages using the sea route from Chennai. They pooled in whatever money they had to buy a boat for Rs 2 lakh and decided to travel along India’s eastern coast as travel by road was not allowed during the lockdown. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said these workers, including 10 from Odisha, had gone to Chennai a few months ago to work in local factories.“After the lockdown was announced and their factories shut down, these labourers could not get transport to come back. They decided to pool their money to buy a fishing boat for Rs 2 lakh, in which they decided to escape,” said Kulange. However, these 27 workers, who landed at Donkuri, have been booked under the Disaster Management Act for violating lockdown norms and put in quarantine, said a police officer of Srikakulam district.On Sunday, 191 migrant workers were arrested in Guntur district of Telangana when they were found travelling in a boat on the Krishna river to reach their destination. Each worker paid Rs 500 to the boat-owner, who promised he would ensure they reach their villages, police said.Walking through forestsThe death of a 12-year-old girl in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur after she walked about 100 km over three days revealed that hundreds of workers from Telangana, Odisha and Maharashtra are returning to their villages in Maoist-affected Bastar region through dense forests. The girl was part of a group of 13 migrants who were returning to their village from a chilli farm in Telangana’s Mulgu district, where work was suspended because of the lockdown.The workers began walking from Telangana’s Perur on April 15, and the girl named Jamlo Madkami died of stress (not Covid-19) on reaching Chhattisgarh on April 18. The other 12 workers have been put in quarantine.Police officials said there were reports of tribal people walking back from Odisha and Maharashtra through the dense and tough terrain of Chhattisgarh’s forests, which are being verified by different police stations. “The workers took a forested route to reach their village because of the closure of roads due to the lockdown,” said Bijapur’s chief medical officer, BR Pujari.Cycling homeOn April 1, Mahesh Jena, like many other workers in India, set off on an unusual journey by cycling back to his home in Odisha’s Jaipur district from Sangli in Maharashtra, a journey of 1,700 km. As there was a rumour that factories would remain closed for at least five months, Jena said: “Everyone was very scared. How we will earn? How will we eat? How will we pay room rent? No one said anything to us about how we will survive, whether we will be paid.”On his way back, Jena saw crowds of migrant workers on foot. “I did not think of anything more. I did not think about food or water, or whether the cycle would last,” he said. Determined to reach home, Jena cycled an average of a little more than 200 km a day and reached his village on April 8.On April 1, another worker named Arif made an arduous bicycle journey from Mumbai to Jammu to see his ailing father, who had suffered a stroke. He was helped by CRPF’s Madadgar helpline to complete his journey in about eight days.Many other workers have cycled shorter distances to reach home. Radheshyam Patel was among a group of 50 workers who cycled from Gujarat’s Ahmedabad to Rajasthan’s Dungarpur district, a distance of 150 km. “Since no buses were available, we decided to cycle back home,” Patel said. Similar reports were received from Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Stuffed in vehiclesOn Sunday, Telangana Police found three students hiding in a milk tanker at Pondugula check-post. They were on their way to Singarayakonda in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh from Miryalaguda in Telangana. Nalgonda district’s superintendant of police PV Ranganath said each student paid Rs 1,000 to get back to their villages.On March 28, around 10 workers were found hidden in a milk tanker in Thane district of Maharashtra, travelling back to their villages in Rajasthan. They were detained at Talasari in Palghar district of Maharashtra along the Gujarat boundary, PTI news agency reported. The migrants chose this method as regular transport was not available.In another incident, 32 workers, including women and children, were caught packed into a truck like sardines and covered by a tarpaulin at Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar on April 2. They were travelling in the truck with a Delhi registration number to their villages in violation of the lockdown, police said. Vijay, who identified himself as the leader of the group, said, “We managed to enter Uttar Pradesh, despite the border being sealed because we knew alternative routes to sneak in. We managed to reach Lucknow with great difficulty. We somehow managed to come this far and now are not too far from our destination.”All of them were from Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh. Similar reports of workers hiding in trucks and pick-up vans were received from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.Ambulance A couple from Tripura travelled 3,213 km from Tamil Nadu in an ambulance to reach their home amid the lockdown last Saturday. They had gone to Chennai on March 20 and got stranded because of the lockdown. As the lockdown was extended, the couple decided to return home on April 15 and reached Agartala on Sunday night. “It was quite difficult to stay at hospital and bear the high cost. We needed to defer our daughter’s marriage, which was supposed to be on May 8,” said Chanchal Majumder, who had taken his wife to Chennai for treatment for a brain tumour.Majumder, a retired government official, spent Rs 1.4 lakh for the journey in an ambulance and travelled almost non-stop, zipping past seven states. They bought food from whatever shops were open. The couple has now been put in institutional quarantine at Udaipur in Tripura. “After they came here, we immediately shifted them to institutional quarantine. They didn’t meet anyone, not even their daughter. I have visited them. Both are fine now,” said Gomati district magistrate TK Debnath. Earlier, a couple from Nepal travelled from Chennai in an ambulance to reach the India-Nepal border in West Bengal, where they were put in quarantine. A police officer, who declined to be named, said the Nepalese couple paid Rs 2 lakh for the ambulance with a curfew pass. The couple told police that people on the way provided them food during their 2,300-km journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-foot-on-cycles-in-a-boat-how-desperate-people-are-trying-to-reach-home-amid-lockdown/story-srfOdlp47tnvazxAH3tHLM.html
21-04-2020||India||Delhi-Ghaziabad border sealed to check the spread of Covid-19||The border between Delhi and Ghaziabad was sealed on Tuesday to contain the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.The decision was taken after six people who had come from Delhi tested positive for coronavirus, Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in an order issued on April 20.The order was issued under the National Disaster Act 2005 and came in force immediately.“The report presented by the chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, clearly shows that people commuting between Delhi and Ghaziabad are at high risk of contracting the virus. Therefore, in public interest, all public movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad has been suspended till further orders,” said the order.Only those rendering essential services and people holding valid passes are being allowed, it further said.Long queues of vehicles were seen at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Tuesday morning.Fifty-two districts in Uttar Pradesh are now affected by Covid-19.A recent assessment by the state government had said that the lockdown is “unsatisfactory” in 40 of the 75 districts and called for stricter enforcement there of the restrictions to fight coronavirus.The districts in the “unsatisfactory” category include capital Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Allahabad, Varanasi and Kanpur.The 35 districts where lockdown and slowing down of Covid-19 spread have been found satisfactory include Aligarh, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Hardoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ghaziabad-border-sealed-after-6-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-wJRgLmIDBiEP4RjZn4n4BP.html
21-04-2020||India||Lok Sabha staffer tests Covid-19 positive, say officials||A housekeeper of the Lok Sabha has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, according to at least three officials who did not want to be named, in what is the first case of Covid-19 among the 3,000-odd staffers in the Lower House.The staff member was not working in the Parliament complex but in one of the establishments of the Lok Sabha secretariat at 36 GRG Road.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The housekeeper, according to the officials, had been at home since the budget session of Parliament was adjourned on March 23.“Approximately 10 days ago, he fell ill and went to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital (RML) for check-up and tests, including ECG. He was discharged the same day,” an official said.Another official said he later developed cough, fever and body ache, symptoms of the coronavirus disease. Also read: Relative of Rashtrapati Bhavan staff tests Covid-19 +ve, 125 quarters sealed“On April 18, he again went for check-up at RML Hospital. This time, the doctors tested him for Covid-19. On Monday (April 20), his report came and he tested positive for Covid-19,” the second official said.The New Delhi Municipal Council and other agencies were contacted in order to conduct Covid-19 tests for his family members.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The housekeeper has a wife, three sons and a daughter. His four grandchildren too were staying in the same house at Kali Bari Marg, New Delhi.One of his sons works with Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL), and is currently posted in the CCTV wing in the Parliament House.The Lok Sabha Speaker’s office has been appraised of the development, officials said. Also read| ‘Few tested positive’: Tablighi chief’s comeback on Jamaat spreading Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-secretariat-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-officials/story-RlTelcRdO6kuzFWTzVnlHL.html
21-04-2020||India||Kalimpong’s only Covid-19 hit family triggers panic, discrimination in north Bengal hills||Weeks after a woman in Bengal’s Kalimpong district died of Covid-19 and 10 members of her family were treated for the infection, people in the state’s hill region are acting under stress and fear.In the last few days, Laxmi Ghatani (70), Sujata Sherpa (22) and Dishan Khati, an eight-year-old, have faced the outcome of fear psychosis among the locals here.Kalimpong district has been declared coronavirus-free after 10 members of the region’s only affected family, and a maid who worked for the family, tested negative after their treatment. The family lost a 44-year-old female member on March 30.Although no new cases have been reported in the district that shares its borders with Bhutan, Sikkim and Darjeeling, locals in Kalimpong, especially those who are old and unwell, are facing discrimination.Ghatani, a resident of Mungpoo in Darjeeling district, fell ill on Saturday and her family members took her to Rambi community block primary health centre the next day. The doctor referred her to Kalimpong district hospital but the health centre allegedly denied an ambulance. After much persuasion, an ambulance took the patient up to Chitray, 14 kilometres away from Kalimpong. The patient was taken to the Kalimpong hospital in a car provided by a social worker named Jyoti Karki. The old woman was admitted at 1 pm and she died at 8 pm on Sunday.Bimal Ghatani, one of the sons of the deceased, said “Had we been able to admit her in Kalimpong hospital on time she might have survived. Precious hours were lost in search of an ambulance.”Bimal, who is a carpenter, said “At Mungpoo, local people have made it clear that those who took my mother to Kalimpong cannot return home. They have been told to stay in quarantine for 14 days.”Last week, eight-year-old Dishan Khati - a resident of Tirpai in Kalimpong - had fever, cough and signs of pneumonia. On April 15, a doctor in Kalimpong referred him to a private nursing home in Siliguri saying that all arrangements had been made and the nursing home was one of those authorized to treat Covid-19 patients.Yasaka Khati, the child’s father who runs his family by driving cars, said, “Though the government is saying that ambulance in cases like these will be provided for free, I was forced to take my son to Siliguri in my vehicle as the driver of a government ambulance demanded Rs 1500.”“That was not all. The nursing home authorities refused to admit my son and even policemen did not help. We took my son to the state-run North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). There, we had to wait for long hours before my son got admission. But we were not happy with the arrangements,” Khati said.“On April 16, we took my son back to Kalimpong hospital. The boy is doing fine now,” said Khati.   On April 15, Sujata Sherpa, a pregnant woman from the Algarah area in Kalimpong was referred to a Siliguri hospital by the Kalimpong district hospital for a USG test. Sujata and her husband, Sangey Sherpa, went to Siliguri district hospital. Sangey said, “The moment the hospital staff came to know that we were from Kalimpong, they started behaving differently and told us to go to NBMCH at night. At NBMCH, the staff refused to get my wife admitted as she was bleeding. We were asked to return the next day. We were so helpless that we had to spend the night of April 15 in a church in Siliguri,” said Sherpa. The USG was done the next day and the couple returned home with the help from social workers. Dr CK Chettri, block medical officer of Rambi said, “The family of Ghatani never sought the government ambulance.” Jyoti Karki, whose car was used by the Ghatanis, said, “People of Kalimpong are facing social discrimination in other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalimpong-s-only-covid-19-hit-family-triggers-panic-discrimination-in-north-bengal-hills/story-LQ2aGfawtnjP7Bhbfw6peP.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan reports 52 Covid-19 new cases, most from Jaipur||Rajasthan’s capital Jaipur reported 34 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of 52 from across the state Monday morning, taking the tally to 1628, news agency ANI reported citing health department officials.According to the bulletin at 9am, apart from the 34 cases from Jaipur; five came from Jodhpur; four from Bhilwara; two each from Dausa, Jaisalmer and Tonk and one each from Jhunjhunu Nagaur and Sawai Madhopur.Jaipur has the highest number of people infected by the disease at 619 followed by Jodhpur with 265, Kota with 106 and Bharatpur 102, according to the cumulative count of Covid-19 cases in the state.Also read: What you need to know todaySo far, 302 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 97 have been discharged from hospitals.According to Rohit Kumar Singh, the additional chief secretary with the health department, test results of the backlog 4000 samples sent to a private lab in Delhi have started coming and these are being captured in the report.Singh added that the number of cases is expected to rise on Tuesday as well as Wednesday.Also read: Industries open on tepid note as states continue with curbsThe number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to the health centres of the Indian Army in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.The desert state, which is under lockdown since March 22, is conducting a massive survey and screening to track the people infected with the Sars-Cov-2, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-reports-52-covid-19-new-cases-most-from-jaipur/story-yUARDlabwZj62D5HI57V8M.html
21-04-2020||India||Adivasi MLA, who was once a Maoist, treks through Telangana forests to deliver ration to the tribals||Danasari Anasuya (49), a Congress lawmaker, who represents Telangana’s Mulug assembly constituency, a Scheduled Tribe (ST) reserved seat, tweeted on Tuesday: “When I was crossing this area (Tupakulagudem village, north of Warangal in undivided Andhra Pradesh, near the Godavari river that separates neighbouring Chhattisgarh), it took me back to my old days. That time gun in my hand, now rice and vegetables that I distributed among 12 remote tribal villages.” Anasuya was a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Jana Sakthi, a splinter group of the present-day outlawed CPI (M-L), in the 1990s. Her name --- she was known as Seethakaka in her dreaded Maoist gun-wielding avatar ---spelled terror for the local feudal lords, but she was popular among the poor tribals in Etur Nagaram forests abutting Chhattisgarh. She laid down her arms to join the mainstream in 1994 and became a politician a decade later.Now, Anasuya, who is still fondly called Seethakka by her fellow tribals, is travelling from one adivasi village to another extending a helping hand amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which was initially enforced on March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. She is organising the basic daily necessities for the tribals, who are used to subsistence existence, such as food grains, vegetables, fruits, etc. “Most of the tribals are oblivious to the goings-on in the outside world. They have no concept about Covid-19. All that they know is that weekly markets and shops are close and they are not allowed to travel to adjoining villages to buy the essential commodities,” Seethakka told Hindustan Times.She went to Mulug on March 23 before the lockdown was enforced, where she came to know about the deplorable plight of the tribals after some local youth drew her attention to them. “Some of my party colleagues and I quickly pooled in money and bought rice, dal and other commodities and distributed them among 100 tribals. The following day another 100 adivasis sought my help. This made me realise the intensity of the problem. I’ve decided to stay put in my constituency to help these hapless people till the crisis blows over,” she said.She is travelling to every nook and cranny of the forests for over three weeks on whatever mode of transport is available. “Some villages are accessible, where I could travel by jeeps, cars and even auto-rickshaws. But some are only accessible by tractors and bullock carts,” she added.The feisty rebel-turned-politician did not hesitate to trek for several kilometres, crossing streams, and rivulets, to reach some of the inaccessible villages while carrying food grains and vegetables for the tribals.“I made a long trek to Tupakulagudem village, located on the banks of Godavari river, last week,” she said.Anasuya is adept at negotiating the inhospitable terrain, as her Koya tribal roots stand her in good stead in this moment of reckoning. “I have no problem in locating these tribal hamlets and assessing the villagers’ needs. I don’t take my security personnel along with me on my journey to these villages because I know that the tribals are scared of them,” she said.Anasuya has also been creating awareness about Covid-19 among the illiterate tribals such as the need for social distancing and wearing masks. “Initially, they fobbed me off and wanted to shake my hands as a mark of gratitude and respect. But I explained to them the need for social distancing. They have understood its importance and are cooperating with us,” she said.There is a pattern in her daily life since March 23. She travels from one village to another and usually clocks around 60 odd kilometres. “I have lunch with the villagers and return to Mulug by evening. I’ve been to each and every village more than once. I’ve told the villagers to get in touch with me, should they fall short of essential commodities. I’ve promised them that I’d be there the next day with the supplies,” she added.Anasuya joined the armed rebellion at a tender age of 14 when she a Class IX student in Mulug, which those days used to be part of undivided Andhra Pradesh’s Warangal district. In retrospect, she joined the call of arms because Jana Sakthi was one of the major left-wing extremist groups in the region. She proved her mettle and in two years was elevated as a “dalam” (squad) leader in the party’s ranks and had few narrow brushes with death during close encounters with security forces in the dense forests.However, she got disillusioned with the extremist movement because of a leadership crisis in Jana Sakthi and surrendered in 1994 while responding to the government’s amnesty plea. Later, she graduated in law from Warangal and became a lawyer. She became active in women’s issues and in 2004 joined the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the presence of the party president, N Chandrababu Naidu.She became a member of the Andhra Pradesh assembly in 2009 from Mulug constituency but lost from the same seat in 2014 after the formation of the separate state of Telangana. In 2017, she quit the TDP and joined the Congress. She wrested Mulug in 2018 December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adivasi-mla-who-was-once-a-maoist-treks-through-telangana-forests-to-deliver-ration-to-the-tribals/story-Gs5fN0877GTI6RNQfqNYbO.html
21-04-2020||India||‘You helped foreigners, now let migrant workers go home’: Gehlot to PM Modi||The Uttar Pradesh government’s move to evacuate its students from Kota in Rajasthan during the Covid-19 lockdown has brought the other states under pressure to act and ensure early return of their stranded migrant workers. Except Bihar, many states such as Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Assam and Jharkhand have now approached the Rajasthan government to facilitate the return of their stranded students and are making the necessary arrangements for their travel back home. Apart from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand too has taken back its students.The move has triggered demands for the passage of migrant workers stuck in different states to their respective native places.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday and told him that his state has a different problem than others.“A large number of Rajasthanis, including migrant workers, shopkeepers, private employees, small businessmen are stuck in Assam, North East, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Kerala, Maharashtra and other states. They are feeling frustrated and desperately want to go back to their homes and meet their family members,” he told Hindustan Times.Gehlot said he told Shah that if the Centre allows them to return to their homes, only then they would be eager to go back to their work places in different states once the lockdown is lifted.“They will feel satisfied after meeting their family members and happily go back to states where they worked once the lockdown is withdrawn,” he added.The Rajasthan chief minister said the Centre should have given at least five days to the migrant workers and others to go back to their homes like it had allowed the flights before enforcing the restrictions.He said Shah has assured him that the Centre will soon take a call on the issue. “The home minister told me that he will inform me about the government’s decision tomorrow,” added Gehlot.The Opposition parties, led by the Congress, had expressed concerns over the plight of migrant workers who were forced to take a long walk back to their villages due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the coronavirus pandemic.The political parties had urged the Centre to allow a one-time state transport services be made available to the migrant workers to enable them to go back to their homes.Gehlot said he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi that when his government can help in the evacuation of foreigners stranded in India and get back the Indians stuck abroad, he should also facilitate the return of migrant workers and others, including five lakh Rajasthani citizens, to their homes as nearly a month had passed since the restrictions were enforced.“Once they are in right frame of mind after meeting their family members, they would be able to resume their activities and play a major role in the revival of economic activities once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren told Hindustan Times that he would request a special train from the Centre to transport migrant workers and others from different states back to their homes.Officials in Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh said they are inundated with calls from residents, mostly students seeking help to return to their states.An official in Himachal Pradesh, speaking on the condition of anonymity said, after the coronavirus outbreak the state had sealed its borders to ensure there is no movement of people or commercial vehicles though arrangements had been made for passage of those in need of critical care or other emergency reasons.“There are many students in places such as Rajasthan and Chandigarh and they have been calling to get them back to the state. Since there is a countrywide lockdown and movement is barred, we will have to take a call on the best way to deal with the situation,” said the official quoted above.In Madhya Pradesh too, the issue of bringing back students and migrant workers from adjoining states is being discussed.An official privy to the developments said the issue of working out the details of how to arrange for transportation of students and workers was raised at a meeting of the task force set up recently.Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow, Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said the government should formulate ways for allowing the workers to commute during the lockdown by issuing electronic passes.He said these passes can be issued for travel in buses that can be easily sanitized and allowed outside the hotspots. “Companies can provide small payment to the state for each vehicle to meet the additional cost of the supervision and management. Employees opting for commutation though self-driven cars can also be provided e-permits,” he said.Earlier this week, the Centre issued guidelines for movement of workers within a state following the decision to ease restrictions in non Covid-19 hotspots to resume economic activities.While inter-state movement of workers during the lockdown has been prohibited, MSMEs, construction and agriculture activities outside the containment zones, have been permitted from April 20.As per the order, migrant labourers in relief and shelter camps will have to be registered with the concerned local authority and their skill mapping will have to be carried out to find out their suitability for various kinds of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-states-under-pressure-to-bring-back-migrant-workers/story-E5O7mgeukoO1RDANBDMAWO.html
21-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Rajasthan hit by shortage of automatic RNA extraction kits||Even as Rajasthan conducts more tests per million population than the national average for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), its biggest testing centre – SMS Hospital in Jaipur – is hit by a shortage of automatic RNA extraction kits. This has reduced the testing capacity to half and the state had to send 4,000 samples to a Delhi lab on Sunday to clear the backlog, said a top health official on Monday.The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing process for Covid-19 requires a Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kit to take the sample to a lab. The process requires an RNA extraction machine, automatic or manual, to extract ribonucleic acid, and an RT-PCR machine where the extracted RNA is amplified to study the viral load to confirm the presence of Sars-CoV-2.The VTMs and kits for RT-PCR machines are provided to the states by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) but the RNA extraction kits, which are proprietary items, have to be procured by the states from the manufactures of the machines.SMS Hospital has automatic RNA extraction machines from Easymag (France), Qaigen (Germany), Maxwell (US) and Perkin (US), said Rohit Kumar Singh, state additional chief secretary, medical and health department. These companies also provide kits to European and American labs, resulting in a delay in supply to Indian labs.Rajasthan government has proposed central procurement of these kits by the Government of India for their availability to states.“On Sunday, we had kits to last us three days. We have placed orders for 150,000 kits from these four companies. In the meantime, we decided to send 4,000 samples to a private lab in Delhi to clear the backlog,” Singh said.According to the 9 pm bulletin released by the state health department on Monday, 8,057 samples were under process at SMS Hospital.Currently, RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 is being done in 7 out of 14 government medical colleges in Rajasthan. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Jodhpur, also has a testing lab. The seven medical colleges include SMS Medical College in Jaipur whose associate hospital SMS Hospital is the only lab with automatic nuclear extraction machines; the remaining do it manually. Rajasthan’s testing capacity is 3,000 samples a day.The state government is ramping up its testing capacity to 10,000. For this, it has ordered PCR machines for all its 33 districts and automatic RNA extraction machines for the remaining seven medical colleges.“All 14 medical colleges will soon have a testing facility. Automatic RNA extraction machines are being procured from Qaigen, Parkin, Thermo and Backman Coulter for all medical colleges. We have placed an order for 10,000 kits with each machine at the time of delivery,” the Singh added.He said the state government realizes that the only way to contain health emergencies such as the Covid-19 pandemic is to build infrastructure to test, contain and treat. “The idea is to use this crisis as an opportunity to strengthen public health infrastructure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-rajasthan-hit-by-shortage-of-automatic-rna-extraction-kits/story-B9h5JpeBQoMMx1UXdZhhgI.html
21-04-2020||India||Rs 1L aid for kin of Chhattisgarh girl who died during walk back home from Telangana||Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the family of a 12-year-old girl who died in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur after walking about a hundred kilometres over three days through dense forests to reach her village during the nationwide lockdown.A press release issued by the state government said on Tuesday the family members of Jamlo Madkami will get the financial assistance from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.“The tragic death of 12-year-old-girl Jamlo Madkam of Bijapur is heartbreaking. In this difficult time, as an immediate help, I give Rs 1 lakh from the CM Relief Fund and Rs 4 lakh from the voluntary grant. Bijapur Collector has been instructed to investigate the matter & report,” the CM tweeted.Madkami, who went to Perur in Telangana’s Mulgu district along with 13 migrant workers to pluck chilly, died in the jungle after reaching Chhattisgarh on April 18. She was about 50 kilometers from her village. Madkami and the others, including her uncle, began their long walk back home on April 15.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown: States under pressure to bring back migrant workersBijapur collector KD Kunjam said the girl’s post-mortem was done on Monday and the body was handed over to the family.“On April 20, after the report of the blood sample sent to Jagdalpur Medical College was found negative for the coronavirus, post-mortem was done by the district hospital in Bijapur. The body of the deceased was handed over of family members,” said the press release.On Monday, Bijapur chief medical health officer (CMHO) RS Pujari said electrolyte imbalance could have caused the girl’s death though he pointed out that the exact reason could not be ascertained immediately.Also read: Kalimpong’s only Covid-19 hit family triggers panic, discrimination in north Bengal hills“Since she travelled on difficult terrains for three days, she could be facing muscle fatigue which could led to some imbalance. Secondly, as per the people who were walking with her, she fell from a hillock and sustained injuries also,” Pujari added. An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said hundreds of workers have returned to their homes on foot from Telangana through dense forests since the lockdown was imposed in March and extended last week until May 3. “The forest routes are surrounded by Maoist-affected areas. Hence no one can monitor their movement,” said a police official involved in anti-Maoist operations, who did not want to be named.The lockdown triggered an exodus of migrant workers from bigger cities in March as tens of thousands of them left jobless because of the curbs imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic began leaving for their homes on foot. This prompted the Centre to direct the states and Union territories to seal their borders and ensure the migrant workers are taken care of in shelter homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1l-aid-for-kin-of-c-garh-girl-who-died-during-walk-back-home-from-t-gana/story-HeApvcYBe3eclb30q6YEpL.html
21-04-2020||India||More than 71,000 people booked in Uttar Pradesh for defying Covid-19 lockdown||The Uttar Pradesh Police has registered more than 24,000 FIRs and booked over 71,000 people so far for defying Covid-19 lockdown norms, news agency PTI reported.They were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which deals with disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant.“To strictly implement the lockdown in districts, police registered 24,446 FIRs against 71,782 violaters after the lockdown orders,” Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi told PTI.These people were released on bail to avoid pressure on jails, he added.The official said during this period, police recovered more than Rs 9.5 crore as fine from those violating the lockdown.Meanwhile, the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said that 1,184 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 140 people have recovered, 18 have died from the infection in the state.The government on Monday sanctioned Rs 46,038.70 crore to be transferred to states as their share in central taxes and duties amounting for April 2020 that will help them in fighting Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of finance said in a tweet.According to the finance ministry, the share of Uttar Pradesh in the pie is Rs 8,255.19 crore.Uttar Pradesh permitted 11 types of industries such as cement, textile and paper to resume production from Monday with 50 per cent staff and strict hygiene and social distancing conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-71-000-people-booked-in-uttar-pradesh-for-defying-covid-19-lockdown/story-c3hyzCHQcguU088dTyYo3O.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Unilateral decision’ to send team ‘undesirable’; their movement wouldn’t be allowed: Mamata tells PM Modi||On a day when Bengal recorded a sharp rise in the number of coronavirus cases with 54 people testing positive, the Mamata Banerjee government locked horns with the Centre. Banerjee-led Bengal administration got upset with Centre’s move of sending two inter-ministerial teams to inspect various aspects of the state’s battle against the virus, including the measures of the health administration and the implementation of the lockdown.While chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said that the state would not allow the central team to move freely until their intention became clear to the state administration, chief minister Mamata Banerjee shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that Centre’s ‘unilateral decision’ was ‘undesirable’, alleging ‘breach of established protocol’. In her letter, Banerjee stated that Bengal enforced lockdown even before the Centre had announced it.I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister @NarendraModi Ji & Home Minister @AmitShah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism. (2/2)“I would like to bring to your kind notice that today the Union Home Minister spoke to me over the telephone at about 1 pm regarding the visit of the inter-ministerial central teams to my state. Unfortunately, the teams had already landed in Kolkata airport by AI special cargo flight 1701 at 10.10 am, i.e. much before our telephonic conversation. The order dated April 19, 2020, from the home ministry addressed to the chief secretary also reached just 30 minutes before the teams arrived. While I appreciate the pro-activeness shown by the central government in sending their teams to West Bengal, the same was done without prior intimation and hence is a breach of established protocol,” Banerjee wrote in her letter.She alleged that while as per the home ministry’s order the state government was supposed to provide the logistical arrangements, the central teams kept the state in the dark and approached central forces such as the Border Security Force (BSF) and Seema Suraksha Bal and had started making their movements without consulting the state.“As an established procedure, it is expected that the central team should have first taken a briefing from the state government officials prior to going for the field visits,” the letter read.Banerjee alleged that the order from the home ministry mentioned “number of violations of lockdown measures” and said that “these observations are devoid of any facts and do not lend any credibility to the claim.”According to her, “selection of districts (for the central team’s visit) and observations made unilaterally are nothing but a figment of imagination and unfortunate.”The chief minister reminded the prime minister that West Bengal had “pro-actively announced the lockdown before it was announced by the central government”, and that the state extended the lockdown up to April 30 even before the Centre announced an extension of the lockdown on April 14.“I am sure you will kindly agree that such unilateral action on the part of the central government is not desirable at all,” she wrote in her letter.Banerjee also took to social media and posted on Twitter, “We welcome all constructive support & suggestions, especially from the Central Govt in negating the #Covid19 crisis. However, the basis on which Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including few in WB under Disaster Mgmt Act 2005 is unclear. I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister @NarendraModi Ji & Home Minister @AmitShah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism.”Incidentally, the Centre had earlier written twice to the state, alleging a lax implementation of the lockdown, a charge that was echoed by senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in the state as also by the Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.The chief secretary, however, said on Monday, “We are going for a strict lockdown in containment areas of Kolkata and Howrah.” At some places in Kolkata and Howrah, the administration has deployed combat forces to ensure the lockdown is enforced strictly.Two inter-ministerial teams, one led by Apurva Chanda, additional secretary, department of defence and the other led by Vineet Joshi, additional secretary, ministry of human resource development, reached the state on Monday. They are to inquire about 7 of the state’s 23 districts. One team is to visit the districts in north Bengal and the other in south Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unilateral-decision-to-send-team-undesirable-their-movement-wouldn-t-be-allowed-mamata-tells-pm-modi/story-1ftB9EJg4hR8dz0BZrPfdJ.html
21-04-2020||India||How Bihar spent the first day of Covid-19 lockdown relaxation||The first day of relaxation from Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar felt like a breath of fresh air’. The sprawling premises of the old secretariat and the Vishweshwaraiya Bhavan in state capital Patna came alive shedding the ghostly silence that had prevailed there for nearly a month.In Fatuha block, on the outskirts of Patna, the numerous brick kilns restarted production.However, these relaxations come with strict rules to be followed to ensure that the coronavirus disease doesn’t spread. The police personnel stationed at the gates of the secretariat, which houses many government department, were allowing entry only to those who were carrying identity cards.“Others requiring entry into the premises would need to furnish a permission granted by a competent authority. None will be let in, though, if found to be running a temperature during screening,” an inspector told news agency PTI.The police personnel also carried out thermal screening of every occupant inside cars and two-wheelers entering the premises.Department heads also said they were strictly following guidelines like mandatory wearing of face masks and only one-thirds of the total workforce being assigned duty on a single working day, reported PTI.At the brick kilns, workers were seen maintaining a safe distance from each other and ‘gamchas’ or sari pallus wrapped around their faces.The contractors said they are ensuring that social distancing norms are followed and in case a worker is found suffering from symptoms like fever or cough, health department authorities will be alerted.In many parts of Muzaffarpur, enthusiastic residents came out on the streets in large numbers, prompting the local administration to step in with the warning that the lockdown was very much in place and overcrowding could lead to them being booked under the Disaster Management Act and relevant IPC sections.Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said with the easing of restrictions work would start on 40,000 projects which would provide employment to over a million daily wage earners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-bihar-spent-the-first-day-of-covid-19-lockdown-relaxation/story-UZCVNYRtwa0QteOnQAWAZI.html
21-04-2020||India||10 of 13 Covid-19 positive cases in Odisha has Bengal connect; alert sounded||With 10 people from Bhadrak and Jajpur districts with travel history to Kolkata testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Odisha recorded 18 such cases on a single day. This forced the Naveen Patnaik government to rush rapid response teams there to oversee measures to contain the spread of the virus while asking people with travel history to West Bengal during last 28 days to quarantine themselves at home.Eighteen Covid-19 positive patients were detected in Odisha till late Monday night, taking total number of cases to 79. Previously, 15 cases were detected on April 3 and 18 on April 5, most of them from Bhubaneswar. On Monday night, five more people, including a 12-year-old boy, were tested positive in Balasore town that is now emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot. The five are family members of the 58-year-old man of Balasore who had tested positive on April 18.Odisha health and family welfare department officials said the 10 workers of Jajpur and Bhadrak districts, who had tested positive, were working in West Bengal and had returned to Odisha in the last 28 days evading the lockdown by travelling in small vehicles or goods train and other means. Chief spokesperson of state government on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi, said 24 of the 74 cases in Odisha had travel history to West Bengal, that has of late become a hotspot. In Kolkata, 54 new cases were reported on Monday.Five people from Bhadrak, aged between 48 years and 66 years, had slipped through the Odisha-Bengal border between March 28 and April 9. Quarantined in their homes, they were all asymptomatic till they tested positive on Monday. Similarly, another five people of Jajpur district, aged between 28 years and 64 years, working as labourers in Howrah and Burrabazar area, too had returned from Kolkata in the last 28 days.Jajpur district collector Ranjan Das said one of the five Covid-19 patients detected in Bhadrak had travelled with five people from Jajpur in a van while they were returning from Kolkata on March 29. As the five got down at Sathipur on March 30 morning, the district collector appealed to residents of villages situated adjacent to Sathipur to inform the officials if anyone with travel history to Kolkata had reached the villages after March 30 morning.“Most people from West Bengal are clandestinely trying to sneak into the villages. It’s not possible for the state administration and police to keep watch on every village. So the grampanchayats are extremely important in detection of potential Covid cases,” a health department press release said.A senior police official said though every effort is being made to seal the Odisha-Bengal border, many people were crossing over to Odisha in ambulances. Though all modes of passenger transport services have been suspended for over a week in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, a large number of people have been entering Odisha by smallers roads connecting the two states through private vehicles like cars, auto-rickshaw, mini-buses and trucks.“We have little way of knowing how many of them are genuine. Instead of going to hospitals in Kolkata, many of the patients from Bengal’s Midnapore district are flooding AIIMS Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. They may prove to be the greatest source of infection,” said the official. An AIIMS official said in the last one week, the number of patients from Bengal have gone up.With more and more people from Bengal entering Odisha through numerous roads, Odisha DGP Abhay today visited the Odisha-Bengal border in Balasore an Mayurbhanj district on Tuesday to oversee the police arrangements of sealing the border. Odisha has 38 villages that share the border with Bengal. Of the 38 villages, 35 are in Balasore and rest in Mayurbhanj district.Meanwhile, in Balasore district, a two-year-old tribal girl tested positive, making her the youngest Covid-19 patient in the state. The girl in Nilagiri block was running fever and had cold following which she was taken to the district headquarters hospital in Balasore where her swab sample was taken. Officials said they were intrigued by the girl’s case as she did not have any travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-of-13-covid-19-positive-cases-in-odisha-has-bengal-connect-alert-sounded/story-0V6wGI4kMuVzdJUTM3xyWK.html
21-04-2020||India||Cases near 2000 in Gujarat, 20% patients recover in Delhi: Covid-19 state tally||India has reported 47 coronavirus deaths and 1336 new cases in the last 24 hours. According to the Ministry of Health, India’s total number of coronavirus cases have jumped to 18,601. The figure includes 14759 active cases, 3252 cured or discharged patients and 590 fatalities. 7 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. In Maharashtra, coronavirus cases near 5000-mark while in Delhi the Covid-19 tally is slightly over 2000 cases. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 4666 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 232 deaths so far while 572 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 2081 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 47 people have died from the infection while 431 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 1939 coronavirus cases and 131 recoveries so far. 71 people have died from the infection in the state.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1576 on Tuesday. The state has reported 25 fatalities, and 205 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1520 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 457 recoveries and 17 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1485 positive cases of coronavirus. 74 people have died from Covid-19 here while 127 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh1184 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 140 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 18 have died from the infection here.Telangana873 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 190 people have made a recovery from the virus while 23 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 722 positive Covid-19 patients and 92 cases of recovery. 20 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 408 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 291 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 408 Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. 112 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 368. 5 people have died from the infection while 71 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 254 and 245 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 127 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 38 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 392 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 12 deaths and 73 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 74 Covid-19 positive patients, 24 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 113 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 42 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 46 coronavirus patients, 18 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 26 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 13 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 16 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 25 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 46 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Meghalaya has reported 11 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the seventh day of the extended lockdown phase on Tuesday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-near-2000-in-gujarat-20-patients-recover-in-delhi-covid-19-state-tally/story-1DT3dnaQj3MGVt2tHXeNPJ.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Stay at home, pray at home during Ramzan’: Shahi Imam of Delhi mosque urges Muslims||The Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri mosque in Delhi has appealed to Muslims to not step out during Ramzan and offer prayers at home.“Covid-19 is taking a very dangerous form, please listen to the advice of the doctors. Don’t come out of your houses without reason. The fast can be observed at home too. Prayers too can be done alone at home. Please don’t ask neighbours to join you,” Imam Mufti Mukarram Ahmed said in his public appeal.The Ramzan will begin on April 23 (Thursday).Another prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind too appealed to Muslims on Monday to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and perform all religious rituals during Ramzan staying inside their homes.Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Maulana Arshad Madani urged Muslims to offer prayers, including special ‘Taraweeh’ prayers, during Ramzan at home rather than in mosques.“In view of deadly Covid-19 that has caused death and destruction all over the world, medical experts have suggested that social distancing is only option to break the chain of spread of this dangerous virus,” Madani said.The nationwide lockdown, which was from March 25 till April 14, has been extended to May 3 by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi last Thursday had directed state waqf boards to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown and social distancing guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-at-home-pray-at-home-during-ramzan-shahi-imam-of-delhi-mosque-urges-muslims/story-WGCQYS5j72qvpXkCINsFDP.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Data manipulated’: Congress targets BJP govt over variation in Covid-19 numbers in Madhya Pradesh||The government data on Covid-19 patients show variations in as many as 18 districts out of the 26 in Madhya Pradesh in the past three to four days, prompting the public health experts to demand an inquiry into it and Opposition Congress to attack the BJP government.As on Sunday evening, as per the state government’s health bulletin, Madhya Pradesh had 1,407 Covid-19 patients in 26 districts, out of whom 72 had died. There are 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh. As per the state government’s data, Ratlam in Malwa region had 12 cases of Covid-19 on April 17. It went up to 13 on April 18 but it declined to nine on April 9. Similarly, Khargone in Nimad region had 39 patients on April 17 and it increased to 47 the next day but later it came down to 43 on April 19.Ujjain, another district in Malwa region registered 30 cases on April 16. There was addition of one patient to the list the next day. But suddenly the number came down from 31 to 23 on April 18 and again it rose to 31 the next day.In tribal dominated Dhar district in Malwa region, the number of patients shown in the bulletin on April 16, 17, 18 and 19 was 6, 10, 24 and 21 respectively. In Alirajpur, another tribal dominated district, there was just one patient on April 17. The number went up to five on April 18 but came down to three on April 19.In Morena in Gwalior-Chambal region, there were 14 cases on April 17. In the next day’s state government bulletin, the number was shown as 13 but it went up to 16 in April 19 bulletin. Gwalior has a similar story. It had six patients on April 17, but came down to two the next day and again rose to six on April 19.There are similar variations in the number of Covid-19 cases in Indore, Chhindwara, Barwani, Betul, Sheopur, Khandwa, Raisen, Dewas, Shajapur and Mandsaur.More interesting is the case with Satna district. Two Covid-19 positive cases in Satna were shown in the bulletins from April 14 to April 16 but then the disstrict disappeared from the list.In none of the variations the government issued any clarification as to why the numbers decreased or any district’s name was dropped from the list of Covid-19 affected districts. Public health experts say since the government is providing cumulative figures of Covid-19 patients every day the figure will either increase or remain stagnant but it can’t decrease. There can be decrease in the number only in such situations when any person’s sample test report is found incorrect later or any patient’s name is added to any other district. But in such situations the government is expected to clarify this which didn’t happen. Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “A clerical error can happen in the data of a few districts and can be understood but such variations in data of about 70% of the Covid-19 districts is beyond comprehension. This is a serious issue as the same data are used to analyse the situation prevalent in the country by World Health Organisation (WHO), government of India and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A transparency in data means effective management of the situation.”He said that many times the data of the districts released at the district level differed from the state bulletin and thus it led to confusion as to what is the real situation about the Covid-19 patients. Also, the state bulletin is expected after the districts provide their data to the state headquarters at about 4 pm but there were occasions as on Sunday itself when the state bulletin was released at 2 pm. “Collection and compilation of data, its accuracy and its timings of release are as important as measures being undertaken to control the situation. Hence, an inquiry should be conducted as to why so much variations in the data and who is responsible for the same,” he said.State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja alleged, “Since the BJP government has failed in controlling the situation it has started manipulating the data. It corroborates our stand that the government has miserably failed in protecting people of the state.”“It was a clerical error,” said Commissioner, Health Services, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai.Additional chief secretary, Health department, Mohd Suleman said, “Variations in data come after reconciliation between lab and district data. Repeat samples and rejections need to be factored in.”A health department official who didn’t want to be named said, “The state bulletin reflects the data received from the districts. Hence, there might have been variations in the data received from the districts. As far as Satna is concerned since the two persons who tested positive over there belong to Indore Satna’s name was deleted from the list later.”State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “There is a possibility of some minor changes when the entire state’s data are collected but there is no possibility of any irregularity in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-manipulated-congress-targets-bjp-govt-over-variation-in-covid-19-numbers-in-madhya-pradesh/story-KQakkvQXK5LbxeRMTNXpNL.html
21-04-2020||India||Relative of Rashtrapati Bhavan staff tests Covid-19 +ve, 125 quarters sealed||At least 125 staff quarters inside the Rashtrapati Bhavan complex have been sealed and its inhabitants told to strictly maintain self-isolation after a relative of a staff tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Tuesday.The daughter-in-law of a sanitation worker of Rashtrapati Bhavan tested positive after she came in contact with her mother.The older woman died because of Covid-19 related complications at a private hospital near Karol Bagh seven to eight days ago, a Rashtrapati Bhavan official said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “After we came to know that the lady’s mother died with Covid-19 complications and she had visited her, we sent the entire family at a government-run isolation facility near Birla Mandir. The staff’s house was sealed too,” the official said. As a matter of abundant precaution, the houses in that area were also cleaned and bleached in a bid to curb any possible spread of the virus that has already affected millions around the world.Also Watch: Union ministers resume work from office amid lockdown “All family members of the staff were tested for Covid-19. While everyone else came out to be negative, the daughter-in-law’s test showed positive results,” the official added, emphasising that no Rashtrapati Bhavan staff has been infected.As the news of the relative of the Rashtrapati Bhavan staff testing positive for Covid-19 reached the secretariat, a quick decision was taken to seal all the 125 houses in that area.“Our staff living in those houses have been told not to go out and only one person from each family has been allowed to come out to buy groceries and essential items from the store inside Rashtrapati Bhavan while strictly adhering to social distancing and other health norms,” said an official.Last month, President Ram Nath Kovind cancelled all his engagements indefinitely after it came to light that BJP lawmaker Dushyant Singh, who attended the breakfast meeting with him at Rashtrapati Bhavan, had partied with Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Kapoor tested positive for Covid-19 and later discharged from hospital after testing negative.Singh, son of former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, had attended a conference with Kovind five days after attending the party. Both Singh and his mother Vasundhara Raje went into self-quarantine.Delhi has the second-highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra with more than 2500 Covid-19 patients as of Tuesday morning. The rising number of cases in the national capital has prompted the Delhi government to increase the number of containment zones to 84, up from the 79 notified on Sunday.India reported that the number of Covid-19 cases across the country crossed the 18,000 mark on Tuesday morning with 1336 new cases, including 590 deaths.Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases cross 18,500, death toll at 590||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/125-families-in-quarantine-after-covid-19-positive-case-emerges-in-rashtrapati-bhavan/story-m8VSeaIK7iMRZNWlSFEnfI.html
21-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases cross 18,500, death toll at 590||India reported 1336 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 47 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday morning, to breach the 18,500-mark.With 14,759 active cases, 3252 people who have been cured, discharged or have migrated and 590 deaths, India’s coronavirus tally stood at 18,601, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.The country crossed the 18,000 mark in just a day after 17,265 cases were reported on Monday morning. India had also seen the highest single-day spike on Monday with 1553 fresh cases till the evening.Also read: 16 contenders shortlisted for India’s corona vaccine effortThe breach comes a day after the government said that the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in India has now improved to 7.5 days.“India’s Covid-19 doubling rate has improved to 7.5 days from 3.4 days before the lockdown,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry said at the daily briefing.Eight states and a Union Territory—Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Chattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar—have shown a doubling rate in less than 20 days.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn Andaman and Nicobar Island, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Assam, Uttarakhand and Ladakh the rate of doubling is between 20 and 30 days, Agarwal said.In Odisha, the rate of doubling is 39.8 days and Kerala is best at 72.2 days.Agarwal also said that 59 districts have not reported any new cases in the last 14 days.“Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka and Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. The number of districts where no case has been reported in the last 14 days has increased to 59. Goa is now Covid-free,” Agarwal said.According to the Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE), the number of confirmed cases stood at 2,476,916and there were 170,297 fatalities across the world at around 8am India time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-cross-18-500-death-toll-at-590/story-eKG6os7HHlDVGQ4jMZIe6N.html
21-04-2020||India||Tripura couple travels over 3,000 km from Chennai in ambulance amidst Covid-19 lockdown||A couple from Tripura travelled 3,213 kilometres from Tamil Nadu in an ambulance to reach their home amidst nationwide lockdown. They went to Chennai on March 20 and got stranded there after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced lockdown in the country from March 25.The couple started the journey from April 15 and reached Agartala on Sunday night from where they went to their residence located at Udaipur in Gomati District, nearly 50 kilometres from Agartala. “We went to Chennai for medical check-up of my wife on March 20. But we got stranded there due to the lockdown. As the lockdown was extended for second time, we decided to return back to our place at any cost. It was quite difficult to stay at hospital and bear other charges. Also, we need to defer our daughter’s marriage that was supposed to be on May 8,” Chanchal Majumder told the reporters after reaching Agartala.Accordingly, they booked an ambulance from the hospital and they spent Rs 1.40 lakh for the travel, he told.After they landed at Udaipur, they were taken to an institutional quarantine. They didn’t visit anyone said Gomati District Magistrate TK Debnath. Majumder retired from Sports and Youth Affairs Department as deputy director. His wife Ashima Biswas (Majumder) is an athletics coach at Udaipur. She underwent a brain tumour surgery at a private hospital in Chennai last September. Chanchal told that there are other Tripura people stranded in Chennai and are in deep trouble.During their journey, they showed all hospital documents at entry and exit points each of all the states they have crossed and were permitted to continue. Tripura got two Covid-19 positive patients and among them, one has recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-couple-travels-over-3-000-km-from-chennai-in-ambulance-amidst-covid-19-lockdown/story-Ok32q86TpXbxFhUPmIaMmK.html
21-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 cases doubling in 7.5 days now, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 cases doubling in 7.5 days now: GovtThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India is doubling every 7.5 days (based on analysis till April 19), with that in 18 states doubling even slower, the health ministry said in a briefing on Monday. Read moreAfter 50 journalists test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, I&B Ministry to issue advisoryAfter more than 50 journalists were found coronavirus positive in Mumbai, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday said precautions must be taken by all and his ministry would issue an advisory in this regard. Read morePolice have to be a part of Covid-19 containment strategy, says expertAs India grapples with the Covid-19 crisis, the government has categorised areas based on the spread of the disease. There are hotspots, which have been turned into containment zones, where no movement in allowed. Read moreGovt considers demand by mediaThe Information and Broadcasting ministry has agreed to radio operators making deferred payments of their license fee and referred to the finance ministry, demands of the print media industry for a reduction of customs duty on newsprint. Read more New York nurses sue state, 2 hospitals over ‘inadequate’ coronavirus protectionThe New York State Nurses Association sued the state and two hospitals on Monday to force them to provide safety equipment and adopt measures to prevent COVID-19 from spreading among its members, highlighting the growing disputes over workplace safety during the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreThe bouncer barrage: Ishant Sharma reveals chat with MS Dhoni during 2014 Lord’s TestIn 2014 India visited England for a five-match Test series looking to make amends for a disastrous tour in 2011 which saw MS Dhoni’s team get whitewashed 0-4 and lose its top billing in ICC’s Test ranking to the Three Lions. Read moreClapping for health workers to fixing sleep schedules: Here’s what people are searching for on GooglePeople around the world are searching for various things as they stay locked in due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Google has highlighted some Search trends which people are searching for the most this week. Read moreHenry Miller, Jodi Picoult, Kurt Vonnegut: Notable writers on writing, discipline and their daily routineThe global pandemic that is upon has raised some serious questions around survival, existence, hope and inspiration as far as our day-to-day lives are concerned. Many among us are feeling challenged in terms of productivity, motivation, inspiration and hope. Read moreWatch| Nothing hidden from USA: WHO amid war of words with Donald Trump on Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-doubling-in-7-5-days-now-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-meaEiKqQho9fudb06OXlsM.html
21-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Cabinet likely to be constituted today, expansion after Covid-19 lockdown ends||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is likely to constitute his cabinet on Tuesday afternoon, almost a month after he was sworn-in for the fourth time, said a high ranking official in the state government.A Raj Bhavan official said the ministers would take oath at 12 noon on Tuesday in a simple function in presence of certain selected BJP leaders and bureaucrats. The media would be kept at bay.“There was no talk about formation of the cabinet till night but some development took place late night and we were informed about the cabinet formation and ministers taking oath on Tuesday,” he said. A BJP leader familiar with developments said, “There may not be more than 5 to 7 ministers initially. The cabinet may be expanded later when lockdown restrictions are lifted on May 3.”Chouhan took oath as the chief minister on March 23. Since then he was facing flak from the Opposition and on social media for running his government without a cabinet and working particularly without a health minister while the Covid-19 situation continued to worsen in the state. Chouhan held discussions with the senior party leaders in Delhi in the past few days about the size of and faces in the cabinet, said the BJP leader quoted above.When Chouhan assumed office, coronavirus was rearing its head in the state with only seven cases registered in two districts. But in the span of about 29 days, the state has registered as many as 1,485 Covid-19 positive cases with 76 of them dead and as many as 26 of the total 52 districts affected.Madhya Pradesh has emerged as one of the worst-managed states in the country during the period, and Chouhan has blamed previous Congress government for the present situation in the state. Indore has emerged as one of the major Covid-19 hotspots in the country, prompting the central government to send a team on Monday to the city to assess and manage the situation.Senior Congress leader and former leader of the Opposition Ajay Singh said on April 10, “To become a one-man army chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan put in peril lives of 7.50 crore people of Madhya Pradesh. The CM is busy in his branding and publicity instead of protecting people of the state from Corona. In Madhya Pradesh situation is going from bad to worse.”Later, Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha in a letter to the President of India urged him to impose a President’s rule in the state if Chouhan fails to constitute his cabinet.He wrote again to the President, jointly with senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Monday to reiterate his demand.State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “Like media I also hear about the cabinet formation. I can’t comment on the same. As far as Congress allegations are concerned these are politically motivated. They must understand that a chief minister delegates his powers to ministers. Hence, it can’t be said that there is no health minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-likely-to-be-constituted-today-expansion-after-covid-19-lockdown-ends/story-AZZKHUCxzRUTNodMp259RJ.html
21-04-2020||India||80% Covid-19 cases either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Monday said 80% of the Covid-19 patients are either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms, indicating that it is a major area of concern. “On the basis of worldwide analysis, 80 per cent of the Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic or show mild symptoms. Around 15 per cent patients turn into severe cases and 5 per cent may become critical,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said at a daily press briefing.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The asymptomatic patients may pass on the infection to other people, he earlier had said while stressing on maintaining social distancing in the community and infection prevention and control practices in hospital set ups.Head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar said 80 out of 100 infected people do not show any symptoms.Officials said as of now, there is no plan to further widen the testing criteria.As part its revised strategy to fight the spread of Covid-19, the government has started testing people with fever, cough and sore throat in hotspots or cluster areas and evacuees centres.Also, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory illness, shortness of breath, fever and cough are being tested for Covid-19 infection.Direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases are also being tested once between day five and 14 of coming in his/her contact.Besides, all asymptomatic individuals who undertook international travel and developed symptoms, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases and all symptomatic health care workers were being tested for the infection as per the guidelines.The apex body for biomedical research had recently revised its strategy to contain the spread of the virus more effectively and provide reliable diagnosis to all individuals meeting the inclusion criteria of Covid-19 testing.The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 559 and the number of cases climbed to 17, 656 in the country on Monday, according to the Union health ministry.   Click here for complete coronavirus coverage However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states and union territories, as on 9.15 PM, showed 18,322 confirmed cases, 2,969 recoveries and 590 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-covid-19-cases-either-asymptomatic-or-show-mild-symptoms-health-ministry/story-yWp5x57gxsNXGUKeJsbSiO.html
21-04-2020||India||Centre’s lockdown message to states, India’s front line warriors: Covid-19 news today||A day before conditional relaxations came into place on Monday, the Centre warned states against diluting guidelines for the national lockdown announced to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Even as India stepped up efforts to fight the pandemic, a stocktaking exercise showed the country has at least 3 million medical professionals and roughly 8 million others who can be drafted for disease containment work such as contact tracing.Don’t dilute curbs: Centre to statesThe Centre has termed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation “especially serious” in Mumbai, Pune, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and a few other areas while forming six ground teams to assess the situation and issue directions, even as it warned all states against diluting national lockdown rules, weakening India’s response to the crisis, and compromising the country’s public health. Read moreIndia has 11 million coronavirus warriors: Govt databaseIndia has at least 3 million medical professionals and roughly 8 million others who can be drafted for disease containment work such as contact tracing, according to the Union government’s stocktaking of human resources that can be deployed if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak grows. Read more16 contenders shortlisted for India’s corona vaccine effortThe Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) announced on Monday that they have selected 16 projects -- spanning vaccines, drugs and technologies -- for funding under the Covid-19 research consortium. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayThis is the story of seven states: Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. It is a dated story, but not too old – dated midnight Sunday, April 19, just before parts of India opened up for some business activities. Read more ‘Few tested positive... does that make us responsible for Covid?’: Tablighi Jamaat chiefThe chief the Tablighi Jamaat, Maulana Saad, tells Hindustan Times in an interview through his lawyer that he is willing to cooperate with the police, and that no illegal activity took place at the Markaz building, which is the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in India. Read more Industries open on tepid note as states continue with curbsOn Monday, the first day of the easing of Covid-19 lockdown norms, factories in most states did not resume work, with some deciding to continue with a hard lockdown until its designated deadline of May 3 and companies claiming that the requirements for reopening were far too stringent. Read more Covid-19 cases doubling in 7.5 days now: GovtThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India is doubling every 7.5 days (based on analysis till April 19), with that in 18 states doubling even slower, the health ministry said in a briefing on Monday. Read moreAggressive testing must to prevent 2nd wave of CovidA working paper by a team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) suggests that there will be a second wave of ,Covid-19 infection unless new cases are aggressively traced, localised and isolated. Read more China urges India to review FDI moveChina on Monday asked India to revise what it described as a “discriminatory” change in foreign direct investment (FDI) regulations aimed at preventing opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms amid the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreCovid-19: India inks deal with South Korean firm for 500,000 testing kitsThe Indian government signed an agreement with a South Korean company on Monday for acquiring 500,000 testing kits to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19, with the first lot expected to be delivered on April 30. Read more Donald Trump eyes probe on Covid-19 outbreak origin in China, wants to send a teamPresident Donald Trump on Sunday said he has wanted to send a team to China to investigate the start of the coronavirus outbreak that had killed more that 40,000 Americans till Monday and shut down the country with increasingly unpopular stay-at-home orders, but without any success yet. Read more AC air flow spread Covid-19 in China restaurantOn January 24, nine people from three families contracted Covid-19 while having lunch at a restaurant in Guangzhou, China. Another 81 who were in the eatery did not. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-lockdown-message-to-states-india-s-front-line-warriors-covid-19-news-today/story-iwCln2rCXL9q9O5gq6mVlL.html
21-04-2020||India||Police have to be a part of Covid-19 containment strategy, says expert||As India grapples with the Covid-19 crisis, the government has categorised areas based on the spread of the disease. There are hotspots, which have been turned into containment zones, where no movement in allowed.Experts have lauded the government’s decision to announce a lockdown to contain the spread of the disease and deploy a containment strategy in hotspots. The police are very important part of that strategy, said Shamika Ravi, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Ravi said that both in cases of maintaining the lockdown and in the scenario where it is lifted, the police are needed.“When we say calibration, basically it means that we have identified the hotspots. These hotspots require a kind of confinement and containment strategy. But beyond these hotspots, we know that there are approximately 320 districts which are untouched,” said Ravi.“Given the interdependence across districts, movement of people and goods and services, we are not going to return to 100 per cent till the entire country is free. But it will help a lot if we begin to lift the lockdown in an informed way, at least in those places which seem to be unaffected,” she said.“Then there are those areas which are in the middle - there are cases but those are not spreading. But one thing is clear, all this is law and order situation. The police have to be a part of the containment strategy,” added Ravi.Explaining it further, she said, “There are serious externalities for others around you, and for the economy. It requires a heightened sense of public responsibility. That’s where effective containment will require local administration to really mobilise all the manpower that is available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-have-to-be-a-part-of-covid-19-containment-strategy-says-expert/story-ctgmc8yqA834UkmKmDgPAN.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Disappointed’ Vijay Mallya to pursue legal remedies after losing appeal against extradition to India||Hours after the high court of England and Wales dismissed his appeal against extradition to India, controversial businessman Vijay Mallya tweeted that he is “naturally disappointed”, but will continue to pursue further legal remedies.He reiterated in a series of tweets his offer to repay what he owes Indian banks that had lent his Kingfisher Airlines loans, claiming that the banks had already recovered Rs 2,500 crore in cash. I am naturally disappointed with the High Court decision. I will continue to pursue further legal remedies as advised by my lawyers. I am also disappointed with the media narrative which states that I must face trial in India for a fraud of Rs 9000 crores.Justice Stephen Irwin and Justice Elisabeth Laing on Monday dismissed his appeal, upholding the Westminster Magistrates Court’s December 2018 ruling that concluded that Mallya had a prima facie case to answer in Indian courts for charges of financial offences.Mallya tweeted: “I am naturally disappointed with the High Court decision. I will continue to pursue further legal remedies as advised by my lawyers. I am also disappointed with the media narrative which states that I must face trial in India for a fraud of Rs 9000 crores”.“I must draw attention to paragraph 6 of the judgement which is available to the public. Please note that the allegations against me and others are specifically and only related to three tranches of borrowing from IDBI Bank for a total of Rs 900 crores in 2009”.“This loan was subsumed along with loans from other Banks within the Master Debt Recast Agreement of 2010. Following the DRT order for the payment of approximately Rs 5000 crores by way of Principal and Rs 1200 crores by way of unapplied interest making a total of Rs 6200 crores”.“The Banks have already recovered in cash a sum of Rs 2500 crores which is 50 percent of the Principal amount. I have repeatedly offered to pay the Banks in full but, sadly to no avail”.According to the Crown Prosecution Service representing India in UK courts, Mallya has 14 days to apply to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal against Monday’s judgement. If he does not appeal, he will be removed to India within 28 days thereafter. If he appeals, the removal will await the outcome of that application.Secondly, he could approach the European Court of Human Rights, since the UK remains under its jurisdiction until December 31 under the terms of the Brexit transition period. His team has previously alleged in court that he faced a risk to human rights if sent to India. The legal threshold for remedy on both options is high.Vijay Mallya extradition case timeline--- March 2, 2016: Arrives in London from India.--- February 21, 2017: India’s extradition request certified by Home secretary.--- April 18, 2017: Arrested and bailed.--- April 24, 2017: Indian passport revoked.--- May 2, 2017: Resigns as member of Rajya Sabha.--- June 13, 2017: Series of case management and extradition hearings in the Westminster Magistrates Court.--- December 10, 2018: Chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot clears extradition and sends file to home secretary.--- February 3, 2019: Home secretary orders extradition to India.--- April 5, 2019: Judge David of the high court of England and Wales refuses permission on papers to appeal.--- July 2, 2019: In an oral hearing, Judge Leggatt and Judge Popplewell allow permission to appeal on the ground that the Arbuthnot was wrong to conclude that India had established a prima facie case against Mallya.--- May 11-13, 2019: Judge Irwin and Judge Laing hear appeal.--- April 20, 2020: Appeal refused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disappointed-vijay-mallya-to-pursue-legal-remedies-after-losing-appeal-against-extradition-to-india/story-oHa53o41YxVDBFTduJVx7I.html
21-04-2020||India||Govt considers demand by media||The Information and Broadcasting ministry has agreed to radio operators making deferred payments of their license fee and referred to the finance ministry, demands of the print media industry for a reduction of customs duty on newsprint.According to a senior government official, the demands of broadcasters and the film industry in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat it have also been flagged to the finance ministry. “The I&B ministry has received a series of requests and it has acted on them keeping in mind the situation. One of the demands of the radio industry has been deferment of license fee dues. Therefore, we have allowed the payments due for the months of April, May and June to be made in the next quarter,” said the official.The print media, which has seen advertising dry up has also been hit hard by disruption of circulation –– from unfounded fears of newspapers carrying the virus. It has sought relief on the 5% customs duty on the import of newsprint.“The issue has been referred to the finance ministry for its consideration since this involves financial implications. Recently, the customs duty was brought down from 10% to 5%. The demands of the broadcasting sector and the cinema industry too have been flagged to the finance ministry ,” added the official.On March 24, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) wrote a letter to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman emphasising that while newspapers were going above and beyond the call of duty to spread awareness in the face of the global pandemic coronavirus, they were themselves in grave danger of turning sick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considers-demand-by-media/story-phfIDlOLFHS6TkBd5fSZjJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the story of seven states: Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh.It is a dated story, but not too old – dated midnight Sunday, April 19, just before parts of India opened up for some business activities. At the time, these seven states accounted for 77.44% of all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and 81.89% of all Covid-19 deaths in the country.They were also the only states at the time with an infection count exceeding 1,000. Andhra Pradesh (647 cases on Sunday) and Telangana (858) look likely to join them, but it is safe to say that the six states named in the first instance are key to India’s ability to halt the spread of Covid-19.The only other concern is West Bengal , which is a clear straggler among large states in terms of testing (56 tests per million population based on Sunday’s data), but we will revisit the state when there’s better data coming out of it.Here’s a quick snapshot on how the seven states compare on key parameters.Madhya Pradesh’s number of cases for the preceding 24 hours is low because the state put out only one bulletin, in the middle of the day on Sunday.With the caveat that the timeline of infections in each of the seven states is different – many of the infections in Gujarat, for instance, are recent; most of those in Tamil Nadu relate to people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s March congregation in Delhi, and promptly reported to the local health department when a call went out – there are some clear trends.With the exception of Uttar Pradesh, which is a laggard, and Madhya Pradesh, which is on the border, the other five states all test more than the national average (309 tests per million). A previous time series analysis by Hindustan Times showed that in general, across states, the number of cases increased with the number of tests (although the proportion of those testing positive didn’t necessarily increase, and actually decreased in most). As states test more, that article reasoned, they are likely to find more people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 (including many asymptomatic ones).Even the most aggressive testers among these states have clearly not reached a level where the discovery rate is consistently falling. For instance, Maharashtra conducted 4,555 tests on Sunday. It also discovered 552 new cases on Sunday. The two aren’t related because the tests for the 552 found infected on Sunday were likely carried out on Saturday or Friday, but clearly the discovery rate isn’t dipping. It seemed to be in Tamil Nadu, where only 49 cases were discovered on Saturday and 56 on Friday, but 105 were on Sunday (a day when 5,744 tests were conducted in the state). As these and other states expand their testing this week, this will be the number to track: daily infections per tests conducted.The other number to keep track of is the death rate (Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan are doing a good job of keeping it below the national average of 3.2%). Tamil Nadu’s performance isn’t a surprise (the other two are) because the state has always had a good health care system. It also leads in terms of recoveries – 27.8% compared to the national average of 16.52%. This too is a good number to track – as on Sunday, 2,852 people of the 17,252 infected had recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-6SNav4G28FxZrAeRxzcmiN.html
21-04-2020||India||Years after going down to Bollywood heroes, former screen villain Dan Dhanoa defeats Covid-19 in Brazil||While being on a ship anchored thousands of miles away from home with no countrymen around for company, getting infected by the coronavirus can only come as a catastrophe for any sailor. Not so for Bollywood villain-turned sea captain, Dan Dhanoa. The 61-year old, who shared the screen with Amitabh Bachchan, Vinod Khanna, Dharmendra and a galaxy of stars in about 100 movies in the 1980s and 90s, was struck by Covid-19 on board his oil and gas exploration ship, moored more than 150 nautical miles (477 km) off Brazil’s Rio de Janeiro, and more than 14,000 km away from his home and family in Chandigarh. But unlike the bad guys he played in Mard, Shahenshah, Tridev, Karma, or, the prophetically titled Jaan ki Baazi (Gamble of Life) who went down to the ‘heroes’, Dhanoa was not going to let the deadly virus defeat him. “Sure, I was worried that I’m in a foreign country and don’t speak Portuguese, the local language,” Dhanoa told HT on a video call from a hotel room in Rio, where he is recuperating in quarantine after spending 17 days in hospital. “But I’m a mariner. And having steered giant oil tankers for years, I’m trained to look ahead.”The Doon School alumnus said that he had been on the ship for 16 days before catching the infection. “I suspect it was some service vendor, possibly an asymptomatic carrier, who brought the virus on board. I am told that 18-20 people tested positive, after I was hospitalized,” said Dhanoa.He broke the news only to his wife, actor and acclaimed Kathak dancer, Nandita Puri, and asked her not to tell anyone. “My mother is 94 and all my relatives are old. I did not want panic back home. Nandita stood by me like the Rock of Gibraltar,” said Dhanoa.The sailor said that his phone and laptop were taken away, when he was in the ICU. Since he had to go offline, he asked his wife to tell people on his social media pages that there was a glitch in Internet connectivity on board the ship.“After getting discharged on April 17, I finally made a series of video calls to my mother and the family, and told them what happened,” said Dhanoa, whose chiseled features helped him bag many modelling offers in the 80s.“I have to wait for international flights to resume operation and the lockdown to be lifted in India. I am dying to spend time with my family and my dogs. I enjoy my lovely tropical garden and the birds that nest there. I want to see my collection of art and antiques,” he said, naming vintage marine artefacts and artworks by members of the Tagore family, Jamini Roy, Ganesh Pyne and other famous names, among his collection. Dhanoa noted that the symptoms of the infection were strange. “I had a running nose just for a day, and the next day I started getting a headache and fever. Initially, only my forehead would ache. I thought my sinuses were playing up, but the pain started shifting all over my head. It was like a cluster headache with pin pricks that would make me twitch.”“No cough nor shortness of breath, but my appetite died and I started feeling weak. Also, there was stiffness in my chest and lower back. That’s when I asked to be evacuated ashore on a chopper,” said Dhanoa. “I had fever and felt pin-pricks in my head. It’s important for people to be aware of the many different symptoms of the disease, go for tests and isolate themselves,” he added.“At the hospital, the swab test results arrived after four days. They found that my breathing was affected. A CT scan showed fibrosis in around 10-15 per cent of my lungs. I was rushed to the ICU for a week, before being shifted to a normal quarantine ward. Now, I have to remain in this hotel for two weeks, to get my strength back,” said the veteran sailor.Staying in touch with his wife posed a huge problem for Dhanoa during his time in the ICU. But he found a way out. He would give the nurses his wife’s WhatsApp number, using the few Portuguese words he knew to communicate with them. “I would write notes in English on pieces of paper, the nurses would photograph the notes and send them to Nandita, who would reply and keep up my spirits,” said Dhanoa, adding that the hospital staff took good care of him.“I have always been physically fit. Even at this age, I have normal blood pressure. However, in 2017, I had a combined attack of dengue and chikungunya, a few days after I returned home from Brazil. There was haemorrhage in my blood vessels. I lost my hair - which has grown back now - and my eyesight deteriorated. Still, I somehow pulled through,” said Dhanoa.The former screen villain believes that Indians have stronger immune systems because they live on basic home-cooked, mostly vegetarian food and avoid junk food. “Indians will do better in this crisis,” Dhanoa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/years-after-going-down-to-bollywood-heroes-former-screen-villain-dan-dhanoa-defeats-covid-19-in-brazil/story-aWVyCKWl3yKDznf3hA2B0J.html
21-04-2020||India||‘Few tested positive’: Tablighi chief’s comeback on Jamaat spreading Covid-19||The chief the Tablighi Jamaat, Maulana Saad, tells Hindustan Times in an interview through his lawyer that he is willing to cooperate with the police, and that no illegal activity took place at the Markaz building, which is the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in India. Edited excerpts:Is it true that you organised Ijtema without permission?Do not confuse Ijtema with normal day-to-day activities and religious programmes held in Markaz Nizamuddin. Ijtema is generally a large congregation which is held in open public spaces for which proper permissions are taken from the concerned authorities. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Markaz Nizamuddin is basically a masjid namely Bangle Wali Masjid, where normal religious sermons are given on a daily basis throughout the year. Being a masjid, I don’t think there is any requirement to seek permission to give sermons or to have other religious discourses within the building.Is it true that you’re not supporting the police investigation?This is completely misplaced. We have always maintained that it is necessary to cooperate in every manner with the authorities; this has been our history of a hundred years. It is out of question that there would be no support to the investigating authorities. So far whatever notices we have received from Delhi Police have been duly replied to.Why are you silent about the accusations against you?As advised by doctors, I was in self-quarantine, with the police aware of the fact and my whereabouts. We are not experts of social media or the optics of building a narrative, so it may not have reached all, but I immediately addressed Tabligh members, wherever they are, to come forward and cooperate with authorities in the measures they are taking to eliminate the Covid risk, whether it’s quarantine, isolation, or testing.Also read: ED slaps money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat chiefAlso Watch | ‘Not absconding’: Tablighi Jamaat chief’s lawyer on ED money laundering case What about the alleged unaccounted foreign funding to the Jamaat? ED has registered a case against you in this regard.This is completely baseless and false. We take pride in the fact that no illegal activity has ever happened at Markaz and we shall always keep it that way. We are yet to receive any notice in this regard; all such accusations exist only in the media. I am sure that I will be able to give a satisfactory explanation for any such accusation, but for that, I should first be aware of what is the allegation, if any.Some foreign jamaatis are charged of violation of visa regulations because they travelled on tourist visas. Why did the Markaz allow it to happen?People have been coming to our country in this manner for decades with the same set of permissions, and the authorities have never pointed this out as an issue. We always report the presence of foreigners in Markaz Nizamuddin to police authorities; this has been the practice for decades. In my limited understanding, I fail to see how it would amount to a violation of the visa rule. Markaz neither invites any foreigner nor does it sponsor any visa for foreigners. Is the Markaz responsible for the spread of the disease in India?It’s unfortunate that a few members have tested Covid positive, but an overwhelming majority of TJ members have tested negative too; does that make Markaz “responsible for the disease”? You must also constantly ask this question to yourself -- when was the first Covid case reported in India; and what actions were taken? How many other places saw much larger gatherings during late February and all throughout March, and can they be held responsible for disease?Also read: 2 relatives of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad test positive for Covid-19You knew about Covid; why did you not cancel the event?There was a pre-scheduled event in March for which participants had started arriving from far-off places. Till late February, and even middle March, everything was going on as normal. As soon as the janta curfew took place, we discontinued the programme and evacuated the participants.Several Muslim leaders are demanding a ban on the Jamaat.I don’t know about any such demand. I would like to say that I’ve been informed that in some cases, where patients who had tested positive for Covid-19, and have since recovered, their plasma can be used for treatment. I urge my friends from TJ who have been successfully treated to donate their plasma to patients of any caste or religion who are still fighting this disease.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-tested-positive-does-that-make-us-responsible-for-covid-tablighi-jamaat-chief/story-CIaa8TeQthaJ0x3qR6DLoM.html
21-04-2020||India||To reach home amid lockdown, 27 migrants from Odisha, Andhra escape in a boat||During the lockdown, migrant labourers in India have walked hundreds of kilometres back to their homes while a few others pedalled their way back after losing their source of livelihood.On Monday morning, a group of 27 migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha who had gone to work in different factories of Chennai were perhaps the first lot of migrant labourers who escaped their workplace by the sea route. Travelling over 500 km the group of 27 reached the sea beach at Donkuru village close to the Odisha-Andhra border.Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said the 27-member team of migrant labourers including 10 from Odisha had gone to Chennai to work in local factories there a few months ago. “After the lockdown was announced and their factories shut down, these labourers tried hard to go back to their homes. But in the absence of any transportation, they were stranded. After a few days they started to run out of their savings. They decided to pool in money so as to buy a fishing boat for Rs 2 lakh in which they decided to escape,” said Kulange.Though the initial plan was to anchor at Pati Sonapur beach, 10 km from Berhampur town of Ganjam district, they decided to anchor near the beach at Donkuru as a majority of the labourers were from Andhra Pradesh. Soon after they anchored close to the Donkuru village they were taken to a quarantine centre in Rajampuram and Sompeta in Srikakulam.The Srikakulam police said cases have been lodged against the 27 for defying lockdown. “These men will be tested for the coronavirus at the end of the 14 day quarantine period,” said circle inspector Vinod Babu of Srikakulam.Officials said as the migrant labourers were from the fishermen community, they had no trouble at sea. “They had rice and other grocery items in the twin engine fishing boat. As they had mobile phones with them, navigation was not an issue,” said an official of Srikakulam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-reach-home-amid-lockdown-27-migrants-from-odisha-andhra-escape-in-a-boat/story-uoLeZi6XF0oF1CBpDOMFbO.html
21-04-2020||India||Kalimpong triggers Covid-19 fears in north Bengal hills after one family tested positive||Weeks after a woman in Bengal’s Kalimpong district died of Covid-19 and 10 members of her family treated for the infection, people in the state’s hill region are acting under stress and fear.In the last few days, Laxmi Ghatani, 70, Sujata Sherpa, 22 and Dishan Khati, an eight-year-old, have faced the outcome of a fear psychosis among common people and even health workers and doctors.Kalimpong district has been declared coronavirus free after 10 members of the region’s only affected family, and a maid who worked for the family, tested negative after treatment. The family lost a 44-year-old woman member on March 30.Although no new case has been reported in the district that shares its borders with Bhutan, Sikkim and Darjeeling, Kalimpong ‘s residents, especially those who are old and unwell, are facing discrimination.Ghatani, a resident of Mungpoo in Darjeeling district, fell ill on Saturday and her family members took her to Rambi community block primary health centre the next day. The doctor referred her to Kalimpong district hospital but the health centre allegedly denied an ambulance. After much persuasion an ambulance took the patient up to Chitray, located 14 km away from Kalimpong. The patient was then taken to a Kalimpong hospital in a car provided by a social worker, Jyoti Karki. The old woman was admitted at 1 pm and she died at 8 pm on Sunday.Bimal Ghatani, one of the sons of the deceased, said “Had we been able to admit her in Kalimpong hospital on time she might have survived. Precious hours were lost in search of an ambulance.”Bimal, who is a carpenter, said “At Mungpoo, local people made it clear that those who took my mother to Kalimpong cannot return home. They have been told to stay in quarantine for 14 days.”Dr C K Chettri, block medical officer of Rambi said “The family of Ghatani never sought the government ambulance.”Jyoti Karki said, “People of Kalimpong are facing social discrimination in other areas.”Last week, eight-year-old Dishan Khati, a resident of Tirpai in Kalimpong had fever, cough and signs of pneumonia. On April 15, a doctor in Kalimpong referred him to a private nursing home in Siliguri saying that all arrangements had been made and the nursing home was one of those authorized to treat Covid-19 patients.Yasaka Khati, the child’s father who is a driver, said, “Though the government is saying that ambulance in cases like these will be provided free I was forced to take my son to Siliguri in my vehicle as the driver of a government ambulance demanded Rs 1500.”“That was not all. The nursing home authorities refused to admit my son and even policemen did not help. We took my son to the state-run North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). There, we had to wait for long hours before my son got admission. But we were not happy with the arrangements,” Khati said.“On April 16, we took my son back to Kalimpong hospital. The boy is doing fine now,” said Khati. On April 15, Sujata Sherpa, a pregnant woman from the Algarah area in Kalimpong was referred to a Siliguri hospital by the Kalimpong district hospital for an USG test. Sujata and her husband, Sangey Sherpa, went to Siliguri district hospital. “The moment hospital staff came to know that we were from Kalimpong, they started behaving differently and told us to go to NBMCH at night. At NBMCH, the staff refused to get my wife admitted as she was bleeding. We were asked to return the next day. We were so helpless that we had to spend the night of April 15 in a church in Siliguri,” said Sherpa.The USG was done the next day and the couple returned home with help from social workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalimpong-triggers-covid-19-fears-in-north-bengal-hills-after-one-family-tested-positive/story-4dL7M6sevlFcLmtuOs8zbJ.html
21-04-2020||India||How a Chhattisgarh minister’s tweet could save Andhra govt millions of rupees||A tweet by the Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo declaring that his state had purchased 75,000 rapid testing kits from a South Korean firm has sparked off a huge row in Andhra Pradesh after it turned out that the state government had paid twice as much for the testing kits than its neighour. Furious, the Andhra Pradesh government which had placed the order on April 7, has told the company to match Chhattisgarh’s price.If Andhra does get the same price, it could end up saving Rs 78 million.Andhra Pradesh had placed an order with the supplier, SD Biosensors Pvt Ltd, Korea, for two lakh rapid test kits. According to this deal, the government would pay Rs 730 per kit excluding GST. For 2 lakh kits, it comes to about Rs 146 million.When the first consignment of one lakh kits reached the state government via a special Air India flight on Friday, there were photo-ops at Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s camp office. He received the first testing kit, and even had himself tested. One lakh #Covid19 rapid test kits imported from South Korea in a special flight, were launched by Hon'ble Chief Minister @ysjagan at the camp office in Tadepalli, today. These test kits give results within 10 minutes & are expected to ramp-up testing in Andhra Pradesh.#Covid_19 pic.twitter.com/4LplO3de2k“These test kits give results within 10 minutes and are expected to ramp-up testing in Andhra Pradesh,” the chief minister’s office tweeted soon after along with a couple of photographs.The uproar in Andhra Pradesh came the next day when Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo tweeted that his government was procuring 75,000 high quality rapid testing kits at Rs 337 excluding GST.“The rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India,” he said. The minister credited the South Korean Ambassador in India Shin Bong-Kil, the Indian Ambassador in Seoul Sripriya Ranganathan and the central government for help in closing the deal. We are procuring 75,000 high quality rapid testing kits at a benchmark price of ₹337 + GST from a South Korean company based in India, which has proven to be the lowest bidder. The rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India. (1/2)Andhra Pradesh’s opposition Telugu Desam Party quickly rushed to allege a scram.“How could we pay Rs 730 for the same test kit which the Chhattisgarh government had bought for Rs 337? Can you please explain, whether it is called commission or third-party payment or J-tax (Jagan tax)?” asked senior TDP legislator Gorantla Buchaiah Chowdary.Andhra Pradesh Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd managing director V Vijaya Rama Raju promptly served notice on th South Korean company’s local dealer Sandor Medicaids for the huge price difference.In his notice, the state-run firm underscored the contract conditions that empowered the government to recover the price differential “if any instance comes to the notice of the government that the above medical items are supplied at a lower price than price quoted now”.“As such it is informed that, the payment will be made as per the Chhattisgarh Medical Services Corporation Limited rate of Rs.337 per each kit excluding GST for the supplies made to the Government of Andhra Pradesh,” the notice said.Deputy chief minister and health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas insisted that the state had been transparent about the entire deal. “The purchase was made from the lowest bidder and the entire transaction was done according to the guidelines framed by the Centre, he said.Health commissioner K Bhaskar suggested that it was possible that the price difference could be linked to the fact that Andhra imported the rapid test kits directly from South Korea, while Chhattisgarh bought them from the local franchise of the South Korean company“When we had placed an order, the Korean company’s Indian unit did not have the permission from ICMR to supply rapid test kits,” he said, adding that in the coming days, the price of rapid test kits could come down to even Rs 50 per kit.Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the action taken at a meeting on Monday and complimented officials for moving swiftly to save public funds, a state government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-minister-s-tweet-sets-up-row-in-andhra-pradesh-but-might-save-millions/story-34ZF76uAInwskfkDjGiDxM.html
21-04-2020||India||Bengal cops injured in clash with villagers over burial of Covid-19 victim||Several policemen and villagers were injured in a clash in the Salkumar Haat area of Bengal’s Alipurduar district on Sunday night when locals stopped the police from burying the body of a man, alleging that it was being done secretly as he had died of Covid-19.The officer-in-charge of Madarihat police station was injured in the clash. The villagers alleged that a local resident sustained a bullet injury but the authorities said police did not open fire. Local people said that 60-year-old Haidar Ali, a resident of Tin Chula tea estate in Kalchini community block, was admitted at the Aayush Hospital at Tapsikhatta in Alipurduar 1 community block. The hospital has been earmarked for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The hospital authorities, however, did not comment on the incident.“Ali was admitted on Sunday morning and he died at night. Though his swab sample was sent for a test the report did not arrive till Monday night,” said a police official who did not wish to be identified.“Four people, including members of the dead man’s family, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure,” he added. When police took the body for burial to Salkumar Haat near the bank of Torsa River, local people gathered at the spot and protested. They attacked the men in uniform and ransacked many police vehicles. Two vehicles were also set on fire.Amitava Maiti, Superintendent of Police, Alipurduar district, said, “We have filed cases against some local people. One police officer has been shifted to a private hospital in Siliguri. His condition is stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cops-injured-in-clash-with-villagers-over-burial-of-covid-19-victim/story-GolSZxtGx9lXYsOHnKP7pO.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19:Contenders to get funding for corona vaccine, therapy efforts||The Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) announced on Monday that they have selected 16 projects -- spanning vaccines, drugs and technologies -- for funding under the Covid-19 research consortium.The selected projects will get funding support on a case-by-case basis and assistance in navigating the regulatory environment.  Among the research projects selected are those involving the development of two novel vaccines by two of India’s leading vaccine and pharmaceutical manufacturers – Cadila Healthcare and Bharat Biotech. Both are in the preclinical stage.Internationally, at least three vaccine candidates have entered human trials and 67 others are in preclinical stages.The vaccine by Cadila that has been selected by Birac uses recombinant DNA technology. The company has also been working on another vaccine candidate that uses reverse genetic technology to create a virus with weakened potency but similar to the Sars-Cov-2 strain to produce an immune response.The other vaccine candidate selected for funding has been developed by Bharat Biotech; it uses an inactivated rabies virus as the vector or transport of a genetic sequence of Sars-Cov-2 so as to produce an immune response. Bharat Biotech has also been working on another vaccine that uses the nasal flu vaccine backbone to deliver genetic material of the virus to produce immune response.Apart from the novel vaccines against Covid-19, Birac will also support the efforts of Serum Institute of India to conduct phase III trials in humans of a vaccine originally intended for tuberculosis, developed by the Berlin-based Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology.“The consortium will provide financial support to the projects, but apart from that we will also support them in any way they want, be it jumping through regulatory hoops, helping in sourcing raw materials and imports, or connecting them to others in the industry,” Dr Renu Swarup, secretary of the department of biotechnology and chairperson of Birac, said on Monday. Apart from supporting the vaccine candidates, Birac has also brought in the National Institute of Immunology to develop a framework for evaluating the vaccines.“All vaccine candidates that are being developed need to be evaluated in the pre-clinical stages and the NII will help in understanding the need of the manufacturers and developing various models for the same,” said Dr Swarup. DBT is the nodal department for all Covid-19 vaccine development effort in the PM’s task force.Another project selected is that of the Hyderabad-based OncoSeek Bio Pvt Ltd, which will develop a lung organoid model in the lab to test drugs, therapeutics, and vaccines.“We create cell culture models of various diseases -- we call it creating a disease in the dish. For the Covid-19 project we will use lung cells that can be infected and then used to study the drugs and vaccines. This can replace animal models for preclinical testing,” said Suresh Poosala, founder and CEO of the company.Among therapies, the consortium has selected Virchow Biotech Pvt Ltd for commercial scale production of purified immunoglobulin or virus-fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from Covid-19.The consortium has also selected seven rapid and RT-PCR based diagnostic tests. The manufacturing of these will be supported at Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ), which will also help in scaling up ventilator technologies.“The DBT-BIRAC research consortium is an excellent way to bring together researchers and industry towards priority research and biotechnological solutions,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology and one of the members of the science and tech group set up by the principal scientific adviser (PSA) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-contenders-shortlisted-for-india-s-corona-vaccine-effort/story-y0CIeRlHqWcD4j4qBw7QZN.html
21-04-2020||India||India has 11 million coronavirus warriors: Govt database||India has at least 3 million medical professionals and roughly 8 million others who can be drafted for disease containment work such as contact tracing, according to the Union government’s stocktaking of human resources that can be deployed if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak grows.The exercise comes amid worries that a runaway epidemic could overwhelm India’s health care system, much like it has in the United States and parts of Europe, prompting experts and authorities to consider an all-hands-on-deck scenario. India has one doctors for every 1,457 of its population, which is lower than 1:1,000 ratio recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). The US has an average of 2.54 doctors for every 1,000 of its population. The resources in addition to the health staff will be deployed for tasks such as supervising quarantine facilities, surveillance of contacts, and to help authorities implement lockdown measures. “We don’t just need doctors, but also non-medical professionals who can be quickly trained to manage other aspects of the Covid-19 situation. There is need for manpower to manage the lockdown effectively, and now that there is relaxation of curbs, local authorities will require people to maintain social distancing in banks, ration shops, check on people whether they are observing infection control practices publicly, etc,” said Arun Panda, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), who heads the special group of bureaucrats responsible for augmenting human resources and capacities. “The civic bodies will also need people to manage movement of people and other things. This is an attempt to have everything at the click of a mouse for the convenience of everyone,” Panda added. A dashboard, available on covidwarriors.gov.in, accounts for doctors and nurses as well as dentists, auxiliary health staff, Ayush practitioners, Asha and Anganwadi workers and those that belong to the uniformed youth groups such as NSS and NCC.For the exercise, the government collaborated with several ministries, councils, NGOs and civil society groups to gather details. “The idea behind a dashboard was for people to quickly figure out where the need was to deploy people, and which was the nearest place where manpower was in excess that could be transported to the other place where it was required more. You can see it all in real time,” said Panda.The data on the website lists resources by state.For quick training of these personnel, the MSME ministry has also come up with about 105 training modules that can be readily accessed at anytime.“There are web modules created to teach, for example, bio-medical waste management, how to dispose personal protection equipment, infection control and hygiene practices, etc. These have been created in a quick, easy-to-learn format,” the secretary said. “We have gone as granular as we could be and it is a work in progress because it will be updated on a regular basis and can be utilised even after the outbreak has subsided. These are people who are willing to work, and can be utilised later on as well,” he added.Experts in the field say it helps to have an exact knowledge of manpower at hand in an outbreak situation so that the workforce can be accordingly deployed.“Doctors, nurses and paramedics are one part of it but the other, and more important, part is to ensure preventive measures are put in place effectively so that cases do not go up. At such places we need volunteers, who can go to villages and towns to help local administrations in ensuring people strictly follow the government directive. There is a large number of people who would want to work, and to have an exact idea about them is great,” said Dr KK Talwar, former head of PGI Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-11mn-covid-warriors-govt-database/story-WQtuZXgnCEVDZcQdKYC7qO.html
21-04-2020||India||Don’t dilute curbs: Centre to states||The Centre has termed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation “especially serious” in Mumbai, Pune, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and a few other areas while forming six ground teams to assess the situation and issue directions, even as it warned all states against diluting national lockdown rules, weakening India’s response to the crisis, and compromising the country’s public health. Some states conditionally lifted select restrictions of the lockdown – in place till May 3 – after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said last week that curbs could be relaxed in places outside “containment zones” and potential hot spots to revive economic activity.On Sunday evening, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked all chief secretaries to strictly follow the lockdown guidelines. He separately wrote to the Kerala chief secretary against watering down the restrictions after the state allowed opening of restaurants and bus travel in cities, and small industries in urban areas. Kerala was preparing to issue an order to roll back the decision, an official said on condition of anonymity.The Centre’s warning to Kerala and all other states and Union Territories (UTs) came amid specific communications to Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to red-flag violations and issue specific instructions on controlling the outbreak.The Union home ministry told the four states that incidents of violence against health workers, complete violation of social distancing norms outside banks, public distribution system (PDS) outlets and markets, and the movement of private and commercial vehicles with passengers in urban areas have been reported.“After analysing the prevalence of such violations in major hot spot districts, it is clear to the central government that the situation is especially serious in the above mentioned areas and expertise of the Centre needs to be used,” a statement released by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said on Monday.These violations pose a serious health hazard, both for the population of these districts and others in the country, the home ministry said. It also pointed to the Supreme Court’s March 31 observation that states are expected to faithfully comply with the directives and orders of the Centre in letter and spirit.After analysing the prevalence of such violations in major hot spot districts, it is clear to the central government that the situation is “especially serious” in Mumbai and Pune (Maharashtra), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Kolkata, Howrah, East Medinipur, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri (West Bengal), the home ministry said.The Centre said six inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) will visit the identified areas in the four states within the next three days to make spot assessments and recommend remedial measures in a report to the central government.While Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot did not comment on the IMCT visit, he tweeted on Monday to urge people in the state not to violate lockdown rules.Commenting on the central teams visiting Madhya Pradesh, additional chief secretary, health, Mohd Suleman said: “The team is meeting officials. I am yet to speak to them.” There was no immediate response from Maharashtra officials on the Centre’s plan.The IMCTs will assess the compliance with and implementation of lockdown measures, supply of essential items, preparedness of the health infrastructure and hospital facilities, safety of medical professional and the conditions of migrant workers housed in relief camps.They will also assess the movement of people outside their homes, maintenance of social distancing measures and the availability of test kits and personal protective equipment in these areas, plus a few others in West Bengal, and submit a report to the Centre, according to the statement.While two IMCTs each have been formed to assess the ground situation in West Bengal and Maharashtra, one team each will travel to Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Orders have been issued to the chief secretaries of the four states on the exercise.The five-member teams comprise officials from the ministries of health and consumer affairs and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 590 and the number of cases climbed to 18,500 in the country on Monday, according to data compiled from states.There are 4,666 confirmed coronavirus cases in Maharashtra of which 232 people have lost their lives. Mumbai has 3,032 cases.In Madhya Pradesh, out of the 1,485 cases, 74 people have succumbed to the disease. There were 82 containment zones in the city on April 10, which have since gone up to 167. Indore has the highest such zones in the state. Indore, with 897 patients, has reported the sharpest spike in the number of cases over the past few days.Rajasthan has so far reported 1,535 cases of which 25 people have died. In West Bengal, there have been 339 confirmed cases and 12 people have died due to the infection. However, the state of 91.2 million people has tested only 5,469. After the home ministry’s communication, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked the Centre to give valid reasons for the deployment IMCTs. “We welcome all constructive support and suggestions, especially from the Central government in negating the COVID-19 crisis. However, the basis on which the Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including a few in WB under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 is unclear,” she tweeted.“I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji and Home Minister Amit Shah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism,” the CM added.The orders, signed by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla in his capacity as the chairperson of the National Executive Committee under the Disaster Management Act, also said that the ministry of civil aviation will provide to the IMCTs air transportation from New Delhi as their deployment is for an essential purpose.The state governments will have to provide logistical support to the IMCTs; equip them with PPEs; and extend all cooperation for their visits to local areas, including providing documents and records as requested.Separately, the Centre warned the Kerala government over its decision to allow opening of restaurants, bus travel in cities and opening of MSME industries in urban areas, saying it amounted to dilution of lockdown guidelines and also the Supreme Court observation.The Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left government in Kerala said there was some “misunderstanding” due to which the Centre had objected to dilution of the lockdown protocol for controlling Covid-19.In a communication to chief secretaries of state governments and Union territory administrations, Bhalla said some states and UTs were issuing orders allowing activities that were not allowed as per the guidelines issued by the home ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.States and UTs can take stricter action than what is mentioned in the guidelines but cannot dilute or weaken them, the ministry said on Monday.Home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the home secretary wrote afresh to the states as some of them were issuing certain guidelines that amounted to “diluting” the lockdown leading to “severe repercussions to health” of the citizens.“MHA is regularly monitoring the lockdown situation in the country. Wherever lockdown is being violated we (MHA) are taking adequate action in coordination with state governments,” she said at a daily briefing.Writing this letter became important, she said, as in some states facilities were being allowed which were not permitted under the MHA guidelines.On Monday, senior officials of the central and state governments went back to work as public offices reopened nearly a month after restrictions were enforced. In its revised guidelines, the home ministry had mandated that deputy secretaries and above ranks of the Union government were to rejoin offices while up to 33% of junior officers could be called in according to a department/ministry’s requirement. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-dilute-curbs-centre-to-states/story-Ad9I1BmQAbODn1JazCGNEK.html
21-04-2020||India||Hot March a bit colder in India||Last month was the second hottest March since 2016 globally but India was among a few countries to record below-average temperatures. The average global land and ocean surface temperature for March was 1.16 degrees C above the 20th-century average, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) said in a statement on April 13. NOAA is a US commerce department agency that focuses on the conditions of the oceans, major waterways, and the atmosphere.The 10 warmest months of March have been since 1990. March 2020 was also the 44th consecutive March and the 423rd consecutive month with temperatures above the 20th-century average, according to NOAA.India in March recorded a mean temperature of 24.92 degrees C, -.29 below normal. The maximum average temperature was 31.083 degree C (-0.769 degree C below normal). The average minimum temperature of 18.75 degrees C was 0.2 degree C below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).NOAA’s temperature anomaly map shows India recorded below-average temperatures in March (1 to 2 degrees C below normal) along with parts of Africa and North America. India also recorded below-normal temperatures from January to March while parts of Europe, Russia, Central Asia experienced record heat in March.“This is mainly because of a high number of western disturbances (WDs)and rains in March which led to cooler temperatures,” said IMD’s director general M Mohapatra.In April, back-to-back WDs have led to higher than normal rains in many parts of India and prevented the rise in maximum temperatures. Between March 1 and April 20, northwestern and central India recorded 46% and 137% excess rains. There were six WDs in March and four so far in April against a normal of two to three. At least two more WDs are expected on April 23 and 27. WDs are storms that originate over the Mediterranean region and bring rain.Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) climate scientist Roxy Mathew Koll said while global temperatures were at a record high during the first quarter of 2020, temperatures in India were generally cooler than average, except in the southern peninsula. “IMD-IITM forecasts indicate that this may continue until the end of April. Beyond that, global agencies indicate normal average temperatures during May-July. This may be due to conditions in the Pacific as there is no coherent sign of an El Niño developing during early summer. El Niño, if present, can trigger heatwaves over the Indian subcontinent,” said Koll. El Nino is a weather phenomenon characterised by warm ocean temperatures in the equatorial Pacific Ocean that is sometimes associated with drought in the subcontinent.Heatwaves have so far been recorded only in parts of central Maharashtra and Vidarbha in April. But this is likely to change in May. “Our climate models are indicating that May and June will have above-normal temperatures and heatwave conditions. They may not be the hottest on record but would definitely be above average,” said Union earth sciences ministry secretary M Rajeevan.Mohapatra said they had forecast above-average temperatures for March-April and May, which did not happen. “March and April both have been cooler but from the models, it seems like temperatures will rise moderately in May pulling up the average temperature for the season,” said Mohapatra.The April-May-June season is likely to be warmer than normal in most parts of the country, according to IMD’s seasonal outlook released on March 30. The IMD had forecast the same for March-April- May but the forecast has not been accurate so far.The frequency of heatwaves is also likely to be slightly above normal during the season, according to the outlook. Regions likely to have average maximum temperatures of 0.5 to 1 degree C above normal include eastern and western Rajasthan, western Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Konkan and Goa, central Maharashtra, Marathawada, north and south interior Karnataka, coastal Karnataka, Rayalaseema, and Kerala. This would mean a rise in heat-related health complications and deaths. Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health director Dilip Mavlankar said above-normal heatwave could mean extremely difficult conditions for people living in small houses in the Covid-19 containment zones. “We have to monitor those in slums in very small units especially if their movement is restricted. Additional water should be diverted by municipalities to these areas to deal with the heat and for hand washing. In the West, water is rationed from swimming pools or gardens to deal with heat episodes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-hottest-march-a-bit-colder-in-india/story-KgoWf4z0yWskKtbcknvmeL.html
21-04-2020||India||Country consuming 13% more data during lockdown: Reports||India’s internet consumption rose by around 13% since three days before the nationwide lockdown was put in place to check the spread of Covid-19, according to telecom ministry data that showed Indians consumed an average of 308 petabytes (PB) of data daily for the week beginning March 22. According to the department of telecom, which collated reports from service providers, the daily average consumption in this period was 9% higher than 282PB data used on March 21 (the day the janta curfew was announced) and 13% more than the daily average of 270 PB seen in the previous week. The change reflected how people consumed more streaming content and logged on to work from home, which was also captured in how data demand from residences rose as compared to commercial areas.The consumption, Department of Telecommunications (DoT) figures show, peaked on two days -- March 22 and March 27 -- when 312 PB of data was used. On March 26, 311 PB of data was consumed. The lockdown, announced on March 24, began on March 25. On March 22, India observed a voluntary, one-day curfew.Since the first week, however, consumption has now stabilised around the 300PB mark.The data in one PB is equivalent to 500 billion pages of standard printed text.Andhra Pradesh and Bihar saw some of the steepest increases, by 12% in both states. In Maharashtra, where data consumption was highest among all states under the lockdown period, the increase was 7%. The government said that the increase was within its capacity. “We have the capacity to handle a spike of 20% without any duress. We optimised the fibre optics network and have not yet reported a breakdown,” said a DoT official, asking not to be named. The consumption, the official added, rose lower than it would have since many streaming services such as YouTube and Netflix decided to downgrade video quality. Rajan Mathews of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said around the third week of March, operators recorded a 30% jump in traffic with most of it from people streaming videos. The decision by media companies to disable high-quality video and optimise bandwidth usage helped networks meet the increased demand, Mathews said, adding that the operators also pressed into service unused cell towers. “With the consumption moving to residential places, the challenge was that these areas resist installation of cell towers. We worked with the government to ensure that of 800 unused cell towers in metro cities, 730 were made functional,” said Mathews. A third factor that helped, according to Mathews, was operators being allowed to carry out maintenance work. “Complaints of cuts in fibre optic cables were about 100 a day on an average, this fell down to 6-7 a day,” he said. Rajesh Chharia of the Internet Service Providers Association of India (ISPAI) said that while the strain has not increased, internet service providers should be allowed to share infrastructure. He said that it’s a long-term demand, which is awaiting the Centre’s nod. “If the infrastructure of a provider is full, they may be allowed to overload it with the infrastructure of another to spread the network. This will ensure uninterrupted services,” said Chharia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-consuming-13-more-data-during-lockdown-reports/story-gNndbeigunb7HOQw7nEceL.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19 not the last pandemic, world has to build resilience||Covid-19 is not the first, nor will it be the last , of high-impact, rapidly spreading pandemics to cause disruption and death on a large scale, upend economies, and roil society. Pandemics are emerging with higher frequency and becoming increasingly difficult to contain because of a convergence of several global ecological, political, economic and social trends, including population growth, urbanisation, economic integration, faster travel, migration and climate change, experts say.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has already infected 2.4 million people and killed at least 165,000, is the second most devastating pandemic after the 1918 Spanish flu, which killed an estimated 50 million people in 11 months between 1918 and 1919. The Spanish flu also hit India hard, with the country recording its only dip in the decadal population growth rate between 1911 and 1921, when the population fell by 0.31%. This was the only decade since 1901 to date when the country’s population did not increase, according to Census of India data.“Epidemic-prone diseases such as influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), Middle East respiratory syndrome (Mers), Ebola, Zika, plague, yellow fever and others, are harbingers of a new era of high-impact, potentially fast-spreading outbreaks that are more frequently detected and increasingly difficult to manage,” said The World At Risk 2019 report by the Global Preparedness Monitoring Board (GPMB). The report was authored by 15 global scientists and public health leaders, including India’s principal scientific advisor, Dr K VijayRaghavan.The World Health Organization (WHO) tracked 1,483 epidemics in 172 countries between 2011 and 2018 and in 2019, warned that another H1N1 2009-10 influenza-like pandemic was inevitable. But instead of an influenza, what is causing havoc is a novel coronavirus, severe forms of which have had limited human-to-human transmission in the past.The novelty of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Civid-19, and the secrecy China has maintained around it have fuelled persisting rumours about the virus being a bio-weapon that accidentally leaked from a lab in Wuhan city, where the outbreak started. Scientists, however, have used genetic material of Sars-Cov2 to establish its natural origin. “Our analyses clearly show that Sars-CoV-2 is not a laboratory construct or a purposefully manipulated virus,” according to an analysis published in the journal Nature Medicine on March 17. Sars-CoV-2 is very closely related to Sars-CoV, but the overall genetic structure is distinct from the known coronaviruses and most closely resembles viruses found in bats and pangolins that had not been known to cause humans any harm. “If someone were seeking to engineer a new coronavirus as a pathogen, they would have constructed it from the backbone of a virus known to cause illness in human,” said the Nature Medicine study, dismissing conspiracy theories about the lab origin of the virus.So, what makes Sars-CoV-2 different? A study of the genetic template revealed that the spike (S) proteins that cover the virus and give it its characteristic crown-like appearance, have evolved to target a receptor on the outside of human cells called ACE2, which is a key regulator of blood pressure and immunity, among others, and is found on the outer surface of cells in human lungs, arteries, heart, kidney, and intestines.What makes Sars-CoV-2 lethal is the ease with which it spreads and the severity of disease caused by it. There are seven coronaviruses that infect humans, of which Sars-Cov, Mers-CoV and Sars-CoV-2 can cause severe disease; the other four coronaviruses (HKU1, NL63, OC43 and 229E) cause mild cold-like symptoms.Where did the virus come from? Coronaviruses jumped from civets in Sars and camels in Mers. In the case of Sars-CoV-2, it was most likely a bat, which transmitted the virus to an intermediate animal (most likely a pangolin), from where it spread to humans.Understanding whether the viruses’ pathogenic abilities (abilities to cause disease) evolved in animals before it started infecting humans, or occurred in humans after it jumped from its animal host, will help determine how frequently such pandemics will occur in the future. “The chances of similar outbreaks are lower if the virus infects humans and then evolve its highly pathogenic properties. The virus is not mutating fast, which offers hope for a vaccine,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.There have been thousands of outbreaks in India over the past five years, ranging from annual ones like influenza (H1N1 and H3N2), acute encephalitis syndrome, chikungunya, dengue and measles, to rarer ones like Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever, Kyasanur forest disease (monkey fever), nipah viral disease, scrub typhus, and zika virus disease, among others, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme under the ministry of health & family welfare.The only way to contain health emergencies is to build infrastructure to test, contain and treat. “I believe the coming reality for the world will be one where we are always defending against this enemy. A kind of fire brigade is needed in place, and within that defence, then have the recovery of social interaction and economic activity but done in a way that keeps us all as safe as much as possible,” Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization’s special envoys on Covid-19, told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-not-the-last-pandemic-world-has-to-build-resilience/story-bOrpRseqzhDgTjvxStRFzK.html
21-04-2020||India||Cong panel to give Centre MSME revival plan soon||The newly-created Congress consultative committee, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, met for the first time on Monday and discussed the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, smooth crop procurement and the issue of stranded migrant labourers due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the deadly coronavirus disease.After the meeting, the opposition party reiterated its demand for immediate direct cash transfer of Rs 7500 in all Jan Dhan, pension and the PM-Kisan scheme accounts to enable the poor and the needy sustain themselves during the lockdown period.Giving details of the meeting, former union minister Jairam Ramesh said the Congress panel will prepare a detailed plan for revival of MSME together with steps to ensure smooth procurement of wheat, mustard and gram besides resolving the pressing issue of stranded migrant workers and submit it to the central government in a day or two.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday formed the consultative committee under the chairmanship of the former Prime Minister to deliberate on current matters, including those related to the Covid-19 outbreak, and formulate the party’s views on various issues.The 11-member group also comprises former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary in-charge organisation KC Venugopal and former union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh.The other members of the group are technology and data cell chairman Praveen Chakravarty, spokespersons Gaurav Vallabh and Supriya Shrinate, and social media department head Rohan Gupta.Ramesh said the panel will meet every other day to discuss the important issues faced by the country due to the pandemic.“We have worked out a very concrete MSME revival package which we will submit to the central government in a day or two,” Ramesh said, addressing a news conference through video conferencing.He said both the former Prime Minister and Rahul Gandhi insisted that absolute priority be given to the MSME sector, which has social and economic importance and is the second largest employer after agriculture.Ramesh said the Congress will also make positive recommendations to the government to ensure smooth crop procurement and resolution of the problems of stranded migrant workers.He said the party once again urged the government to transfer Rs 7500 to all Jan Dhan accounts, all pension accounts of the elderly, differently abled and widows, and also those under the PM-Kisan scheme.“I am sure a compassionate and a responsible government can find funds to provide for the vulnerable,” he said when asked if the country has funds of this nature to spare.“It is the matter of priorities. It is absolutely essential for the survival of tens and thousands of people who need immediate assistance to tide over the crisis,” added Ramesh.He said the Congress will keep giving constructive suggestions to the government and hope it will take those positively. Rahul Gandhi too had also advocated constructive support to the government in his press conference last week.“We need to work with the government in these difficult times with a positive mindset. We are extending our hand for constructive cooperation and hope the government will come down from its pedestal and accept our positive suggestions. We are giving these suggestions on behalf of the people of India,” Ramesh said.The panel in its next meeting will discuss the lockdown exit strategy after May 3. Ramesh also alleged that the Centre was busy “destabilising” the Madhya Pradesh government and was “caught napping in preparation for managing” the Covid-19 pandemic as a result of which the action got delayed.“The government did not act on time while dealing with the crisis and was busy in toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh. The government only woke up on March 23 but this is no time to play politics,” he said.Separately, a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) has been called on Thursday to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation. The meeting will be held through video-conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-panel-to-give-centre-msme-revival-plan-soon/story-4r8UI5RB2sQjgE8THq9d5L.html
21-04-2020||India||China urges India to review FDI move||China on Monday asked India to revise what it described as a “discriminatory” change in foreign direct investment (FDI) regulations aimed at preventing opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms amid the Covid-19 crisis.The Indian government brought China under the ambit of regulations preventing such takeovers and acquisitions on Friday, with authorities saying any Chinese investments would now require the government’s approval. The revision of the FDI policy came close on the heels of China’s central bank buying a 1.01% stake in HDFC in the first quarter of 2020.“We hope India would revise relevant discriminatory practices, treat investments from different countries equally, and foster an open, fair and equitable business environment,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement that was Beijing’s first formal response to the tweak in India’s FDI regulations.Ji said the “additional barriers” set by India for “investors from specific countries violate WTO’s principle of non-discrimination, and go against the general trend of liberalisation and facilitation of trade and investment”.The Chinese side also contended the changes in India’s FDI rules “do not conform to the consensus of G20 leaders and trade ministers to realise a free, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open”.There was no immediate response to Ji’s remarks from Indian officials although people familiar with the matter said the Indian government couldn’t allow vulnerabilities created by the Covid-19 pandemic to be exploited by any country, including China.One of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “A pre-emptive action was needed to protect Indian assets from hostile acquisitions and takeovers -- particularly start-ups that have little money power. The necessity is not just felt by India, but many other countries, including powerful G20 nations which have expressed serious concerns about Chinese designs.”The person added: “The actions of Chinese investors, with tacit backing from their government, are not fair business as usual. Hence there is a need to protect our domestic interests.”The people said there was no bar on the entry of Chinese firms into India or investments by them, but all proposals will have to go through the government.“This is not just targeted at China but all countries that share borders with India. It is surprising why China is so perturbed, if it believes in ethical business,” the person cited above said.Earlier, only investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh required the Indian government’s approval for security reasons. Without naming China, an order issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) on April 17 said the scope of the policy has been widened to cover all neighbouring countries that share a border with India.Ji noted that China’s cumulative investment in India exceeded $8 billion as of December 2019, “far more than the total investments of India’s other border-sharing countries”. She added, “The impact of the policy on Chinese investors is clear.”The revision of the foreign investment policy by the DPIIT will make it “much difficult for companies from countries sharing land border with India, including China, to invest in the country”, Ji said.Ji contended Chinese investments have “driven the development of India’s industries, such as mobile phone, household electrical appliances, infrastructure and automobile, creating a large number of jobs in India, and promoting [mutually] beneficial and win-win cooperation”.She also noted that Chinese enterprises were actively making donations to help India fight Covid-19 and sought to urge India to create a “favourable investment environment” that would help drive recovery after the pandemic.“Where companies choose to invest and operate depends on the country’s economic fundamentals and business environment. Facing the economic downturn caused by Covid-19, countries should work together to create a favourable investment environment to speed up the resumption of companies’ production and operation,” Ji said.The Indian government’s tweak in FDI rules followed concerns that Chinese firms, including its mammoth state-run companies, could take over Indian companies at a time when their valuations and finances have taken a massive hit because of the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic that originated in Wuhan nearly four months ago.Anil Talreja, partner and leader of the consumer business practice at Deloitte India, said: “Such restriction is warranted at least during the time India Inc recovers and stands on its feet again. This shield would also apply to companies in the consumer retail and automotive {businesses} where FDI was otherwise under the automatic route.”Shardul Shroff, executive chairman of the law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, said: “This variation on FDI being subjected to government scrutiny will help India monitor its FDI which could be directed to acquisitions and takeovers of Indian entities at low valuations, at least in the course of the pandemic, through government route only.”According to the DPIIT’s order, “an entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route”. The order also requires the government’s approval for transferring ownership of an Indian company to any “existing or future” foreign investor belonging to the countries that share a border with India.Bangladesh, China, Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal and Myanmar share borders with India, but there are some exemptions for Nepal and Bhutan-based entities.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on April 12 cautioned the government against takeover threats. “The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The government must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-urges-india-to-review-fdi-move/story-6MwNBz5C0ELwmQ12wL5XFL.html
21-04-2020||India||Farmer beaten by police for violating curbs dies in MP||A 50-year-old farmer on Monday succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur three days after a group of policemen allegedly thrashed him for violating the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Banshi Kushwaha’s family said he was returning home after feeding his cattle on Friday at Tilhari village when policemen attached to the Gaura Bazar police station intercepted him and beat him for breaking the lockdown. Assistant sub-inspector Alok Singh, head constable Mukesh Patariya and constables Rakesh Singh, Guddu Singh, Brijesh and Ashutosh have been suspended for allegedly assaulting the farmer. In a statement before he was removed from his post, Jabalpur police superintendent Amit Singh said the policemen thrashed the farmer after they had gone to Tilhari following information regarding some gambling there. He added Kushwaha was unnecessarily beaten despite “my repeated instructions in the past that nobody be subjected to beating and only legal action should be taken”. He added their act “sullied the image of the police department. Hence, they are hearby suspended forthwith”.In a video made available by his family, Kushwaha is purportedly heard saying the policemen asked him about the gambling. “They asked me if I knew anyone [involved in gambling]. I said no. Then they got down... and started beating me badly. I fell unconscious and was carried home by some people.”The farmer’s brother, Dharmu Kushwaha, said it is a case of murder and the policemen must be booked for killing his sibling.A doctor at Jabalpur’s City Hospital, where the farmer was admitted, who did not want to be named, said there were injury marks on his body. “There appeared to be internal injuries too.”Jabalpur collector Bharat Yadav said he has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. “A sub-divisional magistrate has been deputed to conduct the inquiry into the incident,” he said. The probe is expected to be completed within 30 daysNo arrests had been made in the case as police were yet to register a first information report. Madhya Pradesh police chief Vivek Johri said prima facie the policemen have been found guilty. “Any further action against them will be based on the inquiry report.”Siddharth Bahuguna will replace Amit Singh as the Jabalpur police superintendent. Amit Singh has been shifted to police headquarters in Bhopal as assistant inspector general of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-beaten-by-police-for-violating-curbs-dies-in-mp/story-OmKgIWTjEJznd6FRtD6rLK.html
21-04-2020||India||J&K journalist booked under UAPA over post||The J&K Police have invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against a Srinagar-based photojournalist in Kashmir for allegedly uploading ‘anti-national posts’ on her social media.The cyber cell of J&K Police said that they have registered a case against the woman under Section 13 of the UA (P) Act and 505 of the IPC at Cyber police station on Saturday.The Kashmir Press Club condemned recent cases of harassment and summoning of journalists by police in the Valley. “The female photojournalist was summoned to Cyber Police Station, Air Cargo in Srinagar on April 18. However, after the Kashmir Press Club and Directorate of Information intervened, police dropped the summon order,” a statement read.J&K PDP termed it a systematic pattern of assault on freedom of expression. National Conference said that freedom of expression was never so curtailed.Police, in a statement, said that the Cyber Police Station, Kashmir, received information through reliable sources that a Facebook user is frequently uploading anti-national posts with criminal intention. “The posts can provoke public to disturb the law and order and glorify anti-national activities. The cyber police called her to police station not Air Cargo Complex,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-photojournalist-booked-for-uploading-anti-national-posts-on-social-media/story-KW9Em4WKpsUIHxEMJqpoTP.html
21-04-2020||India||Behind new shield for Indian firms from China, a worrying trend and Ajit Doval||The government’s decision to insist on regulatory oversight of Chinese foreign direct investment (FDI) is an attempt to ring-fence India’s capital hungry startup and tech trailblazers being swallowed up by cash rich investors from the dragon country, many of which may enjoy tacit state support.Over the weekend (April 18), the department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) tweaked rules, making FDI by any entity of a country, which shares land border with India” subject to government approval.The move may impact investments from countries such as Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, and Bhutan and more importantly China.Not surprisingly, Beijing is the only country to have responded to the Indian decision, describing it discriminatory. Ji Rong, the spokesperson for the Chinese embassy asked India to “revise discriminatory practices” and “treat investments from different countries equally”.Until now, a non-resident entity or a foreign investor could invest in India, subject to FDI rules, except in sectors/activities which are prohibited. However, countries such as Bangladesh and Pakistan could invest only after government approvals and only in select sectors.Also Watch | Chinese threat amid Covid impact: Why India changed FDI rules But the Covid-19 crisis has dramatically transformed the business landscape across the world, with many Indian startups and tech companies seeing their valuations slump.This raised concerns about companies selling off stake at a discount as they scramble to stay afloat in an uncertain economic environment.The influence of Chinese investment in India’s startups have been growing. The statistics are telling.According to a recent study by Gateway House: Indian Council on Global Relations, a foreign policy think-tank, 18 of the 30 Indian unicorns (companies valued at more than $1 billion) have a Chinese investor.“This means that China is embedded in Indian society, the economy, and the technology ecosystem that influences it,” the report said. “Unlike a port or a railway line, these are invisible assets in small sizes – rarely over $100 million – and made by the private sector, which doesn’t cause immediate alarm”.Gateway House has identified over 75 companies, with Chinese investors concentrated in e-commerce, fintech, media/social media, aggregation services and logistics. A majority – more than half – of India’s 30 Indian unicorns (start-ups with valuation of over $1 billion) have a Chinese investor.These include storied names such as PayTM, Oyo, BigBasket, Ola, PolicyBazaar and Delhivery among others.National Security Advisor Ajit Doval has been flagging concerns over Chinese dominance in India’s booming tech space over the last few years, particularly pointing out worrying possibilities of Beijing’s state-funded apparatus controlling startups here through opaque corporate structures.Top government sources told Hindustan Times that the national security planners believed that firewalls were needed as India and China had many outstanding disputes and legacy issues.These primarily related to the unresolved 3,488 kilometre-long boundary dispute apart from Beijing using Islamabad as a proxy to hit at New Delhi on all fronts including keeping Jammu and Kashmir on a permanent boil.Until the spread of Covid-19, Raisina Hill was not warm to the idea of government oversight on Chinese FDI, with a strand of thought dominating that such a move could affect FDI inflows into India. Besides, it was felt that it could unsettle the fragile equilibrium in India-China bilateral relations, sources pointed out.The institutional knowledge of economic affairs, commerce and industry as well as ministry of external affairs relegated such a policy proposal change to the back burner.The Covid-19 outbreak provided an opportunity to Modi 2.0 to operationalize the FDI changes, with the proposal now enjoying bi-partisan support within India’s security and policy brainstrust.The Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Modi cleared the policy on April 17 with total support from Home Minister Amit Shah. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal.That this was an idea whose time had come hit home on February 1, when the government realised that there was hardly any Indian company that was manufacturing either personal protective equipment, ventilators or masks that the whole world is shopping for in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Concessions to Chinese imports had also virtually pushed manufacturing out of the country including production of the much-needed critical active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs).There have also been concerns within the government that its signature “Make in India” initiative, first launched in 2014 to turn India into a manufacturing powerhouse, was being severely impacted by the allowances that had been extended to China.China is India’s largest bilateral merchandise trading partner, but the balance of trade is heavily tilted in favour of Beijing.Total India-China bilateral trade stood at USD 95.7 billion in 2019, with a deficit of USD 58 billion in favour of Beijing.The total Chinese FDI investment as per industry is USD 6.2 billion in India.The latest move is part of a series of steps that the government has taken since the start of this week after Housing Development Finance Corp. Ltd (HDFC) said that People’s Bank of China (PBOC) had raised its stake in the home lender from 0.8% to 1.01% in the March quarter through open market purchases.This led many to voice concerns that India’s systemically-important companies could be vulnerable to creeping take over from foreign investors, aided by dropping valuations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behind-new-shield-for-indian-firms-from-china-a-worrying-trend-and-ajit-doval/story-KAGe4jNbqYffGLEfXtHvnN.html
21-04-2020||India||Amid confusion over lockdown rules, industries look at Bengal govt to restart production||With no directives addressing problems faced by individual sectors, industries willing to resume production in West Bengal in a controlled manner from April 20 stared at unanswered questions on Sunday even as their counterparts in other states made elaborate plans.Asked by the state government to resume work with 15% workforce, the Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA) on Sunday asked all mills to send online applications to authorities for starting operations on Monday. The notice was issued on Sunday by Debasish Roy, IJMA’s director-general. Roy did not say whether the top body of the jute industry was ready to resume production from Monday.“We are awaiting permission from the government,” Raghavendra Gupta, IJMA’s chairperson, said on Monday morning.IJMA members, however, said they were willing to restart work and follow safety guidelines but 15% workforce would lead to losses because so few people cannot run all machines. According to IJMA, West Bengal has 69 jute mills that employ 250,000 people. “The state government should understand the technical aspects. Only the IJMA can decide how many workers are needed to run a mill effectively,” Tapan Sen, the national general secretary of the Centre for Trade Unions (CITU), the labour arm of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said.The bakery industry in the state has been affected badly with around 10 to 12% of the 2500 companies operating on a restricted scale, claimed Ariful Islam, chief executive of the West Bengal Bakers’ Association.“Bakers in Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai told us that they are operating without any hindrance. In Delhi, bread is even being supplied by the government among other relief materials,” Islam said.“On one hand, we are being asked to operate as part of essential service while on the other, vehicles transporting bread are being stopped on highways for allegedly breaking lockdown norms. Today, for example, two vans were stopped in Howrah. This has been happening ever since the lockdown started,” Islam said on Sunday afternoon.“How can we resume operation? The ones that are operating are supplying products only to the local areas. We have written to the Kolkata Police commissioner and director-general of the state police,” said Islam.CITU’s Sen said that a part of the steel industry kept operating with a fraction of the workforce as furnaces cannot be shut down during the lockdown. He said firing steel furnaces and reaching the required temperature once they have cooled down are expensive and lengthy processes.“The Durgapur Steel Plant was among many that did not stop operation. The steel sector should not have much problem resuming production but workers will face trouble reaching their workplace with public transport suspended,” Sen, a former member of the Rajya Sabha, said.“With people in many areas affected and certain zones marked red, keeping public transport suspended is also a situational compulsion,” Sen added.A cabinet minister, who did not wish to be named, said he was not aware whether the government will meet representatives of various sectors or issue any order on Monday.An employee of a logistics company that runs Amazon’s sorting centre at Dankuni sad they have been handling only essential materials wearing protective gear, including personal protection suit and face shield. “We were ready to handle non-essential goods as well but a circular was issued by the Union home ministry on Sunday saying supply of these by e-commerce companies will remain prohibited,” the employee said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-confusion-over-lockdown-rules-industries-look-at-bengal-govt-to-restart-production/story-mE5lrX3gtm52ApdGT2faBM.html
21-04-2020||India||India’s internet consumption up during Covid-19 lockdown, shows data||India’s internet consumption rose by 13% since the nationwide lockdown was put in place to check the spread of Covid-19, according to telecom ministry data that showed Indians consumed 308 petabytes (PB) or 308,000 terabytes (TB) of data daily on an average for the week beginning March 22.According to the department of telecom, which collated reports from service providers, the daily average consumption in this period was 9% higher than 282PB data used on March 21 (the day the janta curfew was announced) and 13% more than March 19, when consumption was 270 PB. The change reflected how people consumed more streaming content and logged on to work from home, which was also captured in how data demand from residences rose as compared to commercial areas.The consumption, DoT figures show, peaked on two days -- March 22 and March 27 -- when 312 PB of data was used. On March 26, 311 PB of data was consumed. The lockdown, announced on March 24, began on March 25. On March 22, India was put under a voluntary, one-day curfew.Since the first week, however, consumption has now stabilised around the 300PB mark.The data in one PB is equivalent to 500 billion pages of standard printed text.Andhra Pradesh and Bihar saw some of the most drastic increase – it rose by 12% in both states. In Maharashtra, where data consumption was highest among all states under the lockdown period, the increase was 7%.The government said that that increase was within their capacity. “We have the capacity to handle a spike of 20% without any duress. We optimised the fibre optics network and have not yet reported a breakdown,” said a DoT official, asking not to be named. The consumption, the official added, rose lower than it would have since many streaming services such as YouTube and Netflix decided to downgrade video quality. Rajan Mathews of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said around the third week of March, operators recorded a 30% jump in traffic with most of it from people streaming videos. The COAI wrote to OTT sites to downsize their content. The decision by media companies to disable high-quality video and optimise bandwidth usage helped networks meet the increased demand, Mathews said, adding that the operators also started using unused cell towers. “With the consumption moving to residential places, the challenge was that these areas resist installation of cell towers. We worked with the government to ensure that of 800 unused cell towers in metro cities, 730 were made functional,” said Mathews. A third factor that helped, according to Mathews, was operators being allowed to carry out maintenance work. “Complaints of cuts in fibre optic cables were about 100 a day on an average, this fell down to 6-7 a day,” he said. India’s consumption rates have seen a steady increase over the last few years. Nokia’s annual Mobile Broadband India Traffic Index (MBiT) report says that there was a whopping 47% jump in the overall data traffic in India in 2019. This translates to 11 GB a month per user, and is driven by 4G consumption. SpeedTest, a site that analyses internet access performance across the globe, in its latest report on tracking COVID-19’s impact on speeds around the world which was updated on April 15, showed a 6% decline in fixed line speeds and 18% in mobile speeds when compared to the week of March 2. As per the report, India’s current broadband speed is an average of 36.17 mbps and mobile download speed is 9.67 mbps. While the report put India behind countries like China, Austria, Japan, Israel and UAE, in terms of mobile and fixed broadband performance, it was ahead of countries like Italy, France, Germany, and Canada. Rajesh Chharia of the Internet Service Providers Association of India (ISPAI) said that while the strain has not increased, internet service providers (ISPs) should be allowed to share infrastructure. He said that it’s a long-term demand, which is awaiting the Centre’s nod. “If the infrastructure of a provider is full, they may be allowed to overload it with the infrastructure of another to spread the network. This will ensure uninterrupted services,” said Chharia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-internet-consumption-up-during-covid-19-lockdown-shows-data/story-ALcov1bP8uWYO9N2TbpPlK.html
21-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: In Madhya Pradesh, Assam, chartered planes ferrying samples||A Beechcraft B 200 aircraft, which was otherwise used as official transport by the chief minister and governor of Madhya Pradesh, has become a key element to the state’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to people familiar with the matter.Starting this week, the six-seater plane -- operated by pilots wearing hazmat suits -- is being used to carry test samples between big cities in the state and New Delhi to enable Madhya Pradesh go beyond its own testing capacity of 1,200 a day for the Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19.“We realized that some coronavirus patients were dying in MP just after three-four days of hospital stay,’’ said Mohammed Suleiman, an IAS officer who last week took charge of the state health department. “We realized that they were coming too late. So we decided to step up testing and that’s why we need to send extra samples to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) in Delhi.’’In its third trip on Saturday, the Beechcraft carried 1,663 samples from Bhopal to Delhi, where they were taken to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Earlier in the week, 1,200 samples were carried from Indore to the national capital.”ICMR and NCDC have kindly agreed to test 1,400 samples of MP state daily,’’ said the commissioner of the health department, Nishant Warwade. “The strategy is to send samples of all suspects for testing so that no one remains untested.”Madhya Pradesh is not the only state to take the aerial route to enhance its testing capacity. While it has its own state plane, Assam has been using chartered planes to ferry samples at a time when all commercial and private flights were suspended following the imposition on March 25 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of a 21-day national lockdown, which has not been extended till May 3.The Assam government has also been hiring these planes at the cost of 70,000-90,000 rupees per hour to get supplies from the ICMR offices in Kolkata. “We’ve been using a chartered plane since the beginning of the lockdown,’’ said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “We need to not just ferry samples for testing but also procure medical supplies from Kolkata, so we are using the plane on a daily basis.’’ While the exact number of samples that Assam has sent were not available, Sarma said they have been using it daily since the lockdown.The chartered services is also sometimes being used to ferry medical personnel from one district to another, Sarma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-assam-chartered-planes-ferrying-samples/story-rA24gaRlIS2tRCeMwtNT4L.html
21-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Govt sets up national vaccine task force||The central government on Sunday constituted another national task force on vaccine development and drug testing having representatives from the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) among others as members.The main job of this task force will be to work as a bridge between academia, research institutions, and international collaborations in the field of drug testing and vaccine development.“We are contributing towards drug research as there are many herbs known for their medicinal properties. It is a collaborative effort with CSIR, ICMR etc,” said Ayush secretary Rajesh Kotecha. The other members will be from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), department of science and technology (DST), department of biotechnology (DBT), council of scientific and industrial research (CSIR), defence research and development organisation (DRDO), directorate general of health services (DGHS) and drug controller general of India (DCGI).“This task force will monitor the progress, not just in India but globally, happening in the field of vaccine development and drug trials. They will create a clinical cohort for long-term follow-up of people for achieving a better understanding of disease management. Bio specimens will be collected as part of the exercise, which will be different from the usual sample collection, for further drug and vaccine trials,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.The task force will be co-chaired by principal scientific advisory to the government of India, K Vijay Raghavan, and member (health) Niti Aayog, Dr Vinod Paul.The DBT will be the central coordinating agency for vaccine development, and will focus on identifying different pathways in ensuring that work towards vaccine development is expedited. The partial lockdown relaxation that will be given after April 20 will not be applicable to hot spot areas from where clusters or large outbreaks of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been reported.“The states have been given a free hand to impose further additional measures according to local requirements as the local administration will be in a better position to take a call, depending on the conditions on the ground,” said Agarwal.The state governments are also scaling up efforts to create more dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres. As of now, there are a total of 2,144 hospitals and health centres meant only for Covid-19 patients, of which 755 are big hospitals and 1,389 are Covid health centres for mild or asymptomatic patients.There are now 54 districts from 23 states and Union territories that have not reported fresh cases during the last 14 days. Apart from the previous list, 10 new districts have been added.The districts newly added to the list are Gaya and Saran in Bihar; Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh; Fatehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar in Punjab; Bhiwani, Hisar, and Fatehabad in Haryana; and Cachar and Lakhimpur in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-national-vaccine-task-force/story-AfXpEnE6854EenhTwQ7zNJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Spruce up your home||Being is quarantine is bringing out the creative side in most of us. From painting and cooking to tidying up and organising our living spaces, we’ve done it all. And now, with the lockdown extended further, why not push the envelope and invest our time in something more liberating and a tad bit permanent? We all love our homes, and there’s something about the comfort that it provides that is not found elsewhere. How about sprucing up your lining pace to make it even more comfy and personalised. While isolation might seem a little overwhelming, you can use that little extra time to brighten up the setting around you. With just a few items, put together in quirky ways, the same monotonous space can be transformed into a mood-booster. Saloni Khosla, head of interior design, Pepperfry, Ali Baldiwala, partner in Baldiwala Associates — professional consultants in interior design, and Gita Ramanan, co-founder at Design Cafe, share some easy DIY ideas to add some buoyancy to your abode. 1.Make those walls a canvas – If you’re bored of looking at the monochromatic, austere wall of your bedroom, then make those walls pop. Add some colour by adorning your bedroom or study wall with a woven rug or an old silk sari, making for a bright tapestry. Wall stencilling is probably the most effective way to add colour and vibrancy to your walls without the cost of hiring a professional. All you need is stencils in different shapes and spend your afternoon displaying them creatively. Chequered patterns add plenty of life and style to the room. A friendly hack to the pocket and eye!2. Personalise accessories - And if you’re looking to mix family time with this DIY décor, you can even try some personalised wall art. Embellish some cardboard or a bedsheet with the signature handprints of your family members and display it on the walls of your hallway. 3.Turn your utility items into décor - Too much clutter and no rack to organise? Fret not, bring out the old ladder and utilise it as a clothes stand to help you maintain a pristine abode. You can stack up the clothes in a colour co-ordinated fashion and jazz it up with some fairy lights or artificial climbers. 4.Repurpose and refashion - Lend an industrial touch to an old vase by splashing some peppy colours and warping it with a metallic wire. Fill it with some dry sticks or paper flowers and place it on the coffee table as a centrepiece. Alternatively, you can take old glass bottles and re-purpose them for to create an elegant vase. Paint them in a monochromatic neutral tone and adorn them with lace or petite ribbons to add a touch of dainty finesse. 5.Go crazy with cloth - Spread some colour around! For a special family meal, you can make your dining table bright by dyeing your table napkins in vivid acrylic paints. 6. Plants - if you have plants around, just tucked in corners of your home, get them placed in better spots. Greens always uplifts one’s mood. If you have indoor plants place them around in ways you can always see them.7. Declutter - we tend to hoard things. It’s human nature to save that one piece for a rainy day. It’s time to prioritise things you need and let go of the ones you don’t. This will not only make your space look more refined and neat but also will help you maintain a sort of cleanliness and hygiene in general. Getting rid of the mess and extra items on bed side tables, study desks, dining tops etc. allows one’s mind to think better and makes you more efficient. Also cleaning is therapeutic for most, so must try.8. Throw in the real ‘You’ - Now that this house you have invested so many months into, is yours, so it should look like it is yours. All the travel souvenirs you have, the hobbies you have given a form to must find their place in your new home. It not only adds originality to your home but also adds to the grandeur and ambience. See? It’s easy-peasy. Small tricks with a big impact, that is what they are. So, the next time your builder, carpenter, designer gives you a hard time, just resort to these itty-bitty tips and convert your sweet home to something that everyone envies!Recycling is the name of the gameThe living room is where we might be spending most of our time, and it’s good to add a little zing and colour to our sofas for a new look. Dimple Ahuja, creative director, Studio Malabar, says, “You can do this by using your old Benarasi, Patola or embroidered dupattas, colourful saris or eye-catching printed stoles. You can display them either on the sides, one half of the sofa or just at the back rest. You can experiment with the placing as per your likes to enhance your sofa. If you have a round-table, you can use a bright printed scarf placed in the square format along with a plant at the centre (maybe a small money plant) placed in red, blue, green pottery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/spruce-up-your-home/story-vcNx6Whcr2Oz4bindfJHrJ.html
21-04-2020||India||Rapid testing may begin on Thursday for those in high-risk areas||India is likely to start rapid antibody testing on Thursday, with people in high-risk areas (containment zones), “large migration gatherings” and evacuation centres expected to be the first to get undergo this simple blood test that checks the presence of antibodies created by the body to fight the Sars-Cov-2 virus.The country’s apex biomedical research organisation, ICMR, on Saturday released an advisory on how and where rapid test kits can be used. At the same time, the number of conventional RT-PCR tests being done have increased, with the total test utilisation capacity going up from 10% to about 50% in the past two weeks, according to government documents.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe National Task Force constituted to review the testing guidelines did not ease its parameters, and did not open antibody tests to the private sector, despite recommendations from a high-level technical experts committee that wanted these tests to be available to “everyone at risk”, including those outside hot spot areas. “We are expecting the kits to arrive by Wednesday, and after that the Union health ministry will take a call on where all to deploy these kits in the field,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, Indian Council of Medical Research.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 toll hits 100; Delhi tally 503“The government’s primary focus has been places from where large number of cases is being reported, large gatherings and evacuation centres. Another focus area for which our experts recommended rapid testing is for patients suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) with an objective to be used as a more effective monitoring tool in these areas,” said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health, during Sunday’s media briefing.“These will be our criteria for distributing the kits once we get the supply,” he added.According to home ministry data, there are about 28,000 relief camps set up across the country that houses close to 1.25 million migrant workers. The government is also planning more evacuation fights from UK and other places to bring back stranded Indians. “This is the category of people that falls under those who need rapid testing. At this stage this group is our primary concern and extended it for all is not on the cards. There is a task force that is constantly evaluating the situation, and will take a call as and when required ,” said a senior health ministry official.Also Read: Shortage of safety equipment crippling states’ Covid-19 containment effortsThere are also about 20 existing and 22 potential hot stops that state governments are currently tracking.Unlike the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat and nasal swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid antibody tests indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus.Experts say they can also be used as a screening test for the infection -- antibodies typically show up a week after the infection.The simple blood test (samples can be collected by just a finger prick) which takes 15-20 minutes to give results, identifies people who were infected at least a week before the test, and also those who were infected but never diagnosed, helping map undetected infections and giving the correct extent of the spread of the disease.Some states such as Kerala are procuring the antibody kits on their own for surveillance purposes.“We are expecting delivery of Rapid Test kits (blood based) for use in response to Covid-19 situation. ln this regard, National Task Force deliberated with experts for ascertaining use of these rapid test kits. Draft of the suggested algorithm was also discussed in detail with technical experts from the ministry and inputs were included in the final version which is feasible for implementation in the field conditions...,” wrote secretary Department of Health Research, Dr Balram Bhargava to health secretary Preeti Sudan.In his letter, Dr Bhargava also spoke about how the overall testing for Covid-19 using real-time RT PCR was increasing (up to 50% capacity as against 10% when), and that close to 130 government laboratories would approach their full capacity soon.ICMR has been evaluating the rapid test kits, and has already validated seven testing kits, and also put up a list of kits that have CE-IVD (European Union) approval that can be used“India has taken a decision to use antibody tests which could be a game-changer. The currently used test (PCR) tells us who are currently sick. We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg. These antibody tests are expected to be very economical, simple and give results within 15-20 minutes. It is being used for contact tracing in some countries. Indian health system has lot of experience in doing such tests, like the ones for dengue, chikungunya, so it will be easy to ramp up the screening. It’s a great tool for surveillance, and building up epidemiological data,” said Lalit Kant, senior infectious disease expert.Dr Sanjeev Khosla, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Microbial Technology, which is one of the government labs identified for Covid-19 testing, said: “ ICMR’s initiative to involve all government-accredited labs is a welcome step… would increase the testing rate among suspected patients. In the initial phase the institute plans to prepare to carry out 50 to 100 samples daily, and the capacity can be ramped up subsequently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-may-begin-on-thursday-for-those-in-high-risk-areas/story-7mxjRmkBdA4MX6kreejVSP.html
