22-04-2020||India||Karnataka: Ambulances busted for ferrying people and alcohol||Late Tuesday, police personnel patrolling National Highway-13, near Sivaganga village, leading to Hollalkere in Chitradurga district of Karnataka saw an ambulance racing away. The personnel initially did not pay it much attention, given the rising number of Covid-19 cases and the strict lockdown rules in place. But when they saw the same ambulance parked along the highway next to a Maruti van, they got suspicious and decided to investigate. They found that the ambulance belonged to Horakere Deverapura primary health centre, and it was ferrying liquor. Four persons were arrested and the ambulance seized. Police said since the lockdown was imposed on March 24, there have been several instances of ambulances being misused across the state. On April 19, seven were arrested from an ambulance that was ferrying them from Puttur to Mysore. Similarly, on April 13, Lingadahalli police stopped an ambulance going from Bengaluru to Chikmagaluru. The ambulance driver had taken ₹28,000 from five persons to take them to Ganguru village of Chikmagaluru. The driver had managed to evade all check posts till Tarikere where policemen became suspicious and stopped the vehicle. A senior health and family welfare department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “In all cases that came to our notice, we took the strictest action possible under law. Licences of all such ambulances are suspended and cases registered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-ambulances-busted-for-ferrying-people-and-alcohol/story-V39hUDN5RdonGGNWO5mM6L.html
22-04-2020||India||Woman, 92, grandchild, 3, recover in Pune||April 22 was a special day for Pune doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The city, which is one of the designated red zones in Maharashtra, with at least 753 cases saw the recovery of a pair of related patients: a three-year-old toddler and her 92-year-old great grandmother. Muralidhar Mohol, the mayor of Pune tweeted in Marathi about them on Monday, “We thank hospital authorities for their efforts. Both the patients have recovered and gone back home safely.”Maisarah Shaikh (3) and her 92-year-old wheelchair-bound great grandmother, Fatima Shaikh, were discharged from Symbiosis Hospital and Research Centre after their second Covid-19 test came negative. Both have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period. The nonagenarian, who had suffered a stroke seven months ago, is paralysed and unable to recognise many of her family members. According to doctors at Symbiosis hospital, the recovery of a 92-year-old indicated that even senior citizens with pre-existing ailments — the population most at risk of dying due to Sars-Cov-2 — could recover from the Covid-19 threat.“The old woman did not have any symptoms although she recently had a stroke and her body was paralysed. However, during her stay at hospital, all her health parameters were all right which actually helped our staff to treat her,” said chief executive officer of Symbiosis Hospital Dr Vijay Natarajan.The two residents of Kondhwa were among 15 people, including six from the same family who had tested positive for the coronavirus earlier this month. Their swabs were taken after one of their relatives died at Sassoon General Hospital on April 8. The other nine were indirectly related to the family: acquaintances whom the members had come into contact with prior to the lockdown.“It was a twin tragedy. There was death among the family because of the viral infection, and six of us also tested Covid-19 positive. However, the hospital authorities took good care of us,” said 55-year-old Aslam Shaikh, grandfather to Maisarah, and owner of a tailoring shop in Kondhwa.There are eight members in Shaikh’s family; six tested positive for Covid-19, including the toddler, her father (Shaikh’s son), Shaikh’s mother and Shaikh himself. However, none but the last, exhibited any symptoms.“All of us including my old mother were all fine, only my son had a mild cough. Since my mother is paralytic, we were more worried about her. However, the doctors gave her extra attention and she recovered,” said Shaikh, who was discharged from quarantine on Monday.Also admitted with the toddler and the nonagenarian was Maisarah’s 66-year-old aunt, who is affected with polio. Maisarah’s mother, Noorjaha, despite being tested negative, was allowed to stay at hospital to take care of her daughter and mother-in-law. Now back, all members of the family are attempting to keep social distance from each other and their neighbours in their six-room home. Though business is down, Shaikh said that he is happy: his family is safe and together again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-92-grandchild-3-recover-in-pune/story-k1aUxSEHvH7HbYYNVgaFxK.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid warriors get bigger legal shield||In the backdrop of persistent attacks on health care workers in the front line of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Centre has approved an ordinance to make such attacks a cognisable and non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property.Underlining its importance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals.” He underlined that there could be “no compromise” on their safety. The medical fraternity has welcomed the ordinance. The government’s decision, following a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, came in the wake of assurances of safety given by home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan to representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The IMA subsequently cancelled protests scheduled on Wednesday and Thursday. Later in the day, the home ministry also sent an advisory to all state governments to ensure adequate security to all health care workers, and take strict action against any individual obstructing the functioning of health care workers, and the performance of the last rites of these workers.The Cabinet’s decision to promulgate the ordinance — which will amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 — follows a spate of incidents in which doctors and paramedical workers, engaged in testing suspected Covid-19 cases for confirmation, or treating patients, were assaulted and their vehicles damaged by people who feared catching the infection or stigmatised and ostracised health care workers for their proximity to confirmed or suspected cases. The government, Opposition, and civil society have repeatedly called for honouring these professionals workers. On Sunday, the burial of Samuel Hercules, a doctor in Chennai, was disrupted by violent protesters who damaged the ambulance carrying his body and injured its driver out of fear of the spread of the coronavirus. On April 8, two resident doctors of Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital were allegedly assaulted by a neighbour who accused them of “spreading” the disease. A week before that, two doctors and their team were pelted with stones during a drive to screen and identify possible Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore. Addressing a press conference in Delhi, Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said such offences have no place in a civilised society, adding that they will not be tolerated by the government. The Centre has, therefore, he said, decided to bring in an ordinance to amend the 1897 Act; this has, so far, served as the key legal umbrella for a range of government measures against the pandemic.Once the President promulgates the ordinance officially, causing serious injury to health professionals and damage to property will invite imprisonment of up to seven years and a fine of up to ₹5 lakh. The offences will be probed in 30 days under the proposed amendment, and a decision will be given within a year. If the cars or clinics of doctors are damaged, double the cost will be recovered from the vandals, Javadekar said, pointing out that the government had also worked towards providing an insurance cover of up to ₹50 lakh for health workers on the front lines of the Covid-19 battle. Both the Centre and the states can exercise the powers awarded by the ordinance. The scope of the amendment will cover health professionals ranging from doctors and paramedical staff to accredited social health activists. Health care professionals welcomed the move. DS Rana, chairperson of the board of governors of Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said it was the need of the hour as the instances of violence against health care workers, including doctors, were on the rise. “Not everyone was unruly but a section of people was misbehaving and it needed a regulation to rein it in as this section would not have listened to reason. There was no other way to check their irresponsible behaviour. Health care workers are putting their lives at risk in treating patients, and harassment and violence against them is the last thing they want in this crisis situation,” he said. Other doctors said these provisions must not be temporary — but last beyond the pandemic. Commenting on the decision, from the perspective of law enforcement, Yashovardhan Azad, a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, said it was about time that the government intervened on behalf of the health workers to amend the “toothless” 1897 Act and display its strong intent. “However, to serve its purpose, special police officers should be appointed. This will help resolve the issue of scarcity of law enforcers for immediate response.”The Centre’s response came in the wake of demands by the IMA for a stronger law; the umbrella medical body had also called for ‘White alert’ and ‘Black day’ protests on April 22 and 23. Home minister Shah and health minister Vardhan met representatives on Wednesday morning. According to an official government statement, Shah allayed the concerns of the medical fraternity regarding their security, and assured them that the government would leave no stone unturned in ensuring their well being and security. He strongly condemned the recent attacks on health professionals and said Prime Minister Modi was closely following all issues and concerns of doctors. He also appealed to doctors to withdraw their planned protest -- a call heeded by the IMA.On Wednesday evening, the home ministry sent out an advisory to stage governments and Union territories. It pointed out that at this time, even a single incident of violence against health care professionals was likely to create a sense of insecurity among the entire health care community. It underlined its own past advisories, as well as the Supreme Court directive to provide necessary police security to doctors and medical staff in hospitals and places where patients who have been diagnosed with Covid-19, or patients suspected of Covid-19, or those quarantined are housed; and to doctors and other medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people. It urged states to act in line with the Supreme Court directives and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and also consult local chapters of IMA. The home ministry letter, sent by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to all state chief secretaries, also urged that governments impose strict penalties against those obstructing the functioning of health care workers, and against those offenders who obstruct the last rites of health care workers who may have died due to Covid-19 or any other reason. It also asked states and UTs to appoint a nodal officer both at the state and at the district level, on a 24*7 basis, to redress any safety issues of medical professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-warriors-get-bigger-legal-shield/story-Ou8grG2hcOjTtTsarcP2PI.html
22-04-2020||India||11 health workers test Covid-19 positive at Kolkata Medical College||Interns and the house staff at Medical College, Kolkata, have lashed out at the authorities alleging gross negligence, citing that 11 healthcare workers at the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 as against only three Covid-19 patients who were admitted at the hospital.The MBBS interns at the hospital issued a media statement on Monday and, on Tuesday it was the turn of the junior doctors to bring the same charges against the authorities. Medical College, Kolkata, is one of the premiere state-run hospitals in the city.The authorities, on the other hand, have decided to keep the interns off work for the time being, considering that their lack of experience could expose them to greater risk than experienced healthcare professionals. “A ratio of 3 patients to 11 healthcare workers affected points to enormous callousness on the part of the authorities to set up any form of protection and testing facilities for those of us at the highest risk,” reads the press statement issued by the residents, which include the house staff and the post-graduate trainees, on Tuesday night.The house staff, also called junior doctors, alleged that despite the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s latest guideline to provide N-95 masks to all healthcare workers, it was denied at the hospital, in spite of repeated demands.“Outpatient departments continue without any personal protective equipment (PPE). Emergency doctors are provided with one PPE per shift. This is unacceptable,” the statement read.Responding to the allegations, hospital superintendent Indranil Biswas said that there was lack of awareness and alertness on the part of healthcare workers at the beginning but the issues had been resolved.“The infection spread from the gynaecology ward and not the isolation ward. All patients were asymptomatic and they showed symptoms only during their stay in the hospital, following which their swab samples were tested. Possibly, there was lack of alertness while treating patients in non-isolation wards who showed no symptoms and were not suspected to be Covid-19 patients. I don’t blame interns because they are barely one month and a half into their internship,” Biswas said.Among healthcare workers, three junior doctors, four nursing staff tested positive for Covid-19.He added that all precautionary measures have been taken after identifying the risk from asymptomatic patients. “Right now, we are treating all patients as suspected Covid-19 positive unless proved otherwise. So, precaution is being taken while dealing with any patient in any ward. Also, those coming from Covid-19 hotspot areas are being straightaway taken to the isolation wards and tests are being conducted,” Biswas said.The authorities have for the time being decided not to use the interns for any work related to the hospital. Mass testing of healthcare workers is also being carried out.The male medicine ward and the gynaecology ward at the hospital are presently shut. All staff at the outdoor section have been asked to wear N-95 masks. A patient at the gyanaecology ward tested positive soon after giving birth to a child. The report of another patient, who took admission with heart ailment, came positive after her death.As many as 44 nursing staff and junior doctors have been sent to quarantine centres for coming in contact with Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-health-workers-test-covid-19-positive-at-kolkata-medical-college/story-yOJQTyTbjdgr7QwLZWtrML.html
22-04-2020||India||MNREGA jobs rose 10 times in four days: Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot Wednesday inspected MNREGA works in Chaksu area of Jaipur and gave necessary directions related to construction works. He inspected the use of masks, hand washing facilities and social distancing at the work site and directed officials to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines are followed. Pilot, who is also minister of rural development and panchayat raj, also interacted with workers, who told him that they have got some financial support now that MNREGA works have started, as that was the main source of income in rural areas.In April 17, only 62,000 workers have found employment due to the lockdown. The works of individual benefit sanctioned under the MNREGA scheme includes construction of houses under PM housing scheme, cattle sheds and levelling of fields, among others. Priority will be given to employing workers of the state, so that social distancing will also be managed automatically, Pilot said. “The wages received under MNREGA scheme will increase the purchasing power of the people in rural areas, which will support the rural economy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mnrega-jobs-rose-10-times-in-four-days-sachin-pilot/story-o5LMh8x3AY41NHINooZzaO.html
22-04-2020||India||IIT Kharagpur among world best for achieving UN goals||London: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur has been ranked 57th globally among higher education institutes for its research in areas related to the UN’s sustainable development goals (SDGs). The University of Auckland topped the ranking, followed by the University of Sydney. The list includes 766 universities across 89 countries and regions, the Times Higher Education (THE) said on Wednesday. IIT Kharagpur’s rank is the best for any Indian institutes. As many as 28 Indian universities participated in the rankings exercise, of which 26 were included in the overall table.The 17 SDGs are a to-do list for tackling by 2030 conflict, hunger, land degradation, gender inequality and climate change.THE said IIT Kharagpur delivered a “fantastic performance” in the individual SDGs rankings, achieving fourth in the world for SDG6 (clean water and sanitation), 6th for SDG2 (zero hunger), 13th for SDG13 (climate action), joint 21st for SDG1 (no poverty) and 24th for SDG7 (affordable and clean energy).IIT Madras has been ranked 16th for SDG9 (industry, innovation and infrastructure) and 32nd in the world for SDG6. The Anna University ranked among top 10 in the world for SDG6.THE’s chief knowledge officer, Phil Baty, said: “It is great to see Indian universities stand as world leaders through their work towards the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, with success in areas as diverse as clean water and sanitation, climate action and good health and well being. To see IIT Kharagpur achieve India’s best ever result in a THE global rankings is a fantastic accolade to the great work universities are taking across the country to put sustainability at the heart of their missions.” Interestingly, the ranking comes days after IIT Kharagpur and seven other IITs decided not to participate in any THE rankings claiming that the methodology is not transparent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kharagpur-among-world-best-for-achieving-un-goals/story-CsCj902EQSmrvvHaWpUPXO.html
22-04-2020||India||Central team projects sharp spike in Maharashtra in next 30 days, state says no need to worry||Even as 431 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday kept the average number of new cases above 400 for the last four days, the government claimed the hotspots in the state had reduced to five from 14 a few days ago.It also claimed that the mortality rate had reduced and the doubling-rate had improved to 7.01 days from 3.1 days earlier this month.A central team that visited Mumbai and Pune has, however, projected a sharp spike in positive cases over the next two to three weeks and advised the Maharashtra government to make preparations anticipating a worse-case scenario. It also anticipated a massive surge of positive cases in Mumbai between April 30 and May 15. State health minister Rajesh Tope downplayed the concerns and said the projections made by the central team were based on the rate of increase which would not be applicable now. “There is panic among people about a spike between April 30 and May 15. It is a mathematical model. Surely there is a science behind it, but certain things have been assumed in this, such as the doubling rate, which is considered at 3.5 (for the projection) and it is kept static. We have taken a lot of preventive measures. We are carrying out surveillance, tests, etc,” Tope said. He said that a dramatic spike could only happen if the state government wasn’t taking any measures.In last four days, 2001 positive cases have been added to the state tally which reached 5649. 58 patients have died during this period, taking the toll to 269. Mumbai tops the chart for new Covid-19 patients and casualties with 3683 cases and 161 deaths. Of the 431 new cases and 18 deaths on Wednesday, 232 cases and 10 deaths are from Mumbai. Two each of the remaining 8 deaths are from Aurangbad and Pune, and one each from Kalyan-Dombivali, Solapur, Jalgaon and Malegaon.Five of the deceased were above 60 years of age, while 12 were in the 40-60 age group and one was below 40 years. 12 of these patients had high-risk co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, asthma and heart ailments.The mortality rate in the state dropped to 4.80 % on April 21, much below 7.21% on April 11. The doubling rate of positive patients has stayed at 7.01 days compared to 3.5 days a few days ago.During the presentation before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, the five-member Inter Minister Central Team (IMCT) reportedly projected an exponential rise in positive cases in Mumbai, with the figure touching 42,604 by April 30 and 6.56 lakh by May 15.The officials from the state health department, however, said that the figures do not reflect the present trend. “Those are the old figures estimated assuming the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases to be two days. But at the present, the cases are neither rising at that rate, nor are we conducting testing to reach that number by May 15. Even the percentage of the positive cases vis-à-vis the number of tests conducted, ranges between 5-8%, and with that rate, the projection appears to be unrealistic,” said the official.Tope said that the doubling rate was now at 7.01 days, and could go up even further. He added that the mortality rate has also improved in the state. “Earlier, it was 7%, now it has come under 5%, and with efforts, it will reduce further.” The minister added that the hotspots in Maharashtra have reduced from 14 to five--Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Nagpur Nashik.State health minister Rajesh Tope refuted the notion that the Central government has sent the team to Maharashtra fearing the lockdown measures were not being followed properly in the state and claimed that the state was faring well in terms of the mortality rate and the doubling rate.Tope said, “Nobody has said that the lockdown norms have not been followed [in Maharashtra]… In an epidemic, the situation is always serious. The cluster containment strategy is being properly implemented. If there is any lacuna, we are immediately identifying and resolving it… There are two important things-- doubling rate and mortality rate. The doubling rate has reduced. Earlier cases doubled in three days, then in five days, now it is happening in seven days. It is will increase further. The death rate is also improving. Earlier it was over 7%, now it is under 5%. The number of cases is increasing and would increase further in the coming days. But they are not growing exponentially.”A senior state government official said that the Central teams which visited Worli-Koliwada, Dharavi and other slum pockets in Andheri east area, has sought data of the people living there. It has also sought to know the number of tests conducted in these areas. An official added that the team has advised to shift people to quarantine facilities to curb the spread of the viral infection in the densely populated areas. “In Mumbai, around 75,000 people have to be taken from their homes and shifted into institutional quarantine facilities. We have spaces including schools and grounds where this can be erected. Institutional quarantine will aggressively start in Mumbai from tomorrow (Thursday),” Tope said.Health minister said the state has reviewed its preparedness plan. “As per the preparedness plan, we are checking the availability of hospital beds, oxygen beds, PPE kits, etc. We are considering the worst possibility and the BMC is preparing for it. I have instructed BMC to increase testing facilities and quarantine facilities as well,” he said.The minister also hinted that the lockdown could be extended beyond May 3 in areas with a high number of cases. After 67 patients were reported to have recovered fully on Wednesday, the total number of the patients to get discharged from the hospitals so far has reached 789. 1,09, 072 people are home quarantined in the state and 8051 are under institutional quarantine.State authorities have conducted 90,223 tests at government and private labs so far, of which 83,979 tested negative. State has 465 containment zones with 6,798 health teams with a combined strength of 25.61 lakh people.During an interaction with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the IMCT has asked the state government to prepare for the worst-case scenario, said an official.“They have directed the government machinery to strictly monitor the containment zones and start an aggressive outreach to avoid the spread of the virus further. They have pressed for contact-tracing and aggressive testing in the hotspots. The government has also been told to increase the number of health teams to trace more high and low-risk contacts,” said an official from the state government on the condition of anonymity. The official also said that the central team has asked the state government to take steps to avoid crowding on the roads by the Muslim community for prayers during the month of Ramazan.CM Thackeray apprised the team about the initiative taken by the government to contain the spread in the hotspots, especially in the slums of Mumbai and Pune. The team was told that the civic body in Mumbai has been reaching out without waiting for the people to report the symptoms.“We have increased the number of tests and it has resulted in the rise of positive cases in the state. We expect the ICMR nod for the rapid testing at the earliest. The centre should also respond positively to the demand raised for the supply of PPE kits, N-95 mask and other equipments,” he said.State government fears extreme reaction from more than 5.7 lakh migrants living in 4618 camps across the state if the lockdown is extended again after May 3. “We do not want to repeat the Bandra migrant crisis after the conclusion of the second phase of lockdown. We have been getting harsh reactions from these migrants who have been put up in the camps for more than four weeks with every facility at their disposal. The state has already spent around Rs 90 crore and huge machinery is engaged for the arrangements. At a few camps, the migrants have boycotted food demanding to return to their respective states. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is keen on sending them back at the earliest,” said an official from the state government. Meanwhile, reacting to the allegations of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that the BMC is suppressing Covid-19 related death count in Mumbai, Tope said the civic body has assured him that the deaths referred to by Fadnavis were not related to coronavirus.“The patients were old and had comorbidities. The ICMR guidelines say that if a patient arrives in a critical or a serious condition, he or she must be stabilised first, and then swab should be taken. In this case, the patients died during stabilising. The ICMR guidelines also do not say that swab samples should be taken from such patients who died,” he said stressing the deaths referred to by Fadnavis were non-Covid deaths.Fadnavis in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said that patients labelled as ‘suspected Covid’ during admission to hospitals in Mumbai were not being tested for the disease after death. He said at least 44 bodies of ‘suspected Covid’ patients have been released from the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital — a dedicated Covid-19 facility now — without conducting the coronavirus test. There are several such instances from other hospitals too, said Fadnavis, who tweeted details of the letter he’s sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “We are not hiding any information; there is no reason. The directives of the government of India and the ICMR protocol are being followed completely,” Tope added.The minister added that there is a “question mark” over the rapid test or antibody test after the Centre directed the state government not to use the Chinese. “There is still a question whether to do it (rapid test) at all. In the Chinese kits, the IgM and IgG bands are not visible properly. We will act as per the corrective instructions of the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-projects-sharp-spike-in-maharashtra-in-next-30-days-state-says-no-need-to-worry/story-Soco4h1foyoRDz8C8zBFfO.html
22-04-2020||India||Woman, 3 children commit ‘suicide’ due to health, financial problems in Hyderabad||Four members of a family -- a 55 -year old woman and her two sons and a daughter -- allegedly committed suicide here on Wednesday over suspected prolonged health issues and financial problems, police said.The bodies of the woman, her two sons aged between 25 to 30 and her 20-year old daughter were found hanging in different rooms in their house in Meerpet area, they said.Based on preliminary investigation, a senior police official told PTI that the four family members were suspected to have ended their lives due to financial and health problems and other issues. All the three siblings had health problems.A suicide note found in the house also mentioned that they had spent a lot on treatment cost and were committing suicide due to health and financial problems and no one was responsible for their deaths, the official said.Some neighbours after noticing a sheet of paper on the main door of the house with the words “please open the door” alerted the police, police said.The deceased are natives of Vikarabad district, they said adding further investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-3-children-commit-suicide-due-to-health-financial-problems-in-hyderabad/story-uaAYFvdAWKQNq9aTT6kdtK.html
22-04-2020||India||Assam to allow one-time conditional travel||Guwahati: Assam will allow one-time conditional travel for those stuck across the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown from April 25 to April 27 while the sick can move from one district to another on all days following clearance from deputy commissioners.“The state transport department will operate buses on designated routes on April 25, 26, and 27 for those who do not have their own vehicles. They can get details by calling on helpline number 104,” state minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “Those who have their own vehicles and are stuck due to lockdown will be allowed to travel to their homes or workplace with due permission from the district authorities.”Similarly, employers needing transport for their workers to travel to workplaces allowed to function will be allowed to do so after necessary permission from district authorities.The state government has also instructed private schools to charge only 50% of total fees for one month and not to increase fees or deduct salaries of teachers and other staff. “If schools remain closed till the end of May, we will lose 52 working days. If the situation improves, we should be able to cover the session by taking classes on Saturdays and by reducing the number of holidays,” Sarma said.He announced the state government will conduct free Covid-19 tests for journalists on April 25 in Guwahati. As many as 53 journalists in Mumbai were found to be Covid-19 positive on Monday.Assam has not recorded any new Covid-19 for week. Of the state’s 34 patients, 19 have recovered, while one has died.Sarma said they have conducted 5,789 tests till date. “At present there are 3,338 isolation beds, 440 ICU [intensive care unit] beds and facilities to quarantine over 10,000 people. We have adequate stock of PPEs [personal protection equipment] and masks. The state government has ordered 1 lakh rapid testing kits and they should reach the state soon,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-allow-one-time-conditional-travel/story-s1YgHiiEfO8rWnkIsSa4NJ.html
22-04-2020||India||‘Agra model’ in doubt after 300 cases||Agra: The number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 300-mark in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra and called into question the containment model followed in the city that the Centre lauded this month and asked other states to learn from it. The model was praised for its proactive approach in identifying cases, intensive testing, door-to-door surveys and strict quarantine measures that helped Agra halt the spread of Covid-19.Agra is the worst-hit city by the pandemic in Uttar Pradesh, which had 324 Covid-19 cases as of Wednesday.SP Singh Baghel of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, who represents Agra in Parliament, called for finding the “leakage” in the model. “The initial stress was on the supply of essential items and people had faith in the model which also earned applause from... Union ministry of health. But no one had guessed there would be such a rise in the number of cases in Agra, which has crossed the 300-mark and now stands at 313,” said Baghel.Baghel said the paramedical staff was justifiably asking for gloves, masks and other personal protection equipment as two dozen health workers have tested positive for the disease in Agra. “If front-line corona warriors like the medical staff and police personnel test positive, then who would look after the preventive measures?” he said.Vivek Sarabhoi, the convenor of the voluntary Covid-19 Agra Support initiative, said, “There is a huge gap between what needs to be done and what actually is being done.”District magistrate Prabhu N Singh defended the model and insisted the administration was on the right track. He said the stress was on testing more people as the source of the infection spread was known in all cases. Singh maintained there was no community spread of the disease so far. He added they were holding a series of meetings with the stakeholders and new guidelines were being issued in consultations with experts. ‘We have decided to keep suspected patients in institutional quarantine after having their samples tested so that they can be moved into isolation once they test positive,” he said. “A dedicated five-member team of the Indian Medical Association will ensure compliance with the Covid-19 protocol at private hospitals.”The model was implemented as six patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra on March 3 when India had only 30-odd cases. It involved door-to-door surveys, identification of suspected cases, and quarantining. A list of people with foreign travel was drawn up and their families and other close contacts were identified. A three-km area around Covid-19 hotspots was declared containment zones with five-km area as the buffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-model-in-doubt-after-300-cases/story-SQKDbNQuchrmPCrb0JXHHO.html
22-04-2020||India||Did initial studies overestimate cases?||Infection and fatality trends from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic appear to be lower than those projected by several models at the beginning of the crisis, according to Canadian-American physician and popular podcast host Peter Attia, who says the difference may be key to understanding when and if cities should be reopened.Models created by infectious disease experts predicted, for instance, that 200,000-2 million Americans could eventually die due to Covid-19.These, Attia says, are wrong. “Today I suspect American fatalities from Covid-19 will be more in line with a very bad, perhaps the worst, season of influenza (The last decade saw flu deaths in the US range from 12,000 to 61,000, so you can imagine how much variability exists). This suggests Covid-19 will kill tens of thousands in the US this year, but likely not hundreds of thousands, and definitely not millions, as previously predicted,” he wrote in a blog post on his website.The divergence could be due to two reasons, Attia explains. “Either the models were wrong because they incorrectly assigned properties about the biology of the virus pertaining to its lethality and/or ability to spread, or the models were correct, but as a society we changed our behavior enough in response to the threat of the virus to alter the outcome.” At the heart of the modelling diversion, according to the physician, lies estimations of the virus’s basic reproduction number (R0). “If the predictions were wrong because we misunderstood the biology of the virus (overstating its risk significantly) then we may start the process of thoughtful reintegration. (But) if the predictions were wrong because we understood the biology, modelled it correctly, and appropriately put into place extreme social distancing measures then we need to continue strict social distancing until we have effective treatments,” he writes.Determining which case is true will give more insight into how the virus behaves, letting countries make “better decisions with at least some modicum of confidence, versus blind certainty in models that don’t have the humility to incorporate a margin of error or degree of uncertainty”.Thus, Attia concludes, it is crucial to find out how many people may have been asymptomatic to accurately determine the virus’s lethality. “Either way, we need to broadly test people with no symptoms, which is something we have not done so far in an area hit as hard as New York city,” he writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-initial-studies-overestimate-cases/story-SiP3eZiMIAuwRjiTt80GEK.html
22-04-2020||India||Boost for IT, ITeS firms as Karnataka to partially relax curbs from Friday||Some of the lockdown restrictions will be partially eased for select sectors in Karnataka from Friday.According to a notification issued by the state chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, IT and ITeS companies can resume operations with “essential minimal staff” only and the rest continuing to work from home. This is seen as critical move as Karnataka is one of the largest exporters of IT services.The 14-page order also allowed works under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Gurantee Act (MNREGA), courier services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facilities management, self employed electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters, food processing industries in rural areas, manufacturing units of essential goods, packaging material and construction activities including metro rail, roads, irrigation works and other industrial projects. All of which will be allowed only outside containment zones, more than 400 of which have been identified across the state. It also requires wearing of masks, social distancing and other measures.The state government has been under immense financial pressure ever since the lockdown came into effect from March 25 that paralysed almost all revenue generating activities across the state. Apart from the above-mentioned exceptions, Karnataka’s primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar emphasized that lockdown in other areas of life would continue till May 3rd as announced earlier. Which means no malls, theaters, metro, bus train or flight services and all religious places would continue to stay shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-for-it-ites-firms-as-karnataka-to-partially-relax-curbs-from-friday/story-CwWwl7C7Tu29tTOwgnnbLP.html
22-04-2020||India||Modi will meet CMs on April 27 to discuss post-lockdown plans||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet state chief ministers on April 27, when the nationwide lockdown enters its final week.The meeting, officials indicated, is likely to review the set of relaxations of the lockdown allowed from April 20 and discuss the future road map that may include longer locking period for red or containment zones, as identified by the government.The meeting, which will be attended by all CMs, may also include Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah and a few senior officials of the Prime Minister’s Office.Officials said Modi will seek opinion of the CMs on how to consolidate on the gains achieved from the sweeping lockdown imposed from March 25 to contain the rapid spread of the highly contiguous virus. At the same time, there is a scope for a review of the relaxation measures that were taken to gradually restart some sectors of the economy.“The scope of the meeting is enormous. At this stage, the Prime Minister or the union government would not do anything without taking the states into confidence. Like, the extension of the lockdown was also announced after taking feedback from all CMs, public health experts and district magistrates,” said an official with knowledge of the developments.In his earlier meetings, Modi had categorically stated that the lockdown is the only option to save lives in India and that no one has advised him to lift the lockdown abruptly.Prime Minister Modi will address various Gram Panchayats across the country on April 24 to mark the National Panchayati Raj Day. Modi will also launch the unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App on the occasion to provide an unified portal with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP).The Pm is also expected to hail the work done by the panchayati institutions in tackling Covid-19 and especially the efforts of women self-help groups. According to an official, the self help groups have been the backbone of the government’s effort to tackle Covid-19 in the rural India.According to an official release, the PM will also launch the Swamitva Scheme for an integrated property validation solution for rural India. “The demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods – Drone’s technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and Survey of India,” said the release.Modi is also expected to inform the people of the progress made against Covid-19 and his views on the road ahead in his serial radio address –Mann ki Baat- on Sunday. In a statement, public broadcaster All India Radio (AIR) said the 11th instalment of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’, a broadcast to the people of India by Modi, is scheduled for Sunday, 26th April at 11 AM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-will-meet-cms-on-april-27-to-discuss-post-lockdown-plans/story-wr8ZX7BKbYB6eEnVZQFBKP.html
22-04-2020||India||2.7 lakh trees to be felled for hydropower project in Arunachal’s Dibang Valley||The Union environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) will on Thursday take a call on granting clearance to a hydroelectric project in one of the most biodiverse Himalayan zones in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley. The project will involve diversion of 1150.08 ha of forest land and felling of 2.7 lakh trees in what FAC’s documents call “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved and subtropical rainforest”.“We have not heard from any locals about their concerns about the project. The FAC will hear it tomorrow [Thursday],” said Anjan Mohanty, the inspector general of forests.A FAC sub-committee report on Tuesday recommended the 3,097 MW Etalin Hydroelectric Project be allowed with a condition that the developer deposits money for wildlife conservation in the area.The FAC in October said the seven-member sub-committee will visit the project site to check if the land requirement for the project can be reduced after the ministry’s regional office in Shillong raised several concerns about the diversion of a large area as well as potential biodiversity loss and conservative estimation of trees to be felled. The sub-committee was asked to look into tree enumeration for felling and the project’s biodiversity impact.The sub-committee, which visited the site in February, found that the project lies in a remote area, and hence infrastructure facilities will have to be planned over a large area.The developer, Etalin Hydro-Electric Power Company, a joint venture of Arunachal Pradesh’s Hydro Power Development Corporation with Jindal Power Limited (JPL), has reduced the forest area needed to be diverted to 1150.08 ha from 1165.66 ha, according to the sub-committee’s report.The regional office also highlighted the sampling intensity of trees at the project site was very low and hence gave a conservative estimate of trees to be felled. It added there was no accounting of huge trees that will be cut down. The sub-committee found that over 3 lakh trees are to be felled. The company has submitted that it will reduce the number to 2.7 lakh.A Wildlife Institute of India (WII) study has documented 413 plant, 159 butterfly, 113 spider, 14 amphibian, 31 reptile, 230 bird and 21 mammalian species within the project area. The WII has recommended a plan to prevent loss of animals and birds there, and the development of butterfly and reptile parks, nest boxes, habitat restoration etc.No tiger presence has been documented at the project site through camera trapping. But Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary 12 km away has recorded tiger presence in the vicinity.The company plans to develop a combination of two run-of-the-river projects involving the construction of concrete gravity dams on the Tangon and Dri tributaries of the Dibang.The sub-committee’s report recorded the environmental impacts of the dams even as it added the project has the support of the local populace and has no major environmental issue. “In addition, it has remarkably favourable geological conditions for the region.”The FAC had earlier in 2019 observed the proposed project falls under the richest Himalayan bio-geographical area and comes under one of the world’s mega biodiversity hotspots.The proposed project location is at the junction of the Paleo-arctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan bio-geographic regions having luxuriant forests and a plethora of flora and fauna.Activist Jorjo Tana Tara underlined the proposed project is located in an extremely eco-sensitive area. “There have been local protests.”JPL MD and CEO Bharat Rohra said they have been eagerly waiting for the clearance, which is a must. “The proposal for grant of FC [forest clearance] to Etalin project was submitted to the environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the EAC meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of the sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on the grant of FC to the project.” Rohra said they are hopeful that the FAC will finally recommend the proposal for the FC grant. He added the company will implement the conservation plan.Centre for Policy Research’s senior fellow Manju Menon said the world is living through a climate crisis but the FAC or other institutions simply ignore or refuse to factor in the role that forests, rivers, and land in Arunachal Pradesh can play to help deal with this. “These resources will also be massively affected by climate change. Our assessment procedures are completely misplaced for this environmental context we are now in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-7-lakh-trees-to-be-felled-for-hydropower-project-in-arunachal-s-dibang-valley/story-i0GVuHt8nHF4JbxeM4birM.html
22-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Tripura market decides not to sell veggies to customers without masks||Amidst coronavirus threat, a Tripura market decided not to sell vegetables to customers if they visit the market without wearing masks. “ Coronavirus has become a threat to the world. We need to maintain social distancing, wear masks to protect us from the coronavirus. But it is seen many customers are not following this. So, we have decided not to sell vegetables to the customers who come without masks,” Maharajganj Bazaar Sabzee Byabsayi Samiti leader Nakul Das told the reporters on Wednesday. They have put up a board in the market, ‘”No Mask, No Vegetables”.Many other markets of Agartala are planning to follow this. In order to maintain social distance, all food markets of the capital city have been shifted to larger areas last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-tripura-market-decides-not-to-sell-veggies-to-customers-without-masks/story-w7okbmaYCDgZCljgwDkAGI.html
22-04-2020||India||PM Modi dials a 106-yr-old man for blessings amid ‘tough times’||Former Uttar Pradesh MLA Shri Narayan, 106, said he was delighted when he received a surprise phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday morning.The prime minister asked about his well being and sought his blessings in ‘tough times’ due to the coronavirus outbreak, according to Shri Narayan.Shri Narayan aka Bhulai Bhai has had the distinction of working with Jana Sangh’s founding leaders, including Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.A resident of Kushinagar district’s Pagar village in Ramkola block, Shri Narayan represented the district’s Naurangia assembly constituency (now known as Khadda) twice, first between 1974 and 77 and then from 1977 to 1980.He was at home, sipping tea, when the phone rang this morning.The caller from the Prime Minister’s Office told Shri Narayan’s great grandson Kanhaiya that PM Modi wanted to talk to him and then put the phone on hold. Moments later, the PM was on the line and greeted Shri Narayan: “Namaskar Narayan ji kaisey hain? After exchange of pleasantries, the PM, in a lighter vein, asked Narayan that he must have completed a century. The former MLA replied, “106 ho gaya hai” (I am 106 years old now).At this, the PM asked him, “You must have seen five generations?”Narayan’s response was ‘yes’. The PM then disclosed the purpose of calling, “It’s been long since I saw you and today I thought of seeking your blessing in this difficult time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-a-106-yr-old-man-for-blessings-amid-tough-times/story-QTikwEMLC5jpcvikxGuj4J.html
22-04-2020||India||How travelling in Mumbai local trains will be safer after lockdown ends||Converting the unprecedented lockdown into an opportunity, Mumbai divisions of the Central Railway and Western Railway are extensively carrying out safety and maintenance works on the suburban network, which was not possible during the normal busy train schedules.It has been a month since trains stopped plying on the Mumbai suburban rail network, which is one of the busiest and congested in the world.Nearly 3,000 local train services operate on the route daily and over 80 lakh commuters use it everyday, making it the lifeline of the country’s financial capital.Since disruption of services for even 15 minutes leads to a chaotic situation, rail authorities used to carry out important maintenance and safety works either during the few hours window available late night or by enforcing megablocks during the weekends or holidays, when comparatively less commuters travel in the local trains.As the system is so busy and overburdened, a few hours are never sufficient for carrying out some of the critical maintenance works and those lead to disruptions sometimes, causing hardships to commuters, a railway offiical said.But, as the trains are now not running since a month due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, the rail authorities are carrying out maintenance of the rail signalling system, tracks, overhead equipment and the rolling stock, he said.“The Western Railway is using this as an opportunity to complete the maintenance works wherever required, since getting a traffic block in this division is a big challenge,” Western Railway’s chief said Ravinder Bhakar said.Since the lockdown began, keymen are inspecting every inch of the 1,394 km track everyday. About 210 km of track and 1,250 critical welds were tested by ultrasonic flaw detectors, he said.“The entire fleet of track machines has worked and done tamping of 99 km of track and 105 turnouts. For the health assessment of the tracks, the Oscillation Monitoring System (OMS) run was conducted on 2,503 km of the railway track,” said Bhakar.The Western Railway also completed several other works of overhead equipment, signal and telecom infrastructure maintenance during the ongoing lockdown, he added.The Central Railway’s chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said along with track maintenance and testing, they carried out some critical works like removal of rusty portal booms of overhead equipment, maggering (an electric test) of signal and telecom cables of the entire Mumbai division, cleaning and maintenance of transformers, among others. “In the Asangaon-Kasara section, line block margin is very less, hence the traction distribution department utilised the lockdown period for removal of the rusty portal booms and 34 upright masts. These masts were about 70 years old and some were even of the British era,” Sutar said.He said these works were being carried out by following the social distancing guidelines.“This period has also been utilised to carry out critical works to enhance the safety of train operations. The workplaces are sanitised and all social distancing norms are followed,” Sutar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-travelling-in-mumbai-local-trains-will-be-safer-after-lockdown-ends/story-30dMDR8Kmca9jNruGQOTmO.html
22-04-2020||India||Delhi Health Bulletin: With 92 new Covid-19 cases, capital’s count is at 2,248||Delhi on Wednesday reported 92 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 2,248, according to Delhi government data.One death was reported today and 48 people have died of the infectious disease in the national capital till date.For the first time since the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus disease, the national capital reported no fresh deaths on Tuesday.Of the total number of 48 deaths reported till date, 25 of the deceased were aged 60 years and above, which is 52 per cent of the total deaths. Thirteen of them were aged between 50-59 years and 10 were aged less than 50 years, according to government data.The Delhi government has started daily house-to-house surveillance and sanitization of areas falling in the city’s 89 containment zones. A total of 5,619 samples for testing have been collected so far from containment zones.The state government has asked hospitals to make sufficient arrangements for disinfection of hearse vans and ambulances used to transfer Covid-19 patients.In a recent development, cab aggregator company Uber has offered the services of 200 taxis in shifts of 12 hours, free of cost to the Delhi government till May 3, when the lockdown is due to be lifted. The Delhi government has welcomed the offer and has passed an order to use these vehicles to carry non Covid-19 patients, non critical patients to and from the hospital in coordination with CATS Ambulance Helpline services. On Wednesday, India’s total number of coronavirus cases breached the 20,000 mark and climbed to 20,471 with the number of deaths at 652, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, has reported 6,191 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 251 deaths. Gujarat is now at the second spot and Delhi follows third with 2,248 people infected with the deadly disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-bulletin-with-92-new-covid-19-cases-capital-s-count-is-at-2-248/story-qaNGLu2peCzxAS0vCoPETL.html
22-04-2020||India||Bengal bans mobile phones from Covid-19 wards in all hospitals, sparks row||The West Bengal health department has prohibited mobile phones in Covid-19 wards in all hospitals, saying that phone surfaces are also potential carriers of novel coronavirus.The ban has triggered allegations that the move was actually aimed at blocking flow of information from Covid-19 wards about likely mismanagement.While a section of doctors said that a mobile phone could, indeed, carry the virus if not properly disinfected, another section of doctors said that the ban could adversely affect the Covid-19 patients who are kept in isolation and use the mobile phone a lot to stay occupied. The instruction was given on Tuesday night by an additional secretary of the health and family welfare department of the state government in a WhatsApp message sent to the district magistrates, chief medical officer of health and superintendents of all Covid-19 hospitals. On Wednesday, a top official of the state’s health administration confirmed that mobile phones were indeed being prohibited. “Since mobile phones can be a potential source of spreading Covid-19 infection, no one will be allowed to carry, possess or use mobile phones inside the Covid hospitals in the State. This applies to all persons inside the hospital, whether patients or staff on duty. The deposit of patients’ mobile phones may be taken and a receipt may be given to them,” reads the internal message. “To ensure they have a communication channel to the hospital administration, intercom facility may be provided in the wards. The contact number of the control room or the hospital superintendent/manager should be publicised prominently among the patients. Also, land line arrangements with STD calling be kept ready in case the patient needs to make a call or receive a call from outside,” the message said. The instructions added that the hospital staff on duty should be informed of the restrictions on the use and carrying of mobile phones inside the wards and treatment areas. “While implementing this, take all measures for especially ensuring that the patients need for communication with hospital authorities is attended to with due priority,” the instruction said.Several Covid-19 patients who have recovered said that they had spent their time in isolation watching movies and listening to music on YouTube.“It is because we listened to Buddhist hymns on YouTube and received positive messages from friends and relatives on WhatsApp that my wife and I were able to deal with the unprecedented situation of contracting this disease, especially at a time when we lost one of our relatives to the disease,” said Dharamnath Singh, 59, a resident of Kalimpong in north Bengal.Another patient who is at present admitted at the infectious diseases hospital in Kolkata said that making and receiving calls from friends and relatives relieved him of the stress of living in complete isolation in the hospital.Senior doctor Punyabrata Goon said he suspected the government’s move is aimed at blocking the flow of information from Covid-19 wards.“Anything, from the mobile phone to watches and purses could be a carrier of the virus. But specifically prohibiting only mobile phones seems to be aimed at blocking flow of information from Covid-19 wards, as in the recent times some video clips emerged from a few Covid wards of hospitals that reflected mismanagement of the authorities,” Goon said. Incidentally, Central minister Babul Supriyo had shared a video from his Twitter account that allegedly revealed mismanagement at M R Bangur hospital, a Covid-19 hospital in Kolkata.On Wednesday, Supriyo wrote on Twitter, “Honble @MamataOfficial banning mobiles in hospitals ‘Kind of’ proves that the Bangur Hospital video was not fake -Thank you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bans-mobile-phones-from-covid-19-wards-in-all-hospitals-sparks-row/story-u2A5vG1vNHg6qAFXFGyR8I.html
22-04-2020||India||From Delhi to UP, cops perform a spirited 744-km relay to deliver medicines||A tweet, six police response vehicles (PRVs), an ambulance, some good samaritans, 16 hours and 744 km – that’s what it took to reach medicines, through a spirited relay, from Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital to a septuagenarian in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district.It was the tweet of Gulam Mustafa Khan, a state-level relay runner who practices at a Delhi stadium, seeking help to deliver medicines to his septuagenarian grandfather in Begumpura of Bahraich that started off the relay.“At around 4:24 pm on Monday, Khan, in a tweet, sought help from Delhi Police to arrange delivery of medicines to his grandfather Nurul Hudda in the Bahraich village,” said Asim Arun, additional director general of UP 112 emergency response centre.Asim said additional deputy commissioner of Delhi Police Parwinder Singh immediately reacted to the tweet and got the medicines collected from Safdarjung Hospital after showing the prescription details of Nurul Hudda at around 7.35 pm on Monday.He said the Delhi Police coordinated with their counterparts of Gautambuddh Nagar (Noida) district and handed over the medicines to deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, of Gautambuddh Nagar Rajesh S.Asim further said Rajesh S, with the help of a traffic inspector, handed over the medicines to an ambulance driver Kapil Tewari, who was going from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district via Lucknow. He said the ambulance driver handed over the medicines to a UP 112 Police Response Vehicle (PRV) at Agra-Lucknow Expressway toll plaza after reaching Lucknow at around 3 pm on Tuesday.Asim said the PRV personnel then handed over the medicines to another PRV at Bara Birwa crossing in Alambagh and this PRV carried it along to hand it over to a third PRV at Polytechnic crossing on Faizabad road in Lucknow.He said the third PRV’s personnel then persuaded a government department junior engineer Mahip Kumar Singh, who was going from his hometown Lucknow to his place of posting in Shravasti district, to hand over the medicines to another PRV at Bahraich border.Asim said the junior engineer handed over the medicines to the fourth PRV at the Bahraich border from where it passed through the hands of two more PRV personnel to reach the hands of the patient around 8 am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-delhi-to-up-cops-perform-a-spirited-744-km-relay-to-deliver-medicines/story-qerCQtM6Tvg0Bsw5VkfmgI.html
22-04-2020||India||Central team seeks access to Bengal hospitals, hotspots for assessment, Mamata yet to respond||A day after West Bengal government decided to extend full cooperation to two central teams for on-spot assessment of Covid-19 preparedness, the team leader of one of the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) – Apurva Chandra – wrote to the chief secretary of the state seeking a detailed presentation on testing facilities, protocols adopted by the state, arrangements for quarantining people, supply of essential commodities, enforcement of lockdown and condition of relief camps for migrant labourers.The IMCT has also asked the state government to arrange for site visits to some of the hospitals, quarantine facilities, hotspots and market places during opening hours.Chandra has asked that the health department of West Bengal, in its detailed presentation to IMCT, should give emphasis on whether the level of testing in state is adequate, whether available testing facilities are being used in full, protocol adopted for testing, availability of safety equipment to health professionals, availability of oxygen beds, ICU beds, oxygen supplies and ventilators, number of surveillance teams and the number of persons surveyed per day at the hotspots and containment zones, system of Covid care centres, safety measures taken for medical fraternity and system of approval of cause of declaration of death of Covid patients by a committee of doctors at state level.Bengal was one of the first states to have complained of receiving faulty rapid testing kits from ICMR, which led to government announcing a two day suspension of its usage by the state. The state claims to have conducted over 7000 tests so far.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe IMCT headed by Chandra is in West Bengal currently to assess situation in Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Paragnas and Midnapore districts.After a standoff with centre over not informing the state before sending two IMCTs there, Mamata Banrejee had on Tuesday agreed to extend them full cooperation.Chandra has said that IMCT would also like to know from state government difficulties faced by it in implementation of lockdown orders, availability of testing kits and support required from central government.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The state reported 32 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 300.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-seeks-access-to-bengal-hospitals-hotspots-for-assessment-mamata-yet-to-respond/story-cZkZC4gYUcLzYEiukJ7gNP.html
22-04-2020||India||Transporters seek fuel cost reduction, toll suspension amid financial crunch||Transporters have sought an immediate reduction in fuel cost and suspension of toll collection citing financial crunch because of the ongoing lockdown, which was initially enforced by the government from March 25 for 21 days and then further extended by another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Transporters have also urged the government to formulate a rescue package, including the extension of health insurance coverage to drivers and labourers involved in the movement of goods across the country. On Wednesday, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways officials held a meeting with transport associations. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) --- an apex body of transporters --- had reached out to the government, seeking an economic package for the sector. The cash-strapped sector is trying to bring back migrant labourers, as most of them have gone back to their native places because of the lockdown woes, and also to resolve supply chain hurdles.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“All pertinent issues were discussed such as the non-implementation of the Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) directives on the ground, problems in bringing back drivers, providing insurance coverage to drivers and co-drivers, suspension of toll collection, reduction of diesel prices and a comprehensive financial package for the sector. The talks on insurance coverage for drivers is in final stages, and we’re hopeful of a positive announcement over the next few days,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, AIMTC.On April 17, the Centre had issued an order to the national highways authority of India (NHAI) to resume toll collection from April 20. “India, which is the third-biggest importer of crude oil, couldn’t cash in on the historic slump in oil prices because of the Covid-19 outbreak. There has been no respite for spiralling diesel prices, which is impacting the transport sector in a big way. Besides, value-added tax (VAT) and excise duty have also increased significantly over the last four years. To make matters worse, toll collections have resumed from April 20, despite our stiff resistance. The government has increased toll rates by up to 7% from April 1. The sector is crumbling under financial strain and we’ve been pleading with the government to suspend toll collections for at least the next six months,” Atwal said. On April 10, HT had reported that truck drivers have asked for various safeguard measures, including Rs 50 lakh insurance coverage for those engaged in the supply chain and free medical treatment for those who test Covid-19 positive.“There is a clamour among the road transport fraternity for a minimum rescue package and suspension of toll collection, as the sector’s hardships are mounting by the day. Pending payments, mobility of drivers and co-drivers, hundreds, and thousands of trucks stranded on highways are making a transporter’s life difficult amid the lockdown. For instance, if a transporter has 600 stranded vehicles then as per the existing norms of two drivers per vehicle, he has to send 600 empty vehicles with 1,200 drivers to bring the stranded drivers back to their base,” Atwal said. Truck drivers have also urged the Centre to ensure preventive measures to stop the spread of Covid-19 among drivers involved in the movement of goods. Earlier, transporters had also asked the government to provide sanitisation points for trucks at loading and unloading points at every 200 kilometres on national highways.“Our worst fears have come true, as quite a few drivers have tested Covid-19 positive, despite repeated advisories and constant reminders to the government to ensure preventive measures to contain the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. A truck driver, who travelled from Panipat to Gwalior, tested Covid-19 positive recently. We had also proposed no contact movement for drivers, including checking their documents, but the authorities concerned never paid heed to our suggestions. Besides, drivers on the move are yet to be provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks, sanitisers, gloves, etc,” Atwal added.On April 15, the MHA had issued guidelines to allow repair shops and eateries located alongside highways to reopen for stranded drivers. The government had also issued several advisories to state chief secretaries, urging that the movement of both essential and non-essential goods be allowed in a bid to avoid their shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transporters-seek-fuel-cost-reduction-toll-suspension-amid-financial-crunch/story-dH7h0urEa6cHU8fY7qq9DJ.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR ban on rapid tests triggers debate on Chinese versus South Korean kits||With the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) suspending rapid tests for two days, a debate has begun over the efficacy of Chinese and South Korean kits.Some states such as Rajasthan and West Bengal got the Chinese rapid testing kits imported by ICMR, while other states such as Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on their own imported the kits from South Korea.Rajasthan and West Bengal governments have complained about the efficacy of thousands of Chinese rapid testing kits saying they were giving faulty results after which the ICMR suspended the rapid tests across the country.On the other hand, the Andhra Pradesh government, which has placed an order for two lakh kits from the South Korean company but received only one lakh kits in the first consignment, has not had complaints so far.Andhra Pradesh Commissioner of medical and health, Katamneni Bhaskar, said as many as 10,000 samples were tested using the South Korean rapid testing kits on Tuesday and there were no complaints from experts. After testing 10,000 samples on the first day, the state government stopped the tests following ICMR’s orders.“The tests have been stopped following instructions from the Indian Council of Medical Research. We will resume testing after getting the nod from the ICMR,” he said.Bhaskar, however, refused to divulge the details of how many of the 10,000 samples tested on Tuesday were positive and negative. “We cannot reveal the details without approval from the ICMR,” he said. Another government official, however, said that most of the test results were negative.The health commissioner said the rapid antibody tests cannot be entirely relied upon to test whether the person is positive or negative for Covid-19. “It is only a screening test and not the final test to prove whether a person is Covid-19 positive or negative. You cannot take the result of these rapid antibody tests on its face value,” he said.Bhaskar said the rapid tests have to be done only on the people who have been suffering from Covid-19 related symptoms for at least 10 days. “If we do rapid antibody tests before this 10-day period, there is a possibility that it may give a false negative result. The person might test positive in the RT-PCR (Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, which is the authentic test,” he said.However, the Rajasthan government, which was the first to say no to rapid tests using Chinese kits, said the Chinese kits procured by ICMR gave just 5.4% correct results as against expected efficiency of 90%. “The co- relation between the PCR test and the rapid test should have been 90% but it was only 5.4%,” said Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma.Dr S Banerjee, head of the medicine department at Jaipur’s SMS hospital, and member of the panel to check efficacy of the rapid testing kits, said if the anti-body test is positive then two bands appear on the test card after a drop of blood is put in the well of the test card. If a single line appears on the card, the test is negative.“In the tests they conducted, the kit did not show two bands even for (Covid-19) positive patients,” he said.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief secretary Rajiv Sinha called it “wastage of time” in conducting rapid tests with the kits alleging that the ICMR did not check the veracity of the kits before sending them to the state. West Bengal had got 10,000 rapid testing kits of which 220 were used to conduct tests.Bhaskar refused to comment on whether Korean kits were superior to Chinese kits.“We have imported Korean kits and not Chinese kits. So, it is not proper to talk about Chinese kits without using them,” he said. However, special chief secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said recently that the state had preferred importing rapid antibody testing kits from a South Korean company, as there were doubts over Chinese-made kits.Considering the increase in demand from Indian states, the South Korean company SD Biosensor Healthcare Pvt Limited has set up a kit manufacturing unit in Manesar, Gurugram, having the capacity to churn out five lakh kits, a statement from the Embassy of India in South Korea’s capital Seoul said on Tuesday.India is importing five lakh kits from South Korea, which is expected to reach India by April end. Some other state governments such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have also placed orders with South Korean firms for rapid testing kits. Rapid testing kits from China have been put on hold for the time-being, said ICMR officials.There is also a considerable price difference between the kits imported from the two countries. A Rajasthan government official said the cost of a Chinese kit was Rs 600 and a Chhattisgarh government official said they had procured the rapid kit from a South Korean firm for Rs 337 per kit.(Joydeep Gupta in Kolkata and Ritesh Mishra in Raipur also contributed to this story).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-icmr-ban-on-rapid-tests-triggers-debate-on-chinese-versus-south-korean-kits/story-2aMJ0C6xT2WH1hNMhNikII.html
22-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: South Korean firm begins making rapid testing kits at Manesar facility and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.South Korean firm begins making rapid testing kits at Manesar facilityA South Korean company has launched the production of Covid-19 rapid antibody testing kits at its subsidiary at Manesar in Haryana, with a capacity of making 500,000 kits per week, to meet the needs of the Indian market. Read more. How India turned Covid-19 crisis into outsized global outreach exercisePM Modi had made the point that if you help someone when they need it to face a crisis, the gesture won’t be forgotten easily. It is this advice that has driven much of the response of Indian diplomats. Read more. Bill Gates writes to PM Modi, lauds leadership in fighting Covid-19 in IndiaBillionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Read more. What does it cost to treat a coronavirus patient? Here’s a break upAt least 80 per cent of the Covid-19 patients are being treated in government hospitals across the country. Though, leading private hospitals do have treatment facilities, people who can afford or in special cases as directed by the health department or government turn to them. Read more. Facebook’s Messenger service for kids launched in over 70 new countriesFacebook has launched the Messenger Kids app in more than 70 countries including Brazil, India, Japan and New Zealand.This is essentially Messenger Kids’ second launch, it was launched in the US in 2017 and expanded to Canada and Peru in 2018. Read more. Alia Bhatt’s wardrobe is a go-to for millennial style inspiration. Throwback to her best looksAlia Bhatt is one of the most sought-after style inspirations in Bollywood. The Kalank actor’s style evolution is as interesting as her choice of films she has done since her debut, Student of the Year in 2012 till her last release so far. Read more. Pokhriyal launches VidyaDaan 2.0, a national program to develop and contribute e-learning contentIn view of the growing need of good quality digital content for school education amid the coronavirus lockdown, Minister of Human Resource Development on Wednesday launched a national programme VidyaDaan 2.0 and invited academicians and organizations from across the country to contribute and develop fun and engaging e-learning content aligned to the curriculum. Read more. How to say papdi chaat like Maya from Sarabhai vs Sarabhai? Zomato has an answerYears ago Sarabhai v/s Sarabhai first appeared on television and introduced such epic characters who made people laugh out loud and still do so. Just like the saas-bahu jodi of Maya and Monisha. Read more. ‘Govt hospitals risking a lot’: Nagpur’s first recovered Covid-19 patient applauds staffNagpur’s first recovered covid-19 patient recounted his experience while undergoing treatment. Rajendra Jodhpurkar was the first patient at the hospital. Rajendra applauded the doctors and the staff for their relentless efforts in fighting the virus. He said that the hospital staff was extremely supportive and they even provided him mental health support. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-south-korean-firm-begins-making-rapid-testing-kits-at-manesar-facility-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DuL6n2jQvd0jpYSfmQkaNL.html
22-04-2020||India||Andhra crosses 800-mark in Covid-19 cases; 2 deaths today||The number of positive cases for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh touched 800 mark on Wednesday with 56 new cases being reported from different parts of the state, apart from two more deaths due to the dreaded virus, in the last 24 hours.For the second consecutive day, Guntur reported two more deaths, taking the total number of deaths in the district due to Covid-19 to eight. Both the deaths are said to be the secondary contacts of the returnees from Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.Overall, Andhra Pradesh has reported 24 deaths, while 23 people are reported dead in neighbouring Telangana.According to a bulletin issued by the state medical and health department in the afternoon, as many as 5,757 samples were tested in the last 24 hours of which 5,701 turned negative. Of the remaining 56 positive cases, Guntur and Kurnool accounted for 19 cases each, while Chittoor reported six, Kadapa five, Prakasam four and Krishna three cases.Kurnool and Guntur are leading the list with 203 and 177 positive cases, respectively, followed by 86 in Krishna district, 67 in Nellore, 59 in Chittoor, 51 in Kadapa, 48 in Prakasam, 39 in West Godavari and 36 in Anantapur.The bulletin said 24 patients got discharged from the hospitals in the last 24 hours, including eight in Guntur, five in Anantapur, four each in SPS Nellore and Kadapa, two in Krishna and one in Visakhapatnam. The total number of patients recovered and discharged in the state till now has increased to 120.Interestingly, an 85-year-old woman recovered from Covid-19 in Anantapur. She, along with five others, was discharged from KIMS Saveera hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19 in Anantapur late on Tuesday night, after they fully recovered from the disease.All of them got admitted to the hospital on April 5 had been undergoing treatment since then. Doctors and paramedical staff were happy to see off the octogenarian, who was brought out on a wheel-chair. They clapped to greet the woman and other four patients, as they came out.Doctor Ravi Shankar, director of the hospital, said he was particularly happy that the 85-year-old woman had responded to the treatment like any other normal person.The woman had contracted the infection from her son who died of Covid-19 early this month. Her grandson and three others who were serving the deceased were also affected. “In addition to the medication, the patients were provided nutritious food to improve their immunity,” he said.The state government on Wednesday announced that the number of Covid-19 hospitals in the state had gone up from three to 79 as state had increased the number of Covid-19 exclusive hospitals in the state to six per district.A total of 79 hospitals in 13 districts have been converted into Covid-19 hospitals till date. On Wednesday, the government decided to convert the Kurnool government general hospital into a Covid-19 hospital. These 79 hospitals are apart from the existing four Critical Care hospitals in the state.“This results in the bed capacity of the state being boosted by 25,309. Each district is equipped to get 700 ventilators up and running,” an official bulletin from the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-crosses-800-mark-in-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-today/story-GQHrAwxn4lm3H774Jy8joL.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha preps for deluge of home bound workers as lockdown nears end||The Odisha government which is preparing itself for the return of 7.5 lakh migrants of the State after the lockdown ends said the challenge would be a huge one.“We have to take back our homeward bound brothers and sisters. This is a big humanitarian challenge. In addition to that we have to keep them and the people staying inside Odisha safe,” said state government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19 Subroto Bagchi.The lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus ends on May 3.“Most of them will be returning from States like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Telengana and Andhra Pradesh where the number of infected people and apprehension of infection is much higher than ours.”Odisha now has 83 cases of Covid-19 after it reported four new cases on Wednesday, all with travel history to neighbouring West Bengal.Odisha’s ratio of positive cases to samples tested is the lowest in the country and only one person has died of Covid-19 so far.Of the 83 positive cases in Odisha, 28 or about one-third of the patients had clear travel history to Bengal, where the cases are surging over the last few days. Many of the people who tested positive, sneaked in through ambulances, fish trucks and other hired vehicles from Bengal. With the porous border failing to prevent people from sneaking in, the Odisha government on Wednesday barricaded more than 50 roads connecting Balasore, Mayurbhanj districts to West Bengal. At least 10 platoons of police have been put on round the clock vigil. Apart from deploying police on the border, chief minister Naveen Patnaik administered the oath of responsibility to sarpanches to prevent people from crossing through the border.Aware of the risk of infection that the migrant population could bring from May 4 onwards, the state government said it would start an online portal, through which thousands of people stranded in various states will register to get back to the state once the lockdown is relaxed. The registration will begin on April 24.Principal secretary of Panchayati Raj Department DK Singh said all the migrants planning to come back to Odisha will have to mandatorily register on the portal for their return. The registration can be done by the migrant person himself/herself, anyone on behalf of the person or a relative of the person in his native who will have to fill a form and submit it to the officials at Gram Panchayat.Through the registration, the government will get to know about the details about the returnees and make arrangements for transport and other medical facilities for them at respective Gram Panchayat level, Singh said. “Once they arrive, they will be sent on quarantine at temporary medical camps set up at GP level for 14 days. They will be allowed to go back to their houses after the quarantine,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-preps-for-deluge-of-home-bound-workers-as-lockdown-nears-end/story-OKEEuTuIlJ1Lfuw1mNBHiK.html
22-04-2020||India||In Covid-19 front line, doctors welcome ordinance to protect them||Doctors have welcomed the government’s decision to bring an ordinance to protect the medical fraternity against the violence it has faced since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and to punish wrong-doers.“This was the need of the hour as instances of violence against healthcare workers, including doctors, were on the rise. Not everyone was unruly but a section of people was misbehaving and it needed a regulation to rein it in as this section would not have listened to reason,” said DS Rana, chairman of the board of governors of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.“There was no other way to check their irresponsible behaviour. Healthcare workers are putting their lives at risk in treating patients, and harassment and violence against them is the last thing they want in this crisis situation.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageA section of the ordinance states that its promulgation will not only deter criminal elements in society but also give confidence to healthcare workers who were becoming jittery because of attacks. On Sunday, the burial of Samuel Hercules, a doctor in Chennai, was disrupted by violent protesters who damaged the ambulance carrying his body and injured its driver out of fear of the spread of the coronavirus. On April 8, two resident doctors of Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital were allegedly assaulted by a neighbour who accused them of “spreading” the disease. A week before that, two doctors and their team were pelted with stones during a drive to screen and identify possible Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore. Shankar Narang, chief operating officer of Paras Healthcare, said: “Healthcare workers are frontline warriors in this battle, and along with other corona-fighters such as sanitation workers and police officials, they are the backbone of our crisis response in this hour.“They are already facing a high risk of infection as they venture into infected areas. It is absolutely essential, therefore, to ensure their safety and security and allow them to do their job with a sense of confidence.”Resident doctors – who get manhandled in hospital emergencies by attendants of patients – across the country have for long been demanding a central law to protect medical staff against violence.Amarinder Singh, former president of the resident doctors association at All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, said: “We have been pressing for a central protection law to be enacted since June last year, when there was violence against doctors in West Bengal. It has been a long-standing demand of doctors, especially resident doctors, who are most vulnerable being the first point of contact.“It is a great move but it seems to be a temporary provision till the pandemic situation lasts. What we would like is that the government makes it permanent, to be implemented long after the outbreak subsides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-19-front-line-doctors-welcome-ordinance-to-protect-them/story-xLMzCvxgTFHUlxwLXlFF2M.html
22-04-2020||India||Ambulance drivers in Karnataka double up as taxi drivers, bootleggers on the sly||Amid the lockdown that has turned roads across the country into desolate strips of asphalt, many ambulance drivers in Karnataka are trying to mint money by using their vehicles as taxis and for bootlegging.Late Tuesday night, when a police patrol on national highway 13 in Chitradurga district saw an ambulance racing away, it did not initially pay any attention because the sight of ambulances ferrying sick people during the lockdown is a common sight.But when Sub Inspector Manjunath Sidappa and a constable later saw the same ambulance parked some distance away on the highway with a van close to it, they got suspicious and decided to investigate. When they checked the ambulance belonging to Horakere Deverapura (or H D Pura) primary health center, they found that instead of carrying sick people it was ferrying alcohol. The van was the conduit to shift the alcohol to interior villages where it is sold at exorbitant prices to desperate tipplers.Four people including ambulance driver Subaan, lab technician Santosh and two people driving the van Girish and Jeevan were arrested. They were selling liquor sachets which normally cost Rs 90 per sachet at Rs 500 to those desperate for a drink. The four have been arrested, the ambulance seized and a case registered. Chitradurga’s superintendent of police G Radhika made it clear that “action will be taken against anybody violating the lockdown.”Across Karnataka, ambulances are being used for purposes other than what they are meant for ever since the lockdown began. On 19 April, seven people were arrested from an ambulance which was carrying them from Puttur to Mysore. The ambulance was detained after cops at a checkpoint in Dakshina Kannada district got suspicious by the presence of several men in the ambulance. The men later confessed that they were getting a ride in the ambulance to ‘escape the lockdown.’Inter-district movement is banned and Karnataka has sealed its borders with all neighbouring states except for emergency traffic movement.On 13 April, Lingadahalli police had detained an ambulance travelling from Bangalore to Chikmagaluru. The ambulance driver had taken Rs 28,000 from five people who had wanted to go to Ganguru village of Chikmagaluru from Bangalore. The ambulance driver had managed to evade all check posts till Tarikere where some policemen became suspicious because an ambulance with Bengaluru registration was entering a remote village. All of them were not just taken into custody but a case registered and sent to quarantine.A senior health and family welfare department officer speaking to HT who did not want to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to the media said, ”There may have been some instances of misuse of essential services like ambulance either to ferry people or liqour. In all cases which come to our notice we take the strictest action possible under law. Licenses of such ambulances are suspended and cases registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambulance-drivers-in-karnataka-double-up-as-taxi-drivers-bootleggers-on-the-sly/story-GM5VGbR4BFTc0AwLtfCchM.html
22-04-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir administration withdraws order cancelling Amarnath Yatra||The annual Amarnath Yatra in the south Kashmir Himalayas was shelved on Wednesday only to be revived a short while later by the Jammu and Kashmir administration saying the cancelling order stands withdrawn.Earlier, on February 13 when Covid-19 outbreak had not reached the country, the government decided to hold 42-day long annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine. The pilgrimage had to start from June 23 and had to conclude on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the duration of the yatra was 40 days while in 2018 the pilgrimage had a duration of 60 days.In an official statement titled “Shri Amarnathji Yatra 2020 cancelled due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic”, a spokesman said that the decision was taken at the 38th Board meeting of the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) which met under the chairmanship of Lt Governor G C Murmu at Raj Bhavan.However, he said the board decided that the Pratham Pooja’ and ‘Sampann Pooja’ would be done with traditional fervor.Later, within half an hour, another official statement was issued which read, “The Press Note titled Shri Amarnathji Yatra 2020 cancelled due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic may be treated cancelled and withdrawn.” Earlier, Murmu, who is also chairman of the SASB, had said there were 77 red zones identified in the Kashmir valley from where the pilgrimage passed.“Due to this pandemic, the establishment of langars, medical facility, camp establishment, material mobilization and snow clearance are not possible,” he said.“Though Government of India extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3, it is highly unpredictable to know which direction it will take later. The safety of the pilgrims is of prime importance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-withdraws-order-cancelling-amarnath-yatra/story-cvBX8TVelT5HJageI0DT0O.html
22-04-2020||India||South Korean firm begins making rapid testing kits at Manesar facility||A South Korean company has launched the production of Covid-19 rapid antibody testing kits at its subsidiary at Manesar in Haryana, with a capacity of making 500,000 kits per week, to meet the needs of the Indian market.The Chhattisgarh government is set to be one of the first customers for the testing kits made by SD Biosensor Healthcare, the subsidiary of the South Korean firm, with state health minister TS Singh Deo tweeting that authorities plan to procure 75,000 kits at a price of Rs 337 each kit.The move comes against the backdrop of complaints from several state governments about the efficacy of rapid testing kits sourced from China.SD Biosensor rolled out the first batch of test kits at its Manesar facility on April 19, the Indian embassy in Seoul said in a statement.This is an example of the “Make In India for World” policy as the “company plans to ramp up production to meet growing demand in India as well as other part of the world”, it said.SD Biosensor was granted a licence by the Indian government to manufacture the rapid test kits in a “very short period of time”, and this was reflected in the cooperation by the Indian and South Korean governments in the fight against the pandemic, the statement added.The South Korean firm is sourcing materials for making its test kits from India and it “capitalises on India’s low cost, high quality resources and skilled and technical workforce”.SD Biosensor chairman Cho Young-shik met Indian ambassador Sripriya Ranganathan on Tuesday to discuss the company’s plans for countering the Covid-19 pandemic. Ranganathan also visited the firm’s manufacturing facility in North Chungcheong province.Chhattisgarh health minister Deo said in a string of tweets the state government is “procuring 75,000…rapid testing kits at a benchmark price of Rs 337 + GST from a South Korean company based in India, which has proven to be the lowest bidder”. He added the “rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India” and this was due to interactions with South Korean ambassador Shin Bong-kil and Ranganathan.Yoo Chang-ho, the minister counsellor for political affairs at the South Korean embassy, said: “South Korea and India are very close partners and we are working closely together to overcome these hard times. This production of kits in India is a good example of how dynamic our partnership really is.“We are cooperating to fight these challenges we have in front of us while also taking the opportunity to encourage the ‘Make in India’ policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-korean-firm-begins-making-rapid-testing-kits-at-manesar-facility/story-jMEPRyKsN5kxLCJ755JoxI.html
22-04-2020||India||Milind Deora disagrees with Rahul Gandhi’s stand on oil prices||Former Mumbai Congress unit chief Milind Deora has disagreed with senior leader Rahul Gandhi over a demand for passing on benefits of the unprecedented fall in international crude oil prices to consumers.Former party president Gandhi and other leaders have asked the government to pass on the gains of the record plunge in international crude oil prices to consumers by reducing petrol and diesel prices, but Deora questioned the move, asking who would benefit when no vehicles are on the roads.“Prices of crude oil have fallen to unexpected levels across the world, yet why is petrol in our country sold at Rs 69, diesel at Rs 62? It is good that prices have fallen in this disaster. When will this government listen?” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday.But Deora disagreed. “India imports Brent crude – not WTI – currently priced at $21 per barrel. We will import less oil due to weakened demand. Falling rupees may also offset gains from low oil prices. Lastly, when car truck buses train and planes are sitting idle, consumers can’t gain from petrol and diesel price cuts,” he tweeted.Gandhi posed the question on oil prices to the government on a day the Brent crude futures price, the international benchmark, for delivery in June fell to as low as $18.10, its lowest since November 2001.Fuel prices at the pump haven’t budged since mid-March in India, though crude oil has been on the decline because of concerns over the impact of the Covid-19 crisis on world economies and an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia.Gandhi’s views were echoed by Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who said oil prices had fallen to less than one dollar a barrel, and yet the government was silent and not reducing prices of petrol and diesel.“WTI Crude Oil price plunges below USD 0 per barrel! We, the People, are still paying Rs 69.59 for Petrol Rs 62.29 for Diesel (Delhi). Why is Modi Government mum? Will ‘Self Styled Nationalists’ at least now become ‘Rationalists’ and demand relief?” Surjewala tweeted.Another party spokesperson, Pawan Khera, asked what was holding the government back from reducing prices when crude oil had fallen to unprecedented lows as manufacturers had no storage capacity. “Why is government not transferring this reduction in oil prices to end-users like farmers and middle class? This relief will go a long way to help them,” he said.Surjewala was also quick to contradict Deora. “@milinddeora bhai. US is now India’s 6th largest Oil Supplier. In the 6 months of 2019-20, we imported 54 lakh tonnes of crude oil from U.S. Also, North India has peak harvesting season now with Diesel guzzling Harvesters Tractors and Trucks…again moving the supply chain,” he tweeted.Deora’s tweet prompted Amit Malviya, in-charge of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national information and technology cell, to take a dig at the former Congress president. “Rahul Gandhi’s smarter colleague, Milind, answers the question…,” he tweeted.The Congress has maintained that the benefits should be passed on to transporters and farmers amid the Covid-19 crisis, given that the government raised oil taxes 12 times in the past six years and raised Rs 20 lakh crore.Deora, a former Union minister, resigned from the post of the Mumbai Congress chief in June last year, in a move seen as an expression of solidarity with Gandhi who stepped down as the Congress president on May 25 after the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In February 2020, he was engaged in a Twitter war with party colleague, Ajay Maken, after the former praised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the assembly election win in the city-state.A Mumbai Congress leader said Deora removed the mention of the Congress party from his Twitter bio soon after his resignation as the Mumbai unit chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/milind-deora-disagrees-with-rahul-gandhi-s-stand-on-oil-prices/story-df7j4KndN9Q5JizP7I607J.html
22-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Full list of Delhi’s 89 containment zones, Campa Cola Gali is the latest addition||Three localities in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai have been added to Delhi’s coronavirus containment zones on Wednesday, taking the total number of virus hotspots in the national capital to 89. Yesterday, three neighbourhoods-- one each in South Delhi, South East Delhi and East Delhi-- were added to the list. The containment zones are earmarked by the local administration bearing several considerations in mind, including the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the area, the location and the chances of its further spread.Here is the full list of Delhi containment Zones as of Wednesday evening:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New DelhiFor Coronavirus Live Updates51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi88. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi89. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-full-list-of-delhi-s-89-containment-zones-campa-cola-gali-is-the-latest-addition/story-oDmzjU8xNUryTAxRtsVseI.html
22-04-2020||India||In Rajasthan, over 90 frontline workers infected with Covid-19||Despite multiple attacks and abusive behaviour, frontline workers such as doctors, nursing staff and police personnel are putting their lives at risk and providing services to Covid-19 patients in several places in Rajasthan.So far, over 90 frontline workers in the state have been infected with the virus. Among those infected are doctors, nurses, ANMs, police personnel, home guards, and ambulance drivers.Earlier this month, the state government announced financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh for the family of any government employee in case of their death. The assistance covers employees such as patwaris, gram sevaks, constables, contract employees like health workers, sanitation workers, home guards, Asha and Anganvadi workers and civil defence staff.Jaipur which has become a Covid-19 hotspot with 723 positive cases, has some 23 doctors, surgeons, police personnel who have tested coronavirus positive. Four surgeons from SMS hospital, four anaesthetists, five nurses and ANM, two ward boys, one trolley man, one Asha worker, one ambulance driver and five police personnel have so far been infected. The health department has put their contacts too in quarantine.In Jodhpur, another hotspot with 279 reported cases, 11 frontline health workers have been infected. Among them are three doctors, two nursing staff, one police constable, one ANM, two home guards, a plumber from AIIMS Jodhpur and a sweeper. Over 100 contacts of the infected people have been placed in home quarantine.Nagaur, with 75 positive cases, has seen several police personnel contracting the Sars-Cov 2 virus. Personnel in three police stations are believed to have been infected and testing is underway. Three women police constables were found positive on Tuesday, one from Parbatsar police station, one from police lines and one from Kuchaman City. Now all police personnel in these police stations will be tested for Covid-19.In Kota too, more than 40 police personnel, home guards are believed to be infected. One head constable and one home guard tested positive on Tuesday. The head constable is posted in the Makbara area which is a coronavirus hotspot. The home guard was posted in Mokapada area, another hotspot, His wife had tested positive on Monday. All 40 Makbara police station personnel have been quarantined.Apart from them, two health workers, one Asha worker, one Anganvadi worker and an ambulance driver have tested positive in Kota, which has reported 114 positive cases.In Bhilwara, with 33 positive cases, a doctor from the Bangar hospital infected scores of others. Ten staff from the hospital, including six doctors and nursing staff, ward boys and an office worker have tested positive.In Udaipur, one nurse and a woman doctor have been infected with the virus but have since recovered. Udaipur has reported only four positive cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-over-90-frontline-workers-infected-with-covid-19/story-a86aBptvONRBxwq5QcFgaL.html
22-04-2020||India||Bill Gates writes to PM Modi, lauds leadership in fighting Covid-19 in India||Billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Commending PM Modi’s bid to flatten the curve in India, the co-founder of Microsoft said, “We commend your leadership and the proactive measures you and your government have taken to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 infection rate in India, such as adopting a national lockdown, expanding focused testing to identify hot spots for isolation, quarantining, and care, and significantly increasing health expenditures to strengthen the health system response and promote R&D and digital innovation.”Also read: PM Modi to hold video conference with CMs on Monday as country heads into last week of lockdownGates said he is glad that the Indian prime minister’s government tapped its exceptional digital capabilities as a formulated response to Covid-19. “I’m glad your government is fully utilising its exceptional digital capabilities in its COVID-19 response and has launched the Aarogya Setu digital app for coronavirus tracking, contact tracing, and to connect people to health services.”“Grateful to see that you’re seeking to balance public health imperatives with the need to ensure adequate social protection for all Indians,” the former CEO of Microsoft told PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-gates-writes-to-pm-modi-lauds-leadership-in-fighting-covid-19-in-india/story-2ewwjocLeLSOQjuCkGdB2J.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 10,000 rapid testing kits found faulty in Bengal; Mamata lashes out at Centre||All the 10,000 rapid test kits, supplied to West Bengal by the Indian Council of Medical Research, have been found faulty, even as some components of the RT-PCR are in short supply, resulting in the low rate of Covid-19 tests, a top official of the state administration said on Wednesday.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that a deliberate attempt was being made to malign the state, while all kinds of testing kits, including rapid testing kits and RT-PCR kits are being withdrawn or they are in short supply.“All 10,000 rapid test kits supplied to Bengal have been found to be faulty. We conducted 220 tests with these kits. We are lucky that we didn’t proceed earlier with these kits. It was a complete waste of time and energy. ICMR should have tested the veracity of the kits before sending,” Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal said.In all, 7037 tests have been done in Bengal with RT-PCR kits. But two components of the RT-PCR test kits - Viral Transport Medium (VTM) and RNA extraction machine –are in short supply.“Only 3456 RNA extractors and 2500 VTM were supplied by ICMR. To conduct 7000 tests, 14000 VTMs were required. If we had depended solely on ICMR, we wouldn’t have been able to conduct 7037 tests. We had to make our own arrangements. While supply was scarce we were being blamed for low tests,” Sinha said.Banerjee lashed out at the Centre alleging kits were coming in short supply and defective kits were being supplied to the state.“Rapid test kits are being withdrawn because of their defects. The other kits too are either in short supply or have been found to be defective and are being withdrawn. I am not being able to understand the Centre’s plan. Patients will die if not tested. Who will be responsible?” she said.HT had earlier reported that the ICMR-NICED has already decided to replace the apparently defective RT-PCR kits in medical colleges across the state.“ICMR has decided to replace the kits which, some states claimed, were yielding inconclusive results. These kits were supposed to be standardized by the medical colleges and kept in -20 degrees Celsius without which they would give inconclusive results. It appears that the state-run medical colleges neither standardized the kits nor did they maintain the right temperature. But as the tests need to go on these will now be replaced by kits from the National Institute of Virology in Pune,” Shanta Dutta, Director of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases in Kolkata, had said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-10-000-rapid-testing-kits-found-faulty-in-bengal-mamata-lashes-out-at-centre/story-aSnmZngTyFNps97qgSqLPL.html
22-04-2020||India||In Kashmir, doctor sacked for demanding standard quality protective gear||Last week, a young doctor at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) here went out of his way to nurse one of the sickest Covid-19 patients, who later died of the disease, in the isolation ward. However, the doctor was sacked on Monday. Reason: he demanded standard quality personal protective equipment (PPE) for the staff treating infected patients.As the said patient’s family was away, the doctor would feed him, give him medicines, and hours before his death, he even changed his clothes, which he had brought from his home.“The protective gear given to us is like a tissue paper and once I was completely exposed to the virus as the patient’s intravenous fluid leaked and seeped into my clothes through the substandard PPE, while I was changing his clothes,” said the resident doctor who did not want to named.“My heart sank in that moment and I thought about my family. Later, I talked to my seniors and we all protested for good quality PPE sets, but I was sacked on Monday,” he said.The doctor claimed that he was targeted only to threaten the other doctors for demanding standard protective gear. “We work under extreme risk. The administrators don’t dare to come to the wards where we are working day and night. Instead of acknowledging our effort, they targeted me individually and sacked me to set an example and threaten other doctors. Earlier too, they had sacked an ECG technician for demanding protective gear,” he said.“I was threatened and told that my whole family will be sent behind the bars. What has this got to do with my family,” he asked.Some 50km away, a senior doctor working at Government Medical College (GMC), Baramulla, was tested positive on Tuesday, becoming the first health worker to have contracted the disease in the valley. Here too, the hospital staff blamed the lack of proper protective equipment for the doctor’s infection.Last week, the GMC faculty had even written a letter to the principal deploring, among other things, the lack of PPEs. “Our patients are our priority, but we cannot breach the national and international guidelines in terms of our own and families’ safety due to non-availability of specific PPEs,” the letter read.The two incidents have exposed the working conditions of the healthcare workers in Kashmir, which has over 85% of the total Covid-19 cases (351 out of 407) in the Union territory.Besides this, healthcare workers of the hospitals not exclusively for Covid-19 treatment have also raised similar concerns. “We are working without protection kits and have been provided simple gowns and washable masks which we are supposed to use for a month. Shoe covers have to be used as headgears and only using two gloves in 24 hours is allowed,” said a nurse at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital’s casualty wing.Civil society members are questioning the authorities over the lack of standard protective gear.“How can the administration take healthcare staff’s safety so lightly? I get have received so many calls from the frontline workers complaining that their protective gears are flimsy,” said Mudasir Naqshbandi, an advocate.Reyaz Ahmad Untoo, principal of SKIMS Bemina, said the doctor was on a tenure engagement and was asked to go because of “gross indiscipline”.“He rebuked and abused a senior faculty member and was inciting other doctors about the PPE kits being improper. Everybody in the hospital gets the same kit, if they don’t have issues, what is his problem,” Untoo asked adding that a committee looks into the quality issues and they have not raised any questions.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said they were acquiring full-body PPE kits from outside as there were no approved manufacturing units in the valley for the same.Stating that the doctor who tested positive in Baramulla was not on Covid-19 duty, Pole said, “Doctors getting exposed to the virus is a cause of concern and I have directed the medical superintendent and the deputy commissioner to make sure it does not happen. Gaps in our preparations, if any, will be rectified,” he ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kashmir-doctor-sacked-for-demanding-standard-quality-protective-gear/story-PKS4tn6feo8iNuHEAE4L6H.html
22-04-2020||India||India will stick to its NDCs under Paris Agreement despite Covid-19: Prakash Javadekar||Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said India stands committed to its nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement. He was speaking on a webinar organised by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) organised on the occasion of Earth Day.But Javadekar said action on climate would depend on whether big polluters deliver on their promises. “The biggest hurdle in climate action is broken promises. Next week I am participating in the Petersburg Climate dialogue XI where I will raise this issue. Yes, we have a pandemic (Covid-19) and the economy is impacted, there can be a little delay on action but we have to accept the new lifestyle,” Javadekar said.He said in 2009 the world had agreed that developed countries will mobilise 100 billion dollars every year for climate adaptation and mitigation. “Its been 11 years and the amount is 1 trillion now. Where is the money? There is no money on the table,” Javadekar said adding that a second big promise on technology transfer has also not been delivered on.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageSustainable lifestyle is at the core of India’s ethos, Javadekar said adding that our electricity consumption is only 1,000 units per person per year compared to 12,000 units per person per year in the US.Javadekar added that there was no point romanticising about the clean rivers and air during the lockdown. “Last one month we saw clean rivers, green earth, blue sky, stars, one could see Himalayas from Jalandhar. That is how we used to live in villages... If we want these to continue then we have to stop only a few things -- you cant have vehicles, you cant have industries, cant have cities, you can sustain only 30 crore people and not 130 crore people.”India has three main NDCs -- to achieve 40% of electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030; to reduce the emissions intensity of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) by 33 to 35% compared to 2005 levels by 2030; to create carbon sinks of about 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-stick-to-its-ndcs-under-paris-agreement-despite-covid-19-javadekar/story-yuffnttLO2HJKX5LcTdIrL.html
22-04-2020||India||Security guard at Athawale’s residence tests Covid-19 positive||A security guard posted at the residence of Union minister Ramdas Athawale here has tested coronavirus positive, an RPI (A) party functionary said on Wednesday. Athawale, who is the Minister of State for Social Justice, resides in Bandra East locality.“The security guard tested positive around five days back. He was admitted to a state-run hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” he said.The guard had reportedly shown COVID-19 symptoms, after which he was sent to the hospital for testing, he said.“When we enquired about his health yesterday, we learnt that he is recuperating,” the functionary of the Athawale-led faction of the Republican Party of India (RPI) said.Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, who had quarantined himself after some of his security staff tested positive for coronavirus, on Tuesday got admitted in a private hospital in neighbouring Thane city as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-guard-at-athawale-s-residence-tests-covid-19-positive/story-yo89kItoNEzGbW9v26HFVJ.html
22-04-2020||India||What does it cost to treat a coronavirus patient? Here’s a break up||At least 80 per cent of the Covid-19 patients are being treated in government hospitals across the country. Though, leading private hospitals do have treatment facilities, people who can afford or in special cases as directed by the health department or government turn to them. What is the cost involved in treating a Covid-19 patient? Though it varies from patient to patient, depending upon the load of virus, related ailments, age and other factors, let us see in a normal case how much it costs to the exchequer?On an average, treatment of a normal Covid-19 carrier, without ventilators or other life-saving equipment, costs between Rs 20,000 and 25,000 daily, a senior doctor at the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital says. That means a 14-day treatment of a patient costs between Rs 2,80,000 to 3,50,000. Usually, patients are discharged after three to five consecutive tests turn negative. In some cases, tests will go up to eight to ten to get a definite result, say doctors. Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor tested negative after six consecutive tests. Take the case of a swab or fluid test. The swab test of a suspected patient costs Rs 4,500 (the Supreme Court fixed this fee for private labs after hearing experts and others). The price of the test kit alone is Rs 3,000. If a person is tested or shows symptoms of Covid-19, he‘s supposed to travel only in an ambulance. Usually a hospital ambulance or a private one ferries him or her to the hospital at government expense.Once moved to the isolation ward, there are certain specifications for such patients: each room should have a separate toilet and usually no other beds are allowed; if the patient is aged or suffering from multiple complications, ventilator is necessary. In Kottayam, a couple, 94-year-old man and his 88-year-old wife, was on ventilator for more than a week. Some of the private hospitals charge between Rs 25,000 to Rs 50,000 per day for a ventilator. Room rent will depend upon the classification of the hospitals, but the cheapest will cost between Rs 1,000 and 1,500 a day. At least 200 personal protection equipment kits are required in a Covid-19 hospital with 100 beds. Doctors and nurses will have to change their kits every four hours. If you are nursing a critically ill with heavy load of virus, PPE kits of nursing staff have to be changed frequently, said a nursing superintendent of a Covid-19 hospital. One standard PPE kits costs between Rs 750 to 1,000. Price of the medicines will vary from person to person. Antibiotics, anti-vitriol and other medicines cost between Rs 500 to 1,000 daily for a patient besides his food. “Money won’t be a constraint in the fight against Covid-19, the CM has given special instructions to us. So we are pumping in money to get best treatment to our patients. Even some of the foreigners who had undergone treatment at our hospitals vouch they had best treatment,” said state health minister K K Shailaja. As of now the government is putting up a brave face but it will leave a gaping hole in the exchequer, say medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-it-cost-to-treat-a-coronavirus-patient-here-s-a-break-up/story-qwOzwoaJKj39AAxb2U58oO.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: A herd immunity strategy could actually work in youthful India||Controversial given the high risk of deaths, a coronavirus strategy discarded by the U.K. is being touted as the solution for poor but young countries like India.The herd immunity strategy, which would allow a majority of the population to gain resistance to the virus by becoming infected and then recovering, could result in less economic devastation and human suffering than restrictive lockdowns designed to stop the virus’s spread, a number of experts have begun to argue in the nation of 1.3 billion people.“No country can afford a prolonged period of lockdowns, and least of all a country like India,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a prominent Indian epidemiologist. “You may be able to reach a point of herd immunity without infection really catching up with the elderly. And when the herd immunity reaches a sufficient number the outbreak will stop, and the elderly are also safe.”A team of researchers at Princeton University and the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, a public health advocacy group based in New Delhi and Washington, has identified India as a place where this strategy could be successful because its disproportionately young population would face less risk of hospitalization and death.They said allowing the virus to be unleashed in a controlled way for the next seven months would give 60% of the country’s people immunity by November, and thus halt the disease.Mortality could be limited as the virus spreads compared to European nations like Italy given that 93.5% of the Indian population is younger than 65, they said, though no death toll projections were released.The radical proposal underscores the challenges that poorer developing countries -- including nations like Indonesia and some in sub-Saharan Africa -- face in curbing the epidemic using the lockdown measures that have been adopted by advanced economies.The impossibility of social distancing in crowded living conditions like in many cities and villages in India, the lack of testing kits to detect infections and the human suffering that occurs in lockdowns suggests a different path may be needed in these places.To do this, the Princeton and CDDEP team recommends lifting India’s strict lockdown -- which has been extended to May 3 -- and letting most of the population younger than 60 return to normal life, though social distancing still would be encouraged, masks would be required and large gatherings would be banned. The reopening would be accompanied by an effort to test as many people as possible and isolate confirmed and suspected cases.The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given no indication it plans to adopt such a strategy.Yet the government has laid out criteria that effectively rations coronavirus tests, limiting them to the very sick or most at risk. Critics who suspect the disease has spread much more widely than the official numbers suggest say the government’s restrictive criteria amounts to allowing the disease to spread.Pessimistic Indian Doctors Brace for Tsunami of Virus Cases“In some sense, you are saying, we will let them get infected and recover, and take care only of those who are sick,” said T. Sundararaman, the New Delhi-based global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a public health group. “That’s the policy, that’s what it amounts to.”The government has maintained its testing criteria gives an accurate tally of India’s number of cases, and says the disease is not spreading untracked in the community. Nevertheless, as India has ramped up testing, it is finding more cases each day, bringing the nationwide tally to 18,658, with 592 deaths, as of April 20.But if questions remain as to the extent and severity of India’s outbreak, the costs of the government’s lockdown are clear. Local governments have had to set up camps to house 1.25 million migrants who left cities when they lost work, while food camps feed 7.5 million daily wage earners also rendered destitute by the lockdown. There are already signs these stopgap measures are starting to fray.India Workers Paid $4 a Day Are Trapped Between Hunger and Virus“We’re dealing with a trade-off against starvation, hunger, all this other stuff,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, the director of the CDDEP and a Princeton researcher. By allowing the coronavirus to spread in a controlled way, “undoubtedly there will be deaths, but it will be much smaller this way, and it opens us up for business by November,” he said.But the strategy has already proved controversial internationally. The U.K. adopted and then abandoned it early in the pandemic after projections showed its health care system would be overwhelmed by the resulting hospitalizations. That brief dalliance is still being blamed for the British government’s slow response in testing for the virus.Risky StrategyEven in a country like India with a young population, the concept has inherent risks. Allowing people to become infected will inevitably bring many more patients to hospitals. The researchers say India will have to urgently expand critical care and isolation-bed capacity to ensure that multiple waves of patients don’t become casualties before herd immunity is reached.Another risk is that India’s worst-in the-world air pollution and high rates of hypertension and diabetes have compromised young people’s health, meaning that mortality from the virus could be higher than expected. People may let their guards down and fail to follow social distancing guidelines.“I would worry that it would relax concerns of younger individuals, who still remain at substantial risk themselves,” Jason Andrews, an assistant professor of medicine at Stanford University, said in an email. “The messaging in particular may lead younger people to perceive themselves as at lower risk than they are, and to fail to understand their potential role in transmission.”And given the novel coronavirus only made its debut in humans some time late last year, there’s still a lot that’s unknown. Immunity from the virus may be a more complex process than expected. One group of researchers estimated as much as 82% of the population would have to be infected before herd immunity is reached.“My view is there are a number of questions about whether it can work,” said Marc Lipsitch, a professor of epidemiology at Harvard University’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “The main questions being how much immunity do we need in the population, and how much immunity does each person get as a result of infection.”Then there’s also the question of whether it’s possible to wall off the higher-risk portion of the population in densely packed India, where multiple generations commonly live under one roof.Ultimately, the researchers lobbying for the strategy argue that cultivating herd immunity may be the best of various bad options.“I think eventually all countries will follow this Indian model,” Laxminarayan said. “Because otherwise we are going to be in lockdown on and off all the way through until June of next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-a-herd-immunity-strategy-could-actually-work-in-youthful-india/story-tvF0jaOVfN0nACccdBUZoJ.html
22-04-2020||India||Buyers rush to farmer’s rescue who sought help on Twitter with 100 tonnes cabbage||On 18 April, Kannaiyan Subramaniam, a farmer in Karnataka’s Chamarajanagara district, posted a 15-second video on Twitter seeking help to find buyers for his 100 tonnes of cabbage ready for harvest. Forget profit, he said he would be happy to sell his stock at Rs 3 a kilo, barely covering his investment.On April 20, Hindustan Times published a piece on the plight of vegetable farmers such as Subramaniam who were piling up massive losses unable to sell their produce during the prolonged lockdown. Within a day of the story’s publication, Subramaniam said, he was able to find buyers for most of his crop. This includes Waycool, a Chennai-based agriculture technology startup, which has purchased eight tonnes from Subramaniam at Rs 5.5 a kilo with the option of buying up the entire lot in accordance with the demand. Several Charitable organisations in Bengaluru and Coimbatore have bought smaller lots of 3000 kilos.Waycool procures nearly 250 tonnes of farm produce every day and sells it to large retail chains and restaurants in South India. The company has even arranged to pick up the stock from Subramaniam’s farm saving him transportation cost. “When we read Subramaniam’s story, we felt this is what our company was built for. And it was the right thing to do,” said Karthik Jayaraman, CEO, Waycool.“With no buyers in sight I would have had to write-off Rs 300,000. More painful was the prospect of helplessly watching 100 tonnes of vegetables rot. After HT highlighting my story, I was flooded with calls from people who were keen to buy. In the process I have found some who I could do business with even in the long term,” said Subramaniam, who sold his previous harvest of cabbages at Rs 11.50 per kilo.With markets shut and people homebound due to the lockdown, vegetable farmers across India are saddled with massive losses. Since Monday, other farmers too have taken to social media platforms to seek buyers, including a watermelon farmer from Bijapur, a tomato farmer from Sarjapur and a banana farmer from Tutocorin. According to an April 8 report by financial research firm Credit Suisse, despite a bumper harvest in the Rabi season, the arrival of fruit and vegetables in the country’s 7000 wholesale markets has fallen by 50% to 95%, as only a fraction have been functioning after the lockdown was enforced on March 25. In 2019-20, farmers sold 284 million tonnes of horticultural produce worth Rs 5 lakh crore. Even assuming only a 50% fall in market arrivals over a month of lockdown, vegetable farmers would have lost in excess of Rs 20,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buyers-rush-to-farmer-s-rescue-who-sought-help-on-twitter-with-100-tonnes-cabbage/story-mEBdr4oREDvdR1Ln4AmvaM.html
22-04-2020||India||2 Covid-19 suspects die in designated hospital in Dehradun, test results awaited||The samples of two suspected Covid-19 patients who died in the Government Doon Medical College Hospital Dehradun have been sent for testing on Wednesday, officials said.Government Doon Medical College Hospital is a designated hospital for treating coronavirus patients in Uttarakhand.“A 75-year-old male suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and another 23-year-old male in a critical condition died around 10 pm on Tuesday in the hospital. We have taken their samples and sent them for Covid-19 testing on Wednesday morning, as a precautionary measure as we are suspecting that they might have contracted the deadly virus. The test results are awaited,” said Dr NS Khatri, deputy chief medical superintendent of the hospital. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Dr Khatri said the 23-year-old man was referred to Doon Hospital from Coronation Hospital in Dehradun on Tuesday afternoon, “in a very critical condition, without any pulse or blood pressure rating and died of cardio-respiratory arrest.” The 75-year-old man was admitted to Doon Hospital on Monday afternoon. Neither patient had any history of foreign travel nor were they living near any hotspot area in Dehradun.Uttarakhand has so far reported 46 cases of Covid-19 out of which 19 people have recovered.Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic inflammatory lung disease that obstructs airflow to and from the lungs.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday held a meeting with senior officials regarding control and various arrangements to check the Covid-19 pandemic and instructed officials to make concessions as per the Centre’s guidelines.“Covid-19 cases are doubling across India on an average of 7.5 days, while in Uttarakhand, they are doubling in 26.6 days. From this point of view Uttarakhand is in a far better position in tackling the outbreaks and ranks third in preventing coronavirus infection in the country,” said Rawat.Rawat directed the officials that for effective control of Covid-19, honouring corona warriors by garlands, shawls or giving bouquets, need to be banned completely with immediate effect as it goes against norms of social distancing. Apart from this, people should also not take photographs with the people who are distributing the goods, he said.The CM asked officials to make an action plan on how to generate income for small businessmen and locals along with giving permission for agricultural works as per the guidelines of the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-covid-19-suspects-die-in-designated-hospital-in-dehradun-test-results-awaited/story-cH7IXMiv908KagRtkWRP3M.html
22-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Nepal thanks PM Narendra Modi for ‘generous’ medicine supplies||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the supply of 23 tonnes of essential medicines in the times of a global healthcare crisis triggered by the coronavirus outbreak. Oli described India’s help as “generous” and added that it will aid Nepal’s fight against the spread of COVID-19.“I thank PM Narendra Modi ji for India’s generous support of 23 tonnes of essential medicines to Nepal, to fight #COVID19 Pandemic,” Oli’s tweet said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been lauded by several heads of states including US President Donald Trump, Brazilian President JL Bolsonaro, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, Kazakhstan President Qasym-Jomart Tokayev to name a few, who were all grateful for India’s decision to remove an embargo on the export of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine and Paracetamol, which are in high global demand for their use in the treatment of COVID 19 patients. India has supplied several hundred tonnes of essential medicines to friendly countries across the globe. Among its immediate neighbours, New Delhi has either already sent medical supplies to Sri Lanka, Maldives, Nepal, Bhutan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh or is in the process of sending them.On April 20, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had thanked PM Modi.“Thank you my friend Prime Minister @narendramodi , and thank you India for providing 500K tablets of hydroxychloroquine, 100K tablets of paracetamol, and 75,000 metric tons of wheat, that the first consignment of it (5,000) will reach AFG in a day or so, for the Afghan people,” Ghani had tweeted.Several of Saarc countries are highly dependent on India for their medical supplies including Hydroxychloroquine. India is one of the largest manufacturers of this medicine.The Indian government has allayed domestic concerns over the availability of the medicine as the outbreak peaks, by saying it had stocked more than double of the required and projected doses. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier in March, most members of Saarc grouping barring Pakistan had praised Modi’s initiative for a joint regional response to the pandemic by sharing of experiences, technology, funding and related expertise. PM Modi has often stressed on New Delhi’s unwavering commitment to its neighbours and friendly countries.PM Modi had also told the leaders of the G-20 grouping that the world needed to keep humans at the centre of the global response instead of the economic targets while dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-nepal-thanks-pm-narendra-modi-for-generous-medicine-supplies/story-uIHTB9KzndtGWL2VPCM3OL.html
22-04-2020||India||UP carpet factory owners disgruntled as relaxations come with conditions, refuse to open units||To help states grapple with the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak, the centre had announced that certain industries would be allowed to function starting April 20. Uttar Pradesh allowed 11 types of industries, including paper, sugar mills, cement, fertilisers, among others to start operations. The carpet industry was another. India exports carpets worth about Rs 12,000 crore annually. Eastern UP’s Bhadohi district alone accounts for Rs 7,000 crore of the exports, according to Carpet Export Promotion Council India (CEPC) data.However, carpet manufacturers in the district are disgruntled because the relaxation of the curbs has come with conditions which they said were not feasible. At least 40 carpet manufacturers and factory owners, who attended a meeting with district authorities on April 20 have unanimously decided not to begin operations despite the financial losses they are incurring during the lockdown, as the authorities have asked them to provide accommodation to workers inside factory premises. This is not possible, they said, as factories have not been designed for residential purposes and they would not be able to guarantee that the coronavirus would not spread in such makeshift accommodations.The Bhadohi district administration on Monday held a meeting with the members of All India Carpet Manufacturers Association (AICMA) and CEPC to give them permission to open the factories starting April 21 as long as certain conditions were fulfilled. The administration asked factory owners to screen workers, make sure they wore masks and maintained social distance, and significantly only employ those workers who didn’t live near Covid-19 hotspots. The authorities also asked factory owners to ensure that the workers are provided accommodation within factories. “In a meeting on Monday, the carpet manufacturers and owners of carpet factories were apprised of the guidelines and instructions required to be followed by them. They have been allowed to operate the factories with certain conditions as per instructions from the government,” Deputy commissioner industries, Bhadohi, Harendra Pratap Singh confirmed. According to AICMA executive member and former honorary secretary Piyush Barnwal, not all conditions are practical, which is why the owners have decided not to reopen the factories as long as the lockdown continues.“The administration has imposed many conditions and it is not possible for us to implement them practically. Therefore, we have decided to not run our factories and start production till the lockdown is over,” he said. According to some owners, factories cannot be converted into proper residential facilities due to a lack of space and the existing design. Barnwal said that in most factories, it would not be possible to keep even 50% of the workers together on the premises, and the possibility of spread of Sars-Cov-2 could not be ruled out.Bhadohi district has one case of a Covid-19 patient: an 18-year-old migrant worker in a makeshift shelter home at a college tested positive on April 12. He was later shifted to an isolation ward where he is under treatment. Imtiyaz Ahmad, owner of Textico, a carpet manufacturing and export unit based in Bhadohi said he would not open his factory for the same reason. “The government should ease the conditions,” he said. Another factory owner, who doesn’t wish to be named said that while it is possible to screen workers, it is difficult to find out which area they have visited or whom they met in the past 15 days. Rajkumar (who goes by his first name), a carpet weaver who lives in the outskirts of Bhadohi said that it would be difficult for weavers like him to live in factories at this time, as this was the harvesting season. The carpet industry provides employment to 2 million persons nationwide. A majority of them, like Rajkumar, belong to the unorganized sector. In UP, for instance, the industry provided employment to the people largely in rural pockets of Mirzapur, Bhadohi and Varanasi. After the carpets are woven — usually at home, women comprise a large section of the weavers — they are carried to factories, where they are washed, stretched, bound and made ready for shipment. The Indian floor coverings industry, which includes the carpet manufacturing hub in and around Bhadohi is already staring at heavy losses as at least 40% international orders have been cancelled in past three months due to uncertainty in the international market caused by the pandemic, said CEPC chairman Siddh Nath Singh.With the lockdown in place, existing orders have been on hold for the past month. “Around 60% orders are on hold. Of these around 2/5th are at the ports awaiting shipment and one fifth is held up in godowns due to lack of transportation. Uncertainty looms large over these orders too,” Singh said. Even if the manufacturers begin production of the carpets, Singh feared that it would be difficult to get export orders from the United States of America and the European market comprising Italy, Germany, France and Spain — both of which form the bulk of our export market at 55% and 25% respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-carpet-factory-owners-disgruntled-as-relaxations-come-with-conditions-refuse-to-open-units/story-WItWozztIca8zQta1q8SbM.html
22-04-2020||India||No compromise on medics’ safety: PM Modi on ordinance for health workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hailed the ordinance to protect doctors and healthcare workers and said it would “ensure safety of our professionals.”“The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals. There can be no compromise on their safety,” PM Modi tweeted shortly the government announced the ordinance. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals. There can be no compromise on their safety!The Prime Minister had several times in the past few weeks warned people against misbehaving with medical professionals who are in the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country.The ordinance allows for stringent punishment for the attackers of up to 7 years in prison and or a penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh. Several states like Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have invoked the National Security Act and provisions of Indian Penal Code to take action against those attacking medics.Over the past few weeks, several doctors and health workers in different parts of the country have faced attacks in the course of their duties, often by relatives and neighbours of people who have tested positive for Covid-19. In many places doctors and nurses have been harassed by landlords who have asked them to vacate their accommodations for fear that they could spread infection.Several doctors associations have repeatedly asked the government to bring in a law to make attacks on medical professionals a non bailable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-compromise-on-medics-safety-pm-modi-on-ordinance-for-health-workers/story-aMWGSBJElO4i95eIRpywmI.html
22-04-2020||India||PM Modi to hold video conference with CMs on Monday as country heads into last week of lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will once again hold discussions with the chief ministers on Monday as the nation enters into the last week of lockdown brought in to check the spread of coronavirus. The PM is likely to seek views of states in lifting the lockdown, which is in place till May 3. Earlier today, the government passed an ordinance to protect health workers from violent attacksOn April 20, Telangana state cabinet decided to extend the lockdown period in the state till May 7.The number of coronavirus cases touched 20,471 on Wednesday, with 652 deaths, according to data from the ministry of health and family welfare. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with 6,191 cases of the coronavirus disease, and 251 deaths.Earlier, in his third interaction with chief ministers since the first lockdown began on March 25, the PM acknowledged that many CMs suggested that the lockdown be extended for a fortnight.Subsequently, the PM did extend the lockdown period, saying that India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world).For the government, both at the central and state level, the situation clearly has posed a difficult choice. The demands of public health -- which dictate that an extension of the lockdown is the best way to control the spread of the disease — and the demands of the economy — which is in crisis with supply and demand shocks, closure of factory plants, business becoming unviable, loss of jobs and incomes — have to be reconciled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-videoconference-with-cms-on-monday-as-country-heads-into-last-week-of-lockdown/story-WSkrMwO5VTvqPdfA8E66FI.html
22-04-2020||India||Swine fever kills 1,300 pigs in Assam, farmers hit hard||The Assam government has dispatched teams of veterinary doctors after reports of the death of around 1,300 pigs in the state’s five districts.The deaths, attributed due to classical swine fever, in Jorhat, Sibsagar, Lakhimpur, Dhemaji and Nagaon districts within a span of one week have hit the pig farmers hard, who are already reeling under the impact of the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The teams of doctors have been asked to probe the reason for the sudden outbreak of classical swine fever and suggest remedial measures, according to Atul Bora, the state agriculture and animal husbandry minister. Dhireshwar Kalita, principal scientist at Assam Agriculture University (AAU), told journalists that the deaths were due to classical swine fever and not swine flu, or H1N1.“Classical swine fever is a viral disease, which attacks pigs at this time of the year. However, this year the attack has been severe resulting in the death of a large number of pigs and mounting losses for farmers,” said Manoj Basumatary, president, North East Progressive Pig Farmers’ Association (NEPPFA).Classical swine fever afflicts only pigs and not humans. The outbreak can be prevented through vaccination, he added. “Swine flu, or H1NI, is a flu that affects humans. The outbreak lasted between January 2009 and August 2010. The H1N1 flu virus can’t be spread by consuming pork products even though it is informally called swine flu,” Basumatary said.Assam has the highest pig population in the country. The north-east consumes over 65% of the country’s total pork production and the region’s pork meat business is estimated to be around Rs 75,000 crore, according to the 20th livestock census data from 2012 to 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swine-fever-kills-1-300-pigs-in-assam-farmers-hit-hard/story-FJ86KEwd3fTKrYURrxxe1O.html
22-04-2020||India||CEC Sunil Arora stranded in US due to Covid-19 lockdown||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora has been stranded in Michigan, US, for over a month now due to the Covid-19 crisis. CEC Arora had travelled to Michigan on a personal visit on March 7 and was slotted to return on April 5, sources in the EC said. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak international flights were suspended by India on March 25. Arora too has been waiting for the flights to resume, officials said. “He had travelled to the US on a personal visit,” a source in the Commission said. “He travelled after obtaining permission from the President and was on leave.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageArora has been consistently in touch with the Commission, a second source in the EC said. “He is working on WhatsApp and using phone calls to take urgent decisions that are required,” said the second source. “The Commission was constantly in touch with the CEC when they decided to take a 30 per cent pay cut in the basic salary,” said the first EC official. “Travelling may be banned but using the phone hasn’t been.”Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra and deputy election commissioners also met yesterday, and consulted with Arora to discuss a host of internal matters such as ensuring preparedness for the Rajya Sabha polls that have been deferred due to the Covid-19 crisis. “The situation is dynamic and constantly evolving,” said the first EC official. “We need to constantly keep reviewing what is needed for the deferred Rajya Sabha polls and legislative council elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-sunil-arora-stranded-in-us-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-e6AAA2k6YhJZSftPeaq6XN.html
22-04-2020||India||Withdraw FIR against Valley journalists: Kashmir Press Club||The Kashmir Press Club on Wednesday expressed concern over the FIRs against journalists in the Valley and sought their immediate withdrawal to allow media to function in a conducive atmosphere.In a statement issued here, the press club said in the latest instance, a case has been registered against journalist and author Gowhar Geelani. “This is third such FIR in a row in last few days against a journalist,” the club said while seeking withdrawal of the FIRs against Peerzada Ashiq, Masrat Zahra and Gowhar Geelani.“As already conveyed, the club on behalf of the fraternity will write a representation to the Press Club of India detailing these issues and other grievances related to difficulties faced by media during the pandemic. In this regard, a memorandum will also be written to the highest authorities including J&K L-G GC Murmu. We hope the media fraternity, which is working amid huge challenges will get a conducive atmosphere to deliver their day to day duties,” the statement reads.Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday had filed a FIR against journalist Gowhar Geelani accusing him of glorifying terrorism on social media. He is the third journalist to be booked in last two days. Police said the cyber police station, Kashmir zone, has received information through reliable sources that Gowhar Geelani is indulging in unlawful activities through his posts and writings on social media platforms which are prejudicial to the national integrity, sovereignty and security of India.The fresh case comes a day after police had registered cases against woman photo journalist Masrat Zahra and Peerzada Ashiq. Police had invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) against Zahra for allegedly uploading ‘anti-national posts’ on her social media accounts. Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “No ifs, no buts, no whataboutery - this campaign of FIRs against journalists and commentators in Kashmir is wrong and must stop. If your version of events is so weak that you have to charge these people, it says more about what is happening in Kashmir than anything they have written.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-fir-against-valley-scribes-kashmir-press-club/story-dbbKNhQf53HhyvUOMrCz9K.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s coronavirus cases climb to 20,471; 652 dead||India’s total number of coronavirus cases breached the 20,000 mark and climbed to 20,471on Wednesday with the number of deaths at 652, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Earlier, India had breached the 10,000-mark on April 14, and currently has 15,859 active cases and 3,959 coronavirus patients who have been cured and discharged so far.Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, has reported 6,191 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 722 discharges and 251 deaths. ALSO READ | Rs 2 lakh fine, up to 7 years’ jail for attack on health workers, says govtGujarat is now the second-worst hit state with 2,178 active cases and Delhi follows with 2,156 number of people infected with the deadly disease.After multiple reports of attacks on frontline workers, the Centre on Wednesday asked all states and union territories to provide adequate security to doctors and health workers who are facing attacks from unruly crowds.The Centre on Wednesday approved an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act making attacks on doctors and health workers a cognizable and non-bailable offence and introducing stringent provisions ranging from imprisonment up to seven years to hefty penalties.The decision comes after a spate of incidents where doctors and medical professionals were attacked in different localities across states and their vehicles damaged as they battled the Covid -19 disease.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the decision was taken in a meeting headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as such offences will not be tolerated in a civilized society. It has also been decided that investigation into such offences will be completed in 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-coronavirus-cases-climb-to-20-471-652-dead-so-far/story-QHmmwemx8yuXq4vo7Yw64M.html
22-04-2020||India||Residents look to dodge lockdown, Uttarakhand police turn focus on ambulances||In a bid to cross the interstate border between Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, guarded heavily due to the lockdown provisions, stranded people are using ambulances to dodge the police, said state officials.Four such cases have been reported in the Kumaon region so far. Police have not only lodged cases against the accused but also put them under quarantine in Udham Singh Nagar district.“These stranded people are hiring ambulances while crossing the border in a bid to dodge the police. Four such incidents have been reported in US Nagar since the lockdown was imposed in the state on March 23,” an official said.The latest incident was reported in Kashipur on Tuesday, where six persons including three women were found to have entered the state in an ambulance, intercepted later by the police.When the police asked the commuters for relevant permission, the driver failed to produce the document. Police took them to LD Bhatt hospital in Kashipur for quarantining, an official said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19One of the members of the family said they had gone to Delhi for the delivery of a child but were stuck there due to the lockdown. Since there was no public transport available along with a ban on traveling, the family hired an ambulance to dodge the police in a bid to return to their home in Uttarakhand, police said.Kashipur police also came across a similar case on Monday, when a person from Bansphodan Colony travelled to Delhi in an ambulance and also used it to bring back his wife and a child, who were stuck in Delhi. Police have lodged an FIR against him and the ambulance driver.For Coronavirus Live Updates“We have booked the accused and the driver of the ambulance for violating the lockdown. The family of the accused has been isolated in the nearby hospital and a case has been registered against the accused and the driver,” said Rajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/residents-look-to-dodge-lockdown-uttarakhand-police-turn-focus-on-ambulances/story-ENUfJsGy3mWzwvr7hU5G3J.html
22-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Assam okays 3-day travel window for people stuck within state||The Assam government has decided to allow one-time conditional relaxation for people who are stuck across the state due to the lockdown. Health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stressed that the relaxation for travel will be from April 25 to April 27 and those willing to avail it will have to get permission from authorities.Patients who need to travel from one place to another or move from one district to another will be allowed to travel on all days but they will need to get clearance from deputy commissioners of their districts.“Those who have their own vehicles and are stuck in one place due to lockdown will be allowed to travel to their homes or workplace with due permission from the district authorities,” said Sarma on Wednesday.Similarly, employers who need to transport their workers to the workplace, which have been allowed to function, will be allowed to do so after necessary permission from district authorities.“The state transport department will operate buses on designated routes on April 25, 26 and 27 for those who don’t have own mode of travel. They can get details by calling on helpline number 104,” Sarma said.The government has instructed private schools to deduct only 50% of total fees for one month. They have also been instructed not to increase fees or deduct salaries of teachers and other staff.“If schools remain closed till end of May, we will lose 52 working days. If the situation improves, we should be able to cover the session by taking classes on Saturdays and by reducing the number of holidays,” Sarma, who also handles the education portfolio, said.The minister announced that the state government will conduct free Covid-19 tests for journalists on April 25 at the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital.Assam hasn’t recorded any new Covid-19 case in last one week. Of the state’s 34 patients, 19 have recovered, 1 has died and the 14 others are recovering in different hospitals.“We have conducted 5,789 tests till date. At present there are 3,338 isolation beds, 440 ICU units and facility to quarantine over 10,000 people. We have adequate stock of PPEs and masks. The state government has ordered 1 lakh rapid testing kits and they should reach the state soon,” Sarma said.Till date, the state government has paid 1000 USD each to 34 persons from the state stranded abroad, Rs 25,000 each to 717 patients who are stuck in different parts of the country and Rs 2,000 each to 1.02 lakh people from the state who are stranded outside due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-assam-okays-3-day-travel-window-for-people-stuck-within-state/story-gRRtJMVCdkByfg5YlwHIyH.html
22-04-2020||India||No lockdown relaxation during Ramzan, Muslims asked to pray at home: Uttarakhand police||There will be no relaxation of the lockdown during Ramzan which begins this week and the Muslims have been asked to offer namaz in their homes, the Uttarakhand police said on Wednesday. The state police have been holding meetings with the community leaders across the state to urge Muslims to stay at home and not violate the lockdown during month of Ramzan amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand police said, “With the holy month of Ramzan starting soon, we are holding talks and meetings with the leaders of the Muslim community while asking them to urge the followers to follow the lockdown and pray indoors only.”“We have requested the Muslims to offer namaz in their homes while observing it with peace and harmony. Nobody will be allowed to violate the lockdown during Ramzan and anyone found trying to disturb the public order will be dealt with strictly irrespective of religion or caste,” said Kumar.During Ramzan, Mulsims offer Taraweeh prayers in congregation in mosques. All congregation prayers including the Friday prayers have been suspended for almost a month now across the country.Uttarakhand has so far reported 46 cases of Covid-19 out of which 19 people have recovered.The senior police officer also informed about the action taken against jamaatis so far in the state. He said that there were total 1,436 jamaatis who had come to state after January 1. “Out of the total 1,436 jamaatis, 513 are from other states while 923 from Uttarakhand. All of them have been quarantined and tested for Covid-19 except few in Haridwar district who would also be tested soon. Apart from this, police also made a list of 917 people who had come in contact with jamaatis who tested positive. All of them have been quarantined and about 700 of them tested with remaining ones to be tested in the next two days,” said Kumar. He said “Till date total 62 jamaatis have been booked for violating the lockdown including eight who were booked under attempt to murder charge for not presenting themselves before administration for required medical examination.”Meanwhile, the Nainital district police have relaxed the norms in containment zone of Bhanbulpura area of Haldwani town where five had tested positive. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Nainital Sunil Kumar Meena said, “The relaxation was given to the residents to buy essential items. Under it, we have allowed one member from each family to come out between 8-11 am to buy essential items while following the precautionary measures.”Meena said, “We had divided the whole area into five sectors. Two of them were opened today while three will be opened tomorrow as per the relaxation. We will be evaluating the situation in the next few days for further course of action.”Police said they arrested 368 more people on Wednesday for violation of lockdown across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-relaxation-during-ramzan-muslims-asked-to-pray-at-home-uttarakhand-police/story-eawYsqETUbhAZOBJwPzlaP.html
22-04-2020||India||Cabinet ordinance throws safety net around doctors, health workers under attack||The Centre on Wednesday approved an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act making attacks on doctors and health workers a cognizable and non-bailable offence and introducing stringent provisions ranging from imprisonment up to seven years to hefty fines.The decision comes after a spate of incidents where doctors and medical professionals were attacked in different localities across states and their vehicles damaged as they battled the Covid -19 disease.Addressing reporters in Delhi, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the decision was taken in the meeting headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as such offences have no place in a civilized society.“The Cabinet has approved the promulgation of an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 making such acts of violence as cognizable and non-bailable offences and to provide compensation for injury to healthcare service personnel or for causing damage or loss to the property,” said Javadekar.He added that from doctors to ASHA workers all healthcare workers will be provided protection.It has also been decided that investigation will be completed in 30 days.There are provisions of stringent punishment including fines upto Rs 2 lakh. If injury is serious, upto seven years imprisonment and fine upto Rs five lakh, the minister said.The message is clear no attacks on health staff and doctors will be tolerated, he said.If their cars or clinics are damaged, double the cost will be recovered, he said adding that doctors can now work without tension and there should be no attacks on them.The minister also pointed out that the government had also worked towards providing insurance cover of upto Rs 50 lakh for health workers.On Wednesday morning, Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had a video conference with health professionals. They told them that the government supports them and would work to protect them, said Javadekar.The Union Cabinet also approved a Rs 15,000 crore for ‘’India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package” which is to be utilized in 3 Phases.For immediate Covid-19 Emergency Response an amount of Rs. 7,774 crore has been provisioned, rest for medium-term support (1-4 years), the government said.The Cabinet also approved fixation of Nutrient Based Subsidy rates for Phosphatic and Potassic (P&K) fertilizers for the year 2020-21. Expected expenditure for release of subsidy on P&K Fertilizers during 2020-21 will be Rs. 22,186.55 crore, the press information bureau said.The Cabinet also approved extension of relaxation of mandatory requirement of Aadhaar seeding of data in respect of beneficiaries of the states of Assam and Meghalaya and UTs of J&K and Ladakh for one year from April 1, 2020 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-ordinance-throws-safety-net-around-doctors-health-workers-under-attack/story-wLAeqxCX6BXv0rnWQJrk6H.html
22-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: AgustaWestland scam accused cites Covid-19 risk in bail plea, SC declines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AgustaWestland scam accused cites Covid-19 risk in bail plea, SC declinesThe Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to grant bail to AgustaWestland scam accused Christian Michel, who had sought release from Tihar jail citing health risk posed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Read more. ISKP commander who was its bridge with Pak’s ISI, Lashkar arrestedA top commander of the so-called Khorasan wing of the Islamic State in Afghanistan who acted as the ISKP’s bridge with Pakistani intelligence agency and terror groups such as the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba has been arrested, Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security said on Wednesday. Read more. Rs 2 lakh fine, up to 7 years’ jail for attack on health workers, says govtThe Centre has issued an ordinance for protection of doctors under which cases of assault on medics will be non bailable, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said Wednesday. Read more. ‘What a high pressure match’: Sachin Tendulkar recalls sensational last over against South Africa in 1993 thrillerSpeaking about his bowling efforts, Tendulkar’s memorable final over in the 1993 Hero Cup semifinal clash against South Africa is still deemed as one of his finest bowling efforts. Read more. Vicky Kaushal, Kashmera Shah’s apartment complex in lockdown after Covid-19 positive case detected: ‘Mood is very tense’Bollywood actors Vicky Kaushal and 16 other celebrities’ building in Mumbai is now under partial lockdown after a resident was found Covid-19 positive. Read more. IIT Roorkee develops COVID-19 screening booth to collect samplesIndian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee has developed a COVID-19 screening booth to collect samples of the suspects with the help of Roorkee Municipal Corporation (RMC), said officials of one of the country’s premier engineering institutes on Wednesday. Read more. Doctor treating COVID-19 patients gets unique thanks from people, video will leave you misty-eyedIn this war against coronavirus, the actual superheroes of the society are the healthcare workers working relentlessly. Pledging their services as well as lives for the sake of humanity, they are appealing everyone to stay at home and help flatten the curve. Read more. Maruti may not open Manesar plant yet despite getting permission. Here’s whyThe Gurugram district administration allowed the auto major to run the facility on a single shift basis, while fixing the total number of employees at plant at 4,696. Read more. Stones pelted at cops trying to enforce lockdown in Aligarh One policeman was injured when people pelted stones at a police team in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. The incident happened when the police team was trying to enforce lockdown in the area. A police officer said that some vegetable vendors were quarrelling among themselves & when the police team intervened, they pelted stones. Watch here. Life in the times of lockdown: Returning to the art of writing lettersIn a lockdown that has forced most of us to simplify and slow down, some people are revisiting communication by keepsake. Letters are more meaningful, they say, precisely because you take your time, you know this is something that will last. Read more. Zomato mandates all delivery partners to use Aarogya SetuZomato has made it mandatory for all its delivery partners to download and use Aarogya Setu. The food-delivery company is currently catering to food as well as grocery deliveries across cities to help people cope with the current Covid-19 lockdown. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-agustawestland-scam-accused-cites-covid-19-risk-in-bail-plea-sc-declines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-V3hTYj4TBv40ajHlcUFewN.html
22-04-2020||India||Journalists contracting COVID-19 worries government, Rajasthan, Delhi UP to test scribes||The Central government on Wednesday asked media persons to exercise due caution while reporting on the coronavirus outbreak following reports that many newsmen had themselves contracted the disease. Some other states including Delhi have decided to test journalists for the virus.In an advisory, the ministry said that recently media-persons in various parts of the country have contracted COVID-19 in their line of work.The ministry advised media persons including reporters, cameramen, photographers etc, who are covering incidents related to Covid-19 outbreak in various parts of the country and are involved in travel to, among other places, containment zones, hotspots and other Covid affected areas, to take due health and related precautions while performing their duties.The Ministry also requested the management of media houses to take necessary care of their field staff as well as the office staff.Earlier, following reports of over 50 journalists being found coronavirus positive in Mumbai, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had said that precautions should be taken by all.“It is shocking that more than 50 journalists of electronic media, particularly camera persons, have been found to be corona positive in Mumbai. Every journalist should take proper care,” said Javadekar in a post on social media platform Twitter on Monday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had announced on Monday that 53 journalists in Mumbai had tested positive for COVID-19.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Some journalists from a Tamil news TV channel in Chennai have tested positive for the infection in a fresh incident involving scribes, reported ANI. Another report said that in Telangana, four media persons working for vernacular news channels have been quarantined after coming in contact with another person under home quarantine.The advisory follows a decision by Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Rajasthan governments to arrange COVID-19 tests for media persons. While Rajasthan has decided to set up a two day special camp for the purpose, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain didn’t specify any details. He, however, said that any media person could come forward to get himself tested. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalists-contracting-covid-19-worries-government-rajasthan-delhi-up-to-test-scribes/story-aCzIRVEX4UDKUGEH2WQSrI.html
22-04-2020||India||133 new Covid-19 cases take Rajasthan’s count to 1,868||Rajasthan reported 133 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,868, the state health department said. Jaipur, which is a coronavirus hotspot, reported 66 cases while 44 cases were reported from Ajmer, which has seen a worrying rise in cases in the past couple of days.Six cases were reported from Kota and seven from Tonk. Four cases were reported from Nagaur. Three cases were reported from Jodhpur, another hotpot. One case each was reported from Bharatpur, Dausa and Sawai Madhopur.Jaipur now has 663 Covid-19 cases while Jodhpur has 326, which includes 47 positive cases of evacuees from Iran. A total of 27 people have died of the coronavirus in the state.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the positive cases were not a matter of concern as it shows the real situation on the ground regarding the spread of the disease. “Aggressive testing is part of our strategy. We are now conducting 4,700 tests per day and soon we will be in a position to carry out 10,000 tests per day. After that we will establish testing facilities in all 33 districts,” he said.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, had already said that the rise in number of positive cases was expected on Tuesday and Wednesday as the test results of the backlog 4,000 samples sent to a private lab in Delhi have started coming will be entered in the database.Sharma said the government had hoped that the rapid testing kits would aid in tracing symptomatic cases but the 30,000 kits that were sent by the ICMR to Rajasthan were found faulty.“To test accuracy of the kits, we used 168 kits to test Covid-19 patients. It showed even positive patients as negative. There should have been a 90 per cent corelation between the rapid test and PCR test but there was only 5.4 per cent corelation so we stopped the tests and wrote to ICMR,” he said.Rajasthan was also boosting the health workforce in the state with the appointment of 2,000 doctors soon, the minister said.“The process of recruitment of 2,000 doctors that was announced in the budget has started. In one month or so, we will finish the recruitment process,” he said. The minister said 735 doctors who were recently recruited have already been posted in districts.He said the recruitment process 12,500 General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) posts had been completed but their posting was stuck due to litigation.“We have consulted the advocate general on this and it has been decided that 9000 posts on which there are no litigations, those staff will be posted in the field.”In view of continuing attacks on police personnel and health workers in the state, Sharma reiterated that no misbehaviour with COVID warriors will be tolerated. “Strict action will be taken and arrests will be made, if required.”He said for convenience of patients suffering from other illnesses who are finding it difficult in these times to get treatment, the government has started 400 mobile OPD vans from Wednesday.These vans will take patients or pregnant women to the nearest health facility so they can get treatment, especially in curfew bound and rural areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/133-new-covid-19-cases-take-rajasthan-s-count-to-1-868/story-gp3Gr6DjR2YfuJIryBwlaO.html
22-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 response prompt, testing appropriate: WHO’s Soumya Swaminathan||India cannot depend on rapid antibody tests of unproven quality for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis and molecular tests remain the gold standard, says Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based World Health Organisation (WHO) who is leading the global partnerships on scientific research on a vaccine and drug therapies for the infection. In a phone interview with Sanchita Sharma, Swaminathan said India, for now, is doing enough testing, but will have to scale it up as the numbers rise. Edited excerpts:Is India testing enough people?Data from India shows that 4-5% people, mostly at-risk populations (symptomatics, contacts, healthworkers or people in containment zones), who have been tested in India are positive for Covid-19, compared to 30-40% in other countries. This indicates testing is appropriate to the situation, but it will have to be scaled up as numbers increase.India has suspended rapid antibody tests because of quality issues. How reliable are rapid tests?Quality serological tests take around six months to be developed with ample data and validation. There’s a flood of tests with unproven quality, which cannot be depended on for diagnosis.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMolecular (polymerase chain reaction, or PCR) tests are the gold standard for diagnosis because they reveal current infection. This result is actionable, as it can be followed by isolation and treatment for the patient, and quarantine and testing for close contacts. Rapid antibody tests show past infection, and are useful as an epidemiological tool to map community infection and study Sars-Cov2 transmission.Are high summer temperatures expected to slow Sars-CoV2 transmission?We don’t know if temperature will have an effect. From what we know, it may reduce transmission by 10%-20%, but we can’t depend on it to stop transmission.Only 2-8% people in affected populations have antibodies against Covid-19, indicates early data. How many does herd immunity offer protection to?We are very far away from herd immunity. For diseases with high rates of transmission, a higher number of people need to be infected for herd immunity. This virus has an R0 of 2-3, so at least 80% people need to have antibodies against the virus for herd protection. (R0, or R-nought, is the basic reproduction ratio that gives the number of people infected by one case).South Korea has reported reinfection or reactivation in recovered patients. Will reinfection affect global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19?There is no evidence reinfection can happen. Molecular tests often detect fragments of the virus RNA that is not viable (cannot cause infection) several days after patients have clinically recovered. Diagnostic results depend on several factors, on how samples are collected, how procedures are followed, and depending on which tests are used, can show false positives or false negatives. We need more studies of the natural history of this infection and what kind of immunity is generated by people.CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) has identified several promising candidates, including some that are already in clinical and pre-clinical trials. How soon can a vaccine be ready?Our goal is a vaccine before 18 months. Normally, it takes about a decade to develop a vaccine, but global partnerships (between health agencies, academics, donors, industry, nations and philanthropies) have helped hasten development of vaccines against emerging public health threats. A vaccine against Ebola took five years, the one against zika took less than two years. The global effort to develop a Covid-19 vaccine in less than 18 months is unprecedented and would be an amazing achievement.How has the virus evolved? Is the new vaccine expected to offer long-term protection?Over 10,000 viral genome sequences of Sars-Cov-2 have been shared by 70-80 countries with GISAID , which is a global initiative to share influenza data. Since the start of the pandemic, laboratories in countries across the world have generated viral genome sequence data with GISAID, which has enabled real-time progress in the research and development of vaccines and drug therapies.Some evolution in the virus is bound to happen, but the rate of mutations is lower than the influenza viruses. Scientists have identified three different closely related lineages, which give valuable insights into the origin of the virus and epidemiological data on how it is spreading across the world.None of the changes are on any important sites – the spike protein, polymerase or protease -- which are being targeted by potential vaccines and drug therapies. These sites have no major mutations, so an effective and long-lasting vaccine appears possible.What is the progress on WHO’s Solidarity Trial for Covid-19 treatment? Which are the most promising therapies?It’s too early for results. India is part of this trial, with 1,200 patients enrolled so far globally. The approvals have been obtained by the National AIDS Research Organisation in Pune, which will coordinate the study.How do you rate India’s Covid-19 response?India’s containment response was very prompt and robust and was rolled out very early, much before cases started rising. It’s exemplary, and the doubling rate of Covid-19 is now eight days. The challenge for India now will be to sustain the gains when the lockdown lifts and to ensure infection rates stay low across all states.New infection rate has dropped in some states like Kerala.Kerala has done a great job. Several things contribute to its success, such as a strong primary health system, a good panchayati raj system and local governance, high education levels and public participation. This was also evident during the containment of Nipah virus disease outbreak, when robust public health measures ensured infection did not spread to other states.Do you think Covid-19 has ushered in a new social reality for the world?I believe it will, at least for the next two to three years before we get a vaccine to the majority of the susceptible population. Social distancing will become the norm, which will change the way we work and socialise, with fewer conferences, events and large gatherings.The WHO warned of a second wave of infection on Monday. How high is the threat of resurgence after lockdowns lift?That’s really the question everyone is interested in and is impossible to predict. It depends on a number of things, and can be different in different countries. A lot depends on what steps are taken between lifting the lockdown and the steps post that, and most countries are going for a phased lifting. We see in China that it’s come down to a very low level of new infections, they still have infections. It’s important to get the infection rate down, as places like Taiwan, Hongkong, South Korea and Singapore have done. They still have new infections, but they are more localised outbreaks, which are quickly detected and contained.Will US President Donald Trump’s freeze on funding affect WHO’s work?The WHO will stick to its mandate and continue to support countries in implementing science-based measures to slow transmission, reverse and stop Covid-19. The 193 United Nations member-states recently pledged solidarity in the response to Covid and to support the WHO, in its global role to coordinate and give technical guidance on international health. It’s early days yet, and we hope this decision does not affect our important work too much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-response-prompt-testing-appropriate-who-s-soumya-swaminathan/story-DGJTl1DzWcC0gounIEYnpN.html
22-04-2020||India||‘Zero tolerance’: Govt brings ordinance to check attacks against health staff||Any damage to a doctor or a health professional’s property including their personal vehicles will result in the recovery of double the cost from the person responsible for the act of violence. The attacker will be liable to pay twice the market value of the damaged property, according to an amended law cleared by the union government on Wednesday.The amendment, done through an ordinance cleared by the union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, makes changes into the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 to make attacks on health workers a cognizable and non-bailable offence.The ordinance also allows for a stringent punishment for the attackers who will face up to 7 years in prison and or a penalty of Rs 5 lakh.The ordinance comes amid reports of attacks on health professionals engaged in fighting the coronavirus epidemic. Several states like Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have dealt with these attacks by invoking the National Security Act and provisions of Indian Penal Code against the culprits.Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that the ordinance protects the entire medical fraternity including doctors, paramedics and ASHA workers.“It has been seen that they have been attacked while conducting their duty or they have been harassed, but there will be zero tolerance for such behaviour under this government, ” Javadekar said.Several incidents of doctors and other health professionals being harassed by their landlords and other residents, driven by the fear that they could be carrying the deadly disease, have been reported in the last couple of months. Javadekar said that home minister Amit Shah and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held a video conference with doctors and senior representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and assured them that the government was doing everything possible to provide them with protection while they discharge their duties. Javadekar said that the ordinance mandates that investigations in cases of attacks on health professionals are completed in 30 days and a trial concluded within a year so that speedy justice is delivered.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDr Harsh Vardhan soon tweeted his thanks to the medical body for withdrawing their protest over the continued attacks after the video conference with the two ministers. “I thank the Indian Medical Association for withdrawing their protest after meeting with Union Home Minister @AmitShah & me via VC today. We have assured #IMA that govt is committed to ensuring full safety & protection to doctors as well as all frontline health workers,” his tweet said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-through-nose-for-attacking-covid-warriors-govt-s-ordinance-spells-out-zero-tolerance-policy/story-IVzzmbvCuuepGbjGypFfXM.html
22-04-2020||India||Saved from tigers, Sunderbans’ honey collectors face hunger, poverty amid lockdown||Every year during April and May, honey collectors at Sunderbans risk their lives and enter the mangroves which are home to around 100 tigers. This year, although they are safe from the tigers as they didn’t get any permits due to the coronavirus lockdown, these honey gatherers are facing poverty.These collectors here depend on gathering tons of honey and beeswax from the hives of wild honey bees around this time of the year. For the rest of the year, they depend on fishing and catching crabs in the rivers and creeks - an equally risky business.  55-year-old honey collector Gopal Mondol is safe from tigers but is left without his livelihood and is battling poverty and hunger.Mondol is one of the many honey collectors who live on the remote islands of the Sunderbans. “It is a risky business. Tigers have killed my father, two brothers and cousins in the past. But we still enter the forest to collect around this time as it is a lucrative business and we depend on it. But this year because of the lockdown the forest department has not issued any permits. There is hardly any money in the house to buy the essentials like spices, oil and other items. We are receiving some help from the government but that’s insufficient,” said Mondol, a resident of Pakhiralaya village.Sunderban - the world’s largest delta – comprises 102 islands in India. While 54 are inhabited by humans, tigers rule the rest. Every year, thousands of people enter the forest to collect honey and catch fish, crabs and prawns - legally and illegally - and get attacked by tigers and crocodiles. Many cases go unreported.“Tourism and fishing activities are suspended between April and June every year as it is the spawning and breeding season for fish. Only honey collectors are allowed. But this year because of the lockdown even honey collection has been stopped,” said RK Sinha chief wildlife warden of West Bengal.Every year, around 3000 people are allowed to enter the mangroves with valid permits to collect honey. Many more enter illegally. Locals said that on Monday a villager was killed by a tiger in Pirkali-1 range when a team sneaked into the forest illegally to collect honey. The forest department has no information on this, senior officials said.The state forest development corporation buys a portion of the honey while the rest is sold in the markets by the honey collectors. Even though there is no official figure of the total amount of honey collected, it is estimated that the production could go up to more than 2.5 lakh kilograms.“We used to call it ‘blood-soaked honey’ because, among the many people who get killed and attacked by tigers, maximum are honey collectors. It is because unlike fishermen who stay on boats, honey collectors enter the forest and chase the bees to locate the hives,” said PK Vyas, former chief wildlife warden of West Bengal.West Bengal accounts for the highest number of tiger attacks with around 30 people being killed between 2017 and 2019. Every year, more than 100 people are mauled to death by tigers. But these are just official figures and the total numbers could be much more.“In April, the honey collection reaches its peak. But we are not being allowed to enter the forest because of the lockdown. It would be a huge loss for us. There is hardly any money at home. The local shops have started refusing to give essential items on credit. Whatever rice and dal we are getting from the ration shops is falling short. Hard days lie ahead,” said Nitish Mondol, a honey collector from Lahiripur village.        Nitish said that for a family of five, he has to depend on 20 kilograms of rice, four kilograms of atta, three kilograms of potato for the entire month. “Do you think this is enough to sustain?” he said.    The forest department is rolling out some plans to help these honey collectors. But that would take time and is still in the proposal stage. A few NGOs are also providing food to the villagers but help is yet to reach all the islands.  “We are preparing the budget proposal for the next financial year. It will be placed soon. We are trying to create some extra employment opportunities for these people and link them to various government schemes so that they can cope up with the loss,” said Sudhir Das, field director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saved-from-tigers-sunderbans-honey-collectors-face-hunger-and-poverty-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-qajHCIIDhcdVUpMDBeDccP.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Migrant workers paint Rajasthan school to express gratitude||Migrants workers living at a government school at Palsana village in Rajasthan are painting the building to express their gratitude to local residents who caring for them during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.Six workers began painting the building on April 19, and have completed the verandahs so far. On Wednesday, they began painting the classrooms.“We are labourers. We will become sick if we continue to sit idle,” said Shankar Singh Chauhan, 58, from Haryana.“Gaonwalo ne hamari itni achchi vyavastha kar rakhi hai. Badle me hum bhi gaon ke liye kuch karna chahte hain (The villagers made very good arrangements for us. We wanted to do something for them in return),” he added.The district administration brought 54 workers from Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to the government senior secondary school at Palsana in Sikar district, 90 km from Jaipur, on March 31 when they were found moving around during the nationwide lockdown.The workers were restless – they had been without work for 15 days.“They started cleaning the school campus from April 15, and on April 18, they came to us to ask for work that would be remembered long after they are gone,” said the school’s principal, Rajendra Kumar Meena.He said the school hadn’t been painted for 10 years. “I discussed with sarpanch Roop Singh Shekhawat if we could arrange for paint. He agreed. My colleagues agreed to fund one 20-litre can of paint each,” he said.“We brought paint and other materials for them and they began painting the verandahs the next day.”Shekhawat said some of the workers had done this sort of work earlier, and the others were helping by scrubbing off the old paint and cleaning the building.“Around six people are painting the school,” Shekhawat said, adding the workers are given three meals and fruits in the evening.“They were happy with our facilities and so they are doing this in gratitude,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-migrant-workers-paint-rajasthan-school-to-express-gratitude/story-KsE59DMEtUQGgmyHFsDBNL.html
22-04-2020||India||AgustaWestland scam accused cites Covid-19 risk in bail plea, SC declines||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to grant bail to AgustaWestland scam accused Christian Michel, who had sought release from Tihar jail citing health risk posed due to Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai upheld the decision of the Delhi high court which had, on April 7, refused to grant bail to the accused.Michel, 59, had prayed for interim bail stating that the Covid-19 pandemic posed a grave risk to him considering his age.He had submitted that on account of his advanced age and a history of bad health, he was more susceptible to coronavirus infection than a prisoner with normal health.Michel had relied upon an order passed by the Supreme Court on March 16 directing the states and union territories to take steps to avoid spread of Covid-19 in prisons. Subsequently, the top court had on March 23 directed the states and UTs to set up high powered committees to determine which class of prisoners that can be released on parole or interim bail.The apex court on Wednesday noted that Michel did not qualify for release as per the criteria prescribed by the committee. Michel, who is being probed for his role in the Rs 3,600 crore AgustaWestland chopper deal, was extradited to India from Dubai on December 4, 2018, and was taken into custody by the CBI on December 5. Subsequently, he was arrested by the Enforcement Diractorate (ED) on December 22, 2018 on money laundering charges. He was later sent sent in judicial custody.Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the investigating agencies. The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.The AgustaWestland scam relates to the purchase of 12 helicopters for use by VVIPs in India. It is alleged that Michel, acting as middleman, secured the deal for AgustaWestland Company by paying kickbacks to Indian politicians and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agustawestland-scam-accused-cites-covid-19-risk-in-bail-plea-sc-declines/story-2muLQ3Mpgi0Ub71qLWKXdO.html
22-04-2020||India||Rs 2 lakh fine, up to 7 years’ jail for attack on health workers, says govt||The Centre has issued an ordinance for protection of doctors under which cases of assault on medics will be non bailable, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said Wednesday.“Changes in the Epidemic Diseases Act through ordinance have been approved by the cabinet. It will be implemented after the President’s sanction. Offences will be made non bailable and cognizable,” Javadekar said at a briefing.“Investigations will be completed in 30 days. There will be stringent punishment including fines up to Rs 2 lakh. If serious cases, the punishment will be imprisonment up to seven years and fine up to Rs five lakh,” he said.“The message is clear. No attacks on health staff and doctors will be tolerated,” Javadekar said. The government had received several complaints of assaults on doctors and health workers, particularly those involved in Covid care.Watch | ‘Up to 7-yr jail, hefty fines’: Modi govt passes ordinance to protect health workers The decision came hours after Union home minister Amit Shah during a meeting with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) assured doctors of their safety following reports of attacks on health workers in different parts of the country.The IMA had said on Monday it would observe a ‘Black Day’ on April 23 if the government does not enact a central law on violence against healthcare workers.Doctors affiliated with various associations have been urging the government to bring in a law to make assaults against them non bailable.Medical professionals particularly those involved in Covid care have been attacked in various places, often when they have gone to quarantine those testing positive or by relatives of coronavirus patients.They have also been harassed by landlords and thrown out of their accommodation over fears they could be carriers of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-2-lakh-fine-7-years-jail-for-attack-on-health-workers-says-govt/story-cB6JHGTE5YChwpjRUC1UXO.html
22-04-2020||India||Narottam Mishra gets health dept as Shivraj Singh Chouhan distributes portfolios||Narottam Mishra was handed the charge of Madhya Pradesh’s health department on Wednesday as the central state is witnessing a surge in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has risen to 1552 and there have been 76 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, which has spread to 26 of the state’s 52 districts.Also read: Congress targets BJP govt over variation in Covid-19 numbers in Madhya PradeshIndore has emerged as one of the major Covid-19 hotspots in the country and prompted the Centre to send a team on Monday to the city to assess and manage the situation.This is the third time the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader will be handling the charge of the health department. Mishra, who has been the health minister twice from 2003 to 2018, will also be the state’s home minister.“The portfolios are being distributed in view of our government’s focus on controlling corona in the state at the moment. The cabinet will be expanded after lockdown period and then the distribution of portfolios among all the ministers will be done after consideration in totality,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.“Narottam Mishra will coordinate among all the departments concerned, government and private agencies, industrialists, traders and individuals and review the situation regarding Corona. He will also get feedback from the district crisis management committees,” he added. Also read: 12-day-old baby girl tests positive in Bhopal, hospitalised Kamal Patel has been made the central state’s agriculture and family welfare minister, Tulsi Silawat has been given the water resources department, Govind Singh Rajput will be the cooperative and food and civil supply minister and Meena Singh will be in charge of the tribal welfare department.Shivraj Singh Chouhan also held a meeting with his cabinet ministers after the allocation of portfolios.The allocation of portfolios came a day after the five were sworn in by Governor Lalji Tandon amid the Covid-19 lockdown on Tuesday morning. Later in the day, Shivraj Singh Chouhan assigned the ministers different divisions to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the measures taken to check the spread of Covid-19.Silavat was health minister in the previous Congress government headed by Kamal Nath and Govind Singh Rajput had revenue and transport departments with him. Both are loyalists of BJP leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. They joined the BJP last month after rebelling against Kamal Nath, along with four other ministers and 16 MLAs.The Congress party pointed out to the “treatment meted” out to the rebels.“Those who betrayed the Congress to topple its government and joined the BJP cabinet must be shocked with the treatment meted out to them in BJP government as they have been given insignificant departments,” Narendra Saluja, state Congress president’s media coordinator, said.“One of them wanted to become deputy CM in Kamal Nath government but he has been given water resources. When chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with just five ministers in his cabinet was free to give them important departments what he will give to them after cabinet expansion and more ministers can be anybody’s guess,” he said.Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was sworn in as the chief minister on March 23, chose to expand his cabinet after nearly a month of taking charge of the central state. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had been criticised by the opposition and on social media for running his government without a cabinet, particularly without a health minister, as the Covid-19 situation continued to worsen in the state.When Chouhan assumed office the coronavirus pandemic was rearing its head in the state with only seven Covid-19 cases registered in two districts. But in the span of about 29 days, the state has registered as many as 1485 Covid-19 cases with 76 of them dead and as many as 26 of its 52 districts affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narottam-mishra-gets-health-dept-as-shivraj-singh-chouhan-distributes-portfolios/story-2gxIDKeBqvL2VR0IUm7QTM.html
22-04-2020||India||Delhi starts testing media professionals for Covid-19, Kejriwal wishes them ‘good health’||The Delhi government of Wednesday started testing media personnel for coronavirus after scores of media professionals in parts of the country contracted the disease while performing their duties on the field. “Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted out. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Tuesday announced that the administration will set up a special Covid-19 centre to test media professionals who have been reporting from the field during the lockdown. The Karnataka government has also issued a similar order.  The move came after nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.The Centre also issued an advisory for media professionals who have been working amid the coronavirus crisis. Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health pic.twitter.com/ZRz1BOYFJWIn its advisory, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting urged the media personnel to take health and related precautions while performing their duties.“It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted with Covid-19 while covering the happening in certain parts of the country,” the statement read.Print and electronic media are part of essential services and professionals working in the field are exempt from the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-starts-testing-media-professionals-for-covid-19-kejriwal-wishes-them-good-health/story-AnyCcQC22e8cbMNdbWq8jP.html
22-04-2020||India||‘Corona immune people’ valuable, key to restart economy: Researchers||As nations stare at a crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, a group of economic experts from Europe has argued hundreds of thousands of people who were infected and are immune are a key resource from a social perspective and for restarting economic activity.The researchers have advocated this vital resource of “corona immune people” must be looked for, employed effectively or reinstated in all activities, including societal activities such as caring for the elderly and sick, issued immunity certificates by governments and even sent to countries with peak healthcare demand.The research paper titled “Certified corona immunity as a resource and strategy to cope with pandemic costs”, published by Switzerland-based Centre for Research in Economics, Management and the Arts (CREMA), states people who have survived the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are largely immune and the probability of them contracting the same virus a second time within a few years and passing on the disease is small, and hence they should be treated as a resource.The researchers – David Stadelmann (University of Bayreuth, Germany), Reiner Eichenberger (University of Fribourg, Switzerland), Rainer Hegselmann (Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, Germany), David Savage (University of Newcastle, Australia) and Benno Torgler (Queensland University of Technology), have predicted those countries which treat their corona-immune people as a resource are expected to perform comparatively better than others, and engagement of corona-immune people is necessary for a controlled exit from lockdowns. “There are now potentially millions of people (worldwide) who have been infected with the Coronavirus and who are now immune. Their immunity makes each of them individually a valuable resource in the fight against the virus, a resource that grows as the number of people infected increases,” the research paper states.“Antibodies from immune people might even be used to produce blood serum as a potential treatment. Moreover, from a societal perspective, the larger the stock of persons with immunity, the lower the risk of infection for the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions.”The paper further states: “As the number of immune people grows, restrictions on all but the most vulnerable can be gradually relaxed. Those who are already immune could go back to their economic and social activity immediately and could even provide active support to the healthcare system. Their engagement and contribution to society and the economy would reduce the risk of overburdening the healthcare system and would reduce the potential for social breakdown.”One non-profit organisation, the “The Corona Immunity Initiative” has been started in Switzerland. It enables targeted “at home” testing of the population for SARS-COV-2 immunity and will allow the organisation to gather information on the spread of the virus and level of immunity in the general population. An email sent to the Corona Immunity Initiative remained unanswered.CREMA researchers have concluded that due to complete lockdowns and self-isolation, the world is on the brink of a second very real crisis, and this hasn’t been caused by the Coronavirus but by decision-makers and societal reaction to the pandemic. Quoting one of the hypotheses from the research, David Stadelmann told HT: “The side effects of societal infections could be vast. Unfortunately, it will be difficult to distinguish whether the cure may have been worse than the disease. However, there are sectors where the negative side effects of government measures against the crisis can be easily investigated.“For instance, we expect online gambling, alcoholism, domestic violence, divorces, obesity and suicides of non‐infected people to increase. We also expect shadow market activities to increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/researchers-argue-corona-immune-people-are-valuable-should-be-used-in-fight-against-pandemic/story-0jpHJg7IFIDn2UUbqpTlGM.html
22-04-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: PM Modi may talk about Covid-19 situation on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inform the people of the country’s progress in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and his views on the road ahead in his monthly radio address “Mann ki Baat” on Sunday.In a statement, public broadcaster All India Radio (AIR) said the Mann Ki Baat, a broadcast to the people by Modi, is scheduled for 11 am on April 26.Since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown began last month, Modi has made several addresses to the nation in which he tried to reach out by apologising for the government’s tough decisions, spoke on the need to care for the poor, and honoured those at the forefront of the fight against the Coronavirus while outlining the next course of action.Sunday’s broadcast will originate from AIR Delhi and be relayed by all AIR stations, AIR FM channels, including FM Gold and FM Rainbow, local radio stations and all five community radio stations, the statement said.AIR stations will extend their transmission or have a special transmission, as necessary, to accommodate the broadcast.All DTH originating stations will make arrangements for simultaneous broadcast of this programme on their channels.The regional versions of Mann Ki Baat will be broadcast by non-Hindi capital AIR stations immediately after the closing announcement from AIR Delhi on the completion of the original broadcast. These will be relayed by all AIR stations, including local radio stations in regional languages.“Mann Ki Baat” will be additionally broadcast in Chhattisgarhi, Sargujiha, Gondi and Halbi dialects in Chhattisgarh. Repeat broadcast of the regional language versions on regional networks will be done at 8 pm.A special aspect of the broadcast is that it is visually adapted by Doordarshan and private TV news channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-may-talk-about-covid-19-situation-on-sunday/story-1RYwqrgZEjkH27NggzXxnO.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases near 20000 in India, fresh spike in patients worries Kerala: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country nears 20,000. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country jumped to 19,984 on Wednesday. The figure includes 3870 patients who have been cured or discharged and 640 deaths. Gujarat overtook Delhi as the state with the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Delhi and Gujarat have over 2000 coronavirus cases while in Maharashtra, the number of Covid-19 patients has crossed the 5000-mark. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Here are the key developments: 1. Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday appreciated doctors for their contribution in India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic and assured them of their safety.2. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday invited suggestions from the public on the economic stimulus required to uplift the micro, small & medium businesses (MSME) sector which is hard hit by the Covid-19 crisis.3. An employee in the civil aviation ministry has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, in the first confirmed case of the infection in a central government ministry. 4. India is readying separate rapid response teams for dispatching to friendly neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan in the spirit of its commitment to help them deal with the coronavirus pandemic, official sources said.5. With 2178 total coronavirus cases, Gujarat now has the second-highest number of Covid-19 patients after Maharashtra. Delhi has 2156 coronavirus cases.6. In a major relief to all industrial and commercial institutions during Covid-19 lockdown, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to exempt interest on the amount payable by these establishments under all heads from March 22 till June 30, 2020.7. Kerala reported 19 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, highest in two weeks, after a brief gap, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.8. After the Goa government declared the state to be Covid-19 free, the administration will now test an additional 5,000 people who reported symptoms of influenza-like illnesses (ILI) during the door-to-door survey that was conducted earlier this month.9. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched a pilot project for people to order essential goods either by calling over the phone or using WhatsApp during the lockdown put in place to break the chain of coronavirus infections.10. The government on Wednesday issued an advisory for media professionals working in the print and electronic sector of the industry. Media personnel have been advised to take health and related precautions while performing their duties during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-inch-toward-10-000-in-india-fresh-spike-in-patients-worries-kerala-10-points/story-GyMv3zKAof9mSBBypzZaNI.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Nine of 12 CISF personnel infected in Mumbai discharged||Nine out of the 12 personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai have been cured of the infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and discharged. The personnel were posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) before the contracted the disease.MA Ganapathy, special director general, CISF, said, “In all 12 personnel had tested positive in first test but nine have been discharged having tested negative in subsequent tests. The three hospitalised have been also tested negative in the last test but they will have to undergo another test.”The CISF personnel who had tested positive are from the ranks of constable to assistant sub inspector (ASI); the eldest being 52 years of age and the youngest 27 years. All the cured and discharged personnel have been advised to observe mandatory home quarantine for 14 days from the date of discharge.On March 27, a CISF head constable (HC) tested positive for Covid-19 after reporting a mild fever. After the first positive case, CISF decided to test 11 of his close contacts, four of whom tested positive on March 29. As all lived in the same camp,152 personnel were quarantined at the CISF residential camp at Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai even as more tested positive. CISF officials stated that active contact tracing was done to avoid any further spread of the disease. “It was a pro-active action as aggressive testing was done. The contacts were traced and all were timely quarantined,” said KN Tripathy, deputy inspector general, CISF, Mumbai airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nine-of-12-cisf-personnel-infected-in-mumbai-discharged/story-AroBrlKT5qNeoXQQyyFIsL.html
22-04-2020||India||MP gets health minister amid Covid-19 lockdown as Shivraj Singh Chouhan allocates portfolios||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has distributed portfolios among five of his ministers, allocating the health department to Narottam Mishra as the state battled a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), ANI reported on Wednesday.The allocation of portfolios came a day after Narottam Mishra, Tulsi Silavat, Kamal Patel, Govind Singh Rajput and Meena Singh were sworn in by Governor Lalji Tandon amid the Covid-19 lockdown on Tuesday morning.Later in the day, Shivraj Singh Chouhan assigned the ministers different divisions to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the measures taken to check the spread of Covid-19.The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has risen to 1776, including 76 deaths and 149 people who have been discharged after being cured. The coronavirus pandemic has spread to 26 of its 52 districts.Also read: Congress targets BJP govt over variation in Covid-19 numbers in Madhya PradeshIndore has emerged as one of the major Covid-19 hotspots in the country and prompted the Centre to send a team on Monday to the city to assess and manage the situation.Narottam Mishra has also been given the charge of the home, ANI reported.According to the news agency, Kamal Patel has been made the central state’s agriculture minister, Tulsi Silawat has been given the water resources department, Govind Singh Rajput will be the food processing minister and Meena Singh will be in charge of the tribal welfare department.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting with his cabinet ministers after the allocation of portfolios.Also read: 12-day-old baby girl tests positive in Bhopal, hospitalisedShivraj Singh Chouhan, who was sworn in as the chief minister on March 23, chose to expand his cabinet after nearly a month of taking charge of the central state. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had been criticised by the opposition and on social media for running his government without a cabinet, particularly without a health minister, as the Covid-19 situation continued to worsen in the state.When Chouhan assumed office the coronavirus pandemic was rearing its head in the state with only seven Covid-19 cases registered in two districts. But in the span of about 29 days, the state has registered as many as 1485 Covid-19 cases with 76 of them dead and as many as 26 of its 52 districts affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-gets-health-minister-amid-covid-19-lockdown-as-shivraj-singh-chouhan-allocates-portfolios/story-eycbkME9An5BbuWrpy34tO.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In a first, RSS chief Bhagwat to deliver online address on Sunday||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will deliver an online address on Sunday on the current situation in wake of the Covid-19 crisis, the Sangh said on Wednesday.According to senior functionaries of the Sangh, this is for the first time in its history that such an address of its head is being held through a virtual platform.In a tweet, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh said, Bhagwat will address on ‘Current Situation and Our Role’ on April 26 at 5 pm.“All of you are invited to join this session along with family members and well-wishers,” the Sangh said.The Sangh chief addresses only twice a year - once on Vijaydashmi, which sets the agenda and gives direction to RSS workers for the upcoming year and in the first week of June on the conclusion of the annual training session of the RSS for its workers.Sources in the Sangh said the focus will be on suggesting the way out from this crisis.And at the same time what changes are required in the aftermath of this crisis, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-a-first-rss-chief-bhagwat-to-deliver-online-address-on-sunday/story-mKQnhuKggWLn15TGStuLQL.html
22-04-2020||India||How the railways has fared since the suspension of passenger services||A month after passenger services were suspended due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, Indian Railways has adapted to a new role of running only freight trains, marking an unprecedented change from primarily catering to millions of travellers. Passenger trains have been suspended since the Janta Curfew of March 22. The national carrier, which used its mammoth network to ferry an average of 23 million passengers on 13,000 trains every day, now operates only freight and parcel trains to ensure the supply of essential goods. On April 16, the railways marked its 167th birth anniversary against the backdrop of no passenger trains plying on its network for 25 days - the first time this has happened in its history, thanks to the lockdown.“We are running uninterrupted 24X7 freight train operations to ensure availability of essential commodities through the country. From March 24 to April 20, more than 10.13 lakh wagons carried supplies to keep the supply chain functional,” a railway ministry official said. “Of these, more than 6.53 lakh wagons carried essential commodities like food grains, salt, sugar, milk, edible oil, onions, fruits, vegetables, petroleum products, coal, and fertilisers throughout the country.”The railways, already reeling under financial stress over the past few years, has seen a decline of 122.80% in passenger earnings till April, when compared to the same period last year, according to data monitored by the railway ministry. Freight earnings too have seen a decline of 44.12 %, with earnings from commodities such as coal and coke dipping by 48.25% to 1,880.61 crore from Rs 3,633.76 crore. Carrying of minerals too has declined by 38.71%. The lockdown and the government’s focus on boosting supplies of essential goods have led to a substantial increase in the transportation of food grains, which has gone up by 88.21%. In April alone, the railways transported 4.07 million tonnes of food grains, compared to 1.65 million tonnes in the same period last year, according to the railway ministry. “In order to ensure that kitchens of all Indian homes continue to run normally, during the lockdown period…these efforts have been made to ensure that farm products like food grains are picked up on time and also to ensure timely supply during the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19,” the railway ministry said in a statement.“The loading, transportation and unloading of these essential commodities has been in progress in full swing during the lockdown period. Close association is being maintained with ministry of agriculture for food grains loading. It may also be noted that CONCOR is also working with NAFED to ensure transportation of pulses in a big way.” Former railway board chairman Vivek Sahai said: “The railways’ resolution must be to increase its daily cargo capacity after the pandemic.” He added, “Railways are ferrying nearly 1.1 billion tonnes of cargo along with 23 million passengers a day. After this pandemic is over, the resolution should be to reach 1.5 billion tonnes load per day.” In addition to this, the railways has identified 66 routes for special parcel trains for supplying perishable commodities such as fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture.“Trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less, so that no part of the country remains unconnected. Trains have been given en route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels may be done,” the ministry said. A voluntary service by Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officers, called Setu, has been developed to track special demands to ensure doorstep delivery of essential items. The service tracks urgent SOS calls for medical supplies across the country. A railway ministry official said, “Recently, for an autistic child, skimmed camel milk was transported by a parcel train from Ajmer to Mumbai when the parents sought help on a social media platform. Similarly, another autistic child in Ajmer, suffering from serious ailments, had his stock of medicines run out. His relatives approached railway officials and medicines were transported by a parcel train from Ahmedabad to Ajmer.” Till April 18, the railways has transported 1,150 tonnes of medical supplies amid the lockdown. The Centre has also cleared the running of two special trains for Indian Army personnel, citing national security considerations.As the demand for ferrying millions of stranded migrant workers grew, the railway ministry clarified that it has no plans to deploy any special trains so far. Once restrictions are lifted, the railways plans to ensure strict social distancing norms in trains, which include mandatory thermal screening and no allotment of middle berths in the sleeper class. Airlines have also prepared a plan for possible operation of commercial flights once the lockdown is lifted. Reporting time for passengers at airports could be increased by up to two hours, so that they can smoothly clear access control, random screening, check-in and immigration (in case of international travellers) while maintaining appropriate distance.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri had on Monday said restrictions on passenger flights will be lifted only when the Centre is confident the spread of Covid-19 has been controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-railways-has-fared-since-the-suspension-of-passenger-services/story-mI3Jyz8ieTsZIZf5ZuDBdO.html
22-04-2020||India||Watch: In this UP city, police perform aarti, give bananas to lockdown violators||Police across the country have been punishing violators of the lockdown clamped to break the chain of coronavirus infections by making them do sit-ups and jumping jacks and asking them to carry placards with messages shaming them.But not in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur where at least two police personnel were seen performing ‘aarti’ of people, who were found violating the coronavirus lockdown in Kidwai Nagar area of the city.In a nearly one minute video tweeted by news agency ANI, a policeman is seen chanting Vedic hymns and performing aarti of at least a dozen of people caught out on the road.Another policeman was seen giving them bananas as prasad.Watch the video #WATCH: Police perform 'aarti' of people who violated #CoronavirusLockdown norms at Kidwai Nagar in Kanpur. pic.twitter.com/crm5w3s9JZAlso read: Jumping jacks to frog jumps: Indore Police’s style of punishing lockdown violatorsPolice have registered more than 24,000 first information reports (FIRs) and booked over 71,000 people for defying the Covid-19 lockdown norms, news agency PTI has reported.The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country inches toward the 20,000-mark with 15,474 active cases, 3869 people who have been cured and 640 deaths as of Wednesday morning.The Centre decided to extend lockdown till May 3 to contain the spread of the highly infectious disease and has asked citizens to avoid stepping out of their houses unless it is for essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-in-this-up-city-police-perform-aarti-give-bananas-to-lockdown-violators/story-mcfPonEB1ZC7p9SAGZ29KN.html
22-04-2020||India||Centre applauds Maharashtra’s Worli Covid-19 containment model, may replicate||The five-member inter-ministerial central team (IMCT), which is on a visit to Mumbai for an on-spot assessment, has praised Maharashtra government and concluded that Worli Koliwada area could become a model for the rest of the country to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a cluster, a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said on Wednesday. Earlier, the Centre had raised concerns over the implementation of the ongoing lockdown protocol and other measures in Mumbai and Pune, which have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The team led by Manoj Joshi, additional secretary, Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries, visited the slums in Worli Koliwada on Tuesday for an on-spot inspection of the area. Worli Koliwada falls in the G-South ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has reported 487 Covid-19 positive cases --- the maximum in any cluster in the country -- to date. Aaditya Thackeray, state minister for tourism and environment, represents the area in Maharashtra assembly. The IMCT team praised the Maharashtra government’s efforts in breaking the chain of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, infection in Worli Koliwada. “The team, led by Mr. Joshi, has said that Worli Koliwada can be a good example in the country for making it Covid-19 free. If the same efforts are replicated in other containment zones, it will help break the chain of the viral outbreak,” a statement from the CMO said. However, the team expressed concern over the high rate of Covid-19 mortality in Mumbai, which stood at 151 till Tuesday, during a meeting with state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The lack of containment in densely populated Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, is also another area of concern that figured during the talks.Maharashtra continues to top the country’s list with the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases, as 552 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total count to 5,218. Mumbai is the epicentre for Covid-19 positive cases in the state, as 419 new cases were reported on Tuesday, and the overall tally in the city stood at 3,451. The state also reported 19 fresh Covid-19 related death on Tuesday, of which 12 were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two in Thane and one each in Sangli and Pimpri-Chinchawad. Maharashtra has reported 251 Covid-19 related fatalities so far.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The state government issued an order on Tuesday, reversing the earlier relaxations provided in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) because of the spike in the number of Covid-19 positive case. The fresh order has banned private building construction activities, the opening of sweet and confectionery shops selling farsan and other edibles. Information technology companies also have been barred from operating with around 50% of their staff strength. However, these relaxations are applicable in other parts of the state amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which was initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended by another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The state government has also ordered to put a stop on the civic authorities’ pre-monsoon work till further notice. Construction work on major infrastructure projects, including Metro, coastal road, etc., has also been halted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-worli-koliwada-can-be-a-model-for-coronavirus-containment/story-yUmh1GV8ITgiUL4tYuZhcN.html
22-04-2020||India||India readying rapid response teams to help neighbours deal with Covid-19: Report||India is readying separate rapid response teams for dispatching to friendly neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan in spirit of its commitment to help them deal with the coronavirus pandemic, official sources said. A 14-member rapid response team was sent to Maldives last month to help the island nation set up coronavirus testing laboratories and train local medical professionals to fight the pandemic. Earlier this month, India sent a 15-member team, comprising healthcare personnel from the Army, to Kuwait as part of bilateral cooperation between the two countries. Three weeks back, India gifted a 10 tonne consignment of essential life saving medicines to Sri Lanka in view of the COVID-19 crisis. India has assured all friendly neighbouring countries of all possible assistance to help them fight the pandemic. New Delhi has also been playing a key role in pushing for a common framework in dealing with the crisis. At a video conference on March 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for formulating a joint strategy to fight COVID-19 in the SAARC region and proposed an emergency fund with an initial offer of USD 10 million from India. It is understood that India has already made the contribution. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is a regional grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. All the SAARC member nations are reeling under adverse social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. India is also supplying anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to 55 countries. A number of countries including the US, Mauritius, Seychelles have already received the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has been identified by the US Food and Drug Administration as a possible treatment for the COVID-19 and it is being tested on more than 1,500 coronavirus patients in New York.The demand for the drug has swelled rapidly after India decided to lift a ban on its export.In the neighbourhood, India is sending the drug to Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh Nepal, the Maldives, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-readying-rapid-response-teams-to-help-neighbours-deal-with-covid-19-report/story-snzDm1QKlVArW6msV59nYI.html
22-04-2020||India||Aviation ministry HQ to be sealed after staffer tests Covid-19 positive||An employee in the civil aviation ministry has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials aware of the developments said on Wednesday, in the first confirmed case of the infection in a central government ministry. The ministry headquarters at the Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh will be sealed “as per the prescribed protocol,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said. Officials who have had contact with the staffer will be tested. “An employee of the ministry who had attended office on April 15 has tested positive for COVID19 on April 21. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self-isolation as a precaution,” the ministry of civil aviation said in a statement. “Government of Delhi is seized of the matter. They are taking appropriate steps as per the laid protocol for contact tracing and risk profiling,” it added. The staffer who tested positive complained of throat pain a few days back and he got tested on Tuesday, a government official said. The development came a day after a housekeeper in the Lok Sabha secretariat and the daughter-in-law of a Rashtrapati Bhavan sanitation worker tested positive for Covid-19.A cluster of 125 residential houses in the Rashtrapati Bhavan estate was sealed while the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) turned a large number of residential houses near Kali Bari Marg, where the Parliament employee lived, into a containment zone.The latter was not working in Parliament complex but in one of the establishments of the Lok Sabha secretariat at 36 GRG Road.The government has directed a phased return to office of central government ministry officers. The new guidelines --- issued after the extension of the lockdown till May 3 --- call for 100% attendance from officers above the deputy secretary level with junior staff attendance of 33%. Some junior staffers have expressed concerns over commuting to work under the lockdown. “Social distancing is not maintained when you have to carpool with others. The entire point gets negated,” a government staffer said on the condition of anonymity.Another employee, who too did not want to be named, said: “Commuting has been tough as there aren’t enough vehicles for junior staff. We are supposed to carpool with others...They have asked to try getting private cars for whoever can manage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-ministry-to-be-sealed-after-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive/story-8tIRnofp3u9kC5NMw8DzCM.html
22-04-2020||India||With 94 new Covid-19 cases, Gujarat’s tally climbs to 2,272, death toll at 95||Gujarat reported 94 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the state tally of Covid-19 disease to 2,272 , a health department official said. Of the new cases, the maximum patients - 61 - were from Ahmedabad , principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Surat reported 17 cases, Vadodara- eight, Aravalli-five, Botad- two and Rajkot- one, Ravi added. Gujarat, which is the second worst-hit state in the country, breached the 2,000-mark on Tuesday.With five more deaths from Covid-19 reported on Wednesday, the state’s death toll rose to 95. According to Ravi, there are total 2,033 active cases. Of these, 13 patients are on ventilator support, while the condition of 2,020 is stable, the official said. One hundred and forty four patients have been discharged after being cured of the disease. The state government has so far tested 37,059 samples, including 2,516 in the last 24 hours, she said.The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients jumped to 1383 and fatalities to 50 in the last 24 hours, pushing India’s tally to 19,984, Union health ministry data showed on Wednesday morning.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-94-new-covid-19-cases-gujarat-s-tally-climbs-to-2-272-death-toll-at-95/story-UjHz2JjMWLC90YW1RZ5OXO.html
22-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 5 people enter Goa via sea, rail; administration quarantines them||Five people who entered Goa, three by sea with the help of fishermen and two by walking along rail tracks, have been quarantined and will be tested for coronavirus. According to a statement to the press, these people had entered Goa from Karwar, Karnataka with the help of nine boat owners/fishermen and have now been put in quarantine. They will have to undergo requisite tests for Covid-19. “The police department has registered FIRs and is taking further legal action against all involved. The fisheries department would take steps, as per law, to cancel the license of the boat owners/fishermen,” the statement said. The Directorate of Fisheries has issued show cause notices to two fishing vessels namely Suknem and Suknem-II off Karwar coast for not complying to the conditions laid down and has directed to pay an amount of Rs. 2.45 lakh each to the Directorate within two days.The owners of the two vessels, Julius Michael Rodrigues and Pio Tony Rodrigues, have been asked to explain their actions within 24 hours, failing which the registration of the vessels would be cancelled or suspended without any further notice.The fisheries officer designated at the fisheries complex, Cutbona Jetty, had reported that five crew members, three from Sukne vessel and two from Sukne-II, boarded at Karwar, Karnataka.Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, while some relaxations have been granted for travel to work within the state, interstate movement has been banned for people and passengers. Goods vehicles are being checked at the borders for stowaways hiding in trucks. With rail services and other means of public transport suspended, people desperate to get home have been trying unconventional means to reach home with such incidents being reported across the country. The Goa government also plans to launch ‘Smart Kiosks’ to facilitate testing at the border checkposts, industrial estates, urban health centres, the airport and the port. “This expansion of gathering samples would decentralise the process and help in safe collection of samples,” the health secretary informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-5-people-enter-goa-via-sea-rail-administration-quarantines-them/story-Yv0ObjBkGPbvCzCVbQgQ8H.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Rahul Gandhi invites public suggestions on stimulus needed for MSME revival||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday invited suggestions from the public on the economic stimulus required to uplift the micro, small & medium businesses (MSME) sector which is hard hit by the Covid-19 crisis. #COVID19 has devastated our micro, small & medium businesses (MSME). The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions & ideas for what a MSME economic stimulus package should cover on: http://voiceofmsme.in or our social media platforms. #HelpSaveSmallBusinesses,” Gandhi said on the microblogging site Twitter. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThe Congress party has constituted a panel, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, which will prepare a detailed plan for revival of MSME along with measures to ensure procurement of wheat, mustard and gram and submit it to the government in a day or two, the party had said on Monday. The committee also looks to come up with a scheme to resolve the issue of stranded migrant due to the coronavirus lockdown. Apart from the former PM and party president Sonia Gandhi, the 11-member group comprises former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary in-charge organisation KC Venugopal and former union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe other members of the group are technology and data cell chairman Praveen Chakravarty, spokespersons Gaurav Vallabh and Supriya Shrinate, and social media department head Rohan Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-invites-public-suggestions-on-stimulus-needed-for-msme-revival/story-IbYzDJc66EcmmdQ6ygoMCP.html
22-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt issues advisory for media professionals amid Covid-19 outbreak and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Govt urges media professionals to take precautions, issues advisoryThe government on Wednesday issued an advisory for media professionals working in the print and electronic sector of the industry. According to the release by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, media personnel have been advised to take health and related precautions while performing their duties during the coronavirus pandemic.Read More ‘Will ensure your safety’: Amit Shah tells doctors on Covid-19 frontlineUnion home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday appreciated doctors for their contribution in India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic and assured them of their safety as reports about attacks on health workers have trickled in from across the country.Read MoreFacebook to pick up 10% stake in Mukesh Ambani’s Jio: What the deal means The Jio Platforms purchase is Facebook’s biggest since its 2014 acquisition of WhatsApp. The US social media company said the deal would bring together JioMart, an e-commerce venture of Mukesh Ambani, and its WhatsApp platform to enable people to connect with businesses. What does the deal mean?Read more to find outEven I have come to play: When Kaif ignored Ganguly’s advice and hammered a sixThe 2002 Natwest series final between India and England at Lord’s is regarded as one of India’s most memorable chases. The Sourav Ganguly-led India chased down the target of 326, courtesy a brilliant counter-attacking partnership between Yuvraj Singh and Mohammad Kaif. With the required run rate increasing, India captain Sourav Ganguly started screaming from the pavilion, asking Kaif to take a single and put Yuvraj on strike. Did Kaif comply with the skipper’s instruction?Read MoreKartik Aryan’s TikTok with sister called out for misogynyActor Kartik Aaryan’s recent TikTok video with his sister Kritika has landed him in trouble.The video, shared earlier this week, showed Kartik ‘throwing’ Kritika off the balcony for not cooking a meal the way he likes it. The video has since been removed from his account.Read MoreFacebook’s WhatsApp, Reliance Retail’s JioMart to make nearby kiranas easily accessibleFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s announcement of investing in Reliance Jio in India also includes WhatsApp and Reliance Retail’s collaboration to boost JioMart. For those unaware, JioMart is Reliance Retail’s initiative that is supposed to help small merchants connect with consumers. As a part of the commercial pact, WhatsApp and JioMart will let customers connect with nearby ‘Kiriana’ shops that will boost home delivery.Read MoreHair woes giving you sleepless nights? We’ve got you covered!While a trip to the salon may seem far-fetched during the lockdown, there are a number of hair care regimes one could adopt at home. Read MoreWhat US President Donald Trump said on 60-days immigration banUS President Donald Trump said he plans to issue a 60-day immigration ban to protect American workers affected by coronavirus. Trump added that the suspension will not apply to temporary workers.  Watch the video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-issues-advisory-for-media-professionals-amid-covid-19-outbreak-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IfKcGfDqRYptGF2A4OexgK.html
22-04-2020||India||Kerala High Court seeks explanation on data deal with US firm||In a setback to the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought an explanation from it over the data contract deal with the US firm Sprinklr and questioned the foreign jurisdiction norm in the agreement.“We are proud that Kerala has done well in controlling Covid-19. But we also have concerns about date confidentiality. Is the government incapable of handling data of 2 lakh people?,” a bench comprising Justices Devan Ramachandran and TR Ravi asked while hearing a petition questioning the deal. The court directed the government to file a detailed reply by Wednesday.At the height of the coronavirus pandemic, the state IT department had inked an agreement with the US firm to process a huge volume of data collected by grassroots health workers of the state. Though no money was involved in the contract, the opposition had alleged that it was a breach of privacy and vital data. Later, it was found that the cabinet and law department were not consulted before signing the deal.When the government responded that it had sought the help of the company for data analysing and vetting, the court asked if the government was incapable of handling the data of 2 lakh people. It also asked whether the government had an IT department.“We do not want the Covid-19 pandemic to be substituted with data pandemic. Data confidentiality in the present world is most important,” the court observed. It also questioned the jurisdiction of the agreement in a court in New York.The Sprinklr controversy came up two weeks back and the opposition, Congress-led United Democratic Front, had announced a series of agitation from next week seeking Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation alleging it was a “sell out” and that many state-based IT and data companies were overlooked to gift the contract to the US firm. But CM Vijayan brushed aside all the allegations saying the “opposition was jealous of the rising popularity of the government.”     As the controversy flared up, state IT secretary M Shivasankar, also the CM’s private secretary, told the media on Saturday that he took the decision personally as the pandemic situation was getting out of control in the state. Later, he also appeared in a promotional video of the deal which was removed from Sprinklr’s website after the controversy cropped up.“We direly needed an entry that could vet a considerable amount of health data to identify infection patterns to streamline the containment strategy. Spirnklr agreed to provide the service without charge. The arrangement did not warrant the prior vetting of the finance or legal departments. It was my decision at a desperate time,” he said justifying the deal. But the opposition said he owned up the guilt to save the chief minister.“We don’t believe that without the CM’s consent such a deal will take place. Nearly 1.75 lakh people under observation had volunteered their personal information to field workers in good faith. But the government betrayed their faith and handed over valuable information to the US firm. It is strange the IT secretary did not know the value of this data,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who was the first to raise the charge on April 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-seeks-explanation-on-data-deal-with-us-firm/story-Itba8NNzadEueq7oB9522I.html
22-04-2020||India||‘101 arrested, not a single minority member’: Maharashtra minister on lynching||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has said that there is no communal angle to the April 16 Palghar lynching incident and the attack was a fallout of swirling rumours triggered by social media posts about child-lifters on the prowl in the area.“Not even a single member of the minority community was among the attackers. Altogether, 101 people have been arrested on charges of lynching. The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has started the probe. We’ll release the list of names of all the accused soon,” Deshmukh said.The home minister stopped short of naming the main opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but alleged that a few politicians were trying to give a communal angle to the “unfortunate incident”.“Three persons were lynched by a mob in an unfortunate incident. The deceased were pleading with their attackers. But their cries were misinterpreted because of language barriers and were erroneously thought to be seeking help from a particular community. There was no communal angle to the incident,” he said.The BJP has attacked the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government --- a coalition of the Nationalist Congress Party, the Shiv Sena and the Congress -- over law and order. The BJP has also demanded Deshmukh’s resignation.On April 16, three men --- two seers and their driver --- were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadhchinchale village, located about 110 kilometres from Palghar, and beaten to death by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The incident occurred when the victims were going from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral.The deceased were identified as Kalpavriksha Giri (70), Sushil Giri (35), and driver Nilesh Telgade (30). The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-communal-angle-to-palghar-lynching-maharashtra-minister/story-GAJdB6QE4b0J2HlIoocQHP.html
22-04-2020||India||From Kerala Governor, rare praise for Pinarayi Vijayan’s role in Covid-19 battle||It is rare to hear governors praise governments in states where parties with other ideological persuasions are in power. But, faced with the Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan has banded together with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In an interview to Vinod Sharma, Khan praises the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government for controlling the disease, and talks about the roles governors can play in such a situation. Edited excerpts: You’ve had differences with the chief minister, especially his stand against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act? Are you on the same page on Covid-19 crisis?We need not read too much in those differences. My duty was to uphold the Constitution, and to let them know that the subject of citizenship comes exclusively under the jurisdiction of the central government. As individual or even as a party they have every right to criticise CAA, but the state government and legislature are under a constitutional obligation to abide by the law passed by Parliament. Don’t forget that despite my clear understanding that CAA was beyond the state government’s purview, I agreed to read the paragraph critical of CAA in my address to the assembly. What made me concede was the letter of the chief minister in which he did not question the issue of jurisdiction or opposed CAA on any principle, but asserted that it involves the question of law-and-order in the state. It was the same argument that was made during the Shah Bano episode when minister after minister defended the move to reverse the judgment of Supreme Court in Parliament - not on the grounds of principle but that large scale demonstrations are happening and if judgment is not reversed then peace may be endangered.Other than CAA, we are on the same page -- not only in the fight against coronavirus but on almost all issues. Kerala is a progressive state; the government is doing excellent work, and I am keen to see they take their good work to more heights.The first Covid-19 case in India was detected in Kerala in January. It subsequently became the country’s first hot spot, but has since flattened the curve. What has made its public health model click?The hot spots were confined to two districts. It is important to keep in mind that almost 80% of the cases were those who came from foreign countries, or foreigners. This means that contact infection was only 20%. This is irrefutable evidence of the proactive and vigilant role played by the state government. The CM and the health minister were on their toes, and were helped by their colleagues who were put in charge of different districts. Kerala society has a strong sense of empathy and voluntarism. For instance, Kudumbshree, an NGO with 43 lakh women as members, was able to start 483 community kitchens within 24 hours of the lockdown, and by the next day, they were operating about 1,500 community kitchens. A few days later, they started Janakeya Food outlets and provided parcel service for all those who found it difficult to operate their home kitchens. Additionally, more than 50,000 people registered as volunteers on different websites of the state government.In 2018, Kerala faced the Nipah virus, and in 2019, the floods. Did past experience help in containing the spread? Sure, the past experience was very helpfulWhat lessons can populous states with lower literacy, bigger geographical expanse, and larger concentration of population learn from Kerala? One lesson is to promote women NGOs. Kudumbshree is a brilliant example of a game-changer. They are engaged basically in setting up self-help groups of women and provide them micro-financing but in emergencies like floods during last two years or the Covid-19, they provided relief quickly and effectively.How do you view the governor’s role in the crises? Can Raj Bhawans help the Union government reach informed decisions about requirements of individual states without prejudice?The governor has duty not only to counsel and advise, but also to encourage the state government where they are implementing programs of development and welfare. I consider it a part of my duty that I should highlight the achievements of the state, and try to help them secure more finances for their progressive schemes and I assure you that I spare no opportunity to do so.In Kerala, I am representative of the Hon. President of India, but outside Kerala I behave more like a representative of Kerala. I feel pleasure in highlighting the achievements of the state and very positive features of the Kerala society. Let me also say that Malayalis are sturdy patriots and very proud Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-playing-a-proactive-vigilant-role-in-covid-fight-governor-arif-mohammad-khan/story-EbjVEdkoMTt8KvHPZ18blI.html
22-04-2020||India||Aviation ministry staffer tests positive for Covid-19, govt assures ‘all possible help’||A civil aviation ministry employee who resumed work when the Centre reopened its office on April 15 has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, the ministry said on Wednesday. Government officials said Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, the headquarters of the aviation ministry, is being sealed for now.All ministry staffers who had come in contact with the officials have been told to go into isolation and will be tested.The ministry, in a tweet, stated that the employee tested positive for Covid-19 on April 21 and had attended the office on April 15. “An employee of the ministry who had attended office on 15 April 2020 has tested positive for COVID19 on 21st April. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the Premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self isolation as a precaution,” the ministry tweeted out.We stand by our colleague at @MoCA_GoI who has tested positive for COVID19 & have extended all possible medical help & support. Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures.I wish him strength & speedy recovery. https://t.co/ff8gN9dFOWMinister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, said the ministry stands by its employee who has tested positive for Covid-19 and assured all possible support.  “We stand by our colleague at @MoCA_GoI who has tested positive for COVID19 & have extended all possible medical help & support. Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures. I wish him strength & speedy recovery,” Puri tweeted out. Ministry of Civil Aviation (B) wing at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, Delhi has been sealed. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has been asked to sanitise the entire wing. This comes a day after housekeeper of the Lok Sabha tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The staff member was not working at the Parliament complex but at one of the establishments of the Lok Sabha secretariat at 36 GRG Road.“Approximately 10 days ago, he fell ill and went to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital (RML) for check-up and tests, including ECG. He was discharged the same day,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-ministry-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-government-assures-all-possible-help/story-ucfvnsOiaGVO09clHSPVXM.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt urges media professionals to take precautions, issues advisory||The government on Wednesday issued an advisory for media professionals working in the print and electronic sector of the industry. According to the release by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, media personnel have been advised to take health and related precautions while performing their duties during the coronavirus pandemic.“Management of media houses is requested to take necessary care of their field staff as well as their office staff,” the advisory read.  Media persons are covering incidents relating to COVID19 in the country involving travel to containment zones, hotspots&other affected areas. It's advised that all such media persons may take health&related precautions while performing duties: Ministry of Information&Broadcasting pic.twitter.com/oxWobViY5MThe advisory comes after some media personnel in certain parts of the country were reported to have contracted Covid-19. “It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted with Covid-19 while covering the happening in certain parts of the country,” the statement read. Nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Tuesday announced that the administration will set up a special Covid-19 centre to test media professionals who have been reporting from the field during the coronavirus lockdown. The Karnataka government has also issued a similar order.    Print and electronic media are part of essential services and professionals working in the field are exempt from the lockdown. India has reported 50 deaths and 1383 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country jumped to 19,984 on Wednesday. The figure includes 3870 patients who have been cured or discharged and 640 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-government-urges-media-personnel-to-take-precautions-issues-advisory/story-IFfEd4484olsorel2Ot5vM.html
22-04-2020||India||Marriage certificate issued without rituals null and void: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday turned down a four-year-old certificate of registration of marriage obtained by a Thane resident and his girlfriend on grounds that it lacked the sanctity, as no rites for solemnising a marriage was performed, and also observed that the Thane Family Court was not justified in rejecting his plea.The appellant had moved the HC after the Thane Family Court had rejected his plea on November 16, 2017.He had sought a declaration that the marriage registration certificate issued by the Thane Municipal Corporation on September 29, 2016, which stated that he married his girlfriend on July 28, 2016, at a local Mandal, which solemnises marriages, was illegal and that he was still a bachelor.Also Read : Man asks for marriage certificate after 16 yrs. Officials say, remarryHe said that he had fallen in love with one of his colleagues at a gymnasium, where both of them worked. Though they were keen to get married, they were apprehensive that their family members might not accept the match. They hatched a plan to convince their family members. They obtained a marriage registration certificate from a local Mandal and had planned to reveal to their family members about tying the nuptial knot.But the woman’s parents were annoyed when she disclosed the plan. They compelled her to lodge a police complaint at Rajaram police station in Ratnagiri district, alleging that she was abducted and her signatures were forcibly obtained to get hold of the forged marriage registration certificate. A case was registered against the man and some other persons.Later, the dispute was settled amicably.The HC held that the family court was not justified in rejecting the appellant’s plea.It said under section 7(1) of the Family Court’s Act a suit or proceeding for a declaration as to the validity of a marriage or as to the matrimonial status of any person is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court and that the Thane resident’s plea fell in that category.“The respondent woman (his purported wife) has not disputed these facts,” said the HC bench. “She is not opposing the prayers made before the Family Court at all. The Family Court was not justified in dismissing the petition filed by the appellant on the ground of lack of jurisdiction,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-certificate-issued-without-rituals-null-and-void-bombay-hc/story-INjw17frUuvVHOTj8bbPhP.html
22-04-2020||India||‘You have done well, we will ensure your safety’: Amit Shah tells doctors on Covid-19 frontline||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday appreciated doctors for their contribution in India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic and assured them of their safety as reports about attacks on health workers have trickled in from across the country.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had said on Monday it will observe a ‘Black Day’ on April 23 if the government does not enact a central law on violence against healthcare workers.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here It had said it is sounding a White Alert under which all doctors and hospitals will light a candle at 9 pm on April 22 to mark the protest against incidents of violence.Amit Shah and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan interacted with doctors and IMA through video conferencing. Watch l Amit Shah assures safety of doctors, IMA calls off scheduled protest The Union home minister also appealed to them to not to hold even symbolic protest as proposed by them, saying the government is with them.Also read: Harassed Meerut doctor appeals to IMA for helpThe association withdrew its protest after the meeting with Amit Shah and Harsh Vardhan.IMA had said that doctors across the country will work with black badges on April 23. “Our legitimate needs for safe workplaces have to be met. Abuse and violence should stop immediately. White Alert to the nation - All doctors and hospitals to light a candle at 9pm on 22 April, as protest and vigil,” the association had said in a statement.The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has already written a letter to Amit Shah, requesting him to implement the ‘Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property), Bill’.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Federation of Resident Doctors Association has also written to the Union home minister, expressing concern over the attacks on doctors and medical staff.There have been several incidents of attacks on healthcare workers and the police in different parts of the country, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, leading to injuries to doctors, paramedics and police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-have-done-well-we-will-ensure-your-safety-amit-shah-tells-doctors-on-covid-19-frontline/story-OMpmUGK0lyGpFVLH0m66EO.html
22-04-2020||India||CID takes over Palghar lynching case, day after notice to police from human rights panel||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Maharashtra Police has taken over the investigation in the Palghar lynching incident.Three men - two seers and their driver - were dragged out of their vehicle and beaten to death by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The incident happened on April 16 when they were going from Mumbai to Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral.Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar district.The deceased were identified as Kalpavriksha Giri (70), Sushil Giri (35), and driver Nilesh Telgade (30).The Maharashtra government had earlier ordered a high-level probe into the incident, and two policemen from Palghar were suspended on Monday for alleged dereliction of duty.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued a notice to Maharashtra Police chief over the Palghar lynching case, observing that the “incident is apparently indicative of negligence by public servants”.According to the release, NHRC has sought a detailed report within four weeks including action taken against the culprits and relief, if any, granted to the next of kin of the three deceased.BJP leader Kirit Somaiya had said that an investigation into the case should be done under the guidance of a judge of a high court or by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Congress party leaders too have condemned the incident.Palghar police on Sunday arrested 110 people, including nine juveniles, in connection with the lynching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-takes-over-palghar-lynching-case-day-after-notice-to-police-from-human-rights-panel/story-kHZXZKt6YDPT5MPSZp1dRI.html
22-04-2020||India||Cleaner rivers, less pollution: India’s Covid-19 lockdown has some positive effects||India’s extended lockdown to curb the coronavirus outbreak has shut down schools, workplaces, industries, transport, and forced people to stay home.It also led to an unexpected bonus in the country with six out of 10 of the world’s most polluted cities: cleaner air.“It is a hell of a change,” said Kunal Chopra, who suffers from chronic bronchitis and whose morning walks no longer begin with a shot from an inhaler. “The air is much fresher and my breathing problems have gone down.”India accounts for the highest pollution-related deaths in the world with more than 2 million people every year, according to a December 2019 report by the Global Alliance of Health and Pollution.On March 25, the first day of the lockdown, the average PM 2.5 levels decreased by 22% and nitrogen dioxide — which comes from burning fossil fuels — dropped by 15%, according to air pollution data analyzed by the Center for Research on Energy and Clean Air.“These are extraordinary times,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Center for Science and Environment, a research and advocacy organization in New Delhi. She attributed the drop in air pollutants to less vehicles on the road, construction activity, and factories shutting down.“People are more vulnerable during a pandemic in areas with high pollution,” she said. “Our lungs and hearts are already compromised, and we cannot fight the virus.”India has reported nearly 20,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and over 600 deaths.The stringent lockdown measures that are set to be lifted on May 3 also have had an effect on India’s rivers.Pictures of pristine clear waters of the Ganges, India’s longest river considered holy by Hindus, were enthusiastically shared on social media a few weeks into the lockdown. India’s pollution monitoring body said the water had even become fit for bathing in some areas, according to real-time monitors placed along the 2,575-kilometer (1,600-mile) -long river.A recent analysis by the Delhi Pollution Control Board found that the quality of the Yamuna River flowing along New Delhi has also improved during the lockdown. The report cited a decrease in runoffs from 28 industrial clusters and less trash.“The lockdown has clearly told us what the main sources of pollution are,” said Vimlendu Jha, an environmentalist and founder of Swechha, a non-governmental organization helping youth fight climate change. “Effluents are forced into our river bodies, and that is major reason why our rivers are black.”Jha and other experts warn that the environmental improvements may be short-lived as the government eventually lifts the lockdown and rampant economic activity resumes.“How was a lockdown for just a few weeks able to achieve what governments could not for decades?” said Jha, who believes authorities should study data collected during the lockdown to devise better environmental policies.Roychowdhury suggested private workplaces that shifted their work online during the lockdown should institutionalize working from home to consider the impact of commuting on air pollution.But that’s not everyone.Ashok Mandal, a scrawny rickshaw driver in New Delhi, spends hours scanning the streets for a passenger. He finds none. Used to making at least 400 rupees every day ferrying passengers in a residential neighbourhood, his income has been slashed to a meager 70 rupees for picking up and delivering groceries.“Clean air means nothing to me,” Mandal said. “I am just trying to make it through each day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cleaner-rivers-less-pollution-india-s-covid-19-lockdown-has-some-positive-effects/story-Gq4IoC6nuyOe7kInyQeHnM.html
22-04-2020||India||Delhi begins plasma therapy trials for critical Covid-19 patients||Delhi begun plasma therapy trials for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients on Tuesday, with two persons receiving the treatment that uses antibody-rich plasma (a blood component) taken from those who have recovered from the infection to treat critical patients.One of them was a 60-year-old man admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Lok Nayak Hospital. He was not on ventilator but had low oxygen saturation (85%), a condition that indicates his organs were not receiving adequate amount of oxygen. The normal oxygen saturation is 95% to 100%.“The donor plasma has been screened for infections like HIV and Hepatitis B and then injected into the patient. Hopefully, the antibodies from the plasma will help the person (Covid-19 patient) to fight the virus better,” said Dr JC Passey, director of the Lok Nayak Hospital.He said the second patient was younger, between 30 to 40 years of age. “He had no comorbidities (like diabetes or hypertension), but had a severe infection and had to be put on oxygen support (not ventilator). He was also given plasma therapy along with the other person,” Passey said.The trial is being conducted in collaboration with the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which will be processing the blood to derive plasma and store it.Two more recipients for the treatment were identified on Monday, but they weren’t given the therapy. “One of them had problems in multiple organs and the other person was extremely old and might not have tolerated the treatment,” Passey said.The rapid antibody test kits received by Delhi from the Centre were used on Sunday to identify the donors. These tests, however, have been put on hold for two days over huge variations in results.In the absence of antibody tests, those who are below the age of 60 and do not have underlying health conditions such as the diabetes, hypertension, heart disease etc. will be considered potential donors.As per the trial procedures, 10 patients will be randomly administered plasma therapy and an equal number will receive a placebo (a treatment without any therapeutic effect). The trial will find out whether people getting the plasma therapy are doing better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-begins-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients-at-lok-nayak-hospital/story-WMXuosOKlaNtDIhOo3KYzH.html
22-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases climb to 126 in Bihar after 13 more test positive||Thirteen people tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the total number of such cases to 126 in the state, news agency PTI reported.Of the fresh cases, seven were reported from Munger district, four from Buxar and one each from Patna and Rohtas, PTI quoted principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar as saying.All the fresh cases in Munger are from Jamalpur block where the contagion has been traced to a 60-year-old man, who had travelled to Nalanda district last month to attend a Tablighi Jamaat congregation and tested positive last week.The number of samples tested in the state till date is 11,999, Kumar said.Bihar had reported its first couple of coronavirus cases on March 22. However, nearly a quarter of the total number of cases so far in the state has been reported in the last 24 hours.Siwan (29), Nalanda (28) and Munger (27) account for two-third of the coronavirus cases in Bihar.On Monday, as many as 17 people from Bihar Sharif, the headquarters of Nalanda district, had tested positive.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, meanwhile, said on Tuesday that an assistance of Rs 1,000 will be provided to all families that do not have ration cards but were identified by self-help groups of ‘Jeevika’ in the state.Kumar directed Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar to inform all the district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates to provide the assistance of Rs 1,000 to each of the family which does not have ration card but has been identified by the Jeevika groups, according to an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-climb-to-126-in-bihar-after-13-more-test-positive/story-Gk77WRyRPRYe6WsVi0ORAK.html
22-04-2020||India||Jumping jacks to frog jumps: Indore Police’s style of punishing lockdown violators||While the government has strictly asked citizens not to venture out of their homes during the coronavirus lockdown, violators don’t seem to pay any heed.Indore Police have found a novel way to punish those who abuse the lockdown restrictions. In a video shared by news agency ANI, the police personnel were seen rounding up the violators and making them exercise.From jumping jacks to frog jumps, the police made sure that the violators got enough exercise for the day and a lesson to take home on following the lockdown guidelines strictly.This is not the first time when police personnel thought of innovative ways to drive home Centre’s message of “stay at home”. #WATCH: Police personnel punish the violators of #CoronavirusLockdown in Indore. #MadhyaPradesh pic.twitter.com/XG8JxvDKS4In Maharashtra, the Police have kept its grip tightened on lockdown abusers. Earlier this week, police personnel in Pune made lockdown violators perform yoga.In a video, the local police in Pune’s Bibvewadi area rounded up people who ventured out for a morning walk and made them perform yoga and exercises on the road.In another video, police in Maharashtra’s Kondhwa made about 100 people who were found violating the lockdown orders do sit-ups and other exercises.Despite a stringent lockdown in place to battle the menace of coronavirus, people are not giving rest to finding excuses to violate the orders. Earlier this month, Maharashtra Police had registered over 35,000 offences across the state against those violating prohibitory orders and quarantine guidelines during the lockdown.In Uttar Pradesh, the Police have registered more than 24,000 FIRs and booked over 71,000 people so far for defying Covid-19 lockdown norms, news agency PTI reported.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country inches toward the 20,000-mark. On Wednesday morning, the health ministry reported a total of 19,984 coronavirus cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jumping-jacks-to-frog-jumps-indore-police-s-style-of-punishing-covid-19-lockdown-violators/story-TSN6YTwob2oYvPkOhzaHnO.html
22-04-2020||India||Won’t let DHFL scam accused Wadhawans flee country like other defaulters, says Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday that the state government will hand over Wadhawan brothers - accused in multi crore Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam and Yes Bank scam - to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as their 14-day quarantine ends today.In his Facebook live address on Wednesday, Deshmukh said that the 14-day quarantine of the businessmen brothers will end in the afternoon on Wednesday after which custody can be sought by the central agencies. “We have written to both the central agencies that they can take the custody on Wednesday afternoon. They are at a school in Mahabaleshwar (in Satara district) completing their mandatory quarantine,” he said.Wadhawan brothers and 21 other family members were detained by Satara police on March 7 after they illegally travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala in Pune violating the lockdown orders. They had travelled between two districts on a letter issued by IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who is principal secretary (special) in home department. The Wadhawans and 21 others have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code.“We would not let Wadhawans flee the country as a few defaulter businessmen have fled in the past,” he added.Maharashtra government has ordered an inquiry against Amitabh Gupta by additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik for illegally issuing the letter to the Wadhwans. Gupta has been sent on compulsory leave.After their arrest the CBI and ED had written to Satara police to keep Wadhwans under detention until the end of the lockdown. The promoters of Deewan Housing Finance Limited, now insolvent, are wanted by the central agencies for their respective probe in the alleged Yes Bank fraud.Meanwhile, the DHFL promoters have obtained interim protection from arrest till May 5 from the special CBI court. The court has granted them protection considering that their arrest is not possible during the period owing to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. “We have written to the central agencies to take over the custody anytime from now. It is upto them to decide when act upon our request,” a home department official said.The five luxury vehicles, in which DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan travelled to their farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar during the coronavirus lockdown, were seized by the Satara police on the instructions of the ED.The two Range Rovers and three Toyota Fortuner cars, owned by Wadhawan brothers, were seized under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The two brothers are named as accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Yes Bank former CEO Rana Kapoor and other accused. The duo is also being probed in the DHFL case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hand-over-dhfl-scam-accused-wadhawans-to-cbi-today-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-0PLmgA145QzUG4L6CMYGjO.html
22-04-2020||India||Two time former Goa Congress MLA passes away due to pneumonia||A Congressman and former two-time MLA in Goa Jitendra Deshprabhu passed away due to pneumonia, hospital sources have said. Jitendra Deshprabhu, 64, was suffering from a bout of severe pneumonia and was brought to the hospital in a breathless state where he was quickly put on a ventilator but lost his battle with life, Dean of Goa Medical College Dr SM Bandekar said. “Shocked to learn about the untimely demise of former legislator Shri Jitendra Deshprabhu. My deepest condolences and sympathies are with his family in this hour of grief,” Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who was Deshprabhu’s colleague in the Goa Legislative Assembly, also offered his condolences. “Deeply shocked to hear about [the] passing away of my friend and former Congress MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu. He was a studious legislator and excellent orator. My condolences are with his family. May his soul rest in peace,” Kamat said. The State Unit of the Congress too mourned the loss. “He was a staunch Congressman and a firebrand political leader of Goa. Goa loses an intelligent son. I will always remain indebted to him for his valuable guidance to me, especially during my Youth Congress days,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar said. “GPCC will always remember his contribution for the growth of the party, especially during our difficult times. Our heartfelt condolences to his family, may God give them the strength to face this tragedy. May his soul Rest in peace,” Chodankar said. Deshprabu hailed from a royal family of local chieftains which was granted the title of Visconde de Pernem (Viscount of Pernem) by the colonial Portuguese regime after having chosen to side with the Portuguese regime. Via a 1788 treaty between the Rauraje Deshprabhus and the Portuguese, mainly for seeking protection against a northern rival, Goa’s northernmost tehsil of Pernem which was initially a fringe territory of the Sawantwadi Rajas became a part of the Portuguese territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-time-former-goa-congress-mla-passes-away-due-to-pneumonia/story-vW2ZApiq71ySY8Y9mWrFuM.html
22-04-2020||India||Karnataka launches pilot project for home delivery through phone, WhatsApp during Covid-19 lockdown||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched a pilot project for people to order essential goods either by calling over the phone or using WhatsApp during the lockdown put in place to break the chain of coronavirus infections. State administration officials said the project was to ensure that nobody violated the lockdown by stepping out to get essential goods including vegetables, groceries or medicine. The pilot project has been launched in Bengaluru and people can call on 080 61914960 and provide necessary details like their name, phone number and address and specify a nearby store from which they want the items.Also read: Karnataka health department stops using Zoom for video callsThe service will be provided through neighbouring kirana stores or the nearest store which has those particular goods in stock. After placing the order, customers will get a confirmation on SMS and a delivery partner will deliver the goods, payment for which can be made either through e-wallets, cards or cash.The service is similar on WhatsApp.The government believes that this would help not only those struck at home but also elderly. There is a nominal service charge of Rs 10 for each order and contactless delivery is possible.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage With the initial test run being done in Katriguppe and a few other localities of south Bengaluru, some of the customers said they are thankful for the service.“With the lockdown in force, earlier getting things was a challenge but now is now much easier,” Suma, a housewife from Girinagar, said. Also read: Karnataka minister asks CM to screen journalists for Covid-19 in the stateHowever, some complained the service was slow and it takes hours and others said specific brands ordered were not available.A government official said they are working with delivery partners to ensure this is improved over the next few days. The administration also intends to scale this up if this experiment succeeds, the official added“The intention is to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as Bangalore has 19 hotspots and thanks to an effective seal down, there has hardly been any new case in the city over the last few days,” the official, who did not want to be identified, said.Also read: India reports 1383 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hoursKarnataka’s primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar said the state registered 10 new positive cases taking the cumulative total to 418 which includes 17 deaths and 129 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-launches-pilot-project-for-home-delivery-through-phone-whatsapp-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-kxKwa5Xd1PqVQYPREwJPUM.html
22-04-2020||India||Cases in Gujarat cross 2000-mark, second-highest in country after Maharashtra: Covid-19 state tally||India has reported 50 deaths and 1383 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country jumped to 19,984 on Wednesday. The figure includes 3870 patients who have been cured or discharged and 640 deaths. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Delhi and Gujarat have over 2000 coronavirus cases while in Maharashtra, the number of Covid-19 patients has crossed the 5000-mark. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 5218 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 251 deaths so far while 722 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 2178 coronavirus cases and 139 recoveries so far. 90 people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2156 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 47 people have died from the infection while 611 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1659 on Wednesday. The state has reported 25 fatalities, and 230 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1596 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 635 recoveries and 18 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1552 positive cases of coronavirus. 76 people have died from Covid-19 here while 148 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh1294 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 140 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 20 have died from the infection here.Telangana928 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 194 people have made a recovery from the virus while 23 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 757 positive Covid-19 patients and 96 cases of recovery. 22 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 427 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 307 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 418 Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths. 129 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 380. 5 people have died from the infection while 81 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 254 and 245 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 127 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 39 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 423 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 15 deaths and 73 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 79 Covid-19 positive patients, 24 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 126 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 42 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 46 coronavirus patients, 19 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 27 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 14 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 16 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 26 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, one patient has died and 16 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 45 Covid-19 cases, 3 patients have died. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the eighth day of the extended lockdown phase on Wednesday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-in-gujarat-cross-2000-mark-second-highest-in-country-after-maharashtra-covid-19-state-tally/story-B7WKQHsjekbVy464HLiuHM.html
22-04-2020||India||As chilli field workers walk back to their homes in Covid-19 lockdown, farmers feel the pinch||Thousands of migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh and Odisha, who had been working in chilli fields in Telangana and parts of Andhra Pradesh, have been returning to their native villages due to extension of Covid-19 lockdown. And many have returned on foot, passing through the difficult terrain in dense forests having presence of Maoists in Chhattisgarh and Odisha.According to official estimates, around 10,000 workers, majority of them from Chhattisgarh, had been working in chilli fields spread over 10,000-12,000 acres along the Godavari river belt in Vajedu and Venkatapuram mandals (revenue blocks) of Mulugu district and Charla and Dummugudem mandals of Bhadradri Kothagudem district (both in Telangana), besides Chintoor, Kunavaram and V R Puram mandals of Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district.They migrate to these parts during the chilli crop season - in February and March - to earn their livelihood. But this year, as the crop almost reached the harvesting stage, the coronavirus epidemic started and thousands of labourers began hurriedly returning to their native villages in Chhattisgarh and Odisha.“Except 1,000-1,500 labourers from Chhattisgarh and around 500 from Odisha, all of them have left for their native places on foot, notwithstanding the imposition of lockdown and sealing of inter-state borders. Since they know the forest route, they might not have come to the notice of the police authorities,” said Jatvati Venkatesh, an activist belonging to Jana Vikas Samithi (JVS), working for the rights of Chhattisgarh tribals.The plight of Chhattigarh tribals returning from the agricultural fields of Telangana back to their native hamlets came to light with the death of 12-year-old Jamlo Madkami, a resident of Aded village of Bijapur, on her way back to her village on April 18.The girl came with her maternal uncle to work as labourer in the chilli fields of Peruru village of Vajedu mandal in Telangana. As the lockdown was extended till May 3, she started back to her village, about 150 km away, but collapsed, reportedly due to dehydration and lack of proper food, about 50 km away from her village.The Mulug district administration ordered an inquiry into how Madkami, a minor girl, was allowed to work in chilli fields and how she managed to cross the border. “Ever since the lockdown was announced, our district officials have been taking all measures to see that the migrant tribal labourers remained in their respective areas of working and not ventured to go back breaking the lockdown,” Mulug district collector S Krishna Aditya told Hindustan Times.He said each migrant labourer was provided with 12 kg of rice, besides Rs 500 towards subsistence allowance, though some big farmers promised to take care of these migrant labourers. “In Vajedu mandal alone, we distributed rice and money to around 1,726 migrant labourers. Yet, some of them seem to have tried to go back to their native places fearing uncertainty in lockdown,” he said.The exodus of tribals back to their native places have left the chilli farmers in lurch. “We are not able to get labourers to harvest the crop when we actually need them, as majority of them have walked back to their native places,” Srinu Kandula, a chilli farmer in Nandigama village of Chintoor block said.Normally, these migrant labourers come in groups of families - each comprising parents and their children. “We pay equal wages to each of them, irrespective of their age - ranging from Rs 200 to Rs 300 depending on the work they do. If we deny work to minors, the parents, too, drop out from work. So, we are forced to employ even minors,” Kandula said.Besides cash, the labourers also get some quantity of chillis as wages, which they carry along with them back to their villages, where they sell it to make some money. “This time, the yield in chilli crop is very good and the market price is also very encouraging - Rs 12,000 per quintal, as against Rs 7,000 last year. But we are not position to harvest the crop due to migration of labourers. If we can’t complete the harvesting in another couple of weeks, we will be at a big loss,” said Kandula.Back home, these tribal migrant labourers are not finding it easy to return to their villages. “The villagers are informing administration about their return. In most of the places these migrant labourers are camping outside the village,” said a police officer posted in Bastar region, who was not willing to be named.Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallav said that about 2,500 people from Telangana and Odisha returned to their villages in the district in last 20 days. “Police are monitoring them through sarpanch, village secretary and police station and putting them under quarantine outside the village after medical examination,” he said.Bijapur Collector KD Kunjam said about 6,000 labourers returned from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and are quarantined in 40 camps. “The tribal villagers have become vigilant about the Covid-19; they are not allowing their own relatives to enter their villages. We are taking care of each and every labourers and for that relief camps have been set up in schools and ashrams,” said Kunjam.Chief Medical Officer of Bijapur district Dr BR Pujari said many labourers had returned from crossing jungles and mountains. “Most of these are camping outside their villages with the help of villagers and administration,” said Pujari.Bastar Collector Ayaj Tamboli informed that 41 relief camps have been set up in Bastar district. “As many as 1,084 people have been kept in quarantine. Recently, 17 laborers of Odisha have been stopped outside the village Nangur Gaon, 20 km away from the headquarters,” he said.Bastar Commissioner Amrit Khalko said that that the villagers of Bastar division are aware of the coronavirus. “More than a thousand villagers are been closed. The traditional Mati festival of Bastar, Devguri Puja, Ama Tihar, Cock fight are not celebrated and people are following the rules,” said Khalko.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-chilli-field-workers-walk-back-to-their-homes-in-covid-19-lockdown-farmers-feel-the-pinch/story-sXb7WR8Vg8kVP04yDOuGNL.html
22-04-2020||India||On Earth Day, PM Modi gives a big shout out to Covid-19 warriors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday gave a big shout out to those at the forefront of fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19. He tweeted the appreciation while greeting the people on Earth Day.“On International Day of Mother Earth, we all express gratitude to our planet for the abundance of care & compassion. Let us pledge to work towards a cleaner, healthier & more prosperous planet. A shout out to all those working at the forefront to defeat COVID-19,” PM Modi said in his tweet.A landmark in the emergence of the environmental movement when it first took place in 1970, Earth Day has prompted calls from many companies, politicians, and economists for governments to pursue green recoveries.Every year, Earth Day is celebrated all over the world on April 22 to show support for environmental protection.In his message on the eve of World Earth Day on Tuesday, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said it is time people revisit and re-invent developmental and economic strategies.“We must reinvent the future on more sustainable lines by drawing appropriate lessons from the past and the harsh present,” he said.The closure of factories, industries, cancellation of flights and lesser number of vehicles plying on the roads have led to a remarkable reduction in air pollution levels, Naidu pointed out.The first Earth Day took place in 1970 when millions of Americans took to the streets to protest environmental ignorance and demand a new way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-earth-day-pm-modi-gives-a-big-shout-out-to-covid-19-warriors/story-Y9ZewuUd53h31mX7X4IJ6L.html
22-04-2020||India||Earth Day: How the planet healed during Covid-19 lockdown||No one was sure that there would be a day when they would see, at least in this lifetime, nature recovering after a fallow due to excessive pollution including dumping of industrial and domestic waste, irresponsible chopping of trees, and every possible abuse. But, the lockdown has turned the tables. Not just the skyline is becoming clearer with each passing day, the rivers are visibly purer, and the once endangered flora and fauna is now coming back to life. Here’s a glimpse of how the Earth has healed itself amid the lockdown. Our Lifelines — Rivers You can see the surface of river Ganga, which could not be cleaned despite spending crores of rupees is now cleaner than ever as reportedly none of the industrial waste is being dumped in it. According to a report in HT, Ganga may be cleaner today, than it was in 1986 — the year when efforts to clean the river were first launched. And, a similar case is with Yamuna. Due to a blanket reduction in industrial pollutants, and increased discharge of water from Haryana to Delhi, a cleaner Yamuna is visible these says. Both the factors have increased the self purification capacity of the river. READ | Ganga water cleaner than it was in 1986? Clear skies, and clearer skyline With absolutely limited movement of vehicles on the roads, most of the metro cities in India are breathing in much cleaner air with relatively safer levels of pollutants to deal with, as compared to the time before the lockdown. Metro cities have reported ‘satisfactory’ AQI, and those who had been battling smog in Delhi-NCR can vouch for it anytime!Feathers flock togetherThe news of pink flamingoes return in huge numbers to Mumbai beach is certainly something to rejoice about. The reduction in intensity of human activities at and around the city is being touted as a major reason for the possibility of flamingos to flock the city in such large numbers. The Bombay Natural History Society has stated that their number is 25% more than it was in the last year. A Himalayan view People in Jalandhar can see Himalayas from their roof top, for the first time in decades! The lockdown has cleared the air pollution to the extent that people in Punjab could catch a sight of Himalayas from some of its cities. The Himalayan range is more than 100 miles away from Punjab, and when spotted, its sight left many in awe! Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/earth-day-how-the-planet-healed-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-Rp7JnPzowHlfj6kIkH03BI.html
22-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Working from home to be the new norm in Covid-19 aftermath, says RS Prasad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Working from home to be the new norm in Covid-19 aftermath: Ravi Shankar PrasadWork-from-home will be the new norm in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, minister of communications, and electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday, and asked the departments under his charge to work on putting in place a platform to facilitate the emerging trend.Read MoreLockdowns may have only arrested first wave of Covid-19, says WHOThe sweeping shutdowns across the world appear to have absorbed what may only be the first wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, according to officials from the World Health Organization (WHO) and findings by researchers in France – one of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic.Read MoreTrump’s immigration suspension to last 60 days, targets those seeking green cardsPresident Donald Trump has said he expects to sign an executive order Wednesday that will suspend immigration — mostly impacting Green Cards — for the next 60 days to ensure Americans hits by record layoffs caused by the coronavirus outbreak get a first shot at all available jobs.Read MoreFacebook to buy 9.99% stake in Reliance Jio platforms for $5.7 billionFacebook on Wednesday announced an investment of USD 5.7 billion (Rs 43,574 crore) to buy a 10 per cent stake in the firm that houses billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s telecom arm Jio as the social media giant looks to expand presence in its largest market in terms of subscriber base.Read More‘Instead of squash, thinking of groceries’: Saurav GhosalSaurav Ghosal, the world No. 13 squash player who became the only Indian male to break into the top 10 of the world rankings last year, says he during the lockdown due to Covid-19, instead of analysing my performance in the French league, which would have taken place on the weekend of March 14, playing the Egyptian league and playing in El Gouna by the Red Sea soon after, he is thinking of groceries these days.Read MoreTV actor Rashmi Desai calls leaked bank statements disturbingTelevision actor Rashami Desai is disturbed by screenshots of her bank statements posted on social media. She says she had sent those screenshots to her accounting team after returning from Bigg Boss house.Read MoreAre you violating video-call etiquette?We’ve never video-called more than at present. Office meetings, catching up with friends, parties, consulting your doctors or checking in on loved ones. But there is a right way and a wrong way to do this.Read MoreCovid-19: China vs Germany as Angela Merkel demands ‘transparency’War of words have erupted between China and Germany over Covid-19. Beijing hit back after German Chancellor raised questions on virus’ origin. German Chancellor, Angela Merkel said, “I think that the more transparently China makes clear the story of the emergence of this virus, the better that is for us all in the whole world to learn from it.” Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-working-from-home-to-be-the-new-norm-in-covid-19-aftermath-says-rs-prasad-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4NtIGvnuSqjOtNfZMpOtUP.html
22-04-2020||India||India reports 1383 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hours||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients jumped to 1383 and fatalities to 50 in the last 24 hours, pushing India’s tally to 19,984, Union health ministry data showed on Wednesday morning.India, which had breached the 10,000-mark on April 14, now has 15,474 active cases and the number of people who have been cured stands at 3869. There have been 640 Covid-19 related fatalities in the country till 8am on Wednesday, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Maharashtra reported 6191 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 722 discharges and 251 deaths. Gujarat has now become the second-worst hit state with 2178 active cases and Delhi follows with 2156 infections.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday asked states to suspend rapid testing for the disease for the next two days, following complaints from West Bengal and Rajasthan that the exported antibody testing kits were returning erroneous results.ICMR’s top scientist Dr Rman Gangakhedkar said eight ICMR institutes will carry out field tests using the rapid testing kits in different states for validation purposes in the next two days and to find out if certain batches of the kits are faulty, following which feedback will be provided to states and the general public.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“We received a complaint from one state yesterday that rapid kits were leading to lesser detections, so we took feedback from three states today,” said Dr Gangakhedkar during the daily briefing on Tuesday.“We are learning that the positive samples of RT-PCR are showing too much variation (when tested by rapid kits) in the range of 6 to 71%,” he added, referring to the percentage of successful detection made by the rapid testing kits in positive cases.Also read| Lockdowns may have only arrested first waveWest Bengal was among the first state to complain about poor accuracy of the rapid testing kits distributed to states through ICMR network. Rajasthan, too, on Tuesday decided to suspend testing after complaining of a high rate of inaccuracy. The ICMR expert said the rapid test kits were tested in Delhi before they were sent out to states and had shown 71% accuracy. He added that its accuracy percentage was growing with the passage of time as Covid-19 antibodies taken seven days to build.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAccording to the Covid-19 dashboard of Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE), the number of confirmed cases stood at 2,564,038 and there were 177,424 fatalities across the world at around 8am India time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1383-new-covid-19-cases-50-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-MNaE1bIujJ0xFQPi7Ijj2H.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 ‘green zone’ Goa to now test 5,000 people showing influenza like symptoms||Goa will test an additional 5,000 people who have reported symptoms of Influenza like illnesses (ILI) during the door-to-door survey that was conducted in the state earlier this month for the presence of coronavirus disease Covid-19.While around 30,000 people with ILI and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) were identified through the survey, a list of 5,000 has been drawn up after excluding asthmatic patients and those who had no travel history or contact with people who had travel history. The committee headed by Dr Jagadish Cacodcar, Professor and Head of the department of Preventive and Social Medicine at Goa Medical College and Hospital, has completed and submitted the report based on the data generated by the House-to-House survey. “Around 5,000 cases having ILI symptoms, tests for which will be undertaken in a phased manner as per the testing protocol,” the Secretary Health said in a statement.A three day door-to-door survey was conducted in Goa between April 13 and 15 in which government employees, including teachers, fanned out across the state to survey people for travel history, influenza like symptoms or a combination of both.Goa registered seven coronavirus patients all of whom have since recovered prompting the state government to cautiously declare the state as a ‘green zone’. However, questions have been raised over the number of tests conducted pointing out that Goa has tested only around 900 people out of a population of 1.6 million prompting fears that some cases have gone under the radar. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that the government would rely on the survey data to buttress his case that the state is indeed free of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-green-zone-goa-to-now-test-5-000-people-showing-influenza-like-symptoms/story-kPfu2xqj0NUs5OwUMFSXWM.html
22-04-2020||India||70-year-old man recovers from Covid-19, dies of cancer in Odisha hospital||A 70-year-old man from the hotspot area of East Midnapore district of West Bengal, who initially tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a hospital in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar and later recovered, died of cancer on Tuesday.Odisha’s information and public relations department officials said the man was admitted to a Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar and died on Tuesday due to hypopituitarism (cancer in the pituitary) with septic shock and multi-organ failure.The man from West Bengal was operated upon at a Bhubaneswar-based private hospital for a pituitary tumour. On April 7, he came for a follow-up treatment to the same hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19.“After the treatment, the man had tested negative twice for Covid-19 and was technically cured of the disease as per ICMR protocol. However, he was not released from the hospital due to co-morbidities,” a health department official said requesting anonymity.Also read: State funeral and martyr status for Odisha Covid warriors, cash and job for familiesThe man was officially tagged as patient number 44 in Odisha. Till Tuesday, 79 people in Odisha, including a two-year-old girl, tested positive for Covid-19 and 29 have recovered. A 72-year-old man from Bhubaneswar with acute respiratory distress became the first Covid-19 casualty in Odisha on April 6. His swab sample tested a day after his death confirmed the presence of Sars-Cov-2 in his body.Also read: What you need to know todayThe simultaneous presence of more than one health disorder such as cancer, diabetes, hypertension in a person is known as comorbidity. According to a study published in The Lancet medical journal, Covid-19 is likely to be fatal in people who already have hypertension, diabetes or heart disease.Also read: To reach home amid lockdown, 27 migrants from Odisha, Andhra escape in a boatDoctors said Covid-19 would prove to be a massive challenge for a state like Odisha where a significant number of people have co-morbid conditions. As per the National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke, more than 92,000 people in Odisha were diagnosed with diabetes alone during screening clinics held between January 1 and December 31, 2018. Similarly, more than 118,000 people in the state were found to be suffering from hypertension while close to 34,000 had both diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-man-recovers-from-covid-19-dies-of-cancer-in-odisha-hospital/story-6GVIl6zPR4ZXsu3bSVORvK.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 50 jute mills ask for permission to operate, only 5 get it in West Bengal||The West Bengal government has allowed only five jute mills to resume operations, as part of the relaxation during Covid-19 lockdown. Most of these mills are located in the containment zone and need special permission from the government to resume operations.The state government is yet to decide on the permission sought by the 45 other mills.West Bengal, the jute hub of India, has most of its mills located along two banks of river Hooghly in the districts of North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas. Of them, North 24-Parganas and Howrah are Covid-19 hotspots falling in the ‘red zone’. Hooghly, though in the orange zone, has declared most of its municipal areas along the river Hooghly as containment zone.The five mills which have received permission for opening are in South 24-Parganas district. “There are around 60-odd jute mills in the state out of which around 50 have applied to resume work. Till April 20, only five have received the permission. We are yet to receive any information about the other mills,” said Raghavendra Gupta, chairman of Indian Jute Mills Association.“The five jute mills have been allowed to resume work with 50 workers each. This is not practical. We can at the most carry out the finishing touches required for already manufactured products and dispatch them,” said Gupta.The Bengal government had on April 15 decided to allow the jute industry to operate with 15 per cent of its regular workforce from April 20 after multiple requests from the Centre.Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani had called up Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to allow these mills to resume work. Banerjee had also received calls from chief ministers of Maharashtra and Telangana with requests to allow jute mills to resume work.With the harvest season nearing, the states as well as the Food Corporation of India are now looking up to Bengal for jute sacks.Requesting anonymity, a jute mill owner said, “The industry, for remaining closed during this time, may have to pay a larger cost in the future as the Centre would allow the use of plastic in large scale due to unavailability of jute sacks. Once plastic enters the sector, jute may not recover its place.”The jute mills employ about two lakh people and each mill on an average employ around 3,000 people. Hastings Jute Mill in Hooghly district, for example, has 4,338 workers on its roll.“But as large areas in the districts of as North 24-Parganas and Howrah have been declared as red zones where lockdown needs to be strictly implemented it is still not certain what will happen to these mills,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-50-jute-mills-ask-for-permission-to-operate-only-5-get-it-in-west-bengal/story-0dkfur7sSJEwIU4i5Q13AI.html
22-04-2020||India||Stopped from going to hospital by police, lost my baby, claims woman in Jharkhand’s Covid-19 hotspot||A pregnant woman from Covid-19 hotspot Hindpiri in Jharkhand’s Ranchi has alleged that she had to deliver her baby at home after the police barred her from going to the hospital on Sunday. The baby died in absence of medical care, her husband has further alleged.The police, however, denied the allegation saying the husband was asked to take her wife through a dedicated exit point. But he went back to home instead of going to the hospital through the exit point, police claimed.The woman’s husband Md Imtiyaz said that his wife felt labour pain around 11 pm on Sunday night. “In hurry, I took my wife in a vehicle to go to the hospital. One of my friends was also with me. The policemen stationed near Chhota Talab stopped the car. We pleaded the policemen but they did not let us go,” he claimed.Imtiyaz said they then went back home. “Some women of the locality were called and they helped her with home delivery. The child was born but it died after sometimes due to lack of immediate medical facility,” he claimed.Some Hindpiri residents lodged complaint with the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ranchi, Anish Gupta, who entrusted Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) with the responsibility of investigating into the matter.Kotwali DSP Ajit Kumar Vimal said, “They examined the CCTV footage and inquired the policemen deputed there. Actually, the husband of the woman was told that exit point was made near Guru Nanak School for Hindpiri residents. The family was asked to go through the exit point. However, instead of going through exit point, they went back home.”Meanwhile, Ranchi Police provided transportation facility to a pregnant woman from Hindpiri on intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. She was taken to hospital in police van. The mother successfully delivered her baby on Tuesday morning in the hospital.“One Md Saddam from Hindpiri called me around 2 am on Tuesday saying that her wife is in labour pain but he was not getting ambulance. Then, I told one of my officers to take my vehicle and take the woman to the hospital,” Vimal said.Saddam said timely intervention of police saved his wife and baby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stopped-from-going-to-hospital-by-police-lost-my-baby-claims-woman-in-jharkhand-s-covid-19-hotspot/story-S2tjf5muubygAx8V6zWSAM.html
22-04-2020||India||Manipur’s 2nd Covid-19 patient discharged, no new cases reported from state||Manipur’s second patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), who tested negative twice in successive tests, was discharged from the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Tuesday, officials said.The 53-year-old man, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2 and was under treatment at RIMS. He tested negative on April 18 and 19.“The second Covid-19 patient of the state, after being negative on two consecutive tests and being improved in his diabetic status, was discharged from the RIMS hospital today,” Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the state health department, said in a press release.“However, his surveillance will continue,” he said.Also read: What you need to know todayWith his discharge, the northeastern state which had reported only two cases of coronavirus infection now has no case of Covid-19.“I am glad to share that Manipur is now Corona free. Both patients have fully recovered and have tested negative. There are no fresh cases of the virus in the state. This has been possible because of cooperation of public & medical staff and strict enforcement of lockdown,” chief minister N Biren Singh had tweeted on Sunday.The state’s first Covid-19 case—a 23-year-old female who had come back from the UK—tested positive on March 24. She is presently staying at home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine. As of Tuesday, 368 people have been tested for Covid-19 and 193,643 were screened for the infection in Manipur, as per the status report of state surveillance officer Dr L Tomcha Khuman of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.In addition, 74 people are staying at government quarantine centres and 294 of them have completed their quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-2nd-covid-19-patient-discharged-no-new-cases-reported-from-state/story-iEqZtx5nStaDjXqTFxCI0M.html
22-04-2020||India||India count crosses 20k mark, rapid tests put on hold: Covid-19 news today||The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 20,000-mark on Tuesday, but the rate at which this threshold was crossed – it took more than 8 days for the tally to double – raises hopes that the country may be able to avert the sort of devastation seen in some other parts of the world. But in a move that compromises efforts by many states to test aggressively in so-called containment zones, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) put on hold for two days antibody testing for Covid-19 using rapid testing kits, or RTKs, citing huge variations in the results.Covid-19 cases in India double to 20,000 in 8 daysThe coronavirus outbreak in India began in early March after people who flew in from abroad introduced the infection to others, and has grown largely in small clusters – except for the one linked to the religious group in Delhi that led to thousands of infections – after the government enforced what is the largest global shutdown in population terms.Read MoreICMR puts rapid tests on hold to check faulty kits ICMR said the reason it has asked states to stop using the rapid testing kits (RTKs) for two days is that samples which are positive in RT -PCR are showing too much variation when tested by RTKs in the range of 6% to 71%. Read MoreCompanies warn of layoffs if no stimulusThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdown in place to combat it could cause permanent damage to businesses and force many to lay off staff unless the government announces a substantive stimulus package immediately, respondents to a business impact survey conducted jointly by industry body Ficci and consultancy firm Dhruva Advisors, said.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayWhile our understanding of the virus and its effect on the human body will become better in time, it is safe to surmise that not everyone reacts to a Sars-CoV-2 infection the same way.Read MoreMumbai bus conductor runs 21 km to report to workDevidas Jaisingh Rathod is a conductor on a Maharashtra state bus that runs every day from Palghar, 21 km from his home. These days he is in charge of a bus that has an important job these days -- ferrying 25 doctors and nurses to KEM Hospital. He usually hitches a ride on trucks ferrying essentials that pass by Manor. They drop him off at Palghar. On Sunday, though, there were no trucks. So, he ran 21 km to report to work. Read MorePatients admitted to hospitals in clusters to be tested for virusAll patients visiting hospitals in and around containment zones identified by the local authorities will be considered “suspected cases of Covid-19” and those getting admitted will undergo mandatory diagnostic tests for the coronavirus disease irrespective of symptoms, according to a central advisory on Tuesday.Read MoreTrump vows to ‘temporarily suspend immigration’ into USPresident Donald Trump on Monday said he is temporarily suspending immigration to protect American jobs threatened by the dire economic consequences of the coronavirus outbreak. India has been the top country of origin for legal immigrants to the US in recent years, with over 126,000 in 2017.Read MoreWHO stands by China in coronavirus origin rowThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday that all available evidence suggests the coronavirus originated in animals in China late last year and was not manipulated or produced in a laboratory.Read MoreLS staffer, kin of Rashtrapati Bhavan worker test positiveThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached the apex of the Indian State — Rashtrapati Bhavan and Indian Parliament — on Tuesday as a special housekeeper of Lok Sabha — whose son works in Parliament too — and a daughter-in-law of a Rashtrapati Bhavan sanitation worker were tested positive.Read MoreParliament to review protocol over video call meetingsThe Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will review rules and procedures to consider whether standing committee meetings can be held over video conference, a practice that has not taken place till now in order to maintain the secrecy of the proceedings. The rethink has been necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which has led to the grounding of inter-city transport and the need for people to avoid gatherings as far as they can.Read MoreGoa has no local cases, outsiders are a concern: CM Pramod SawantWhile neighbouring Maharashtra struggles with the burden of a growing number of coronavirus disease cases, Goa is celebrating its status as a state with zero Covid-19 patients. In an interview with HT, chief minister Pramod Sawant talked about the Goa model of combating the virus.Read MoreReview teams visit Bengal as state, Centre lock hornsThe West Bengal government removed restrictions on the movement of inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs), sent to monitor the implementation of the lockdown, after the Union home ministry sent a strongly worded letter on Tuesday amid an intensifying political tussle between the Centre and the state over Covid-19.Read MoreLockdowns may have only arrested first waveThe sweeping shutdowns across the world appear to have absorbed what may only be the first wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, according to officials from the World Health Organization (WHO) and findings by researchers in France – one of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic.Read MoreICMR says 69% patients didn’t show Covid signsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday that 69% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in India who were tested did not show symptoms of the infection, even as the Union health ministry said that the trend of cases worldwide showed about 80% of the patients had mild or very mild symptoms.Read MoreCovid-19: CISF to go for contactless frisking of passengers at airports, Delhi metroThe Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is preparing new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for operations at airports and the Delhi Metro after the lockdown that are expected to include contactless frisking and fewer passengers in each coach.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-count-crosses-20k-mark-rapid-tests-put-on-hold-covid-19-news-today/story-sXrfwjUUJEXpRFVv5q4WHM.html
22-04-2020||India||Rajasthan govt allocates Rs 1,200 crore for Covid-19 relief, biggest chunk for social security||The Rajasthan government has allotted around Rs 1,250 crore for Covid-19 related expenditure, according to data collected from various departments.This includes expenses on social security pensions, one-time relief of Rs 2,500 to 14 million families, free wheat to families under National Food Security Act, masks, gloves and PPE kits, laboratories, ventilators, quarantine centre, shelters for migrant workers, screening and survey, and rapid testing kits.The biggest chunk of this is being spent on social security. According to additional director of social justice and empowerment department, SK Gupta, Rs 800 crore was spent on giving one-time relief of Rs 2,500 to about 14 million poor families, who are not covered under social security pension scheme. These included Below Poverty Line (BPL) families, registered construction workers, street vendors and other workers, rickshaw pullers and the destitute people.“The money was transferred to the bank accounts of people by Department of Information and Technology (DoIT). For people who don’t have bank accounts, money was given the district collectors,” he said.For medical and other related needs, Rs 307 crore has been given from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), Rs 72.95 crore from budget for 2019-20, and Rs 224.78 crore from budget for 2020-21.Rajasthan’s allocation for SDRF in 2019-20 was Rs 1,340 crore and was raised to Rs 1,975 crore this fiscal.Secretary of disaster management department Siddharth Mahajan said that Rs 211.27 crore was given to medical education department for facilities at medical colleges, and Rs 37.10 crore to the medical and health department for facilities at district hospitals and rapid testing kits.The medical education got Rs 62.15 crore from 2019-20 budget and Rs 149.12 crore from budget for 2020-21 for testing facilities, ventilators, thermal scanners and other equipment.Mahajan said that the disaster management department sanctioned Rs 2.10 crore from last year’s budget and Rs 35 crore from the coming fiscal to medical and health department for masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kit and rapid antibody testing kits.The district collectors got Rs 49.36 crore from SDRF for quarantine facilities, screening, shelter for migrant labourers, dry ration and food packets. The collectors also got money from this fund for providing personal protective equipment to health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers.Mahajan said that the disaster management division of ministry of home affairs wrote to state chief secretary on March 14 about items and names of assistance from the SDRF in wake of Covid-19 outbreak. On March 28, a revised list was sent.Apart from this, the district collectors got around Rs 50 crore from CM Relief Fund and MLA LAD as untied fund for expenses not covered under the Disaster Management Act.The state government decided to provide free ration through Public Distribution System (PDS) to all beneficiaries under the NFSA who got wheat for Re 1 and Rs 2 a kg under normal distribution. This incurred an expenditure of around Rs 100 crore, said Mahajan, who is also secretary of the food and civil supplies department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-allocates-rs-1-200-crore-for-covid-19-relief-biggest-chunk-for-social-security/story-s1o4fMHqFi2BR5TP2GzK4L.html
22-04-2020||India||Podcast: India’s Coronavirus Response, Anti-China Sentiment, and the Communalization of Covid-19||This week, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) sits down with podcast regulars Sadanand Dhume of the American Enterprise Institute and the Wall Street Journal and Tanvi Madan of the Brookings Institution for a special “Happy Hour” edition of the “Grand Tamasha” news round-up. The three discuss how India is faring in its pitched battle against the Coronavirus, the reasons behind festering anti-China sentiment among many Indians across the political spectrum, and the impact COVID-19 is having on India’s domestic politics. Plus, the trio discuss their personal lockdown strategies for staying sane during self-isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-response-anti-china-sentiment-and-the-communalization-of-covid-19/story-E9s4T2lm7EGx17sjxPwvcL.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Modi, asks Rs 30,000 cr for relief, welfare schemes||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide financial assistance of Rs 30,000 crore to the state in the next three months for relief and welfare schemes.In his letter, the chief minister has requested an immediate release Rs 10,000 crore so that financial assistance can be given to the industrial, business, service and agricultural sectors.“Due to the long period of lockdown, revenue collections have come down to almost zero. In the current economic scenario, there is also a big reduction in the amount that the state receives from central taxes,” Baghel said in the letter.“On the other hand, the state government needs additional resources for the livelihood of the 56 lakh poor and needy families of the state, who have no means of income left,” he said.Also read: Rs 1L aid for kin of Chhattisgarh girl who died during walk back home from TelanganaBaghel has also requested an immediate exemption to the state for economic activities related to partial revenue generation in view of the controlled situation of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The chief minister has said construction work in cities and purchase of properties should be allowed, vehicle showrooms, including an exemption of registration and air conditioner, cooler and refrigerator shops, in view of the summer season, should be allowed to reopen.It would be appropriate to allow repair workshops and all retail works to open in all green zone districts. Baghel said an exemption should be also given to sweetshops so that dairy owners can sell milk.Also read: How a Chhattisgarh minister’s tweet could save Andhra govt millions of rupeesHe said the lockdown was implemented in Chhattisgarh from March 21 and due to which all economic activities have come to a standstill. The main source of the state’s income from mining activities, excise, GST, registration properties and vehicles and forest wealth etc have dried up.The chief minister said the rate of Covid-19 outbreak in Chhattisgarh is comparatively lower than other states. As of 21 April, 36 people were found to be infected in the state, out of which 25 have been discharged and the remaining 11 are being treated and their condition is normal.Around 400 people are being tested every day in the state, he said.“No new person has been found to be infected with Covid-19 in the last five days. Out of the 28 districts in the state, not a single person has been found infected in 23 districts. While four districts where eight were infected, no cases have been reported in the last three weeks...,” Baghel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-rs-30-000-cr-for-relief-welfare-schemes/story-otl7qy50FZ1BKLHa4PhNKK.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar announces Rs 1,000 assistance for families with no rations cards||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that an assistance of Rs 1,000 will be provided to all families that do not have ration cards but were identified by self-help groups of ‘Jeevika’ in the state.The state government has earlier decided to provide Rs 1,000 to each ration card-holding family in the state following the enforcement of lockdown.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Kumar directed Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar to inform all the district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates to provide the assistance of Rs 1,000 to each of the family which does not have ration card but has been identified by the Jeevika groups, according to an official release.“There should be no confusion about it. After providing Rs 1,000 to these families, ration cards should be issued to them (families identified by Jeevika) after completing verification of documents,” Kumar said in a meeting here.Kumar also made it clear that assistance of Rs 1000 will be provided to families in urban areas after identifying them through a survey. He asked the officials to complete the survey work at the earliest under the Urban Development and Housing Department’s National Urban Livelihood Mission.While reviewing the agriculture input subsidy being given to the farmers whose crop was damaged due to untimely rains and thunderstorm in February and March, Kumar directed the officials to extend the time-limit at least by a week so that farmers can apply for claiming crop damage.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Stating that some of the districts have received rains/thunderstorm in the past 3-4 days that has damaged crops, the CM asked the officials to carry out a survey at the earliest to determine the extent of the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-announces-rs-1-000-assistance-for-families-with-no-rations-cards/story-mCKaTSiexinvAiVRN7mi0N.html
22-04-2020||India||19 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala, sudden jump worries government||Kerala reported 19 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, highest in two weeks, after a brief gap, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Out of the 19 Covid-19 cases, 10 were in Kannur, the latest hotspot in the state which has reported 104 patients of the respiratory disease. With the new Covid-19 cases, the number of infected in the state went up to 426. “The situation is quite unpredictable. On Monday, people came out in large numbers at many places thinking lockdown norms were eased. It is not like that, we have to be careful. The sudden spurt in cases shows it,” Pinarayi Vijayan said.Also read: What you need to know todayFor the last two weeks, the state reported only a few cases of the contagion but the sudden spurt has got health officials worried. With no cases, many said the state was on the verge of flattening the virus curve but the latest developments show it is too early to arrive at a conclusion.Also read: Lockdowns may have only arrested first waveAnother worrying factor is the late onset of the disease. In Pathanamthitta, a woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday after more than 40 days of observation.In Kannur, nine of the Covid-19 cases are of people who came back from the Gulf. All flights were suspended in the country on March 25 showing they contracted the disease after 20 to 25 days of returning.“It is really a worrying point. We have asked our experts to study such cases,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-sudden-jump-worries-government/story-oJPbFNeJmNgcZSJ2dMmxAL.html
22-04-2020||India||65 new Covid-19 cases in Agra, 33 in Rae Bareli in a day take UP count to 1,337||Agra has once again seen a spurt in number of Covid-19 positive cases. One hundred fifty three cases were found in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the total number to 1,337 in the state. Sixty five of these were found in Agra.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases has now reached 306 in Agra.The number of positive cases continued to rise in the city despite the lockdown. The number of hotspots too has gone up to 62. More areas were barricaded to prevent movement in Agra.Similarly, the number of Covid-19 cases jumped from two to 35 in Rae Bareli, with several people testing positive after coming in contact with participants at a Tablighi Jamaat event, news agency PTI reported.The district reported 33 fresh cases in the last 24 hours and all the patients were admitted to the Kripalu Institute in Munshiganj, PTI quoted Chief Development Officer Abhishek Goyal as saying.Till Monday, the district had only two coronavirus patients, both of whom had attended the religious congregation in Delhi last month. The area where they lived was declared a containment zone and the people in the neighbourhood were quarantined, the officials said.Earlier, briefing reporters in Lucknow, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the containment exercise is going on in the state through “surveillance, testing, lockdown, quarantine and treatment”.He also said that pool-testing is being done.“Pool-testing is also going on. It is usually done where chances of coronavirus cases are low such as areas outside the containment zones,” said Prasad.Three Covid-19-related deaths were also reported, taking the toll due to the disease to 21 in the state. Six people have died in Agra, five in Moradabad, three in Meerut and one each in Basti, Varanasi, Firozabad, Bulandshahr, Kanpur, Aligarh and Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-agra-33-in-rae-bareli-take-up-number-to-1-337/story-iK5WduTv7fw01nIO2AEFcI.html
22-04-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian||Security forces gunned down four terrorists in a gun battle in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, officials said on Wednesday.The terrorists were killed after security forces launched a joint operation in Malhura Zanpora village of the district late on Tuesday. The operation started after the security forces received information about the presence of the terrorists in the area.Six terrorists have been killed in separate encounters in south Kashmir in the last one month and with Wednesday’s gun fight security forces have eliminated nearly 17 of them in the region.However, the Indian Army has also lost five commandoes of the elite Special Forces along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Kupwara district on April 6 and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost three of its personnel in another attack in Sopore town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian/story-2aYx1MzrGrRFxIe17PyUAM.html
22-04-2020||India||Debating SC plea, govt opposes 4G restoration in J&K||Militancy still remains a serious issue in Jammu & Kashmir, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday while opposing the restoration of high-speed 4G internet services for the residents in the Union Territory to stay connected amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Jammu & Kashmir has had low-speed 2G internet connectivity since a communications blackout imposed to check protests against the nullification of Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped the region of its special status in August was eased in phases. Residents say the absence of 4G services have prevented them from availing digital health, business and educational services while the rest of the world is increasingly relying on them to stay connected amid the pandemic that has prompted lockdowns globally.“Militancy is still there and it is a very serious issue. When a militant was recently killed, about 500 people gathered at his funeral. They are making martyrs of these people [militants],” attorney general K K Venugopal told the court while opposing the restoration.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for Jammu & Kashmir, sought a week to submit a consolidated response to the pleas seeking the restoration of the services.A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai told the Centre to mention its stand in affidavit latest by Sunday. It directed Jammu & Kashmir to file its response by then while directing the matter to be listed next on April 27. The Court said a similar matter was pending before the Jammu & Kashmir high court. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, who appeared for the petitioner, told the bench that the high court proceedings related to a host of other issues of which internet connectivity was one of the aspects. The court asked Mehta to take instructions in this regard.In its petition, Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-governmental organisation, has argued for 4G connectivity citing the coronavirus cases that have crossed 350 in the Union Territory. It argued social distancing was impossible as the lack of 4G prevented residents from seeking online advice from doctors. Professionals are finding it hard to work from home and groceries cannot be purchased online, the petition said.A fresh petition by Private Schools Association of Jammu & Kashmir also came up for hearing in the court. It pleaded the 2G connectivity has restricted over 2,000 schools from holding online classes for over 7 lakh students. Mehta inquired about the availability of laptops and tabs for the students. Lawyer Charu Ambwani, who represented the Association, said the hardware is available but internet connectivity was the problem. The court said it will hear the Centre and Jammu & Kashmir on this aspect on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debating-sc-plea-govt-opposes-4g-restoration-in-j-k/story-ETzirvdgYXhq4bjNlFKeKK.html
22-04-2020||India||Five sworn into Chouhan cabinet||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday expanded his cabinet with the induction of five ministers after much criticism for running the state alone despite the Covid-19 crisis for nearly a month since taking office following the collapse of the previous Congress government.The five include Tulsi Silavat, 66, and Govind Singh Rajput, 58, whose rebellion along with 20 other lawmakers, brought down Kamal Nath’s Congress government in March. Silavat and Rajput are the loyalists of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last month. The two were ministers in Nath’s cabinet too. The other three ministers, who were sworn in at a low key ceremony at governor Lalji Tandon’s residence amid the Covid-19 lockdown, are Narottam Mishra, 60, Kamal Patel, 58, and Meena Singh, 48. Chauhan, 61, is expected to further expand his cabinet after the extended Covid-19 lockdown ends on May 3.Mishra was one among the front runners for the chief minister’s post when the BJP toppled the Congress government. He along with Patel and Singh have served as ministers previously as well.Experts said Chouhan has taken caste and regional considerations into account while constituting the cabinet.Mishra, a sixth-term lawmaker from Gwalior-Chambal region, is a Brahmin. Silavat is a five-time assembly member from Malwa and is from a scheduled caste. Patel comes from central Madhya Pradesh and represents the Other Backward Class community. Singh, who is from Vindhya, is a tribal leader and Rajput from Bundelkhand is also an upper caste like Mishra.Patel was arrested in May 2010 and spent three months in jail on charges of destroying evidence in a murder case in which his sons are accused. He was acquitted in 2011. Chouhan congratulated his ministerial colleagues for their induction. “We will together work for the progress and development of Madhya Pradesh and achieve our goal of public welfare,” he said.In a tweet, Scindia said, “My good wishes to all the five ministers who took oath today. I hope, you all will fight together against Corona and achieve victory.”Congress leader Narendra Saluja said 22 Congress lawmakers betrayed their party for the BJP government’s formation but only two “turncoats” got ministerial berths. He questioned why have the rest been excluded. “Is it not betrayal? Also, many heavyweights of the BJP are missing from the cabinet. Is it the party with a difference?” he asked.There was no distribution of portfolios till Tuesday evening but Chouhan assigned the ministers different divisions monitoring and coordinating the implementation of the measures taken to check the spread of Covid-19.The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has risen to 1,485. The state has so far reported 76 Covid-19 related fatalities and the pandemic has spread to 26 of its 52 districts.Indore has emerged as one of the major Covid-19 hotspots in the country and prompted the Centre to send a team on Monday to the city to assess and manage the situation.INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-sworn-into-chouhan-cabinet/story-ZvkR5ly6JSHs05JeWZLvdK.html
22-04-2020||India||Stationary shops that sell textbooks can open, says MHA in new lockdown rule||The ministry of home affairs allowed on Tuesday additional agriculture and forestry related activities, opening of educational book shops for students, dealers of electric fans and movement of seafarers provided they followed certain Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) by amending revised consolidated guidelines issued on April 15 for second phase of lockdown. The government allowed partial economic activity since Monday on the condition that social distancing, sanitisation and safety measures are followed. The activities included in revised guidelines on Tuesday include—facilities for export/import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture products; research establishments dealing with agriculture and horticulture activities; inter and intrastate movement of planting material and honey bee colonies, honey and other beehive products; shops of books for students and electric fans, and forestry plantation and related activities, including silviculture operations. For seafarers, the SOPs formulated state that they will intimate their travel history to the local authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stationary-shops-that-sell-textbooks-can-open-says-mha-in-new-lockdown-rule/story-M3x60CVF95G7xmamLcxelJ.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In April 18, Delhi identified 186 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). All 186 were asymptomatic. It’s possible that some asymptomatic people develop symptoms after some time. It’s equally possible that some don’t. Research from Italy has shown that the viral load in some asymptomatic patients is as high as that in patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms. The viral load is the quantum of virus found in a sample taken from a person. It is an indicator of the virus’ ability to replicate. A high viral load means it is replicating well. But there’s also research, including one published in The Lancet, that shows that patients who get severe infections tend to have a higher viral load of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.While our understanding of the virus and its effect on the human body will become better in time, it is safe to surmise that not everyone reacts to a Sars-CoV-2 infection the same way.One of HT’s photographers in Mumbai tested positive for the virus, but is asymptomatic. The local health officials have isolated him in a hotel — he is not unwell at all, and doesn’t need hospitalisation. The four HT employees who came in touch with him have been labelled low-risk contacts by the health officials and asked to go into self-quarantine. The office itself has been shut and is being deep-sanitised. He is well, in no discomfort, but is infected.On Monday, the health ministry said in its daily briefing that 80% of people infected by the virus in the world show either mild symptoms or none at all. The ministry didn’t comment on India specifically on Monday, but the fact that it brought up the issue seems to suggest that the situation isn’t very different here. On Tuesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research said that 69% of all Covid-19 cases in India did not show symptoms at the time of testing; it did not specify whether they developed symptoms later.People who are asymptomatic may still retain the ability to infect others because they carry the virus — potentially making them dangerous, especially to old people who may not be able to fight off the disease.Data on fatalities in India show that around 75% are over the age of 60 (of which around 40% are over the age of 75). While the rest of India may, over time, develop herd immunity to the virus, this is the population that has to be protected — till a cure or vaccine for the virus is found, or, as epidemiologist Ramanan Laxminarayan wrote in this paper last week, 65% of the population develops herd immunity (which pretty much reduces to nothing the virus’s chances of jumping from person to person till it finds one over the age of 60).India will have to open up sometime. A lockdown, according to some studies, reduced R0 (R naught) to less than one. R0 is a measure of how infectious a disease is; it is expressed in terms of the number of people likely to catch the disease from one infected person. Most scientists who have studied Sars-CoV-2 say it has an R0 of around 2.2. Still, it will not be possible for any country to stay locked down for months on end.As India considers opening up, it will have to protect its most vulnerable population — 104 million people over the age of 60 (according to the 2011 census). That number is sure to have increased by now. Six states, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Rajasthan accounted for around 54% of all people over the age of 60 in 2011. The list shouldn’t surprise anyone. These are the most populous Indian states. Another 15% were in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.Since census data is collected at a disaggregated level, it should be possible for the government to identify within these nine states that account for seven out of every 10 people over the age of 60, cities and districts that are especially vulnerable because they have a high proportion of people over the age of 60, 70, or 80. These areas should consider stricter-than-normal social distancing measures, perhaps special guidelines on interacting with senior citizens; maybe even mandatory self-quarantines for such people. That will keep them safe and allow the rest of India to carry on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-XQtRJii4PwPZoIeN5qCPEI.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in India double to 20,000 in 8 days||The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 20,000-mark on Tuesday, but the rate at which this threshold was crossed – it took more than 8 days for the tally to double – raises hopes that the country may be able to avert the sort of devastation seen in some other parts of the world.Globally, there are now 2.5 million infections and close to 175,000 deaths. In India, the number of fatalities as on Tuesday was 644.The outbreak in the country began in early March after people who flew in from abroad introduced the infection to others, and has grown largely in small clusters – except for the one linked to the religious group in Delhi that led to thousands of infections – after the government enforced what is the largest global shutdown in population terms.“Our doubling time of cases is increasing. The current situation indicates that significant increase in number of Covid-19 cases is unlikely,” said Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, the head of infectious diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).In contrast with India’s rate of increase, the United States, which now has the highest number of infections at over 800,000, went from 9,000 infections to over 24,000 infections in three days.But within the 1,504 new cases and 54 new deaths on Tuesday lurked a statistic that threatens to reverse India’s gains: Maharashtra, the second-most populous state in the country, accounted for more than a third of all new cases recorded on Tuesday, and Gujarat, which till a week ago had a little over 500 infections, now has over 2,000 cases.At four days, Gujarat’s doubling rate was less than half the national average – suggesting the spread was happening twice as well.Maharashtra, at 5,218 cases, now has more infections than the next two – Gujarat (2,178) and Delhi (2,156) – have cumulatively.“We have managed to buy time to be able to provide hospital care to all our positive cases, and have tried as much to flatten the curve so that there is a possibility that we are able to push it so much that we might actually get a vaccine or an effective drug to treat patients,” said Gangakhedkar added.This weekend, India will complete a month in lockdown – a near-total interruption of normal life for more than 1.3 billion people, many of whom are from vulnerable socio-economic backgrounds, stuck in cities where they had migrated to for work but now find themselves jobless. Schools, colleges and any transport of individuals between two cities seems unlikely for the time being.According to a Union health ministry last week, there are at present 170 hot spot districts, which house roughly 37% of the population and make up 29% of the geographical area of India.“Now, we have added 61 more districts that have not reported any new case in the last 14 days,” said Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, during the daily government briefing on Tuesday.The lockdown will stay till May 3, but officials at the highest levels of the government are working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease access to products and employment.The lifting of the curbs must not be hasty, the head of World Health Organization said at a press briefing in Geneva on Monday, as signs poured in from the world over that the sweeping shutdowns had worked to suppress the spread of the disease.For now, authorities across the country are attempting to ramp up testing in order to get a better sense of the contagion, which will make the task of isolating the outbreaks easier and allow other regions to safely resume some activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-double-to-20-000-in-8-days/story-xfUAbcTuOocCMLKDHoGuJI.html
22-04-2020||India||ICMR puts rapid tests on hold to check faulty kits||New Delhi:The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday asked states to put on hold for two days antibody testing for Covid-19 using rapid testing kits or RTKs supplied to them late last week, citing huge variations in the results -- a move that compromises efforts by many states to test aggressively in so-called containment zones using these kits, which were procured with some difficulty. Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, said that after receiving a complaint from one state on Monday, the body at the forefront of the country’s fight against Covid-19 spoke to three states on Tuesday. “We are learning that samples which are positive in RT -PCR are showing too much variation (when tested by RTKs) in the range of 6% to 71%,” he added.This means that only 6% of the samples that test positive in the accurate but time-consuming Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), test positive in the antibody test. ICMR’s guidelines for such rapid tests mandate that they be carried out only for people who show symptoms of the disease for at least seven days, or those who have been directly or indirectly exposed to the infection, and that a negative test be followed by a RT-PCR one.Ahead of Gangakhedkar’s comments at the daily press briefing on India’s fight against Covid-19, Rajasthan stopped using the antibody test kits after they were accurate in only 5.4% of the cases, according to state health minister Raghu Sharma. It wasn’t immediately clear which other states ICMR spoke to. West Bengal on Monday complained about the quality of RT-PCR tests supplied to it. The 550,000 RTKs ordered from China arrived late last week after missing two deadlines and were distributed to states. While ICMR initially wanted them used to assess the extent of the disease’s spread in so-called green zones (according to the health ministry, districts with very few or no cases), it subsequently allowed states to test them in containment zones in hot spots -- where lots of cases, including clusters were found. Many states hoped to use the blood test (RT-PCR uses a nasal swab) to ramp up testing. Those plans have now been put on hold by ICMR, which has created eight field teams to validate the results. “It was anticipated that Chinese kits won’t be of good quality as many of their exported products haven’t worked of late,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, CMC Vellore. “On Feb 2 we knew it was a pandemic. We were the last to be hit but we didn’t make use of the time... This is the time to consolidate our resources and work like a single unit. It should be a consortium approach and not a competitive approach,” he added.To be sure, unlike the RT-PCR kits that show up only active infections, at any stage, however early (and even in asymptomatic individuals), antibody tests do not detect infections till antibodies have been generated, which could take up to a week after the infection, and usually happen around the same time or even after the symptoms show up. While some countries have said they will use these tests to see who can return to work (they are a good measure of immunity), most experts say they are best used to assess population exposure. “The RT-PCR is the gold standard in terms of identification of patients is concerned. The rapid test has limited utility, and is good for surveillance and conducting epidemiological investigations,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the Union health ministry, said. Gangakhedkar said the kits were tested in Delhi and had shown a 71% accuracy and also mentioned that Covid-19 antibodies emerge after seven days. It wasn’t immediately clear how many of the samples tested involved patients who tested positive in a RT-PCR test within the past week. “In the lab testing for quality check, we found the efficacy to be around 71%, which was decent considering rapid tests are usually about 80-84% accurate, and we sent it across to our regional centres for distribution in states,” Gangakhedkar said. The ICMR said as the tests are halted, it will send experts from eight of its institutes to different locations to conduct field testing of samples using RTKs.“After two days we will be in a better position to issue a revised advisory in this regard,” Gangakhedkar added.If its validation exercise continues to throw up variations, ICMR plans to take up the matter with the manufacturer. Gangakhedkar said the findings (variations) could not be ignored despite the antibody test being a first generation ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay). Such tests are used to find antibodies against specific diseases, and usually get better with time. For instance, it took several generations before the ELISA test for HIV-AIDS was perfected. The kits were ordered from Chinese manufacturers Guangzhou Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon. Hindustan Times couldn’t ascertain the sensitivity (ability of the test to come up with a positive result when presented with an infected sample, also known as true positive) and specificity (ability of the test to correctly identify a non-infected sample) rating of the test. ICMR had ordered 3.5 million more RTKs.Experts have previously raised concerns about the accuracy of the tests received from China. “There were ample examples from the US and Europe on how these Chinese kits were of dubious quality. The Chinese government has become strict and not allowed many of its manufacturers to export because of quality issues, so we had to be careful while ordering these,” said a senior virologist, who wished to remain anonymous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibody-testing-on-hold/story-fQ9y9ukjAQdAVU9zBx1FgM.html
22-04-2020||India||Mumbai bus conductor runs 21km to report to work||Devidas Jaisingh Rathod, 55, is an employee of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). He lives in Manor, 100 km north of Mumbai. He is a conductor on a bus that runs every day from Palghar, 21 km from his home, to the central Mumbai bus depot, Dadar. These days, he is in charge of a bus that has an important job -- ferrying 25 doctors and nurses to KEM Hospital. He usually hitches a ride on trucks ferrying essentials that pass by Manor. They drop him off at Palghar. On Sunday, though, there were no trucks. So, he ran. “I could not let them down as the doctors and nurses are treating Covid-19 patients and they are my daily passengers,” said Rathod.It helped that he loves running. He runs every morning before going to work and has taken part in several marathons -- both full and half. “I did not wear my uniform and kept it in a bag. I told my wife, Usha, to give me extra water bottles mixed with glucose, just to keep me hydrated. Then, wearing shorts and vests, I began to run,” he said. Upon reaching Palghar depot, he quickly freshened up and the bus, with the medical personnel, set off for Dadar. Deputy manager of Palghar depot, Nitin Chavan, later honoured Rathod in a small ceremony.  Rathod reports for duty at the Palghar bus depot at 6am, his new duty time following the lockdown. The bus he is a conductor on goes from Palghar to Dadar, where KEM Hospital is situated. At 3pm, Rathod’s bus leaves Dadar and reaches Palghar at 5pm, after which he again hitches a ride to Manor.The pandemic has disrupted his daily running schedule. “Due to my emergency duty, my running practice is not possible but I will continue once the lockdown is lifted.” A commerce graduate with a conductor’s licence, Rathod joined MSRTC in 2003 after spotting an advertisement for conductors. “Even the recruitment officer was shocked. My qualification is too high for a conductor’s job, he said,” recalled Rathod. In the past, Rathod has worked as a daily wager. He and his wife, Usha, who works as a tailor, have four children: Sachin, 29, Priyanka, 27, Archana, 25, and Deepak, 21. Sachin works as a security guard and Deepak is studying printing. But the health care workers Rathod’s bus ferries everyday are likely to remind him more of his daughters. Priyanka has a post graduate degree in medicine from Nagpur University and Archana is a nurse at a civic hospital in Vakola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-bus-conductor-runs-21km-to-report-to-work/story-YRRch8ducKPUqVgTYIlj3M.html
22-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 count crosses 20,000s||The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 20,000-mark on Tuesday, but the rate at which this threshold was crossed – it took more than 8 days for the tally to double – raises hopes that the country may be able to avert the sort of devastation seen in some other parts of the world.Across the world, there are now 2.5 million infections and at least 175,000 deaths. In India, the number of fatalities as on Tuesday were 644.The outbreak in the country began in early March after people who flew in from abroad introduced the infection to others, and has grown largely in small clusters – except for the one linked to the religious group in Delhi that led to thousands of infections – after the government enforced what is the largest global shutdown in population terms.“Our doubling time of cases is increasing. The current situation indicates that significant increase in number of Covid-19 cases is unlikely,” said Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, the head of infectious diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).In contrast with India’s rate of increase, the United States, which now has the highest number of infections at over 800,000, went from 9,000 infections to over 24,000 infections in three days.But within the 1,504 new cases and 54 new deaths on Tuesday lurked a statistic that threatens to reverse India’s gains: Maharashtra, the second-most populous state in the country, accounted for more than a third of all new cases recorded on Tuesday, and Gujarat, which till a week ago had a little over 500 infections, now has over 2,000 cases.At four days, Gujarat’s doubling rate was less than half the national average – suggesting the spread was happening twice as well.Maharashtra, at 5,218 cases, now has more infections than the next two – Gujarat (2,178) and Delhi (2,156) – have cumulatively.“We have managed to buy time to be able to provide hospital care to all our positive cases, and have tried as much to flatten the curve so that there is a possibility that we are able to push it so much that we might actually get a vaccine or an effective drug to treat patients,” said Gangakhedkar added.This weekend, India will complete a month in lockdown – a near-total interruption of normal life for more than 1.3 billion people, many of whom are from vulnerable socio-economic backgrounds, stuck in cities where they had migrated to for work but now find themselves jobless. Schools, colleges and any transport of individuals between two cities seems unlikely for the time being.According to a Union health ministry last week, there are at present 170 hot spot districts, which house roughly 37% of the population and make up 29% of the geographical area of India.“Now, we have added 61 more districts that have not reported any new case in the last 14 days,” said Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, during the daily government briefing on Tuesday.The lockdown will stay till May 3, but officials at the highest levels of the government are working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease access to products and employment.The lifting of the curbs must not be hasty, the head of World Health Organization said at a press briefing in Geneva on Monday, as signs poured in from the world over that the sweeping shutdowns had worked to suppress the spread of the disease.For now, authorities across the country are attempting to ramp up testing in order to get a better sense of the contagion, which will make the task of isolating the outbreaks easier and allow other regions to safely resume some activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-count-crosses-20-000s/story-1z3XqBz42rBuYsnvaaFOzK.html
22-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief asks members to donate blood plasma to fight Covid-19||Tablighi Jamaat chief Muhammad Saad who has been under fire for the congregation that it organised in Delhi last month and which fuelled a spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and other parts of the country, called on members of his organisation on Tuesday to donate blood plasma for those still infected and under treatment.“During this time of crisis it is important to take care of people’s needs, food and essentials items and to enquire of their well-being especially the poor and needy. But an even greater responsibility that we have at this time is to save the life of a sick person and expend our own life and wealth so that he/she can be cured of a terrible disease,” Muhammad Saad said in an appeal to Tablighi Jamaat members.“It is required that such people who are now cured of this disease should donate blood plasma to others who are still fighting the disease and are under treatment,” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.India’s total number of infections has reached almost 19,000 and over 600 have lost their lives to Covid-19. Muhammad Saad who was booked by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering last week, is under quarantine.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government had received the go-ahead from the Centre to start trials for plasma enrichment technique. If successful, plasma enrichment can be used to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients.Plasma enrichment technique entails taking blood plasma from a person who has recovered from Covid-19 as it contains antibodies which, when transfused to a sick patient, can boost immunity and help in recovery.There is currently no cure for Covid-19 and convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-asks-members-to-donate-blood-plasma-to-fight-covid-19/story-AraEGckJ8CvsG4qjDyZALP.html
22-04-2020||India||J&K cops file FIR against journalist, accuse him of glorifying terrorism||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Tuesday filed a FIR against journalist Gowhar Geelani accusing him for glorifying terrorism on social media. He is the third journalist to be booked in two days.In a statement issued on Tuesday night, police said that Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone has received information through reliable sources that Gowhar Geelani is indulging in unlawful activities through his posts and writings on social media platforms which are prejudicial to the national integrity, sovereignty and security of India.“The unlawful activities include glorifying terrorism in Kashmir Valley, causing disaffection against the country and causing fear or alarm in the minds of public that may lead to commission of offences against public tranquility and the security of State,” the police statement said.It added that several complaints had also been received against Gowhar Geelani that accused him of intimidation.“A case FIR No. 11/2020 under the relevant sections of law has been registered at Cyber Police Station Kashmir and investigation initiated,” the police statement said.The fresh case comes a day after police had registered cases against woman photo journalist Masrat Zahra and Peerzada Ashiq.Police had invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) against Zahra for allegedly uploading ‘anti-national posts’ on her social media accounts. The Editors Guild of India have expressed shock at the FIR against the two journalists.Former JK chief minister Omar Abdullah called these cases wrong.“No ifs, no buts, no whataboutery - this campaign of FIRs against journalists & commentators in Kashmir IS WRONG & must stop. If your version of events is so weak that you have to charge these people, it says more about what is happening in Kashmir than anything they have written,” Omar tweeted after the case was registered against Gowhar Geelani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cops-file-fir-against-journalist-accuse-him-of-glorifying-terrorism/story-drpdzCFPXNrnK7Mf0t3S6K.html
22-04-2020||India||Patients admitted to hospitals in clusters to be tested for virus||All patients visiting hospitals in and around containment zones identified by the local authorities will be considered “suspected cases of Covid-19” and those getting admitted will undergo mandatory diagnostic tests for the coronavirus disease irrespective of symptoms, according to a central advisory on Tuesday.In a first, the Union health ministry advisory also advocated a clear demarcation between outpatient departments (OPDs) and wards, and asked doctors to stick to the same federal guidelines they follow in the treatment of Covid-19 patients even while attending to OPD patients.According to a ministry official, the advisory sent to state governments is aimed at preventing the spread of the deadly infection in health facilities, especially in light of the emergence of a few such cases in parts of the country.“There is a detailed guideline by the ministry on how to prevent hospital-acquired infection. But there have been cases where hospitals have reported the spread of infection and even shut down in some cases, probably because they got patients who had Covid-19 even though their symptoms weren’t pronounced enough…The new advisory is asking them to treat all patients as suspected Covid-19 cases, and take required safety measures,” the senior health ministry official who did not want to be named, said.For example, the paediatric intensive care unit of central Delhi’s Lady Hardinge Medical College emerged as a hotbed of infections last week, with 12 health care workers testing positive for Covid-19. Two babies in the ward -- a 45-day-old and a 10-month-old --- got infected. The 45-day-old baby died on Saturday morning.Since March 2, when the first infection was reported in Delhi, at least 80 health care workers and doctors have been infected in the national capital.“Hospitals are likely to become high-risk areas. This is because doctors are not testing everyone; that is not possible,” said SK Sarin, director at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS)“…if the population has a large number of those who have no symptoms, and if they get into the hospitals, doctors and nurses will get infected and then pass it on to others – colleagues, families and patients,” Sarin, who is the chairperson of a five-member committee that advises the Delhi chief minister on Covid-19, said, explaining the challenges health care workers and facilities are facing.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) – the country’s apex health research body – about 69% of those infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, either have no symptoms or very mild symptoms.The central advisory came on the day all of Delhi’s 11 district magistrates as well as deputy commissioners of police, among other officials, held talks with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal via video conferencing. Some of them raised issues faced by front-line workers.“The increase in the number of health care workers, those posted at hospitals and their contacts testing positive is a cause of concern. It might be that adequate measures for protection from the infection are not being taken by hospital authorities, including those which are not treating Covid-19 cases. There is an urgent need to fix these lapses,” said a district magistrate, requesting anonymity.A statement issued by the Delhi LG’s office said the city-state’s health department had been directed to take all precautionary measures.Under the central advisory, those who get admitted in hospitals will have to undergo the RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction test, which is a confirmatory test to detect Covid-19. The results take about five-six hours.“RT-PCR is the gold standard as far as case confirmation is concerned, and results from rapid tests (or antibody tests) are still not foolproof, especially for early diagnosis…And the hospital staff has been directed to particularly keep an eye on patients for any development of unexplained fever, cough or respiratory illness (symptoms of the disease),” the official added.If a patient tests positive, all those who have had contact with him/her will be put on anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which is considered a prophylaxis – a treatment to prevent a disease, according to ICMR guidelines. The government, however, has said the drug has to be taken under strict medical supervision as it could have serious side-effects, especially in those having underlying health conditions such as heart and kidney ailments.Each hospital in the country, be it a dedicated Covid-19 or non-Covid-19 facility, was earlier directed to have a Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC), which will be responsible for coming up with an effective mechanism for reporting the onset of symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 in health care workers.This includes surveillance for fever, cough and breathing difficulty, among others, either through self-reporting or active and passive screening at the beginning of shifts.“Whenever a non-Covid-19 patient or any healthcare workers is suspected to have Covid-19-like symptoms, or tests positive for Covid-19, the HICC will come into action, investigate the matter and suggest further course of action… rapid isolation, contact listing and tracking disinfection will follow, with no need to shut down the whole facility,” the advisory said.It said if the primary source of an infection could not be established and if a hospital continued reporting a large number of cases among patients and health care workers, the facility should be converted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and the local health department must be notified.“In terms of precautions, we are treating new patients as if they were Covid-19 positive even while conducting emergency surgeries. We are sanitising our operation theatres post surgeries, and our staff are wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) and taking other necessary precautions. All admitted patients are being tested irrespective of the Covid-19 symptoms…Same goes for patients who are frequent visitors such as those undergoing chemo, dialysis and so on; they are also being tested,” said a spokesperson for Max Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patients-admitted-to-hospitals-in-clusters-to-be-tested-for-virus/story-WwXlgI8JzA9Vf8ckOOuwKI.html
22-04-2020||India||Rhino calf separated from mother in Assam’s Kaziranga||GUWAHATI Rangers at the Kaziranga National Park in Assam are on a mission that has nothing to do with the coronavirus pandemic the rest of the country is preoccupied with: they are trying to reunite a baby rhino and his mother.The one-month-old calf was separated from the mother on or around Sunday in the Deopani area near the 430-square-kilometre park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world and home to around 2,400 members of the species.“The calf got separated from the mother and was found roaming around Deopani area close to the national highway. When we got the information from the nearby villagers, we went and rescued it around 11:00 am on Sunday,” said P Sivakumar, the park’s director.“We tried to locate the mother but weren’t successful. Since there was a threat to the calf from tigers or other animals, we sent it to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC),” he added.Located in Borjuri village near the national park, CWRC is the only facility in India where orphaned or injured wild animals are hand-raised or treated before being returned to the wild.“The calf is a male weighing around 70 kilograms. It was very dehydrated and weak. Treatment and its care are underway. Hopefully, we will be to feed it prepared milk using a bottle,” said Rathin Barman, in-charge of CWRC.Every year, the centre handles several baby rhinos and elephants that are rescued during the annual floods that submerge most areas of the park.“We have engaged our people in the Deopani area to trace the mother as she should be in that particular location. There are around 50 rhinos in that area. “Without knowing the mother, we can’t release the calf into the herd as there is a possibility of an adult rhino attacking it,” said Sivakumar.Baby rhinos are extremely attached to their mothers, with whom they stay for around three years before venturing out on their own.“Since the baby is very small, it must have been suckling. As there is a threat to it if it’s left in the wild, it is better for it to stay at CWRC till the mother is found. It’s a challenging task, but personnel at the centre are experienced and well-equipped to handle such babies,” said Bibhab Talukdar, founder of the wildlife NGO Aaranyak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhino-calf-separated-from-mother-in-assam-s-kaziranga/story-J5dpDwXUZi0xepjZ3unCpM.html
22-04-2020||India||Helpline numbers in place to address issues of migrant workers, Centre tells SC||Migrant workers are being fed and sheltered by governments and non-government organisations, and helplines have been made operational so that people can call and report issues concerning implementation of relief measures put in place for the workers in the aftermath of Covid-19, the Supreme Court was told on Tuesday.During the hearing of a case relating to payment of minimum wages to migrant workers, the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, denied claims by petitioners Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj that thousands of workers still lacked access to basic amenities. Mehta also questioned the genuineness of the petitioners, demanding to know why there were filing public interest litigations (PILs) instead of helping the state authorities on the ground to provide aid to migrant workers.“Around 50,000 NGOs are working shoulder-to-shoulder with governments to provide food and necessities to the poor and migrant workers. Why don’t you do something for the poor? Why can’t the petitioners help the workers”, Mehta asked.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioners, said that they were doing their bit and distributing food etc. “But do you want us to feed 15 lakh people”, he responded.The bench of justices NV Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai disposed of the petition after recording the submissions made by the central government.“Solicitor General, Mr. Tushar Mehta, has filed a status report and submitted that various measures are in place to address the issues concerning the migrant workers. He further argued that helpline number has been provided to report issues concerning the implementation at the ground level, and that whenever any complaint is received, the authorities are attempting to address the same immediately”, the court noted in its order.The court, however, asked the central government to look into certain material produced by the petitioners and take necessary steps to address any shortcomings.“The learned counsel (for the petitioners) further argued that studies conducted by NGOs indicate that there are several areas where the aid is not reaching to the migrant workers. Taking into consideration the material placed before us, we call upon the Union of India to look into such material and take such steps as it finds fit to resolve the issues raised in the petition”, the order said.The plea by activists Mander and Bhardwaj sought payment of minimum wages to all migrant workers, who are either employed by companies or contractors or self-employed. In the aftermath of the lockdown enforced on March 25 for Covid-19, tens of thousands of migrants left the cities for their homes in the hinterland in an exodus triggered by loss of income.The centre had earlier filed a status report detailing the steps taken by various state governments to address the problems faced by migrant workers. According to the report, there are 26,476 relief and active shelter camps across the country housing 1.03 million migrant workers and others during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helpline-numbers-in-place-to-address-issues-of-migrant-workers-centre-tells-sc/story-PKO46pY1vdcH28BEqRz6oI.html
22-04-2020||India||Pressure on states to bring back migrants||Uttar Pradesh’s move to evacuate students from the state stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota last week has mounted pressure on other states to follow suit and ensure the return of their people stranded in other states. States like Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Assam and Jharkhand have asked Rajasthan to facilitate the return of their stranded students as they were making arrangements for their travel back home. Uttarakhand had earlier arranged for the return of its students from Rajasthan.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday about the issue. “A large number of Rajasthanis, including migrant workers, shopkeepers, private employees, small businessmen are stuck in Assam, [rest of the] Northeast, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Kerala, Maharashtra and other states. They are feeling frustrated and desperately want to return...”Gehlot said he told Shah if the Centre allows them to return, only then would they be eager to go back to their workplaces once the lockdown is lifted. He said the Centre should have given at least five days to migrant workers and others to return to their homes. Gehlot added Shah has assured him the Centre will soon take a call on the issue and inform him about it on Wednesday.Gehlot said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should facilitate the return of migrant workers and others, including five lakh Rajasthanis, to their homes when the Centre can help in the evacuation of foreigners stranded in India.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said he would request for a special train to transport migrant workers and others struck in other states.He said the Uttar Pradesh government’s move has triggered demands from the people in his state for a similar step. “We are getting calls from parents demanding similar arrangements.”Soren said he spoke to the Prime Minister and complained about “one nation, two sets of rules” and sought clearance from the Centre for making arrangements to ensure that the students of his state return to their homes.Officials in Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh said they are inundated with calls mostly from students seeking help in returning to their states.Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow, Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said the government should formulate ways for allowing the workers to commute during the lockdown by issuing electronic passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pressure-on-states-to-bring-back-migrants/story-Vx82St1M8JFwvZ6jGJ5Q2K.html
22-04-2020||India||India must turn focus inward for military needs in post-Covid world: Top officials||India must turn focus inward for its military needs in the post-Covid world and make every effort to cut dependence on imported military hardware that could not only become cost prohibitive but also hard to come by in the coming years, three senior military officers said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.The armed forces will have to get rid of their traditional appetite for imported weapons and equipment, and work in harness with the domestic industry to guarantee self-reliance in defence, said the officers with direct knowledge of the military’s modernisation goals.Despite pursuing the Make in India programme vigorously to reduce military imports, the country was the second-largest arms importer in the world over the last five years, according to data published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute last month.“Indigenisation with Make in India as the dictum can no longer be a mere slogan. If the coronavirus crisis has energised us to produce ventilators, personal protective equipment and other gear for our healthcare workers in a matter of weeks, the focus in the coming times should be on fuelling a new wave of innovation in the defence sector,” said the first officer cited above.Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for a raft of weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers.“This is the time for us to look inward. The local industry is willing to support indigenisation, although it may not be able produce the best weapons and equipment. But if given the opportunity, it will reach global standards over time. It requires the full support of the armed forces. The temptation to import hardware will have to be resisted,” said the second officer cited above.From warships, fighter jets to air defence systems and helicopters, modern artillery gun systems to ammunition, the domestic industry has demonstrated that it has potential to contribute to building a stronger military, the second officer pointed out. One of the key responsibilities assigned by the government to the department of military affairs, headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, is to promote the use of indigenous military equipment in the armed forces.“After the 2016 Uri strike, the armed forces scrambled to fill worrying gaps in their arsenal, including ammunition. We can’t allow this to happen. Encouraging the domestic industry will help us get more bang for the buck and ensure we are not in dire straits in times of conflict,” said the third officer cited above.He added a robust indigenous defence industry would allow the armed forces to cut costs by holding lesser stocks of weapons and ammunition because production and supplies could be ramped up when required.“Storage in itself is cost prohibitive because high-grade weapons and ammunition require special storage conditions, including air conditioning. Round-the-clock security of large ammunition and weapon storage depots also adds to the cost,” he stressed.The draft Defence Production Policy-2018 visualises India as one of the top five countries in the aerospace and defence sectors in the coming years, with defence goods and services accounting for a turnover of ₹1.7 lakh crore by 2025. It also seeks to drastically reduce India’s dependence on imported military hardware over the next five years....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-turn-focus-inward-for-military-needs-in-post-covid-world-top-officials/story-b2NWg20gmn7MSShReQ0V1H.html
22-04-2020||India||Working from home to be the new norm: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Work-from-home will be the new norm in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, minister of communications, and electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday, and asked the departments under his charge to work on putting in place a platform to facilitate the emerging trend.Prasad held review meetings with officials in both ministries to work out a plan to make work-from-home a permanent fixture in a wide range of “other service provider” establishments, officials said.. The first step towards the policy formulation, the officials said on condition of anonymity, will be a meeting with industry associations in the coming days. For such a policy to work, a senior IT ministry official said, infrastructural bottlenecks will need to be removed “We will have to ensure that the relaxations we have announced for these services become more permanent and the system will need to use the least amount of bandwidth,” the official said.  Other service providers, or OSPs, include IT and IT-enabled services such as international call centres and business process outsourcing and knowledge process outsourcing centres, e-learning sites, billing centres and medical transcription companies.. The department of telecommunications (DoT) said on March 13 that OSP employees can work from home without going through an authorised PPVPN (provider provisioned virtual private network) as required by the rules. Later, DoT waived a mandatory Rs 1 crore deposit needed to let employees work from home; the OSP will only have to inform DoT of the addresses of its remote workers, it said. DoT said OSPs will have to maintain a register of call logs and calls detail records for a whole year which must be provided to the department when it calls for the records. A penalty fee of Rs 5 lakh, the DoT said, will be levied if the OSP violates these terms, and its license will also be liable to be cancelled. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had in October 2019 recommended that DoT ease the norms needed to be followed by OSPs . Sanjay Singh, vice president of the OSP Association of India, said removing the regulations may be a good move in the long run. “The government should be able to improve the proactive monitoring system; if they can implement those controls, then the liberalised guidelines will be effective,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-from-home-to-be-the-new-norm-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-vQFKsJANkZeAjUyfmUP1FI.html
22-04-2020||India||Delhi will test journalists after +ve cases in Maha, Tamil Nadu||A day after 53 journalists in Mumbai were found to be Covid-19 positive in a health camp conducted by the city’s municipal body, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the Delhi government will conduct free tests for journalists in the Capital city starting Wednesday.“There are reports coming from different states about journalists being infected by the virus… To ensure media persons in Delhi are safe, we are starting free testing for them from tomorrow,” Kejriwal said during a digital media address. The location for the tests was not announced.“Reporters are frontline workers in the battle against Covid-19. I salute the work being done by all journalists. Their work is very important for dissemination of authentic information,” the Delhi CM added. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that any media person, including photojournalists working in the Capital with a valid media identification card would be accepted for the tests. Officials have begun to seek lists of eligible reporters and photojournalists from media houses to draw up batches to undergo testing.Television and print reporters, camera persons, photographers whose job entails visiting hospitals and other high density areas are at high risk of contracting Sars-Cov-2. Several cities, including Chennai, Jalandhar, and Dharamshala have reported at least 39 cases of positive Covid-19 cases among the fraternity, prompting some states like Karnataka and cities like Gurugram to set up testing facilities specifically for journalists. At least 27 media persons working with a television news channel in Chennai tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 after 92 employees working for the Tamil channel underwent the tests when a colleague on Sunday was found to be positive for Covid-19. Chennai, which has emerged as one of the hotspots in Tamil Nadu, has 358 cases of infections.Issac Livingstone, managing director of Sathiyam channel announced that the channel would stop live telecasts. Since reporters go across the state to report news, the current situation was unfortunate, but was also unavoidable, he said. In Punjab’s Jalandhar district, nine journalists of a leading vernacular media group, which publishes Hindi and Punjabi newspapers, have tested positive in the past week. Most of the journalists, including one designer, are part of the news desk and are between 27 and 42 years old. At least four family members of one of these journalists have also tested positive, while 100 people linked to the media group have been quarantined at home, the health department said. All journalists have been kept in isolation at the Civil Hospital. The site of the media organisation has been sealed off, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma told Hindustan Times. Another employee of the same news organisation has been found to be positive in Dharamshala, Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh.The Gurugram health department on Monday began testing journalists in the city. The first batch of 30 samples were tested using Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs), none of which showed the presence of antibodies, indicating that the journalists were Covid-19 negative. However, as per the union ministry’s guidelines, RTKs are only surveillance tests, which need to be borne out by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “We took 30 samples and all of them were negative. On Monday night, the district administration finalized to test journalists after the reports of Mumbai journalists contracting the SARS-CoV-2 virus started coming in. A lot of journalists in the city are visiting hospitals, slums and meeting multiple people. Therefore, it became important to test them,” Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, Gurugram’s chief medical officer said. Testing, conducted at the old Civil Hospital, Jharsa Road, will take place on Wednesday too.Karnataka education minister S Suresh Kumar announced that the state government will also hold tests for media personnel.On Monday, 53 journalists tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation-run health camp took the nasal and throat swabs of 171 journalists. All 53 were asymptomatic, and have been moved to a Covid Care Centre in the suburbs. The family members of all these journalists will be tested towards the end of this week, officials said.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday tweeted, “It is shocking that more than 50 journalists of electronic media, particularly Camera persons, have been found #Corona positive in Mumbai. Every journalist should take proper care.”The same day, three Chennai journalists tested positive for Covid-19, prompting many to visit government hospitals to undergo tests. Journalists associations have requested the Centre to extend insurance to journalists covering the Covid-19 pandemic. Some states, like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, have also announced insurance cover for accredited journalists in the states.Indeed, the issue of the safety of frontline journalists has been an issue of global concern. The Global Investigative Journalists Network will conduct a webinar on Thursday on the matter, where Richard Dawood, who heads London Fleet Street clinic will offer tips to journalists on how to stay safe.Last month, the National Geographic Society launched an emergency fund for journalists all over the world who wish to cover COVID-19 within their own communities. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-will-test-journalists-after-ve-cases-in-maha-tamil-nadu/story-jWBJwGQP80jqkjJJweIxaN.html
22-04-2020||India||‘When will govt listen?’: Rahul takes on Centre over fuel prices||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday questioned why the government hadn’t reduced the prices of petrol and diesel, which would have benefitted consumers, when global crude oil prices have fallen to near-record lows at a a time the world is combating the coronavirus crisis. Government officials said such low levels were unsustainable.Gandhi also took a swipe at the government over reports that rice would be used to make sanitisers He posed the question on oil prices to the Narendra Modi government on a day the Brent crude futures price, the international benchmark, for delivery in June fell to as low as $18.10, its lowest since November 2001. At 1200 GMT, it was down 18% at $20.98.“Prices of crude oil have fallen to unexpected levels in the world, yet why is petrol in our country sold at Rs 69, diesel at Rs 62?. It is good that prices have fallen in this disaster. When will this government listen,” Gandhi wrote in a tweet in Hindi.Fuel prices at the pump haven’t budged since mid-March in India although crude oil has been on the decline because of concerns over the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on world economies and an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia. Demand for oil products has slumped amid a lockdown imposed in many economies, including India, to stop the spread of the disease. In India, fuel prices haven’t been cut to allow allowing oil refiners to make up for inventory losses and giving the government room to increase levies on the auto fuels for a second time to reinforce its war chest against Covid-19, government officials have told HT previously, For the government, the crude price dip means a windfall gain from lower import costs, given India’s dependence on oil imports to meet around 80% of its demand. The gain has been boosted by one hike in excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs.3 per litre announced in March. It will be offset by the expenditure the government is incurring on the battle against the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to a 40-day national lockdown. The government has already announced a Rs.1.76 lakh crore economic relief package for the poor and is under pressure to allocate a vastly bigger sum for economic stimulus.The government is closely monitoring global oil price movements, two officials working with two different economic ministries said on condition of anonymity.Global oil prices are unsustainable at the levels to which they have fallen, they said, adding that the freeze on pump prices would act as a cushion in case of a sudden spurt in crude prices International oil prices were about $69/barrel in August 2007, but had spiked to $147/barrel by July 2008. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala separately wrote in a tweet: “WTI Crude Oil price plunges below USD 0 per barrel! We, the People, are still paying Rs 69.59 for Petrol Rs 62.29 for Diesel (Delhi). Why is Modi Government mum? Will ‘Self Styled Nationalists’ at least now become ‘Rationalists’ and demand relief?”The reference was to West Texas Intermediate,a US benchmark, whose price for May delivery hit a negative $3.99, after Monday’s dive below $0 for the first time, settling at a negative $37.63 per barrel.Anotgher Congress spokesperson, Pawan Khera, asked what was holding the government from reducing fuel prices.“Last night was a historical moment that saw unprecedented fall in prices of international crude oil {futures} as manufacturers have no storage capacity left. Why is government not transferring this reduction in oil prices to end-users like farmers and middle class? This relief will go a long way to help them,” he told reporters through video-conferencing.Khera said that at a time the country was in the midst of a crisis because of the coronavirus pandemic, the government was still busy making a profit out of crude oil.“Central excise duty on oil has been increased 12 times in last 6 years that has earned Rs 20 lakh crore. Why has the benefit not been passed on to consumers? Is government fulfilling its obligation by not passing on this benefit to the consumers,” asked Khera.Gandhi, separately, attacked the government for approving a proposal to convert surplus rice available with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) into ethanol to manufacture alcohol-based hand sanitisers and also for blending with petrol.“After all, when will India’s poor wake up? You are dying of hunger and they are busy cleaning the hands of the rich by making sanitizers from your portion of rice,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the poor need hand sanitizer as much as the rich did. “FCI had surplus of 27.2 MMT {million metric tonnes}. Even after distributing free ration to 80 cr people for 3 months in advance, we have enough to spare. PDS {public distribution system} is flush. Value added bio products increase farmers’ income,” BJP’s information & technology in-charge Amit Malviya said in a tweet.On the recent order to use rice to make hand-sanitiser, one of the official who works for the oil ministry said, “This is for the rice that is in surplus and almost rotting. Sanitiser is the need of the hour, it is required in large quantities hospitals and mainly procured by government agencies/hospitals, where it is used for all patients, rich as well as poor. In fact, some states have demanded this policy so that their farmers could get better price for their crops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-govt-listen-rahul-takes-on-centre-over-fuel-prices/story-yUYWpTIpHlYG7tqYcbnDVJ.html
22-04-2020||India||High presence of an enzyme behind delayed recovery of men: Analysis||New Delhi: A new analysis of Covid-19 patients admitted in the isolation ward of a Mumbai hospital, and three families who tested positive for the virus, has found that men have a delayed viral clearance compared to women patients -- or, simply put, men test positive for the virus for a longer time than women.The analysis does not mention if men also remain symptomatic for a longer time.The yet-to-be-published paper uploaded in MedRxiv, a preprint server for health research papers, suggests that high expression of ACE2 (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) in the testes raises the possibility that testicular viral reservoirs may be playing a role in viral persistence among male patients.The study was conducted by 10 scientists from the Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Mumbai; Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York; Department of Microbiology, Topiwala National Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable Hospital, Mumbai, involved 68 patients -- 48 men and 20 women, with a median age of 35 -- admitted to Kasturba Hospital with infectious diseases. seven members of three families tested positive.Swabs collected at the time of diagnosis were tested using the Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method and subsequent swabs were collected at approximately 48 hour intervals until they tested negative. The median time for testing negative for male patients was six days, compared to four days for women, the study said.“ACE2 was determined to be highly expressed in testicular cells at the protein levels. Interestingly, very little expression of ACE2 was seen in ovarian tissue. Taken together, these observations demonstrate for the first time that male subjects have delayed viral clearance of Sars-CoV-2 (the virus that cause Covid-19). High expression of ACE2 in testes raises the possibility that testicular viral reservoirs may play a role in viral persistence in males,” the paper concluded.To be sure, the theory is still to be validated.“It is true that ACE2 receptors are present in the testicular cells and the virus may be binding there and staying for a longer time. But this is the only paper which is saying this could be the reason. At the moment, we cannot generalise,” said Dr Shobha Broor, the former head of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) department of virology, who has read the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-presence-of-an-enzyme-behind-delayed-recovery-of-men-analysis/story-0zXs2oE7Pq8Nf41bHe7v3J.html
22-04-2020||India||Covid-19 will make tackling of natural disasters difficult: WMO||The Covid-19 pandemic will make tackling climate-related hazards very difficult as overstretched health systems may be unable to cope with the additional burden of patients due to natural disasters like severe heat waves in the coming months, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has warned.“Extreme weather has increased, and it will not go away because of the coronavirus. On the contrary, the pandemic exacerbates the challenge of evacuating people and keeping them safe from tropical cyclones as we saw with Category-5 strength Harold in the South Pacific...,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas, referring to the tropical cyclone that struck Vanuatu, an archipelago of 83 islands near Fiji, this month. Taalas said governments need to do more to strengthen warning systems to cope with multiple hazards.The April-May-June season is likely to be warmer than normal in most parts of the country, according to Indian Meteorological Department’s seasonal outlook released on March 30. The frequency of heatwaves is also likely to be slightly above normal during the season, it added.Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health director Dilip Mavlankar said above-normal heatwave could mean extremely difficult conditions for people living in small houses in the Covid-19 containment zones. “We have to monitor those in slums in very small units especially if their movement is restricted. Additional water should be diverted by municipalities to these areas to deal with the heat and for handwashing. In the West, water is rationed from swimming pools or gardens to deal with heat episodes.”In a statement on Tuesday, the WMO said Covid-19 may result in a temporary reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions with the suspension of vehicular and air traffic, but new global mean temperature record is likely to occur in the next five years. The WMO said CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere have risen in March compared to last year. The monthly average of atmospheric CO2 concentrations at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii last month was 414.50 parts per million, compared to 411.97 ppm in March 2019.The WMO also released a report on the global climate between 2015 and 2019, which said that the past five years were the warmest on record. The global average temperature has increased by 1.1 degree C compared to the pre-industrial levels, and by 0.2 degree C compared to 2011-2015 period. Since the 1980s, each decade has been warmer than the previous one, the WMO statement said.US space agency NASA’s earth observatory on Tuesday showed a massive drop in pollution levels over India since the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 was imposed on March 25. The agency’s satellite sensors have also observed that aerosol levels have been at a 20-year low for April in North India.“We knew we would see changes in atmospheric composition in many places during the lockdown. But I have never seen aerosol values so low in the Indo-Gangetic plains at this time of year,” said Pawan Gupta, a scientist at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Centre. NASA has put out maps showing aerosol optical depth (AOD) over India. AOD is an indirect proxy for air quality, which shows how solid and liquid particles in polluted air block sunlight and leads to smog.Experts said heavy rains in North India could have also helped clear aerosols. In parts of South India, however, aerosol levels have not decreased. They seem to be slightly higher than in the past four years which could also be because of meteorological factors, NASA researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-will-make-tackling-of-natural-disasters-difficult-wmo/story-sLpYdR6nD1D2QKcHKfdiUK.html
22-04-2020||India||Study highlights threat of spread in public transport||New York city’s labyrinthine subway system “was a major disseminator” of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, according to an economist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) who used daily ridership data at different stations and infection trends in these areas.The finding, submitted to American nonprofit research agency National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), underscores the threat of infection in public transport where people are prone to being in close proximity and touching several surfaces through which an infection could spread.“The near shut-off of subway ridership in Manhattan – down by over 90% at the end of March – correlated strongly with a substantial increase in the doubling time of new cases in this borough,” Jeffrey E Harris wrote in the working paper.To establish causation, Harris cites the Gosce model , which adjusts the model used for predicting epidemics to include factors that are unique to mass mobility: people sharing space in a confined setting – such as a bus or a metro train – over a particular period of time during when they will be exposed to the virus.“The Goscé model offers a number of insights that are immediately applicable to the data from the New York City Flushing subway line,” Harris wrote while using the example of a particular route. These, he added, are how: rate of disease transmission is related to number of trips and average number of stations per trip along the line; passengers who board from remote stations spend longer in a train and are thus increasing the time when infections can take place; crowded trains raise the average number of infections and trains with more stops are more likely to seed epidemic than express lines with fewer halts.“An entire subway line, rather than the individual stations or subway cars, is the appropriate unit of analysis,” he added.Lara Gosce, now at University College London, used the model to establish a higher likelihood of people being infected with airborne disease when they had longer journeys through more crowded stations in the London Underground, in a paper published in the journal Environmental Health in 2018.To roughly adapt this to the Delhi Metro’s context, someone boarding a metro train on the yellow line – the busiest network – at Gurugram’s Iffco Chowk for a journey till North Campus in Delhi is statistically more likely to catch an infection than someone who uses the violet line (with significantly less ridership) to go from Janpath to Nehru Place.In New York’s case, Harris plotted infection hot spot along with data of how many people left or entered the subway stations in these boroughs to further establish the pattern.“We know that close contact in subways is fully consistent with the spread of coronavirus, either by inhalable droplets or residual fomites left on railings, pivoted grab handles, and those smooth, metallic, vertical poles that everyone shares,” he said.To tackle this problem, Haris added, authorities will need to look at staggered work hours (to reduce crowding), limits on the numbers of passengers per coach, enhanced ventilation and new technologies to determine which stations an infected person entered and exited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-highlights-threat-of-spread-in-public-transport/story-22su4J64IBtcBfqS96hZ7M.html
22-04-2020||India||Lockdowns may have only arrested first wave||The sweeping shutdowns across the world appear to have absorbed what may only be the first wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, according to officials from the World Health Organization (WHO) and findings by researchers in France – one of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic.The assessment is based on the number of people who appear to have contracted and recovered from the disease – the only way to develop an immunity till the time a vaccine is developed – which, according to WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, “was not more than 2-3%”.“Early data suggests that a relatively small percentage of the populations may have been infected, even in heavily affected areas,” Tedros said at a briefing in Geneva on Monday, after warning that the “the worst is yet ahead of us”. The estimates were based on detection of antibodies in the regions where blood tests have been carried out.The findings are backed by a research uploaded to the French open access journal HAL. “By 11 May, when interventions are scheduled to be eased, we project 3.7 million (range: 2.3-6.7) people, 5.7% of the population, will have been infected. Population immunity appears insufficient to avoid a second wave if all control measures are released at the end of the lockdown,” the authors say in the report .France accounts for the highest number of infections as well as fatalities after the United States, Spain and Italy. As on Tuesday, 155,383 have been infected and at least 20,000 have died in France. The country ordered a nationwide shut down on March 17 when infections were at close to 7,000 with 175 fatalities.The researchers also add that an analysis of hospitalisations and ICU admissions suggest the lockdown had a drastic impact in France. “We find that the basic reproduction number R0 prior to the lockdown was 3.31 (95% CrI: 3.18-3.43). At the national level, the lockdown resulted in a 84% reduction in transmission with the R dropping to 0.52 (95% CrI: 0.50-0.55),” they said. R0 or R naught is the number of people infected by one person carrying the virus. A 95% Crl means there is a 95% probability that a value falls in a particular interval, also called credible interval or Crl. “National daily ICU admissions have gone from 700 at the end of March to 220 on the 14th of April. If current trends continue, by the 11th of May, we project between 10 and 45 daily ICU admissions,” the researchers add.This suggests France may have “flattened the curve”, a disease containment strategy that aims to reduce infections to levels that a country’s health infrastructure can manage.With a population of 1.36 billion, this is especially hard for a country like India, which has one doctor for every 1,457 people. France, on average, has 3.2 doctors for every 1,000 people, according to World Bank data.Globally, more signs emerged that the lockdowns that began in mid-March may have helped enough for some of these curbs to be relaxed in some areas. On Tuesday, Germany reported the smallest increase in infections – 1,323 – in a month. German chancellor Angela Merkel told a meeting of her Christian Democratic Party on Monday that easing the curbs risks sparking a new wave of infections.In Australia, health minister Greg Hunt said the lockdown measures have led to a “sustained and consolidated” slowdown in new infections – he said the growth rate had been less than 1% for nine consecutive days – but cautioned that there would be no relaxations for at least three more weeks.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdowns-may-have-only-arrested-first-wave/story-cDZeeKKumXijggEf8XeNzJ.html
22-04-2020||India||ICMR says 69% patients didn’t show Covid-19 symptoms||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday that 69% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in India who were tested did not show symptoms of the infection, even as the Union health ministry said that the trend of cases worldwide showed about 80% of the patients had mild or very mild symptoms.Roughly two-thirds of all Covid-19 cases in 10 major states comprise people who did not show any symptoms at the time of testing, according to a recent HT analysis of state government data that reinforced growing evidence that “silent spreaders” were unknowingly infecting others, and underlined the need for extensive testing to isolate such patients.Responding to a query on a study that suggested about 80% of the Covid-19 patients were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, ICMR’s head of epidemiology and communicable diseases Raman Gangakhedkar said that it was just one analysis that presented these numbers.“Among the total coronavirus tests conducted so far in India, 69% were asymptomatic and 31% were symptomatic. Which means for one positive patient when we initiated contact tracing, on average we found two asymptomatic patients,” Gangakhedkar said at the daily news briefing.He also said that usually, when there are asymptomatic cases, the chances of a patient reporting them are low.An analysis by HT on Sunday found that 65% of Maharashtra’s cases and 75% of Uttar Pradesh’s cases did not show symptoms at the time of testing. In Assam, 82% of the cases were of people with no symptoms.At the briefing on Tuesday, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, while referring to a World Health Organization (WHO) report, said: “There are few reports of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases which are truly asymptomatic. There has been no documented asymptomatic transmission. This does not exclude the possibility that it may occur.”“Using community surveillance and contact tracing, we are taking pre-emptive action to test asymptomatic persons with high risk contacts so that we are able to identify infected patients in early stage, treat them and reduce mortality,” he said.“On the basis of worldwide analysis, 80% of the Covid-19 patients show mild symptoms to very mild symptoms. Around 15% patients turn into severe cases and 5% may become critical,” Agarwal added.Experts say that the expansion of testing from only symptomatic contacts of a confirmed Covid-19 patient to testing everyone who could have been exposed to the infection, irrespective of symptoms, is leading to more asymptomatic cases being detected n India.The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 644 and the number of cases climbed to 20,004 in the country on Monday, according data from states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-says-69-patients-didn-t-show-covid-signs/story-lfNTncrIBGYUaVur9pAJXP.html
22-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 5 men accused of attacking medical team in Moradabad test Covid-19 positive||Five out of the 17 people, who were arrested for allegedly attacking a medical team in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad last week, have tested positive for coronavirus, a state official said on Tuesday.Besides, 10 more people were found infected with the virus in the district.Police had arrested 17 people after they allegedly attacked health workers, when they visited Moradabad’s Nawabpura area on April 15 to take family members of a coronavirus victim into an isolation facility.These people hurled stones at an ambulance, injuring four people.Chief Medical Officer Dr Milind Garg said samples of all the 17 accused in the Nawabpura incident were sent for testing to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and five of them tested positive for the virus.One doctor was among the people injured in the incident. Police dispersed the violent mob using mild force.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had asked for invoking the National Security Act (NSA) against the culprits. Several incidents of attacks on health workers have been reported from across the country. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-5-men-accused-of-attacking-medical-team-in-moradabad-are-covid-positive/story-kbH2LlVYu5Wpd6jjFZNFYJ.html
22-04-2020||India||Goa has no local cases, outsiders are a concern: CM Pramod Sawant||While neighbouring Maharashtra struggles with the burden of a growing number of coronavirus disease cases, Goa is celebrating its status as a state with zero Covid-19 patients. In this interview on Skype with Sunetra Choudhury, chief minister Pramod Sawant talks about the Goa model of combating the virus.Edited excerpts:Goa has declared itself a Covid-19 free zone. Are you at all wary that it may be too early to have declared this?Thanks to our Covid hospital team that worked hard to bring down our infections from seven to zero. We did their entire treatment, went house-to-house and surveyed, shortlisted the maximum people and we have tested them. So we can say that unless someone comes from outside the state, that’s the only possibility. else there is no positive case in the stateRemarkable at a time when states next to you like Maharashtra is really struggling. Isn’t the challenge also that you have quite a few entry points?That’s our only worry- that Maharashtra and Karnataka are nearby. In both the states, the cases are rising. Till the 3rd of May, there is a total lockdown. We have sealed our entry points, we aren’t allowing anyone into the state.One of the criticisms about your system is that you have not tested enough.Till now, only 826 tests have been done. I know your capacity to test is 80 per day. Are you planning to ramp it up? It is true and I am telling you that we have tested all contacts of those who have been impacted. We are starting with rapid testing at more centres. Approximately 150-200 tests per day we are trying to do.One of the things that is of concern is that you have 8,000 stranded seafarers who are waiting to come back to Goa. What’s your plan to deal with them?That’s true and we are in touch with MHA {ministry of home affairs}, MEA {ministry of external affairs} and ministry of shipping. We have already appointed a nodal officer to coordinate with the seafarers. As soon as the ministry issues guidelines, we are ready to quarantine them in the state. Our state has decided and fixed quarantine facilities. Hotels, hostels have been fixed for this.For those who say Goa is their favourite holiday destination, can you describe the situation there now? We may be a Covid-free state but only those activities that are permitted by Centre, only that are we allowing. We are strictly following that and not allowing anyone in. Even labourers and workers from other states aren’t being allowed inEveryone’s talked about the impact on the economy. How do you see your state in the post-Covid world?We are only focussed on managing Covid right now. We have established an economic revival committee and are expecting the preliminary report soon. Whatever measures we need to take afterwards, we are ready for it.Did the Bhilwara, Rajasthan, model of containment help Goa?We have our own model. After the 22nd {of March}, when PM announced junta curfew, we extended it by two days. We have our model which we worked on--the Goa model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-has-no-local-cases-outsiders-are-a-concern-cm/story-WeuzX8WHEy2mWsu9jLG8CI.html
22-04-2020||India||LS staffer, kin of Rashtrapati Bhavan worker test positive||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached the apex of the Indian State — Rashtrapati Bhavan and Indian Parliament — on Tuesday as a special housekeeper of Lok Sabha — whose son works in Parliament too — and a daughter-in-law of a Rashtrapati Bhavan sanitation worker were tested positive.A cluster of 125 residential houses in the Rashtrapati Bhavan estate was sealed while New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) turned a large number of residential houses near Kali Bari Marg, where the parliament employee lived, into a containment zone.The daughter-in-law of the presidential house sanitation worker tested positive after she came in contact with her mother. The older woman died because of Covid-19 related complications at a private hospital near Karol Bagh seven to eight days ago, a Rashtrapati Bhavan official said.“After we came to know that the lady’s mother died with Covid-19 complications and she had visited her, we sent the entire family to a government-run isolation facility near Birla Mandir. The staff’s house was sealed too,” the official said. As a matter of abundant precaution, 125 houses in that area, within Rashtrapati Bhawan, were also sanitised and bleached in a bid to curb any possible spread of the virus that has already affected millions around the world.“All family members of the staff were tested for Covid-19. While everyone else came out to be negative, the daughter-in-law’s test showed positive results,” the official added, emphasising that no Rashtrapati Bhavan staff has been infected.Last month, President Ram Nath Kovind cancelled all his engagements indefinitely after it came to light that BJP lawmaker Dushyant Singh, who attended a breakfast meeting with him at Rashtrapati Bhavan, had also attended a party where Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor was present. Kapoor tested positive for Covid-19 and later discharged from hospital after testing negative.The Lok Sabha housekeeper, who tested positive, was not attached to the main Parliament complex, but its printing establishment at 36 Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Road in central Delhi. But he lived with his son, along with other family members. The son, in turn, works with the Electronic Corporation of India Limited and is currently posted in the CCTV wing in Parliament House. Both the father and the son had not been coming to work since March 23. “Approximately 10 days ago, the housekeeper fell ill and went to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for check-up and tests, including ECG. He was discharged the same day,” a parliament official said. “But after some days, he developed cough, fever and body ache. On April 18, he again went for check-up at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. This time, the doctors tested him for COVID-19. On Monday, April 20, his report came with COVID-19 positive result,” added the official.The housekeeper lives with his wife, three sons, one daughter, and four grandchildren in the same house at New Delhi’s Kali Bari Marg, said another senior official. One of these sons works in Parliament. Concerned agencies were quickly contacted to get COVID-19 test done for all family members on Tuesday. The results have not come yet.The housekeeper was shifted to Safdarjung hospital from his home on Tuesday morning and officials added that all precautions and steps as mandated by the government will be taken.The Parliament secretariat had resumed work from office on Monday after a gap of several weeks. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla too attended office and held a video conference with his counterparts in state assemblies to discuss the Covid-19 situation and other important issues relating to the role of the Speakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-staffer-kin-of-rashtrapati-bhavan-worker-test-positive/story-VbZuWOtT6olFiI4RU6zTuO.html
22-04-2020||India||Test all patients getting hospital admissions for Covid-19: Centre to states||All patients visiting hospitals in and around containment zones identified by the local authorities will be considered “suspected cases of Covid-19” and those getting admitted will undergo mandatory diagnostic tests for the coronavirus disease irrespective of symptoms, according to a central advisory on Tuesday.In a first, the Union health ministry advisory also advocated a clear demarcation between outpatient departments (OPDs) and wards, and asked doctors to stick to the same federal guidelines they follow in the treatment of Covid-19 patients even while attending to OPD patients.According to a ministry official, the advisory sent to state governments is aimed at preventing the spread of the deadly infection in health facilities, especially in light of the emergence of a few such cases in parts of the country.“There is a detailed guideline by the ministry on how to prevent hospital-acquired infection. But there have been cases where hospitals have reported the spread of infection and even shut down in some cases, probably because they got patients who had Covid-19 even though their symptoms weren’t pronounced enough…The new advisory is asking them to treat all patients as suspected Covid-19 cases, and take required safety measures,” the senior health ministry official who did not want to be named, said.For example, the paediatric intensive care unit of central Delhi’s Lady Hardinge Medical College emerged as a hotbed of infections last week, with 12 health care workers testing positive for Covid-19. Two babies in the ward -- a 45-day-old and a 10-month-old --- got infected. The 45-day-old baby died on Saturday morning.Since March 2, when the first infection was reported in Delhi, at least 80 health care workers and doctors have been infected in the national capital.“Hospitals are likely to become high-risk areas. This is because doctors are not testing everyone; that is not possible,” said SK Sarin, director at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS)“…if the population has a large number of those who have no symptoms, and if they get into the hospitals, doctors and nurses will get infected and then pass it on to others – colleagues, families and patients,” Sarin, who is the chairperson of a five-member committee that advises the Delhi chief minister on Covid-19, said, explaining the challenges health care workers and facilities are facing.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) – the country’s apex health research body – about 69% of those infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, either have no symptoms or very mild symptoms.The central advisory came on the day all of Delhi’s 11 district magistrates as well as deputy commissioners of police, among other officials, held talks with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal via video conferencing. Some of them raised issues faced by front-line workers.“The increase in the number of health care workers, those posted at hospitals and their contacts testing positive is a cause of concern. It might be that adequate measures for protection from the infection are not being taken by hospital authorities, including those which are not treating Covid-19 cases. There is an urgent need to fix these lapses,” said a district magistrate, requesting anonymity.A statement issued by the Delhi LG’s office said the city-state’s health department had been directed to take all precautionary measures.Under the central advisory, those who get admitted in hospitals will have to undergo the RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction test, which is a confirmatory test to detect Covid-19. The results take about five-six hours.“RT-PCR is the gold standard as far as case confirmation is concerned, and results from rapid tests (or antibody tests) are still not foolproof, especially for early diagnosis…And the hospital staff has been directed to particularly keep an eye on patients for any development of unexplained fever, cough or respiratory illness (symptoms of the disease),” the official added.If a patient tests positive, all those who have had contact with him/her will be put on anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which is considered a prophylaxis – a treatment to prevent a disease, according to ICMR guidelines. The government, however, has said the drug has to be taken under strict medical supervision as it could have serious side-effects, especially in those having underlying health conditions such as heart and kidney ailments.Each hospital in the country, be it a dedicated Covid-19 or non-Covid-19 facility, was earlier directed to have a Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC), which will be responsible for coming up with an effective mechanism for reporting the onset of symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 in health care workers.This includes surveillance for fever, cough and breathing difficulty, among others, either through self-reporting or active and passive screening at the beginning of shifts.“Whenever a non-Covid-19 patient or any healthcare workers is suspected to have Covid-19-like symptoms, or tests positive for Covid-19, the HICC will come into action, investigate the matter and suggest further course of action… rapid isolation, contact listing and tracking disinfection will follow, with no need to shut down the whole facility,” the advisory said.It said if the primary source of an infection could not be established and if a hospital continued reporting a large number of cases among patients and health care workers, the facility should be converted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and the local health department must be notified.“In terms of precautions, we are treating new patients as if they were Covid-19 positive even while conducting emergency surgeries. We are sanitising our operation theatres post surgeries, and our staff are wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) and taking other necessary precautions. All admitted patients are being tested irrespective of the Covid-19 symptoms…Same goes for patients who are frequent visitors such as those undergoing chemo, dialysis and so on; they are also being tested,” said a spokesperson for Max Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-all-patients-getting-hospital-admissions-for-covid-19-centre-to-states/story-Wonk3rpLdKP1s7dDJJTrnM.html
22-04-2020||India||This Delhi man risked his life for a stranger in distress||How many of us would put our lives in danger just to fulfil a promise made to a stranger ? Delhi businessman Hemant Bhayana drove his car non-stop, covering about 1326 km in 24 hours from Delhi to Bhagalpur, Bihar to help a migrant in distress. He wanted to ensure that Tipu Yadav, a 19-year-old daily wager, attends his mother’s cremation. Tipu’s mother had died a tragic death after getting trapped into a threshing machine. Some thoughtless relatives had sent Tipu extremely distressing pictures of his mother’s body which has caused him a nervous breakdown. The boy has stopped eating completely and he was crying inconsolably. He somehow wanted to reach his village in time to be able to cremate his mother’s body, but it seemed impossible due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Hemant’s sister, Delhi based activist Yogita Bhayana managed to get a permit letter from the government for Tipu to travel via roadways from Delhi to Bihar. But no one was willing to take up the highly arduous and risky journey to drive Tipu all the way home during the lockdown. The administration could not provide them a vehicle and a driver to carry out the mission. But Yogita was adamant to send Tipu home to be able to perform the last rites of his mother and share his old and ailing father’s grief. That’s when Hemant, 40, volunteered to drive all the way in his sister’s car along with Tipu and two more daily wage earners from Bhagalpur. He took along his friend Rohit Kumar to help him in this unique mission. “I can’t bear to see any one in pain…Tipu’s agony left me perturbed…there’s was boy in front of me crying because his mother had met such a horrific death, and he was away from his father. I just had to help him,” he says.Covering a distance of around 1,326 km in almost 24 hours in his sister’s car, Hemant dropped Tipu and his friends to Bhagalpur, and after resting for just a few hours, started his journey back to Delhi. By the time he reached home, he could barely stand. “I was extremely exhausted, but the peace and satisfaction that I got after fulfilling this task made up for everything,” he says.But there were a few sights that he witnessed during this journey that torment him even now. “As I drove through Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, I saw so many dead bodies of stray dogs, who apparently could not survive due to starvation. I could do nothing about that. I hope people come forward and ensure that no more voiceless beings bear the brunt of the lockdown,” says the dog lover who feeds stray dogs daily in Model Town.It’s been almost eighteen days that Hemant returned from Bihar but he has kept in touch with Tipu over phone. A few days ago, Tipu informed him he is trying his best to cope up with the tragic loss. He is keeping himself busy by working in the fields, helping his father cut wheat. Tipu says he can’t thank Hemant enough, for what he did for him. The two have made a unique bond, one that reinstates our faith in humanity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-delhi-man-risked-his-life-for-a-stranger-in-distress/story-k2qp2yrXRUqvlXM1pMeS2L.html
