23-04-2020||India||Decision on new Parliament building to be announced soon by environment panel||The Union Environment Ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) on constructions, townships and area development projects met on Wednesday to consider environmental clearance for various infrastructure projects including the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament Building.The contentious project which will cost Rs 922 crore according to estimates by the Central Public Works Department and involve transplantation of at least 233 trees from the existing site was discussed in detail by the 13-member committee but the decision cannot be shared immediately, experts said.“The decision is not final until minutes are drafted. It will take a week. We have to hear 15 more projects tomorrow and day after also,” said T Haque, chairman of the panel over phone.The renovation of the Parliament building is a segment in the Centre’s larger Central Vista project which includes a new Parliament house, a new Central secretariat complex for ministries, and new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.Several concerns have been raised by architects and urban planners regarding the project. One of them is that despite Central Vista being a single development project, it has been broken into parts for ease of obtaining environmental clearance. CPWD has listed the Parliament building as an “individual project” in the environment impact assessment documents. It also states that there are no “interlinked projects”.HT had reported on February 21 that the new Parliament complex is proposed on a plot adjacent to the existing building and yet it is being considered by EAC only as a renovation project. The land use of the 9.5-acre plot has been changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority last month.DDA last December had changed the land use of a 15-acre plot from recreational to residential on Dalhousie Road near South Block where the PM’s new residence has been proposed.LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society members has raised these issues and asked why such a huge amount of money was being invested in the Parliament building during the Covid-19 pandemic.“As you are aware this project is not just about renovations to the existing Parliament but involves the construction of an entirely new building of an additional 65000 sq.m on a separate plot next to the present parliament,” LokPATH wrote to EAC on April 21 adding that “as per the applicant, the present cost of the project is Rs 922 crores. At a time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to prioritise government spending for medical facilities and public health infrastructure. Since the global and Indian economies are also very fragile, it would be wasteful and cruel to allow such a project to come up when millions of fellow citizens in the agriculture, fisheries and other basic sectors are struggling to cope financially.”On Wednesday, LokPATH again wrote to the Central Vista Committee that the approval by DDA for land use change of the area by DDA has come through when there are cases pending in courts on the matter. The land use change can alter the character of open and public use spaces and allow extensive building activity in the area, apart from restricting public access, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-new-parliament-building-to-be-announced-soon-by-environment-panel/story-Oyw0S6nPC8Qzy2U118wD0L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cricket will emerge a different sport in post-Covid world: Sachin||Sachin Tendulkar never publicised intimate personal events in a pre-social media world, and is not known to make a fuss about them post-Instagram either.April 24, his birthday, was always a quiet affair even in his heyday, coming as it did at a time of the year with hardly any action on the international cricket calendar. The one time this day held a major international tri-series final was in 1998, when he played an innings for the ages: The 134 that came on the back of a 143 and capped a performance that came to be known as the Desert Storm (alluding to a sandstorm that disrupted play in the desert venue Sharjah). Tendulkar took India to the final and then won that final on his own. He turned 25 that day; on the receiving end, Australia great Shane Warne aged a decade.But even by Tendulkar’s standards, this Friday will mark his quietest birthday ever, which he will spend with his family under lockdown in Mumbai. As a mark of respect for the city’s front-line workers fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, he says he will not celebrate.Talking to HT a day before his 47th birthday, Tendulkar said cricket would emerge a different sport in a post-Covid-19 world and detailed the changes the game could witness. “The method of shining the ball is going to change now,” Tendulkar said, referring to the age-old method of shining one side of the ball with saliva to make it swing. “Celebrations also... one can’t do high-fives or hug each other. The game will restart after we overcome this challenge, but I feel that element [of fear] will stay somewhere in the back of the mind. To maintain certain hygiene levels not just during this phase, but post this is also going to be critical for everyone.”It is widely expected that when sports does resume, most of it will happen in empty stadiums at the beginning. Cricket Australia has spoken about the possibility of holding the T20 World Cup, scheduled in October, behind closed doors.“It would be a strange feeling to play inside an empty stadium,” he said. “Because you draw a lot of energy from the crowd. It may seem like net practice.”Along with international sports, the domestic cricket circuit too has come to a standstill, with the 2020 Indian Premier League postponed indefinitely.“It will be unfair to single out just the IPL as a tournament and say so many people are losing their livelihoods. We need to understand why this is happening. This is all happening in the interest of our nation, and nothing comes above that,” said Tendulkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cricket-will-emerge-a-different-sport-in-post-covid-world-sachin/story-whxV4pHoxjnWp4P78ABAkI.html
23-04-2020||India||Virus spread slowed by a month of lockdown: Govt||Medical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness.Detailing India’s evolving strategy against the pandemic, environment secretary CK Mishra, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria, and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava stressed that the focus has been on expanding the testing base, tracing contacts across the community to detect the spread of infection, and scaling up health care infrastructure to prepare for a spike in cases.They said infections were growing at a slower rate, larger numbers of people were being tested, and more medical facilities were being readied.Mishra admitted that the measures taken so far were not enough, and that efforts need to be further intensified.Thursday marked the 30th day of a national lockdown, a tough measure to halt the spread of the disease that has killed at least 187,000 people across the world and infected about 2.7 million. In India, 22,997 people have so far been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Mishra, who is leading one of the 11 Covid-19 empowered groups, said there were several positives in how India had handled the pathogen so far. “The growth of Covid-19 cases has been more or less linear, not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we have adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” he said.“Despite a 24-fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising. The percentage (4.5%) of positive cases as a ratio of testing is more or less the same as that a month back,” he added, prompting Dr Bhargava to allude to this figure to later say that “curve could be flattening”.Experts, however, warn that the real curve in question is the one of new cases and deaths, and that the testing percentage may not mean all good news. They suggest that once testing is massively scaled up, the percentage of those testing positive should ideally drop in order to avoid hospitals being overrun by patients.Mishra said that while the number of tests in the country stood at 14,915 on March 23, the figure rose to over 500,000 by April 22. “Post lockdown, while the number of new positive Covid-19 cases has increased by 16 times, testing has increased by 24 times,” the chairman of the second empowered group, which deals with the availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance, and testing and critical care training.“The facts show that our testing strategy has been focused, targeted and continues to expand; this is an evolving strategy based on our learnings as we go along... As the challenge kept expanding, strategy too kept expanding,” Mishra added.The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 22,000-mark on Thursday, but the rate at which the grim milestone was crossed – it took about nine days for the tally to double – was a sign that the country may have been able to largely avoid the initial deadly spectre of the pathogen that has ravaged countries across the world.The World Health Organization (WHO) has, however, warned that the worst is yet to come, with more waves of the infection expected once countries lift lockdowns in difficult decisions to jumpstart economic activity.The environment ministry secretary also shared comparative data from other nations to explain where India stood in its response to the disease. At 500,000 tests, the number of confirmed cases in the US was 80,000. It was 100,000 for Italy, 120,000 for the UK and 80,000 for Turkey at the same point. For India, there were 20,000 cases for 500,000 tests, he said. “India has done better than majority of developed countries, with respect to the percentage of test cases yielding positive results,” he added.Dr Bhargava, the head of India’s apex biomedical research body, said that the philosophy of India’s effort has been “more labs, more tests and more resources”.“From about 100 labs at beginning of the lockdown, we have 325 laboratories testing for Covid-19. Our strategy has been to detect the virus and then save lives,” he said.Dr Bhargava said a supply chain has been created and the Centre has been working with states to ensure required reagents are supplied to testing labs in a timely and calibrated fashion. “The gold standard for Covid-19 testing remains and has remained the RT-PCR test, which detects the virus.”The RT-PCR detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection. India has also deployed rapid tests that detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus; they can show results within 30 minutes. However, antibody tests are currently on hold as the government tries to check batches being supplied from China for efficacy of the kits.Mishra said that the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals increased 3.5 times since last month and isolation beds rose by 3.6 times in the same period. “These numbers are increasing, being added continuously... We need to evolve our strategy based on the latest position.”“Our first goal as regards hospitalisation has been to ensure that the minimum number of people need to come to the hospital, using social distancing, discipline and taking care of the vulnerable such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities.”“The second goal is to ensure enough infrastructure so that every person who needs to come to hospital is treated well, cured and sent back. Every district in the country is now working towards that.”Since oxygen support is essential in treating Covid-19 patients, the government is making arrangements to increase beds with adequate oxygen support and intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilator support. India currently has 3,773 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 194,000 beds, 24,644 ICU beds and 12,371 ventilators.A sweeping shutdown across the country has closed schools and colleges, thrown migrant workers out of daily-wage jobs and halted transport and economic activity. The lockdown will remain in place till May 3, but the government is understood to be working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease tough restrictions.Dr Guleria, director of India’s premier government hospital, said Covid-19 patients are facing a lot of challenges and stigma. “Recovered patients are symbols of victory, but we have stigmatised them, causing a huge problem.”“Due to the stigma we have attached, patients are not coming forward, they are coming very late when they have severe breathlessness issues, thereby increasing morbidity and mortality,” he said.“Many of these Covid-19 patients can be saved by just giving them oxygen; if they do not get oxygen, it can trigger various other problems, our strategy of expanding oxygen support is based on this,” Guleria added.He also expressed the appreciation of the medical fraternity to a new ordinance that make any attacks on health care workers a non-bailable offence in the time of an epidemic, and significantly increases penal action that can be taken against the perpetrators.But the officials and experts admitted that steep challenges remain across a few states that have become hot spots of Covid-19, with the Union home ministry terming the situations in these regions “especially serious”.The two western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat on Thursday accounted for about 39% of the total Covid-19 cases in India. Maharashtra, with 6,427 confirmed cases and 283 deaths, is the worst affected while Gujarat -- with 2,624 infections and 112 deaths -- has seen a nearly four-fold increase over the last nine days. The state of West Bengal has so far reported 456 positive cases and 15 fatalities, but has tested just around 87 people per million of its population. Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of ICMR, said: “The incubation period of Sars-CoV-2 is 5-7 days, and the range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time; by restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries, lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-spread-slowed-by-a-month-of-lockdown-govt/story-ukJLwlOlKyKgwESoMUBSnK.html
23-04-2020||India||Harvest of pulses, potato complete: Centre||The Union agriculture ministry said on Thursday that the harvesting of rabi pulses and potato was completed, while that of wheat, sugarcane and onion was on track and will soon be concluded.The government said that the arrival of staple vegetables in mandis saw a jump compared to last month. There was a six-fold increase in arrival of onion, a statement by the agriculture ministry said.In the lockdown clamped to control the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government exempted agriculture activities. “In the major wheat growing states, the status of harvesting is encouraging,” the statement said.As reported by state governments, about 98-99% of wheat crop has been harvested in Madhya Pradesh, 88-90% in Rajasthan, 75-78% in Uttar Pradesh, 40-45% in Haryana, 35-40% in Punjab and 82-84% in other states, it added.The statement came on a day the Punjab government decided to slow the pace of procurement to avoid a glut in grain markets and to coordinate the lifting and movement of food grain out of the state by issuing fewer passes to farmers.“From Sunday, we will issue 60,000 passes a day to farmers for bringing their produce to mandis for procurement,” said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state committee on wheat harvest and procurement. He added that he was satisfied with the pace of procurement, but the movement of grain from the state to other consuming states was also a priority.State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said a steady pace of crop arrival had been maintained at between 4.5 lakh tonne and 6 lakh tonne a day on average, but this would be slowed to streamline the backlog in lifting and the grain outflow from the state.The state-owned Food Corporation of India (FCI), meanwhile, transported a record 2.8 lakh tonne of food grains on Wednesday through trains to consuming states for distribution through ration shops.FCI set a new benchmark on April 22 when it moved 102 train loads carrying about 2.8 lakh tonnes of food grains, the food ministry said in a statement. Maximum movement was from Punjab, which loaded 46 train loads, followed by Telangana with 18.“Wheat and raw rice was moved from Punjab and Haryana to various parts of the country, boiled rice was moved from Telangana to Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvest-of-pulses-potato-complete-centre/story-8ZyCxAA4STHgUF9lOpU1eN.html
23-04-2020||India||Allow power projects in rural areas: Centre||The Centre has advised states to allow construction in power projects outside municipal limits during the lockdown. It comes following the ministry of home affairs’ guidelines on activities exempted from the extended lockdown till May 3. The sector has been under stress since the lockdown with a dip of 30% in demand for power due to absence of commercial activity. The Centre also directed Coal India Limited (CIL) to stick to its coal offtake target at 710 million tonnes (MT) for this fiscal. Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi held a meeting Wednesday to set the performance targets for the state-run company keeping in mind the roadmap for a post-lockdown scenario, officials said. “The demand of coal will pick up again after coronavirus lockdown, so I have directed CIL to keep the production and offtake targets at 710 MT for financial year 2020-21 in line with its goal to achieve 1 billion tonne coal production by year 2023-24.” Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday.Railways freight loading for coal, one of its prime commodities, has dipped since the lockdown. Its earnings for coal and coke dipped by 48.25% to 1,880.61 crore, since the lockdown.In the letter written to the states, union territories, District Magistrates and police authorities, the power ministry said, “As per MHA’s guidelines, construction of all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas, i.e., outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to be carried out with effect from 20th April, 2020. This is also applicable for ongoing construction activities in Thermal/Hydro Power Generation Projects outside the limits of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).”On April 15, the home ministry had allowed continuation of works in construction projects, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought from outside from April 20 onwards. “However, these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures,” the guidelines had said. Movement of all personnel travelling to place of work and back in the exempted categories as per the instructions of the state/union territory were also allowed.The power ministry has also requested to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials, equipment, spare parts and consumables for these under construction power projects. “It has been emphasised that resumption of project works at sites may be carried out while taking all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family welfare from time to time with regard to Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement Thursday. The home ministry had, in a fresh set of guidelines, added exemptions including activities in farming/plantation, construction and banking sectors. Construction activities in rural areas, water supply, sanitation, and laying of power, telecom lines were also exempted from the lockdown.“The economic costs of the lockdown are rising each passing day with the impact being felt across sectors. The situation requires immediate, across the board intervention from the government.Under lockdown, economic activity has slowed down significantly across most sectors. In manufacturing, only food processing, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment are operational, while construction and mining activities have halted completely. Within services, majority of trade, transportation and hospitality remains closed, while financial, IT and government services remain partially operational. Even in power sector which can operate, significant reduction in demand owing to lockdown is having an adverse impact,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry. “Commercial power tariffs remain high in India, further affecting industry’s competitiveness. Further, the state power distribution companies are running at huge losses. Taking forward the reforms and privatization of the Discoms is necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-power-projects-in-rural-areas-centre/story-Zl9ofKWk8xdo2nZ0O1u5MO.html
23-04-2020||India||US tightens norms for nuclear exports to Pak||Washington The United States has suspended the export of nuclear byproducts under its blanket general licensing system to Pakistan, whose history of nuclear proliferation has been a concern and has led to the blacklisting of many of its government agencies and private contractors.The decision announced in a government gazette called the Federal Register on Wednesday does not prohibit export of these nuclear materials —  that are used as radionuclides embedded in devices — altogether, but make it mandatory for exporters to seek government’s permission every time and for every specific consignment. Radionuclides are radioactive elements used widely, among other fields, in medicine and for irradiation of food.  “The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is issuing an Order suspending the general license authority under NRC regulations for exports of byproduct material to Pakistan,” said the announcement in the register. “Exporters are no longer authorized to use the general license to export byproduct material to Pakistan and now must apply for a specific license pursuant to NRC regulations.”It did not ascribe any specific reason other than that the Trump administration has determined that the suspension is “necessary to enhance the common defense and security of the United States and is consistent with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act”.The order did not say so, but under relevant rules, a country’s proliferation record can be ground for cancellation of the export license. “The Commission will closely monitor these countries and may at any time remove a country from a general license in response to significant adverse ,developments in the country involved,” says the code of federal regulations for the energy sector. “A key factor in this regard is the nonproliferation credentials of the importing country.”A response was awaited from the US Nuclear Regulator Commission (NRC) to a request for the reasons for the suspension.The announcement came the President Donald Trump and Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan talked on phone about the coronavirus pandemic. Trump mentioned the call at the daily briefing of the White House task force but gave no details. It could not be ascertained if the nuclear export development figured in their discussion.Pakistan’s s history of nuclear proliferation has been a major concern for the United States, as for the rest of the world. The nuclear black market established by AQ Khan, who built Pakistan’s nuclear bomb with stolen technology that he then passed on to Iran, Libya and North Korea, is thriving.The Trump administration has continued to pursue Pakistani government agencies, private contractors and fronts, who have sought to find a way around US rules and conditions, with unmitigated urgency and unchanged priority.The immediate trigger for Wednesday’s action  could not be ascertained. But Joshua White, a former top White House official for South Asia who first flagged the Federal Register announcement, said, “We can’t be certain what prompted this move by the NRC. It may have been undertaken in response to a series of technical violations or regulatory oversights, or it may be in response to broader US concerns related to Pakistan’s nuclear programs or non-proliferation commitments.”The US justice department indicted five Pakistani and Pakistani-descent men in January for using front companies to procure American goods for Advanced Engineering Research Organization and the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, both Pakistani government agencies that are on the US “Entity List” of exporting destinations whose activities have been declared “contrary to US national security or foreign policy interests”.In 2018, seven Pakistani organizations were added to the US that “Entity List”, a US commerce department blacklist of governments, government agencies, private companies and individual viewed as a threat to US national security and the export of sensitive US material to whom are tightly controlled and are subject to specific government clearance.The Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a non-partisan, and non-profit body that seeks to end proliferation by tightening export control regimes in source countries such as te United States, said  in a report in September 2019, that since 2014, the US commerce department has added 40 Pakistani or Pakistani-related entities to that list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-tightens-norms-for-nuclear-exports-to-pak/story-SyVRJRi1dzpmJrXK6NwB1L.html
23-04-2020||India||FAC members favourable to hydro project in Dibang Valley||New Delhi: The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) on Thursday discussed the issue of forest clearance for the Etalin Hydroelectric Project (3097 MW) which will involve clearing of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in the committee’s own documents.A senior member of FAC who didn’t want to be named said that though a decision on granting forest clearance to the project is yet to be taken, most members have a favourable view of the project because it is a large “clean energy project” which can replace dirty energy. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view, so did the sub-committee that visited the site,” he added.HT reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of FAC which visited the site in February has recommended in its report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money that will g towards wildlife conservation in the area.Meanwhile, scientists who have worked in Dibang Valley wrote to the environment ministry on April 22 after they came across the FAC’s sub-committee report on the Parivesh website. Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Nandini Velho, wildlife biologist cited scientific studies that established that tigers are present outside the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Dibang Valley and are at risk from the Etalin project.The sub-committee report submitted on April 21 was of the view that there are no tigers in the project area.This was based on a multi-seasonal study by the Wildlife Institute of India , which deployed 78 camera traps during a four-month survey and captured no tiger images. “Further no pugmarks or scat of tigers was found during this survey. Therefore, the tiger presence in study area was not established,” the sub-committee said in its report .Scientists have pointed out that this observation contradicts FAC’s earlier observations where it referred to an independent study by a wildlife researcher that captured images of 12 individual tigers and 8 individual clouded leopards at various locations in Dibang Valley. “A large majority, above 60%, of the camera traps were placed outside Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary which shows that both species are not only abundant but also very widespread in the district,” FAC noted. The project area also falls under “vital tiger area” in ministry’s own documents. Velho and Sreenivasan also point out in their letter that the sub-committee failed to take note of peer-reviewed studies showing Dibang Valley’s outstanding rich biological diversity. “The most notable are the six different colour variations of the Asian golden cat (Schedule I) which are found throughout the district. Dibang Valley hosts the highest colour variation of any wild cat species in the world, making it a globally significant area both for conservation, and to study ecological adaptability and evolution,” they write referring to a study published on the Asiatic Golden Cat in the Ecological Society of America’s ‘The Scientific Natural’ journal last year.Scientists working in the area told HT that the Idu Mishmi community (the dominant population in the valley) wrote to the National Tiger Conservation Authority in 2018 about tiger presence across the valley. According to a local news report cited by United Nations on its website the Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS) wrote to NTCA, stating that the community wishes to be consulted during deliberations on the Dibang tigers as the organization has forwarded a cultural model of tiger conservation. “Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy for Dibang tigers would be to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model, a culture which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” the representation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-members-favourable-to-hydro-project-in-dibang-valley/story-qUaazlvv4le06y1Q1qAWrJ.html
23-04-2020||India||India studying Trump’s new immigration order: Officials||India is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to suspend new immigration for 60 days, though it believes such visa programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Trump told reporters on Wednesday he had signed the “very powerful order” aimed at protecting the jobs of Americans laid off because of the Covid-19 crisis. The order said the suspension of immigration will affect those legally seeking to enter the US for employment but not people who are already in the country.“We have taken note of the order which was signed yesterday and are studying it. It doesn’t cover non-immigrant visas and these programmes have benefited the economies of both countries,” said one of the people cited above on condition of anonymity.People-to-people contacts are the bedrock of relations between India and the US and New Delhi’s expectation is that visa programmes which have benefited both sides will continue, the people said.Indian officials have said in the past that Indian immigrants in the US have played a key role in the development of the American economy, especially in the IT and services sectors.The Indian side recently asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the economic downturn caused by the pandemic. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla took up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on April 8, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.Following the sharp economic downturn and suspension of business operations triggered by the pandemic, a lot of US firms employing H-1B visa holders had laid off numerous employees.If an employer terminates the contract of H-1B visa holders, the employees need to find new employment within 60 days to retain their status or face the prospect of being deported to their home countries. This existing rule has exacerbated the problems of H-1B visa holders who were laid off.Explaining the reasons behind the executive order, Trump told reporters on Wednesday: “By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labour flown in from abroad.”Trump said without the order, the US would face a protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment, if labour supply outpaced demand.The White House also said in a statement the administration would monitor the labour market and decide whether the order should be extended after 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-studying-trump-s-new-immigration-order-officials/story-kb1iaAkSXBBMbGfCv9woHM.html
23-04-2020||India||Will care for Indian workers: Singapore||New Delhi Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong assured his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Thursday that his government will care for Indian migrant workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The two leaders discussed the Covid-19 situation in their countries and “agreed to work together on the challenges posed by the pandemic, keep supply chains intact, and keep essential supplies flowing”, according to a statement posted by Lee on Facebook.As of Thursday, Singapore has recorded more than 11,000 Covid-19 cases, with a majority of them linked to work permit holders living in foreign worker dormitories, Channel News Asia reported. A total of 21 of these dormitories have been designated as isolation areas as the coronavirus was continuing to affect migrant workers.“I thanked PM Modi for India’s help when we brought home some Singaporeans from India recently. I assured him that we will care for Indian migrant workers here, just as we care for Singaporeans,” Lee wrote in the Facebook post.“The migrant workers made personal sacrifices to come to work here. They have made many contributions to Singapore, so we have a responsibility for them,” he added.Lee also said he appreciated Modi’s “affirmation of our efforts in looking after the migrant workers, and his assurance that they will not forget this”.Modi tweeted that he had exchanged views on the Covid-19 pandemic with Lee and “thanked him for the support and care being extended to Indian citizens in Singapore”. The India-Singapore strategic partnership can contribute to stability and prosperity in the post-Covid world, he added.Lee noted that Singapore was in the midst of a “circuit breaker” while India had implemented a nationwide lockdown since late March, “not a simple decision in a huge country of 1.3 billion people”.Meanwhile, external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed the Covid-19 crisis and ways to overcome the pandemic during phone conversations with his counterparts from the US, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Brazil on Thursday.“The changing world of #corona era diplomacy. Strong friendships thrive even virtually. A busy day talking to Foreign Ministers of Russia, Brazil, United States, Saudi Arabia and Oman,” Jaishankar tweeted.He said he and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had discussed the Covid-19 responses of the two countries and the “importance of international cooperation” and working closely on the implications and consequences of the pandemic. They also exchanged views on the Afghanistan situation, he said.State department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus said Pompeo and Jaishankar discussed bilateral and international cooperation to contain and mitigate Covid-19, including “ensuring the availability of pharmaceutical and medical supplies”. Jaishankar tweeted that he and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov discussed the forthcoming BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) foreign ministers’ meeting and reviewed recent developments pertaining to Afghanistan. “Our cooperation on #coronavirus reflects our special friendship,” he said.During his conversation with Oman’s foreign minister Yusuf bin Alawi, Jaishankar expressed his appreciation for Oman taking care of Indian expatriates and assured him of India’s support in the collective fight against the Coronavirus. The conversation also assumed significance as an Omani princess clarified on Wednesday she had no connection to a fake tweet posted by a person impersonating her.Jaishankar thanked Saudi Arabian foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan al Saud for taking care of the Indian community in the kingdom and discussed “our shared interest in ensuring health and food security”.In his phone conversation with Brazil’s foreign minister Ernesto Araujo, Jaishankar reviewed the follow up of President Jair Bolsonaro’s visit to India in January and exchanged notes on global issues, including the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-care-for-indian-workers-singapore/story-hNpBnfyaUpZ6Jr8vpWR6DK.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala plans quarantine for vulnerable sections||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala is planning to introduce a “reserve quarantine” mechanism that will involve isolating the most vulnerable people--the aged or those with underlying health conditions and compromised immunity--to monitor their indicators and protect them from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a top state official said on Thursday on condition of anonymity.The mechanism is likely to be introduced as the Covid-19 cases have gone up after dipping for a while. It will be apart from the “track, trace, and treat” regime the state is following. The health department official cited above said the state has realised it is in for a long haul and needs a multipronged strategy to fight the virus.Kerala was the first state in the country to report a Covid-19 case in January. It was the worst-hit until Maharashtra overtook it as the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases last month. Officials believe the state will be able to check a higher mortality rate through the mechanism in case of a community spread of the disease by isolating vulnerable people. The community spread involves individuals contracting a contagious disease in a particular location without any known contact with other infected individuals or travel history to an area where the illness has been documented.People above 60 accounted for around 15% of the state’s 33.4 million population as per the 2011 census. According to the latest state economic review, better health care facilities have led to a higher life expectancy in the state and the number of elderly people has grown.Officials said the mechanism will be implemented through local bodies and they will be tasked with providing medicine, food, counselling and other assistance.They added many local bodies and grassroots accredited social health activists have started collecting details for the exercise, especially in Covid-19 hotspots.Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, a former principal of Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said as the pandemic spreads deeper into the community, “reserve quarantine” is one of the solutions expected to keep vulnerable people safe from the virus. “It does not mean that they will have to be moved to care homes. In their homes, they can be given separate rooms and their interaction with other family members can be controlled,” he said.He said immunity against Covid-19 depends on whether it generates neutralising antibodies and also how long they remain protective. “We need to accept a fact now... we cannot say when will it end. Not all viruses can be prevented by vaccines either. Some of the viruses like influenza antigens do change frequently, which poses a serious challenge to vaccine makers also,” said Muliyil.Experts say “reverse quarantine” is possible in Kerala since most people have their own houses and slums are uncommon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-quarantine-for-vulnerable-sections/story-8TrPY3z6iXbEy6soxZu1OI.html
23-04-2020||India||Jharkhand family alleges boycott over Covid rumour||Ranchi: A family of five in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh has alleged it was facing social boycott over a rumour that they were suffering from Covid-19 and were not even allowed to drawn water from their village tube well.A video showing two hungry kids of the family crying for biscuits went viral on social media and prompted chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday to ask authorities to take immediate action and provide relief.“My appeal to people is that do not pay attention on rumours. In this epidemic situation, we can fight the Corona virus and rumour only with social support,” Soren said in a tweet.Geeta Devi, the mother of the two, said on April 18 a few villagers alleged she was suffering from Covid-19. “When I asked them how could they know? One of them alleged that my brother in-law came from Chattisgarh and he is suffering from Covid-19. I tried to convince them nobody came from anywhere,” said Devi, whose husband, Ishwar Kumar Mahto, a labourer, has been jobless due to the Covid-19 lockdown.She said the next day the villagers prevented her from drawing water. “No food was cooked that day in absence of water. To prove the villagers wrong, we went for a checkup on April 19. The report came negative but the health officials asked us to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” she said. Devi added despite showing the report, the villagers asked them leave the village.“The next day, the villagers did not even allow me refill my LPG cylinder. They are not allowing us to even come out of our house,” Devi said. She sought police help on April 21.Dhananjay Kumar, the in charge of the local police station, said they helped the family get water and convinced the villagers ignore rumours. “If the family was harassed again, we will lodge a case against the villagers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-family-alleges-boycott-over-covid-rumour/story-ElAIzST4BV3urWY9eA9rhK.html
23-04-2020||India||Rohingya struggle to survive under curbs||Hyderabad: The fear of deportation to Myanmar has been haunting an estimated 6,000 Rohingya refugees in Hyderabad for years, but their very survival is now at stake because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has robbed them of their livelihoods. “Forget about going back to our country, our worry now is how to feed our families. There is no work to do as everything is closed. We cannot even step out of our settlement because the area has been barricaded. Whatever little money we had earned last month has now exhausted,” said Fareed Alam, a refugee.Most of the Rohingyas came to Hyderabad between 2011 and 2013 and have been eking out their living as ragpickers, cleaners, mechanics, and construction workers. They live in huts made of tin sheets and thatched roofs across five slums.Noor Basha, 36, another refugee, said he has been working at a stone crushing plant at Velgatur and his family is stuck in Hyderabad, over 200 km away. “Now, I have no work here as the plant is closed. I cannot go back to Hyderabad due to the lockdown and stringent police restrictions,” Basha said over the phone.Bash is surviving on food some locals are offering him. He added his wife and two children were virtually starving. “My 12-year old son is suffering from an eye infection and I have no money to send to the family for his treatment. He, too, is not a position to go to the hospital because of the lockdown.”Vikas Gora of Save the Children NGO, which has been working with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said they have been providing groceries to the Rohingya. “We have distributed packets comprising rice, edible oil, wheat flour, dal, chillis, onion, salt and sugar, apart from hygiene kits to these families...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rohingya-struggle-to-survive-under-curbs/story-lpWx5kG9AjlHNF6Cg3PMJK.html
23-04-2020||India||Ramzan fast in coastal Karnataka from Friday after new moon is sighted||The month-long Ramzan fast will begin in coastal Karnataka from Friday with the sighting of the crescent moon on Thursday night which was followed by a declaration of the same by a leading religious figure, said a news agency.“As the crescent moon was sighted tonight (Thursday) over the coastal region, Qazi Twaka Ahmed Musliayar declared the start of the holy month of Ramadan, with fasting from Friday in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts across the southern state’s west coast,” an official told IANS quoting the priest.In Kerala too, Ramzan begins on Friday, while, in the rest of Karnataka, fasting will begin on Saturday after the moon is sighted on Friday night, the news agency added.Saudi Arabia, too, has announced observance of Ramzan from Friday after the sighting of the new moon.“Based on the sighting of the new month’s moon ... it has been decided that Friday is the start of the month of Ramadan,” Saudi Arabia’s royal court said in a statement cited by the SPA news agency.King Salman said he is saddened that Muslims cannot pray at mosques because of restrictions on gatherings, in place due to coronavirus pandemic.In India, the religious leaders of the Muslim community have requested devotees to offer prayers at home instead of Mosques or public religious places in view of the Covid outbreak.The Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari urged followers to respect the lockdown norms in order to contain the spread of the virus.“If we follow government’s instructions, we will be able to eradicate COVID-19 soon. The holy month of Ramzan is about to begin. Prayers have to be offered at homes itself and social distancing must be maintained. By following it, we will be able to protect everyone,” a news agency quoted Bukhari as saying.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe Wakf board has also asked the imams to dissuade devotees from visiting mosques for sahri, iftar and taraveeh till May 3.Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, too, expressed confidence that the community will follow the lockdown norms and not step outside their homes till May 3.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Moulana Md Shafik Qasmi, the Imam of Kolkata’s Nakhuda Mosque, too, asked people to only venture out of their houses when extremely necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramzan-fast-in-coastal-karnataka-fromfriday-after-new-moon-is-sighted/story-RBNYBLC8mCrnfVYPbTzgEM.html
23-04-2020||India||Gujarat records fourfold jump in cases within nine days: Data||Jaipur: Covid-19 cases and deaths have seen a nearly fourfold increase in Gujarat over the past nine days, health department data showed on Thursday. The rate of recovery as compared to the national average is low in the state, the data showed. The two western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat on Thursday accounted for about 37% of the total close to 22,000 Covid-19 cases in India. Maharastra, with 5,649 confirmed cases and 269 deaths, is the worst affected. Gujarat, until Thursday, had 2,624 positive cases and 112 deaths.A closer analysis of the data released by the state government between April 14 and April 22 revealed that the number of Covid-19 cases had gone up close to four times. On April 14, 650 cases were reported from the state which increased to 2,624 on April 23. In this period, Covid deaths increased by four times. On April 14, 28 deaths were reported. On April 22, the number went to 112.The recovery rate in the state of Gujarat has been low. As against the national recovery rate of 19%, Gujarat’s rate has been 6.3%. However, according to state government officials, the reason for the poor recovery rate was that reporting of coronavirus cases in the state was late, so the number of patients recovering would gradually begin to register.“Between March 20 and April 14, that is in 35 days, only 650 people were found positive in the state. In past few days, 1,800 cases have been reported which means the numbers have increased many times. But the state has shown that from a five-year-old kid to a 45-year-old man have turned from positive to negative. We are sure that numbers of patients recovering would also increase in the coming days,” said a top official of the state government, who did not wished to be named in this report.The data also revealed that 47% of persons, who died due to coronavirus, in Gujarat were more than 60 years old, officials said.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary health, said most of the deceased were elderly people and were suffering from other serious diseases too. “The age of 47% of the deceased is more than 60, 41% victims are between the age group of 40 years and 60 years, 10% are between the age group of 20 years and 40 years old and 2% are between one and 20 years old,” Ravi said. She added that many of the deceased were suffering from diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer and kidney-related ailments.The top five districts affected with Covid-19 in Gujarat are Ahmedabad (1,602 cases), Surat (456), Vadodra (215), Rajkot (41) and Bhavngar (33). The highest number of deaths has been reported from Ahmedabad (62), Surat (12), Vadodra (10), Bhavnagar (5) and the rest are from other districts.The localities in Ahmedabad that have emerged as Covid-19 hot spots are Jamalpur, Berhampur, Khadia, Dariyapur, Danilimdi and Shahpur. Similarly, the localities in Surat, from where the highest number of cases have been reported are Limbayat, Surat Centre, Varacha A, Udhna, Rander, Athwa Gate, Katargam, Lal Darwaja and Varacha B.Meanwhile, Gujarat police on Wednesday registered two cases for misusing curfew passes to smuggle liquor into the dry state. “One case has been registered for misuse of letter of Haryana district magistrate for transport of sanitizer in Balasinor taluka of Mahisagar district. Liquor worth Rs 11.40 lakh was found instead of sanitizer. Another case was registered for misuse of letter of Punjab district magistrate for transport of vegetables on Ahmedabad-Vadodara Express Highway. Liquor worth Rs 16.80 lakh was seized by the state monitoring cell,” said Shivanand Jha, director general of police, Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-records-fourfold-jump-in-cases-within-nine-days-data/story-SmH1ptPIVQSbcylX1fqBOM.html
23-04-2020||India||India set to get lead role in WHO board||New Delhi India will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organization (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The appointment of India’s nominee as chairperson of the WHO’s executive board will come at a time the world and the United Nations agency are struggling to stop the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen from spreading further.The Covid-19 pandemic has already killed more than 180,000 people worldwide and infected 2.6 million, forcing countries to go into lockdown mode, which could cost the world upwards of $1 trillion this year.India will assume the lead position on May 22 at the executive board’s first meeting after the truncated World Health Assembly conference. India replaces Japan, which will complete its one-year term at the crucial job in May, diplomats in Delhi and Geneva confirmed to HT.That the chairperson’s position will come to India was decided last year when the WHO’s South-East Asia group unanimously proposed New Delhi to the executive board for a three-year term.The group also nominated India for the chairperson’s post held by rotation for one year among regional groups. That decision was made long before the world woke up to the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen which originated in China’s Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.The World Health Assembly (WHA) that will formally elect the executive board members to fill vacancies is proposed to be held on May 18. But it will be a much shorter version than had been proposed earlier with 60 agenda items. Now, there will be only three.Apart from the opening of the assembly session, the WHA will have an address by Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus which will be focused on the Covid-19 preparedness and response. The assembly will then move to formally elect the executive board members and chair.As head of the 34-member executive board, India’s nominee would have to work closely with Director General Ghebreyesus. The board, one diplomat familiar with the working of the WHO said, is mandated to implement the decisions and policies laid down by the World Health Assembly.For all practical purposes, this implies that the Director General of the WHO has to get the chairperson on board for all important decisions, one of the diplomats cited above said.India will also be a member of the programme budget and administration committee, replacing Indonesia.At the WHO, a government official said, India is on the side of transparency and accountability in the Covid-19 outbreak and reforms in the global health body.By virtue of being on the executive board for three years, India will also have a say in the shortlisting of the next WHO director general when the incumbent’s five-year tenure ends in May 2021.The 34-member executive board is mandated to interview candidates to decide who will stay in the running and face the election at the health assembly.Earlier, the executive board used to have the last word on the appointment of the WHO’s Director General for all practical purposes. It would select the Director General and send the nomination to the general assembly for formal vetting.But this process was changed and the executive board was told to whittle down the list of candidates. This short list went to the annual ministerial gathering of WHO’s 194 member-states, World Health Assembly, for an election among the top three contenders by a secret ballot.This change followed stinging criticism that the previous WHO director general Margaret Chan had to face over the agency’s sluggish response to the devastating west Africa Ebola outbreak that spread across one of the world’s poorest regions in 2013 and killed 11,000, according to news agency Reuters.Quite like his predecessor, Tedros Adhanom has also been facing a barrage of criticism for the WHO’s initial handling of Covid-19. Unlike the Ebola that had impacted Africa, Covid-19 has hit the world’s richest countries. The United States is the hardest-hit country, with more than 46,500 coronavirus deaths and 840,000 infections.His critics -- US President Donald Trump tops this list -- accuse the WHO chief of playing down the disease at China’s behest and giving the world and the US flawed advice.It has been insinuated that Tedros Adhanom had allowed himself to be guided by China’s hand because Beijing had backed his candidature in 2017. Tedros Adhanom has rejected the allegations as well as suggestions that the WHO was slow to react.Tedros Adhanom was elected in 2017 at the end of an election campaign that, according to the Guardian, was dogged by mud-slinging and spin. David Nabarro, professor of global health at Imperial College who had served as UN envoy on Ebola, was his prime rival. The United States had backed David Nabarro, who was appointed as the WHO DG’s special envoy on Covid-19 in February.Tedros Adhanom has stated that the global coronavirus crisis will not end any time soon.“Make no mistake: we have a long way to go. This virus will be with us for a long time,” he said.“Most countries are still in the early stages of their epidemics. And some that were affected early in the pandemic are now starting to see a resurgence in cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-get-lead-role-in-who-board/story-SqrQmnyQEqWTDvHUWTN8zH.html
23-04-2020||India||BJP spreading virus of communal hatred: Sonia||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred” when the entire nation should be united in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.“Let me also share with you something that should worry each and every one of us as Indians. When we should be tackling the coronavirus unitedly, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), via video conference. “Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage.”In a resolution adopted at the meeting, the CWC accused the BJP of seeking to “inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles the Covid-19 pandemic”.The resolution said the virus does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed, religion or gender. “As a nation, we must be wary of forces that seek to polarise in times of crisis such as these. The onus lies on us to ensure that we stand together as one nation in the face of all odds.”BJP spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain said it is unfortunate that Gandhi is trying to give the pandemic a communal colour. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already said this virus does not differentiate on the basis of religion or caste. The entire country has to fight this challenge together. If the Congress cannot joint this fight against the challenge, it should at least refrain from giving it a communal colour.” Gandhi said the Centre does not appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3, when the extended nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the pandemic is scheduled to end. “A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating.”The CWC urged the Centre to come out with an exit strategy and a road map to ensure adequate infrastructure to deal with a potential spike in Covid-19 cases and for the economic revival (after the lockdown ends).Gandhi reiterated her commitment to extending constructive support to the government in dealing with the crisis.She said all sections of the society, particularly farmers, farm labourers, migrant labour, construction workers and those in the unorganised sector, continue to face hardship. She added that trade, commerce and industry have come to a virtual halt and millions of livelihoods have been destroyed.Gandhi said she has written several times to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and offered constructive cooperation and also made a number of suggestions.Gandhi told the CWC that the suggestions were formulated on the basis of feedback from different sources, including Congress chief ministers. “Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she said.“We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, tracing and quarantine programme. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE [personal protection equipment] kits are being provided to our doctors and healthcare workers but the number and quality are poor.”The CWC said 110 million people, who need subsidised food, remain outside of the public distribution system and 120 million jobs were lost in the first phase of the lockdown.The CWC also discussed the issues of migrant workers, farmers, revival of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises, and empowerment of states.“The fight must be bottom-up instead of the top-down, one size fits all policy is currently on display. The Centre can vastly bolster the states’ efforts by providing them with adequate financial support starting with releasing their full share of the Goods and Services Tax collected so far and allowing them greater fiscal space to borrow,” it said.In his address to the CWC, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the success of the lockdown will be judged finally based on the country’s ability to tackle Covid-19. He added cooperation between the Centre and states is the key to success in the fight against coronavirus.Rahul Gandhi said the issue of migrant workers needs to be addressed on priority basis. “Lockdown is a mere pause button. As a nation, we need to think of a transition from a complete lockdown to lockdown only in disease hot zones and commencement of activities in green zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-spreading-virus-of-communal-hatred-sonia/story-VdyysT1WFinWMapXH90ASI.html
23-04-2020||India||Will viewers return to theatres after lockdown? asks Bengal’s film industry||2020 was supposed to be a good year for Bengal’s film industry. From highly paid stars to popcorn hawkers, millions supported by the industry were looking forward to a good run.But the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has put paid to all that. While the business has taken its worst hit in recent history, stakeholders say that even after the lockdown, people may take months to overcome their fears and enter crowded theatres in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic . Till it was hit by the curfew to contain the coronavirus, Tollywood, named after Tollygunge, its nerve centre in south Kolkata, was hoping to retain its Rs 200 crore annual turnover from movies and more than Rs 100-odd crore from television series and reality shows.According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) 400 million people have lost jobs in India already. Now Tollywood stalwarts fear that their industry, too, may take more than six months, to be back to anywhere near normal.“I have around 15 films in the pipeline. When they had to be stalled, post-production work was on. Scenes for which I thought of foreign locations, like most of my projects, will have to now be shot in Kolkata. The crisis affects crew members, vendors, people who rent out cameras, studios, spot boys, et al” said Nispal Singh, director of Surinder Films, a top production house.“With zero returns, no producer can invest in new films till the pending ones are released. The Rs 200 crore industry will take a long time to recover. Satellite television and YouTube channels only return a fraction of the investment. But on the other hand, television entertainment will be back on track once the lockdown is over, because producers can start shooting and their viewers have not gone anywhere,” Singh added.Eminent director and producer Arindam Sil said, “Shooting for two of my films was on. Locations were arranged and hotels had been booked. Even if I manage to wrap up the projects, will you feel safe going to a theatre to watch them? One of the big multiplex chains in USA has declared itself bankrupt. I don’t see an easy way out.”A prominent exhibitor who linked food business to his enterprises, Arijit Dutta of Priya Cinema said, “How long can I pay my staff and how long can the big multiplex operators pay rent to mall owners? Moreover, if there are no new movies to exhibit, for whom will I open the theatres if lockdown orders are lifted tomorrow? The cascading effect of this outbreak will be felt for a long period.”“I am jobless right now. However, we are pulling our resources to help artists and technicians,” said prominent actor Saswata Chatterjee who has acted in several Hindi hits including Jagga Jasoos and Kahani.“To help actors with limited and irregular income as have raised around Rs 17 lakh with donation from fellow actors and production houses such as Shree Venkatesh Films. Even cricket star Saurav Ganguly helped us. Corporate houses have not come forward yet, but we plan to raise as much as Rs 40 lakh as a contingency plan for three months. The crisis won’t end with the lockdown. We have also given some funds to production assistants and technicians,” said Arindam Ganguly, general secretary, West Bengal Motion Picture Artists’ Forum, which has 3600 members. Popular actor Jeet has helped 15 people who serve tea in the sets, Ganguly added. “The earnings of my company have shrunk by more than 65 per cent. Shooting for eight Bengali serials has been held up. That involves around 250 people, including actors, who used to be paid according to their shifts,” said Eshita Surana, director of Aakash Aath, a television channel that produces its own serials and reality shows. “The focus has now shifted to news channels, and so have the advertisers. Surana, however, feels that this trend will change after the lockdown. On May 3, producer Atanu Roychaudhury’s company Bengal Talkies, a new entrant in the industry, was all set to release Tonic, starring popular actor Dev and septuagenarian Paran Bandopadhyay, who plays the protagonist. “The teaser was released and publicity materials were all ready. Now we are planning to release it on December 25. Hopefully, the crisis will be over by then and people will have found the courage to enter theatres.” “One of my productions, Rakta Rahashya, would have released on April 10. I don’t know when it will hit the theatres now. Another film, Barunabur Bandhu (starring Dadasaheb Phalke award winner Soumitra Chatterjee), was doing very well when the shows stopped,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-viewers-return-to-theatres-after-lockdown-asks-bengal-s-film-industry/story-NhCGFgvIsZEVSAtDHXHZKP.html
23-04-2020||India||Pakistan organises Saarc video conference on Covid-19||India was represented by a senior official at a video conference of health ministers of Saarc states organised by Pakistan on Thursday to discuss regional cooperation in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.The video conference, chaired by Pakistan’s de facto health minister Zafar Mirza, was held more than a month after the virtual meeting of heads of government of members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 15.Pakistan was the only country that wasn’t represented by a head of government at the March 15 video conference, which witnessed the creation of a Saarc Covid Emergency Fund with an initial contribution of $10 million from India.India’s delegation at Thursday’s video conference was led by Rajiv Garg, the director general of health services.An Indian statement said “most Saarc countries were represented at the official level” at Thursday’s video conference, while a statement issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office said it was joined by Saarc secretary general Esala Ruwan Weerakoon and ministers from three Saarc states.Though Pakistan contended Sri Lanka’s health minister joined the video conference, people familiar with developments said the country was represented by the deputy director general of public health.The Indian delegation, including experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Indian Council of Medical Research, built on the briefing made at the March 26 video conference of Saarc health experts and presented an account of the country’s response to the pandemic, including the stepping up of production of essential materials and medicines and enhancing capabilities for research on drugs and vaccines.India also highlighted the successful use of new and innovative technology-based solutions such as the Aarogya Setu app for community outreach and intervention. The use of the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund, creation of a dedicated website by the Saarc Disaster Management Centre and stand-alone networking of health and trade officials for real-time interactions were among “visible practical steps”, members of the Indian delegation said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIndia has also developed the “SAARC COVID19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX)” for use by all Saarc states, and it will be used for the exchange of specialised information and tools among health professionals.The Pakistani statement said the conference also discussed real-time sharing of information and clinical data, training of medical staff, the supply of medicines and medical equipment, and enhancing cooperation with frontline international organisations, including the WHO.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-organises-saarc-video-conference-on-covid-19/story-b0OptkIsDuVgY0I69fguqI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘China, others should have no concerns about changes in FDI rules’: Govt||China and other countries shouldn’t have concerns about changes to India’s foreign direct investment (FDI) rules to bar opportunistic takeovers as they don’t impose a blanket ban on investments from any neighbouring nation, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.China had on Monday asked India to revise what it described as a “discriminatory” change in FDI regulations aimed at preventing opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms amid the economic downturn triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Indian government brought China under the ambit of regulations preventing such acquisitions last week, with authorities saying Chinese investments would require the government’s approval. The revision of the policy came soon after China’s central bank bought a 1.01% stake in HDFC.“There should be no concern regarding the procedural changes made as a result of a review of the FDI policy as they don’t prohibit investments from any country that shares a land border with India,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The change only envisages that FDI proposals from countries sharing a border with India will be considered under the government approval route, and several other countries have taken similar steps, the people said.The change in Indian FDI regulations came against the backdrop of reports that Chinese firms were eyeing the acquisition of Indian companies hit by a fall in their valuation amid the economic slowdown.In a statement issued on Monday, the Chinese embassy contended the changes in FDI norms were tantamount to additional barriers for “investors from specific countries” and violated the WTO’s “principle of non-discrimination”. The statement added the changes also went against the trend of liberalisation and facilitation of investment.The people cited above also referred to the effectiveness of Coronavirus testing kits sourced from China, especially against the backdrop of complaints from several states, and said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is looking into the matter.The ICMR advised states to stop using Chinese-made rapid testing kits after wide variations – ranging from 6% to 71% – were detected in the accuracy of test results for positive samples. Officials said there was a need to carry out further investigations of these huge variations.Chinese authorities, on the other hand, have been insisting that India should only procure testing kits and other medical equipment from firms that have been certified for exports. The certification process was tightened after several other countries complained about the quality of Chinese testing kits and other medical equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-others-should-have-no-concerns-about-changes-in-fdi-rules-govt/story-Ge84j8jDLP7VCfezZodX2L.html
23-04-2020||India||CISF recommends use of Aarogya Setu app in Delhi Metro post lockdown||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has finalized its post lockdown plan for the Delhi Metro in which it has recommended use of the Aarogya Setu app and mandatory use of masks for all passengers entering the platforms.The force has also stated that after thermal screening, which will be conducted at all entry gates, if any entrant is found with abnormal temperatures or symptoms of cold, cough or flu, they he or she will be denied entry in the metro train.“Aarogya Setu app with inbuilt e-pass feature could be employed for identification of suspected persons (having Covid-19 infection). Persons with high risks for both spreading as well as contracting infections should be discouraged from using the metro,” the CISF’s security plan states.However, if anyone doesn’t have a phone or fails to download Aarogya Setu app, he/she won’t be denied entry. DG CISF Rajesh Ranjan told HT – “Aarogya Setu app is a good technology based solution to track possible Covid-19 victims instead of people giving declaration. We have recommended that every passenger should have Aarogya Setu app which will work like an e-pass. Identifying Covid-19 patients is important to stop its spread. The success of such initiative depends on truthfulness of people as to what information they provide in their app.”HT had reported on Wednesday first that CISF is preparing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Delhi Metro and airports for post lockdown security checks in which it will recommend use of Aarogya Setu app by all the passengers.CISF has further suggested that all passengers will have to take out metallic items like belts and buckles before frisking and keep them in their bags which will be scanned by an x-ray machine. “Strict distancing norms will be followed throughout the station area and proper queuing area before the security screening point will be maintained,” it said.It added that passengers should maintain at least two meters distance between the security screening place and line-up points and a meter distance between passengers waiting at the security screening place.It has also proposed that the entire station area be sanitized with chemicals and security fixtures; equipment and x-ray tables should be sanitized every 30 minutes.CISF is deployed at around 160 metro stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-recommends-use-of-aarogya-setu-app-in-delhi-metro-post-lockdown/story-6gaNpxCzdAH0PkuO2y8EeM.html
23-04-2020||India||With tourism down, clamour to restart mining in Goa gets louder||With Covid-19 bringing the country to a halt and the tourism sector to its knees, a clamour has started for the resumption of mining -- the other industry that is considered the backbone of the Goan economy. The Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA) has pitched itself as the potential saviour of Goa’s ‘debt-ridden-economy’ and promised that the government coffers will be full if mining restarts. In a letter to the state government, Ambar Timblo, the president of the GMOEA, has said that in the time of lockdown, the mining industry was a safe bet for the revival of Goa’s economy.“At present, it is not possible to restart the tourism industry unless the contagion is overcome globally. However, in so far as mining is concerned, the same can be undertaken even during the present period of lockdown with certain safety procedures and practices. Goa is uniquely positioned for the immediate resumption of operations as all workforce, infrastructure, and relevant statutory clearances are in place,” Timblo said. Mining in Goa came to a halt in March 2018 after the Supreme Court ruled that the Goa government’s decision to renew mining leases in 2015 was ‘unduly hasty’ and was contrary to its earlier directions for the grant of fresh leases instead of renewals. However, rather than granting fresh leases -- a process that now involves an auction after the Government of India amended the MMDR Act in 2015 -- the Goa government has been hoping to get the Supreme Court to change its mind. Parallelly, Vedanta Ltd which acquired Sesa Goa, the largest mining company operating in Goa, has filed a petition in the Supreme Court arguing that its request for a 50-year extension of its lease with effect from the year 1987 should be allowed. The Goa government had disallowed Vedanta’s request claiming that its hands were tied as the Supreme Court clearly mandated that all mining operations in the State of Goa be stopped until fresh mining leases or other renewals and fresh environmental clearances are granted.Vedanta’s plea before the High Court against the State Government’s decision was also rejected and is now pending before the Supreme Court. Apart from the revenue loss due to the suspension of mining operations, the Goa government has seen its debt mount over the last one year owing to slashing of the GST rates for the hospitality sector including on hotels and restaurants. In a bid to shore up revenues, the Goa Government hiked excise duty on liquor as well as VAT on fuel but has still seen debt balloon to Rs 20,000 crore. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has expressed his inability to run to the aid of business sectors that were facing losses on account of the shutdown. “Right now we are not in a position to declare any kind of package for everyone. The state itself is going through a bad position; we should all understand that the government itself is going through an economic crisis. At this stage, it is wrong to expect a relief package from the state government,” Sawant said. “This sharp increase in debt levels can be attributed to shutdown of mining activities which has led to revenue loss of Rs 7000 crores in the last 2 years. The state tourism sector, which is already reeling under huge losses, is expected to witness a major fall in the number of tourists coming to the state over the next 3 quarters. The contraction in tourism will lead to additional losses for the State as well as an increase in unemployment to the tune of almost 75,000 jobs,” said Timblo, who has now been appointed on the Goa government’s economic revival committee. Despite the clamour to revive mining, voices against the resumption of mining persist. The transportation of ore mined before March 2018 has been allowed by the Supreme Court for six months, leading to vocal protests by those affected by it. “We are observing about 200 laden trucks plying per hour on the village roads. This makes the mockery of lockdown. We all are aware that COVID-19 positive cases in our neighbouring states are increasing day by day, especially in Belgaum district of Karnataka State. We were expecting the authorities to be very cautious about the movement of people,” Rupesh Velip from Caurem village in South Goa which has seen the movement of ore, said. Goa Foundation’s executive director Claude Alvares, too, questioned the move during the lockdown.“Lakhs of Goans have been told to stay at home by the Prime Minister of India and to wear masks. However, heavy and uncontrolled movement of mining trucks on open roads through human settlements makes nonsense of these directions. This is sheer hypocrisy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-tourism-down-clamour-to-restart-mining-in-goa-gets-louder/story-PmcKZwKrULDoiQOlV0uJZI.html
23-04-2020||India||Omani princess blames impersonator for tweets targeting India||The tweets posted by a person impersonating an Omani princess were aimed at disturbing social harmony in India and disturbing New Delhi’s ties with countries in West Asia, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Sayyida Mona bint Fahd al Said, the Omani princess whose name was used by the impersonator, issued a clarification on Wednesday that she had no connection to the tweets regarding the purported expulsion of Indian workers from Oman.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, also said it was “deeply regrettable” that the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) was levelling accusations of Islamophobia against India. They described these accusations as factually inaccurate and misleading.Earlier this week, a Twitter user apparently based in Pakistan had changed the name of the account to that of the Omani princess and tweeted that Indian workers in Oman would be expelled if the Indian government “doesn’t stop the persecution of Muslims”. This account was subsequently deleted.There was also an instance of a Twitter user posing as a Saudi princess to tweet similar content, the people said.In a statement in Arabic, Princess Sayyida Mona said: “First of all, I thank you for your concern to verify what was published through an account impersonating me, which you are sure that I have no connection with.” Noting that such activities “are not acceptable to the Omani society”, she added her presence on social media was restricted to two accounts on Instagram and Twitter.One of the people cited above said the princess’ clarification made it clear there is a “deliberate design to disturb social harmony” within India and impact the special relations between India and West Asian countries. The heads of Indian missions in West Asian countries have appealed to Indian expatriates not to be swayed by such “malicious propaganda”, the person said.The people said it was “deeply regrettable the OIC continues to make factually inaccurate and misleading statements” about the harassment of Muslims in India. The OIC shouldn’t “communalise” the global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, they said.The people said the repatriation of Indian nationals stranded in West Asia would not be possible at this point of time as the country continues to be under lockdown. The issue can be considered if there is a review of the lockdown, and Indian missions are in touch with the host governments regarding the welfare of Indian workers, they said.The situation continues to be dynamic and the government will continue to support the stranded Indians, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omani-princess-blames-impersonator-for-tweets-targeting-india/story-MVo763TYN1hhZuLskm3PuO.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Here’s the full list of Delhi’s 92 containment zones||The total number of containment zones in Delhi have jumped to 92 on Thursday evening with the addition of two localities in Mehrauli. Shamsi Talab and Lake View Apartments in the South Delhi area have been added to the Covid-19 hotspots in the capital. Yesterday, five neighbourhoods were added to the list. Delhi has recorded 3020 positive cases so far including 48 casualties. The containment zones have been set up to restrict the movement from these areas to prevent further spread of the disease.Here is the full list of Delhi’s 92 containment Zones as of Thursday:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)For Coronavirus Live Updates81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi88. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi89. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi90. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi91. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9292. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, DelhiThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-the-full-list-of-delhi-s-92-containment-zones-is-here/story-9DzIpzpIZi3XZ3nMu8kt8L.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala CM says more tests needed after 10 more new cases of Covid-19||With ten new cases the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala has gone up to 447, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday.He said the government will accelerate tests in the coming days. “The shortage of kits and spare parts had delayed tests in the state and it will be speeded up with fresh kits provided by the Union health ministry,” Vijayan said.The CM said that in two months health authorities could conduct only 21,000 tests and some of the states which started tests much later had done more than that. He said the state government has placed orders for 10 more real time PCR machines.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Out of 10 new cases four were reported from Idukki district. The CM said Idukki will be taken out of the green zone in view of these cases and will be designated as an orange zone. Out of 447 cases, 318 have recovered and 129 people are in hospitals, he said adding strict lockdown will continue in red zones. Four districts of north Kerala are under red zone - Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikkode and Malappuram. “We expected a sharp rise in cases but things are under control. We still feel community spread did not take place. But the threat still persists. We have to be careful,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-says-more-tests-needed-after-10-more-new-cases-of-covid-19/story-zkMlGTS7WwNkTBJgGiwFZP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi reports 128 new cases, total goes up to 2,376||Delhi recorded 128 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of infections in the national capital to 2,376 while two persons died to take the casualties to 50, the state government said in its health bulletin.Eighty four people were declared recovered from the infection on Thursday to take the total number of recoveries to 808. The number of active cases in Delhi is now 1,518.It said 1,548 of those infected or 65.18% are people who are less than 50 years of age while 16.17 % or 384 people were between 50 and 59 years of age. Over 18% or 443 of Covid-19 cases were people who are 60 and above. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Among the casualties, 10 were less than 50 years of age and nine (90%) had co-morbidity. The mortality rate of this age group was 0.64%. Thirteen of the dead were in the 50-59 years age group and nine (69.23%) of them had co-morbidity factors. This age group’s mortality rate was 3.39%. The highest mortality rate was for the 60 year plus age group at 6.09% with 27 casualties out of which 24 (88%) had co-morbidity factors. The overall mortality rate was 2.1% and the co-morbidity factor was 42%. A total of 30,560 people have been test for Covid-19 so far out of which 2,376 tested positive, 24,538 tested negative and 3,068 results are pending. Government labs have tested 22,766 people while private labs have carried out 7,794 tests so far, the bulletin said.The 128 new cases were among samples that reported positive against a total of nearly 1,953 samples processed during last 24 hours, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-128-new-cases-total-goes-up-to-2-376/story-hvS9LHxgtpPmjghEm3A9AO.html
23-04-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh reports 80 Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths today||Andhra Pradesh projected a grim picture of Covid-19 pandemic with three more deaths and a whopping 80 new cases being reported in the state in the last 24 hours.The latest figures took the death toll in the state to 27 and the cumulative number of positive cases for Covid-19 to 893, a health bulletin released by the state medical and health department on Thursday afternoon said.The figure of 80 positive cases is the highest in a single day in both the Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the earlier highest figure was 75 each.In the last one week, Andhra Pradesh reported an alarming rise in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state by 13 and the number of cases by 459.The health bulletin said Kurnool recorded the highest number with 31 new cases, apart from two deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 234 and deaths to seven.As many as 18 new cases were registered in Guntur taking the overall number of positive cases to 195. It is also the highest number of eight deaths in the state. Neighbouring Krishna district reported only two new cases and a total of 88 cases, but it also registered the third death in the state in the last 24 hours. It has so far registered seven deaths.Chittoor has registered 14 new cases and total number of 73 cases. Nellore with 67 positive cases, Prakasam with 50 cases and Anantapur with 43 cases and three deaths are on the top of the list.The state government claimed that it had conducted tests on 6522 samples. At the same time, 21 patients got discharged, taking the number of overall discharged patients to 141. “In all, 725 patients are still under treatment,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-reports-80-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-today/story-Lgqi9ULn8nR1gEwKMbvlPO.html
23-04-2020||India||Maharashtra sees 778 Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths in biggest single-day jump||Maharashtra registered a staggering count of 778 coronavirus positive cases on Thursday, the state’s highest single-day jump so far taking the total Covid-19 tally to 6,427, health officials said.Fourteen Covid-19 patients died on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the deadly pathogen in the state to 283, the officials said.Of the new Covid-19 cases, capital city Mumbai registered 522 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the city’s coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 4,205. At least, 167 people have died due to the highly infectious disease so far in Mumbai. ALSO READ |‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in MumbaiTill date, 840 coronavirus patients have recovered and been discharged in the state, according to state health department data.India’s total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 21,700 on Thursday with the number of deaths at 686 across the country, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. A total of 1,229 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours.At least 34 people have died due to the deadly infection since Wednesday.A day earlier on Wednesday, India had breached the 20,000 mark with 20,471 Covid-19 positive patients in the country. Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, followed by Gujarat and national capital Delhi coming in third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-jump-with-778-new-cases-state-count-at-6-427/story-Ci7kAXnjbaFBya1finnnLP.html
23-04-2020||India||Ahead of panchayat meet, PM Modi’s reminder on their key role as Covid warriors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote to Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, a day before he interacts with Gram Panchayats across the country through video conferencing on the National Panchayati Raj Day.Prime Minister Modi highlighted the important role a strong rural economy can play in the growth of the country and also the emphasis put on rural development by his government as evidenced in several schemes. His letter also praised the role of Gram Panchayats in fighting coronavirus at the grassroots level through social distancing and other measures announced by the government.“We are going through an unprecedented situation, when coronavirus pandemic has emerged as a challenge in front of the entire humanity. All Indians are united in our fight against this disease. All those members of the Panchayati Raj, who have fully committed themselves like brave warriors to combat this illness, are a source of inspiration for us,” Modi said.PM will launch a unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App tomorrow on the occasion of the National Panchayati Raj Day.The portal will provide the Gram Panchayats with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP).PM Modi will also launch ‘Swamitva Scheme’ on the occasion. It is meant as a tool for integrated property validation in rural India. Swamitva or Ownership scheme will ensure the demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas with the use of the latest surveying methods including the use of drones.Every year best performing Panchayats/states and union territories (UTs) across the country are rewarded for good work in the area of service delivery and public goods. This year three such awards namely, Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA) and Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award have been finalized. The details of award winners will be shared with the concerned states.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNormally, National Panchayati Raj Day is commemorated as a grand event on a big scale. It was to be organised as a national event at Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh this year and PM Modi had confirmed his participation but the outbreak of Covid-19 led to the decision to hold a digital version of the event. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-panchayat-meet-pm-modi-s-reminder-on-their-key-role-as-covid-warriors/story-p9HBfoCR4r3ShsjuyfRUhK.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India studying Trump order barring immigration and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India studying Trump order barring immigrationThe Indian government is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to temporarily stop immigration for 60 days though it believes such programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. Read more. India to get lead role at WHO next month amid global Covid-19 crisisIndia will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organisation (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read more. ‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in MumbaiThe 125,000 slum-dwellers living under a lockdown so strict that drones monitor their moves and alert police if they attempt to leave home are at the heart of India’s push to contain coronavirus. Read more. India slowed doubling rate of Covid-19 cases, ramped up testing: OfficialsMedical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness. Read more. Sona Mohapatra accuses Kartik Aaryan of planting negative stories about her in the press: ‘MCP ego flared up?’Singer Sona Mohapatra has accused actor Kartik Aaryan of having his publicists push negative stories about her in the media, after she criticised a video shared by him, in which he was perceived to have displayed misogynist behaviour. Read more. Mother’s Day 2020: Gifts for your mom that you can get right nowMother’s Day 2020 is right around the corner. But, thanks to the lockdown enforced in the country to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak, there is no going out to the market and giving your mom a saree from her favourite designer or a new smartwatch to take care of her health just yet. Read more. World Book Day 2020: How to read a book in the digital age while we stay home and practice social distancingFor the present-day reader, there are umpteen options across genres and one might even find themselves spoilt for choice if they’re unable to pick one book or title at a time. Read more. Tinder tweets Maya’s response to Monisha’s ‘humari setting ho gayi hai’. Whose version would you use?Think Maya Sarabhai and the image that will pop up in your mind will be a perfect mix of sass and sophistication. This upper middle-class mother-in-law character never held herself back from throwing some classic burns at her bahu, Monisha. Read more. Covid-19: What is herd immunity and how does it lower infection? ExplainedCoronavirus disease is a new virus that has never infected humans before. Humans have no immunity against it, so the virus spreads quickly. Herd immunity occurs when at least 70%-90% of a population have been infected and developed natural immunity against a disease, or have been vaccinated against it.To contain coronavirus disease, at least 80% people must have antibodies for herd protection to kick in. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-studying-trump-order-barring-immigration-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qiLzfEWxUjHPnvvLxhmHjK.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Sikkim closes Nathu La trade route with China, suspends Kailash Yatra||The Sikkim government on Thursday announced that it was closing the Nathu La (pass) trade route with China and the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra through the pass this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government is also likely to continue the ban on entry of even domestic tourists till October. “Our government has decided to close the China-India trade route through Nathu La pass. The Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra through Nathu La will remain closed this year, ”B S Panth, Sikkim’s tourism and civil aviation minister, said.Under the Nathu La trade protocol, traders from Sikkim are allowed limited access to the Tibet autonomous region while Chinese traders are allowed a few kilometres into Indian territory.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Very soon we will adopt a proposal and inform the Centre. Since China is the epicentre of the outbreak we will close the Nathu La trade route which is supposed to open on May 1,” the minister said. “The Kailash- Mansarovar Yatra is also not happening this year.”The much-hyped international trade route was reopened on July 6, 2006 after remaining closed since 1962. The Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra, organised annually by the ministry of external affairs from June to September through Nathu La was reopened in June 2015. Another route for the yatra is through Lipulekh pass in Uttarakhand. The international trade through Nathu La continues till end of November.Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case so far. The state was among the first to ban the entry of domestic and foreign tourists and migrant labourers. It sealed the international borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan and two of the four border check posts with West Bengal.The Nathu La trade pass and Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra are two major revenue earners for Sikkim. The state drew more than 12 lakh domestic tourists and 1,33,388 foreign visitors in 2019.Panth said Sikkim is unlikely to allow even domestic tourists till October. “If the situation improves we may rethink the issue,” he said. However the minister indicated that the ban on the entry of foreign tourists will continue. The state government gets an annual revenue of around Rs 10 crore from the tourism industry.On June 16, 2015, the then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj flagged off the first batch of 40 pilgrims from New Delhi who headed for Kailash-Mansarovar thought Nathu La. The announcement from the Chinese side was made by President Xi Jinping during his India visit in September 2014.In 2015, the Sikkim government sponsored two Sikkimese who took part in the yatra.More than 6,000 pilgrims from India take part in the pilgrimage every year. Most of them make their way through the Nepal-China border town of Khasa (Tatopani).Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted the second route for Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra to be reopened in view of the difficult terrain through Uttarakhand and Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sikkim-closes-nathu-la-trade-route-with-china-suspends-kailash-yatra/story-3Q30Wo1eZ9tqdUqMcUgzdN.html
23-04-2020||India||Centre delivers Covid-19 relief worth Rs 31,235 crore under PM scheme||The union government on Thursday said more than 33 crore citizens had already received direct benefits worth Rs 31,235 crore from the Rs 1.71 lakh crore relief package announced under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package to mitigate against the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak.A government release said Rs 10,025 crore was disbursed to 20.05 crore women holding Jan Dhan accounts, Rs 1405 crore had been distributed to about 2.82 crore old age persons, widows and disabled persons, Rs 16,146 crore was transferred to 8 crore farmers as the first instalment of PM-KISAN and Rs 3,497 crore worth of financial support was provided to 2.17 crore building and other construction workers.The centre said that the above benefits were transferred using fintech and digital technology ensuring swift, efficient and direct transfer to the beneficiary ensuring there is no leakage of the relief.The government has announced a slew of financial packages to deal with the impact of coronavirus, the largest among them being a 1.17 lakh crore relief package announced by the finance minister in the month of March.Government had also announced free LPG cylinders for three months to the beneficiaries of Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana scheme and it claimed on Thursday that total 3.05 crore LPG cylinders have been booked under the scheme so far and 2.66 crore free cylinders have already been delivered to the beneficiaries.The government added that approximately 6.06 lakh members of EPFO have also availed of Rs. 1,954 crores worth of nonrefundable advance against 75% of the outstanding balance in their PF accounts or 3 months’ wages.Apart from the above facility, the Centre had announced that it would fund three months PF contributions—both from the employee and the employer side—amounting to 24% of wages of EPFO members who earn less than Rs 15000 per month in establishments that have up to 100 workers.Centre said an amount of Rs.1000 crore has already been released to EPFO for the above scheme taking care of the contributions for the month of April, 2020. A total of 10.6 lakh employees have benefitted so far and a total of Rs. 162.11 crore has been transferred in 68,775 establishments.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government added that it had distributed free food grains to 39.27 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. It added that 1.27 crore person’s man-days of work have been generated under the national rural work guarantee scheme MNREGA and Rs 7300 crore has been released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The insurance scheme announced for health workers employed in the government hospitals and health care centres has also been operationalised by New India Assurance covering 22.12 Lakh health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-delivers-covid-relief-worth-31k-crores-to-33-crore-citizens-under-pm-scheme/story-9jtz8BMLDLyBjUyTAiFHXJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus spread slowed by a month of lockdown: Govt||Medical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness.Detailing India’s evolving strategy against the pandemic, environment secretary CK Mishra, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria, and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava stressed that the focus has been on expanding the testing base, tracing contacts across the community to detect the spread of infection, and scaling up health care infrastructure to prepare for a spike in cases.They said infections were growing at a slower rate, larger numbers of people were being tested, and more medical facilities were being readied.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMishra admitted that the measures taken so far were not enough, and that efforts need to be further intensified.Thursday marked the 30th day of a national lockdown, a tough measure to halt the spread of the disease that has killed at least 185,000 people across the world and infected about 2.7 million. In India, 21,700 people have so far been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry data till Thursday evening.Mishra, who is leading one of the 11 Covid-19 empowered groups, said there were several positives in how India had handled the pathogen so far. “The growth of Covid-19 cases has been more or less linear, not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we have adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” he said.“Despite a 24-fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising. The percentage (4.5%) of positive cases as a ratio of testing is more or less the same as that a month back,” he added, prompting Dr Bhargava to allude to this figure to later say that “curve could be flattening”.Experts, however, warn that the real curve in question is the one of new cases and deaths, and that the testing percentage may not mean all good news. They suggest that once testing is massively scaled up, the percentage of those testing positive should ideally drop in order to avoid hospitals being overrun by patients.Mishra said that while the number of tests in the country stood at 14,915 on March 23, the figure rose to over 500,000 by April 22. “Post lockdown, while the number of new positive Covid-19 cases has increased by 16 times, testing has increased by 24 times,” the chairman of the second empowered group, which deals with the availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance, and testing and critical care training.“The facts show that our testing strategy has been focused, targeted and continues to expand; this is an evolving strategy based on our learnings as we go along... As the challenge kept expanding, strategy too kept expanding,” Mishra added.The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 22,000-mark on Thursday, but the rate at which the grim milestone was crossed – it took about nine days for the tally to double – was a sign that the country may have been able to largely avoid the initial deadly spectre of the pathogen that has ravaged countries across the world.The World Health Organization (WHO) has, however, warned that the worst is yet to come, with more waves of the infection expected once countries lift lockdowns in difficult decisions to jump-start economic activity.The environment ministry secretary also shared comparative data from other nations to explain where India stood in its response to the disease. At 500,000 tests, the number of confirmed cases in the US was 80,000. It was 100,000 for Italy, 120,000 for the UK and 80,000 for Turkey at the same point. For India, there were 20,000 cases for 500,000 tests, he said. “India has done better than majority of developed countries, with respect to the percentage of test cases yielding positive results,” he added.Dr Bhargava, the head of India’s apex biomedical research body, said that the philosophy of India’s effort has been “more labs, more tests and more resources”.“From about 100 labs at beginning of the lockdown, we have 325 laboratories testing for Covid-19. Our strategy has been to detect the virus and then save lives,” he said.Dr Bhargava said a supply chain has been created and the Centre has been working with states to ensure required reagents are supplied to testing labs in a timely and calibrated fashion. “The gold standard for Covid-19 testing remains and has remained the RT-PCR test, which detects the virus.”The RT-PCR detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection. India has also deployed rapid tests that detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus; they can show results within 30 minutes. However, antibody tests are currently on hold as the government tries to check batches being supplied from China for efficacy of the kits.Mishra said that the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals increased 3.5 times since last month and isolation beds rose by 3.6 times in the same period. “These numbers are increasing, being added continuously... We need to evolve our strategy based on the latest position.”“Our first goal as regards hospitalisation has been to ensure that the minimum number of people need to come to the hospital, using social distancing, discipline and taking care of the vulnerable such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities.”“The second goal is to ensure enough infrastructure so that every person who needs to come to hospital is treated well, cured and sent back. Every district in the country is now working towards that.”Since oxygen support is essential in treating Covid-19 patients, the government is making arrangements to increase beds with adequate oxygen support and intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilator support. India currently has 3,773 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 194,000 beds, 24,644 ICU beds and 12,371 ventilators.A sweeping shutdown across the country has closed schools and colleges, thrown migrant workers out of daily-wage jobs and halted transport and economic activity. The lockdown will remain in place till May 3, but the government is understood to be working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease tough restrictions.Dr Guleria, director of India’s premier government hospital, said the Covid-19 patients are facing a lot of challenges and stigma. “Recovered patients are symbols of victory, but we have stigmatized them, causing a huge problem.”“Due to the stigma we have attached, patients are not coming forward, they are coming very late when they have severe breathlessness issues, thereby increasing morbidity and mortality,” he said.“Many of these Covid-19 patients can be saved by just giving them oxygen; if they do not get oxygen, it can trigger various other problems, our strategy of expanding oxygen support is based on this,” Guleria added.He also expressed the appreciation of the medical fraternity to a new ordinance that make any attacks on health care workers a non-bailable offence in the time of an epidemic, and significantly increases penal action that can be taken against the perpetrators.But the officials and experts admitted that steep challenges remain across a few states that have become hot spots of Covid-19, with the Union home ministry terming the situations in these regions “especially serious”.Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of ICMR, said: “The incubation period of SARS-CoV-2 is 5-7 days, and the range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time; by restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries, lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slowed-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-ramped-up-testing-officials/story-Mlasg1KnlqnAkKUFqWniLI.html
23-04-2020||India||India studying Trump order barring immigration||The Indian government is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to temporarily stop immigration for 60 days though it believes such programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Trump told reporters on Wednesday he had signed the “very powerful order” aimed at protecting the jobs of Americans laid off because of the Covid-19 crisis. The order said the suspension of immigration will affect those legally seeking to enter the US for employment but not people who are already in the country.“We have taken note of the order which was signed yesterday and are studying it. It doesn’t cover non-immigrant visas and these programmes have benefited the economies of both countries,” said one of the people cited above on condition of anonymity.People-to-people contacts are the bedrock of relations between India and the US and New Delhi’s expectation is that visa programmes which have benefited both sides will continue, the people said.Indian officials have said in the past that Indian immigrants in the US have played a key role in the development of the American economy, especially in the IT and services sectors.The Indian side recently asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas, held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the economic downturn caused by the pandemic.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had taken up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on April 8, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.Following the sharp economic downturn and suspension of business operations triggered by the pandemic, a lot of US firms employing H-1B visa holders had laid off numerous employees.If an employer terminates the contract of H-1B visa holders, the employees need to find new employment within 60 days to retain their status or face the prospect of being deported to their home countries. This existing rule has exacerbated the problems of H-1B visa holders who were laid off.Explaining the reasons behind the executive order, Trump told reporters on Wednesday: “By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labour flown in from abroad.” Trump said without the order, the US would face a protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment, if labour supply outpaced demand.The White House also said in a statement the administration would monitor the labour market and decide whether the order should be extended after 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-studying-trump-order-barring-immigration/story-IrAU4G8z8YcAebhuYui5kI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in Mumbai||The 125,000 slum-dwellers living under a lockdown so strict that drones monitor their moves and alert police if they attempt to leave home are at the heart of India’s push to contain coronavirus.But with only a handful of people tested so far in the country’s biggest slum, fears are growing that “Mission Dharavi” -- a term coined by officials working there -- may not prevent the virus from raging across the densely packed neighbourhood.Dharavi is home to an estimated one million people, who eke out a living as factory workers or maids and chauffeurs to the financial capital Mumbai’s well-heeled residents.Its narrow alleys, crowded housing and poor sanitation offer the perfect breeding ground for the virus.“The biggest challenge is Dharavi itself... 10 to 15 people stay in one room. How is it possible to enforce social distancing?” asked city official Kiran Dighavkar.He is overseeing an effort involving some 2,500 people, including medical workers, cleaners and volunteers, who are fighting to keep cases -- at nearly 200, with 12 deaths -- from spiralling out of control and overwhelming hospitals.The severe lockdown imposed in five virus hotspots in the slum since the first cases were reported in early April is a key part of that undertaking.“No-one is allowed to go in or out,” Dighavkar told AFP, adding that “everything, including grocery shops, is shut”.“Police are using drones to make sure people obey the rules,” he said.A state-run school, a sports complex and a formerly defunct hospital are being used to house patients and as quarantine facilities.Around 40,000 people have undergone thermal screening over the past week at so-called fever camps.And Dharavi’s 225 public toilets -- a lifeline for its residents -- are disinfected daily, he said.‘In a panic’Mumbai is even considering handing out hydroxychloroquine -- an anti-malarial drug touted by US President Donald Trump -- “as a preventive measure” to Dharavi residents in quarantine facilities, said Daksha Shah, a senior health official with the city authority.“Right now the community is in a panic... so we have to be a bit careful,” she told AFP, adding that they were awaiting approval from New Delhi.Officials have partnered with non-profits to distribute food and medicine in the area, also home to thousands of migrant workers left jobless by a weeks-long nationwide lockdown.Although the restrictions ordered across India are less severe than those imposed in Dharavi’s hotspots, they have had a lethal impact on the poor.The Roti Bank Foundation’s operations manager Jayandrath Tambe told AFP the non-profit organised 4,500 meals daily for Dharavi’s confined residents and was feeding 32,000 people across Mumbai with the help of local hotels.Social worker Imran Idris Khan turned to YouTube to upload videos explaining relief efforts in Dharavi and used WhatsApp to inform residents about where to find food.“Many families are still sitting at home or people are stuck in factories without any idea about food-packet distribution drives and therefore going hungry,” he told AFP.“This should not be happening.”‘I feel helpless’The capital of Maharashtra state, which has the highest number of COVID-19 cases in India, Mumbai has recorded over 3,000 infections among its 18-million-strong population.The central government has reported more than 20,000 cases so far in the nation of 1.3 billion people.Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday tweeted that around 70-75 percent of coronavirus cases in the state “have very mild symptoms or are asymptomatic”.Officials in Dharavi tried to ramp up testing by including residents without symptoms, but Mumbai city authority spokesman Vijay Khabale-Patil told AFP New Delhi rejected the move.Under the central government’s guidelines, asymptomatic people are tested only if they are high-risk or have come into direct contact with an infected person.Just 657 people have been tested in the slum, raising fears that hospitals -- reportedly already at full capacity -- might struggle to cope if there’s an unexpected spike in severe cases.One Dharavi resident receiving treatment for coronavirus said he had no symptoms for three weeks spent almost entirely indoors, before developing a sore throat and fever which refused to subside.He has now been in hospital for nine days.“I feel helpless at times and worry about my family and neighbourhood,” the 24-year-old told AFP on condition of anonymity as he fears being stigmatised for being sick.“Looking at so many people losing lives due to infections makes me feel terrible. Will we ever recover from this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-dharavi-coronavirus-battleground-in-india-s-biggest-slum/story-W4vXSPyUef7YidghCDhTLK.html
23-04-2020||India||FAC members are in favour of hydropower project in Dibang Valley: Environment ministry||The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) on Thursday discussed the issue of forest clearance for the Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW which will involve clearing of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as a “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in FAC’s documents.A senior member of the FAC who didn’t want to be named said though a decision on granting forest clearance to the project has not been taken yet, most members had a favourable view of the project because it is a large “clean energy project” which could replace dirty energy, he said. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view, so did the sub-committee that visited the site,” he added.HT had reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of the FAC which visited the site in February has recommended in their report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area.Meanwhile, scientists who have worked in Dibang Valley wrote to the environment ministry on April 22 after they came across the FAC’s sub-committee report on the Parivesh website. Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Nandini Velho, wildlife biologist cited scientific studies that established that tigers are present outside the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Dibang Valley and they are at risk from the Etalin project.The sub-committee report submitted on April 21 was of the view that there are no tigers in the project area. Based on a Wildlife Institute of India multi seasonal study which had deployed 78 cameras during a four month survey, no tiger image was captured. “Further no pugmarks or scats of tigers during this survey were found. Therefore, the tiger presence in study area was not established,” the sub-committee report has said.But scientists pointed out that this observation contradicts FAC’s earlier observations where they have referred to an independent study by a wildlife researcher captured 12 individual tigers and 8 individual clouded leopards at various locations in Dibang Valley. “A large majority, above 60%, of the camera traps were placed outside Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary which shows that both species are not only abundant but also very widespread in the district,” FAC had noted. The project area also falls under “vital tiger area” in ministry’s documents.Velho and Sreenivasan also point out in their letter that the sub-committee failed to take note of peer-reviewed studies showing that Dibang Valley’s outstanding rich biological diversity. “The most notable are the six different colour variations of the Asian golden cat (Schedule I) which are found throughout the district. Dibang Valley hosts the highest colour variation of any wild cat species in the world, making it a globally significant area both for conservation, and to study ecological adaptability and evolution,” they write referring to a study published on the Asiatic Golden Cat in the Ecological Society of America’s ‘The Scientific Natural’ journal last year.Scientists working in the area told HT that the Idu Mishmi community (the dominant population in the valley) had written to the National Tiger Conservation Authority in 2018 about tiger presence across the valley. According to a local news report cited by United Nations on its website the Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS) had written to the NTCA, stating that the community wishes to be consulted during deliberations on the Dibang tigers as the organization has forwarded a cultural model of tiger conservation.“Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy for Dibang tigers would be to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model, a culture which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” the representation had read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-members-are-in-favour-of-hydropower-project-in-dibang-valley-environment-ministry/story-AXEBlEsufgjKgWC85dbq6N.html
23-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel looks to distribute food grains as part of MNREGA wages||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote a letter to Union Minister for Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, requesting him for permission to distribute food grains as a part of wages to casual labourers who are working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The casual labourers are one of the hardest-hit sections of the society because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced on March 25 for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.Baghel pointed out in his letter that the wages paid under the MNREGA get directly credited to the casual labourers’ bank account directly through National Electronic Fund Management System (NEFMS).MNREGA caters to 31.5 lakh families in the state, he added. The scheme is being implemented while complying with all restrictions related to the enforcement of the ongoing lockdown. Currently, around 5 lakh casual labourers are being employed under the scheme, the CM said.Baghel suggested an alternative mode of payment such as the distribution of food grains for these casual labourers as this would help them strictly follow the social distancing norms amid the viral outbreak. Besides, the CM cited that accessibility to banks in remote parts of the state, which is also hamstrung by poor internet connectivity and hit by Left-wing extremism, is still a major logistical challenge.The CM informed Tomar that adequate food grains are available with the state government and an effective distribution mechanism is already at work. He requested the Central minister’s permission to distribute food grains among the casual labourers in a bid to ensure their food security amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-looks-to-distribute-food-grains-as-part-of-mnrega-wages/story-xR5wip9agGV6fqrx5e5NTP.html
23-04-2020||India||With 20 fresh infections, J&K tally climbs to 427||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday reported 20 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count in the UT to 427, officials said.Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted: “20 new cases reported today. One from Jammu division and 19 from Kashmir. Total count now 427— Jammu has 57 cases and Kashmir 370.”Officials said of the new cases, 18 were confirmed at SKIMS laboratory in Srinagar, one each at CD hospital and Udhampur command hospital.In Kashmir, nine fresh infections were reported from Shopian, four in Kupwara, three in Baramulla, two in Bandipora and one Budgam district.So far, the UT has witnessed five deaths—four from Kashmir and one from Udhampur.Kashmiri businessman tests positive, shifted to Jammu hospitalA businessman from Kashmir tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. He was among eight persons who were clandestinely trying to reach Valley in a truck but were caught in Ramban. He was shifted to the government medical college and hospital in Jammu while others have been quarantined.However, in a major lapse, the patient had visited a shop adjoining Doda district hospital where he had given his samples on April 21.Ramban district commissioner Nazim Zai Khan said, “The man along with others were headed to Kashmir in a truck. They had started from Delhi and then boarded a Kashmir bound truck but all of them were intercepted at Batote on April 16 and were kept in administrative quarantine.”According to Batote tehsildar Mehboob Khan, three policemen including a head constable of Batote Police Station and a cook, who were attending these eight men in administrative quarantine, have also been sent to a quarantine centre in Batote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-20-fresh-infections-j-k-tally-climbs-to-427/story-m6MV3e4u07gj8UtUIgJVbO.html
23-04-2020||India||Centre’s nod to egg and chicken amid Covid outbreak challenged in SC||Consumption of meat during Covid-19 pandemic despite the availability of agriculture-based food is jeopardising the existence of the entire human race, claimed a plea filed by a Jain organization before the Supreme Court seeking a blanket ban on the killing of animals, birds and fishes.The petitioner, Vishwa Jain Sangathan, challenged the central government’s March 30 decision to promote the consumption of chicken and eggs claiming that the said decision was in ignorance of the attempt by biologists across the globe to locate the ultimate source of Coronavirus.“This impugned circular dated 30.03.2020 advising people to eat meat in the midst of spread of this deadly virus is premature and has been issued when biologists all over world are still searching out its source and its interface with animals”, the petition stated.The Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying had sent a communication to all states and union territories on March 30 stating that eggs and chicken have no role in the spread of Covid-19 and their consumption should be promoted through campaigns on social media, television and radio.“The impugned circular, without any basis, succumbed to the pressure of meat lobby and without any necessity or jurisdiction called upon people to eat more and more meat”, the petitioner alleged.The petitioner also submitted that vegetarians are suffering due to the “violent barbaric eating habits of some people consuming both domestic and wild animals for mere ‘change of taste.’”The World Health Organisation, the petitioner submitted, had called upon nations to identify the role of animal species in the emergence of Covid-19. It also simultaneously urged countries to identify the risks linked to trade and consumption of potentially infected animal species.“However, before awaiting the result of this research, the impugned circular has been issued certifying chicken and meat as totally safe”, the petition said.The petitioner also cited constitutional provisions including Article 51-A(g) which makes it a constitutional duty of every citizen to “protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures.”The petition besides seeking empirical research on the role of animals in the emergence of Covid-19 also prayed that killing of all animals and birds including the slaughter of animals through halal should be completely stopped.“Issue an appropriate direction commanding the Union of India to frame National Policy for Welfare of Animal/Birds/Fishes, laying the road map for phasing out complete killing, torture or hurting of any other non-human species created by Nature except in case required for human survival”, the petitioner prayed.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-nod-to-egg-and-chicken-despite-covid-threat-challenged-in-sc/story-zY6baw1OTINqmsAX9TbHjJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Derogatory remarks against Sonia Gandhi: HP Cong leaders file FIR against Arnab Goswami||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Thursday filed an FIR against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami at Shimla Sadar Police Station for making derogatory remarks against All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi during a television show recently.Congress leaders have alleged that Arnab also tried to set off a wave of communal rights in the country during the show.They have demanded action against Goswami under Sections 117, 20B, 153, 153A, 295A, 298, 500, 504, and 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66A of the IT Act.Congress leaders said that Sonia Gandhi is the supreme leader of a national party of the country whose devotion and allegiance towards the country cannot be questioned. Goswami vengefully has deliberately insulted Sonia Gandhi and has misused his powers and rights against which a stern action should be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derogatory-remarks-against-sonia-gandhi-hp-cong-leaders-file-fir-against-arnab-goswami/story-SCRtOHkeG6yRjhp32hGD2M.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala weighs reverse quarantine option to protect vulnerable from Covid-19||Kerala plans to introduce “reserve quarantine” along with the present “track, trace and treatment” regime as part of a multi-pronged strategy to fight Covid-19, a senior health ministry official said on Thursday.“The state has realised that it is a long haul and needs a multi-pronged strategy to fight the invisible enemy,” he said.Reserve quarantine is a practice of detaching the most vulnerable people, aged or people with co-morbidity conditions, from the rest and monitor their health indicators closely to protect them from infection. The government is working on the idea that in case of a community spread, it can isolate its large volume of grey population and check their mortality rate effectively unlike what occurred in some of the western countries.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Kerala has reported 438 Covid-19 cases so far out of which 324 have recovered and three have died.Out of Kerala’s population of 3.34 crore (census 2011), 48 lakh are above 60 years of age and out of these 15 per cent are above 80, according to the state’s economic review. With better health care facilities, life expectancy is high in the state, said the review while warning that the growing number of aged and shrinking numbers of youth will bring a demographical change in the state soon.Under reverse quarantine people with underlying medical conditions, especially those aged 65 years and above and persons whose immunity is compromised will be segregated. This will be implemented through local bodies which are tasked with providing medicine, food, counselling and other assistance to those who are set to undergo this exercise for their safety.Since the state does not have slums and most families normally stay in separate houses, reverse quarantine will be easier to implement, experts say. Many local bodies and grassroots Asha workers have started collecting details of vulnerable people in the Covid-19 hotspots.“As the pandemic spreads deeper into the community, reserve quarantine is one of the solutions that is expected to keep vulnerable people safe from the virus. It doesn’t mean that they will have to be moved to care homes. In the house itself they can be given a separate room and their interaction with other family members can be controlled,” said epidemiologist and former principal of the Christian Medical College, Vellore Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil. Health experts like him say all pandemics stop spreading when a certain number of people in the population become immune to the virus. Experts call it herd immunity which is defined as a large number of people in the community who are immune to the virus.“The immunity against Covid-19 depends on whether it generates neutralizing antibodies and also how long the antibody remains protective. We need to accept a fact now that we can’t say when it will end. Not all viruses can be prevented by vaccines either. Some of the viruses like influenza antigens do change frequently which poses serious challenge to vaccine makers also,” said Dr Muliyil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-weighs-reverse-quarantine-option-to-protect-vulnerable-from-covid-19/story-HoJLZHtTUZ9jVcSkobHZTJ.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Allow construction activities in power projects’: Centre to states||The Centre has written to states advising them to allow construction activities in power projects outside municipal limits during the lockdown. The advisory comes following ministry of home affairs’ guidelines on exempted activities under the extended lockdown till May 3. The power sector has been reeling under stress since the lockdown with a dip of 30% in demand due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of lockdown. The Centre has also directed Coal India Limited (CIL) to produce 710 million tonnes (MT) of coal as the company’s coal offtake target will also remain at 710 MT for this fiscal. Union Minister for coal Pralhad Joshi held a meeting to set the performance targets for the state-run company keeping in mind the roadmap for a post-lockdown scenario, officials said. “The demand for coal will pick up again after the coronavirus lockdown, so I have directed CIL to keep the production and offtake targets at 710 MT for financial year 2020-21 in line with its goal to achieve 1 billion tonne coal production by year 2023-24.” Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday.Railways freight loading for coal, one of its prime commodities has dipped since the lockdown. Its earnings for coal and coke dipped by 48.25% to 1,880.61 crore since the lockdown.In the letter written to the states, union territories, District Magistrates and police authorities, the power ministry said, “As per MHA’s guidelines construction of all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas, i.e., outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to be carried out with effect from April 20. This is also applicable for ongoing construction activities in Thermal/Hydro Power Generation Projects outside the limits of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).”On April 15, the home ministry had allowed continuation of works in construction projects within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought from outside from April 20 onward. “However these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures,” the guidelines had said. Movement of all personnel travelling to place of work and back in the exempted categories as per the instructions of the state/union territory was also allowed.The power ministry has also requested to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials, equipment, spares and consumables etc., for these under construction power projects. “It has been emphasised that resumption of project works at sites may be carried out while taking all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family welfare from time to time with regard to Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement Thursday. The home ministry had in a fresh set of guidelines added exemptions including activities in farming/plantation, construction and banking sectors. Construction activities in rural areas, water supply, sanitation, and laying of power, telecom lines were also exempted from the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-construction-activities-in-power-projects-centre-to-states/story-2SYzfz0phChm8U2gPN9HBN.html
23-04-2020||India||Raj Thackeray advises Uddhav Thackeray to open liquor shops during lockdown||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Shiv Sena Raj Thackeray has demanded the opening of liquor shops to generate revenue for the cash strapped state government.Raj Thackeray in his letter to his cousin and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stressed that the state should not be caught in moral issues and should ensure the opening of liquor shops.Raj said that it was uncertain how long this lockdown will continue. “In such times, by keeping open the wine shops, the state will start getting a bit of revenue. By keeping the wine shops open does not mean we are catering to the needs or looking after alcohol consumers. The only reason behind this is to start the process of income flow into the shrinking revenue of the state,” said Raj.He justified his stance saying that the state generates a liquor duty of Rs 1250 crore monthly which translates into Rs 14,000 crore annually and has already lost a substantial amount in this lockdown period.He further said that the state should not be caught in moral issues as there is no liquor ban in the state. He signed off the letter saying the state should seriously consider his plea in order to become economically reliant in such an environment.Earlier actor Rishi Kapoor had also demanded that the wine shops be kept open in view of depression and uncertainty all around and also outlined that the Government desperately needs money.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) regretted the stance taken by the MNS. “Right now the priority should be food and medical care for the poor, as well as to ensure that migrants are sent home safely. As usuaal, Raj Thackeray focuses on non issues. Now it is about liquor, which is very sad,” rued Priti Sharma Menon, AAP National spokesperson.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-thackeray-advises-uddhav-thackeray-to-open-liquor-shops-during-lockdown/story-VbjLYrQAlSlMw9LPYnGQ4M.html
23-04-2020||India||India to get lead role at WHO next month amid global Covid-19 crisis||India will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organisation (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The appointment of India’s nominee as chairperson of the WHO’s executive board will come at a time the world and the United Nations agency is struggling to stop the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen from spreading.The Covid-19 pandemic has already killed more than 180,000 people worldwide and infected 2.6 million, forcing countries to go into lockdown mode that could cost the world upwards of $ 1 trillion this year.India will assume the lead position on 22 May at the executive board’s first meeting after the truncated World Health Assembly conference. India replaces Japan which will complete its one-year-term at the crucial job in May, diplomats in Delhi and Geneva confirmed to HT.That the chairperson’s position will come to India was decided last year when the WHO’s South-East Asia group unanimously proposed New Delhi to the executive board for a three-year-term.The group also nominated India for the chairperson’s post held by rotation for one year among regional groups. That decision was made long before the world woke up to the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that originated in China’s Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.World Health Assembly session truncatedThe World Health Assembly (WHA) that will formally elect the executive board members to fill vacancies is proposed to be held on 18 May. But it will be a much shorter version than had been proposed earlier with 60 agenda items. Now, there will be only three.Apart from the opening of the assembly session, the WHA will have an address by Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus that will be focused on the Covid-19 preparedness and response. The assembly will then move to formally elect the executive board members and chair including India.WHO’s Executive Board chairman positionAs head of the 34-member Executive Board, India’s nominee would have to work closely with Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The board, one diplomat familiar with the working of the WHO said, after all is mandated to implement the decisions and policies laid down by the World Health Assembly.For all practical purposes, this implies that the Director General of the WHO has to get the chairperson on board for all important decisions, the diplomat said.India will also be a member of the programme budget and administration committee, replacing Indonesia.At the WHO, a government official said, India is on the side of transparency and accountability in the Covid-19 outbreak and reforms in the WHO.WHO Executive BoardBy virtue of being on the executive board for three years, India will also have a say in the shortlisting of the next WHO director general when Tedros Adhanom’s five-year-tenure ends in May 2021.The 34-member executive board is mandated to interview the candidates to decide who will stay in the running and face the election at the health assembly..Earlier, the executive board used to have the last word on the appointment of the WHO’s Director General for all practical purposes. It would select the director general and send the nomination to the general assembly for formal vetting.But this process was changed and the executive board was told to whittle down the list of candidates. This short list went to the annual ministerial gathering of WHO’s 194 member states, World Health Assembly, for election among the top three contenders by a secret ballot.This change followed stinging criticism that the previous WHO director general Margaret Chan had to face over the agency’s sluggish response to the devastating west Africa Ebola outbreak that spread across one of the world’s poorest regions in 2013 and killed 11,000, according to news agency Reuters.Tedros Adhanom, and the Covid-19 criticismQuite like his predecessor, Tedros Adhanom has also been facing a barrage of criticism for the WHO’s initial handling of Covid-19. Unlike the Ebola that had impacted Africa, Covid-19 has hit the world’s richest countries. The United States is the hardest-hit country, with more than 46,500 coronavirus deaths and 840,000 infections.His critics - US President Donald Trump tops this list - accuse the WHO chief of playing down the disease at China’s behest and giving the world and the US, flawed advice.It has been insinuated that Tedros Adhanom had allowed himself to be guided by China’s hand because Beijing had backed his candidature in 2017. Tedros Adhanom has rejected the allegations as well as suggestions that the WHO was slow to react.Tedros Adhanom was elected in 2017 at the end of an election campaign that, according to the Guardian, was dogged by mud-slinging and spin. David Nabarro, professor of global health at Imperial College who had served as UN envoy on Ebola, was his prime rival. The United States had backed David Nabarro, who was appointed as the WHO DG’s special envoy on Covid-19 in February.WHO’s Covid-19 outlookTedros Adhanom has declared that the global coronavirus crisis will not end any time soon.“Make no mistake: we have a long way to go. This virus will be with us for a long time,” he said.“Most countries are still in the early stages of their epidemics. And some that were affected early in the pandemic are now starting to see a resurgence in cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-lead-role-at-who-next-month-amid-global-covid-19-crisis/story-8DfVkLrQdoYYjQFns0mvUJ.html
23-04-2020||India||South Kashmir’s Pulwama district becomes Covid-19 free||Pulwama in south Kashmir has become the first district in the valley to be declared coronavirus-free as all three patients have recovered from the infection, according to a bulletin issued by the Union territory’s administration on Thursday.However, officials are worried about the increasing number of cases in the neighbouring district Shopian.Three Covid-19 cases were reported in Pulwama from two villages – Khaigam and Chandpora. The first case was detected on March 10 and two more cases were reported earlier this month. Since then, no case has been reported from the district.Pulwama district hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Jameel said, “All three coronavirus patients in Pulwama district have now recovered from the infection. The patients who were undergoing treatment at SKIMS have been discharged from the hospital.”Pulwama district magistrate said that exact field status shall be known once the door-to-door survey is completed in these areas which will commence from Friday. “The community needs to understand that it is very premature to draw any inference at this stage and appealed the people for universalisation of usage of face masks and adoption of safety measures like social distancing and sanitisation,” he said adding that rapid antibody testing may start soon at an intensive scale when instructions are received in this regard from the government.The administration is keeping a strict vigil on public movement in the areas bordering Shopian and Budgam where many villages have been declared as red zones. Shopian has the highest number of positive cases in the district at 46, of which six have recovered.The major roads connecting these districts are on a regular guard and villages Heerpora, Beminpora, Meemendar, Palpora, Sindishirmal, Kanipora, Sedow and Kanidajan, Palar and Batpora have been declared as red zones in the two districts.Pulwama’s chief medical officer Dr Haseena Mir in a statement said that more than a hundred people are under quarantine and continuous testing is being done to rule out any positive Covid-19 case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-kashmir-s-pulwama-district-becomes-covid-19-free/story-OKaHiTgqHPCeq7ectqp9CM.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s coronavirus cases climb to 21,700; 686 dead||India’s total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 21,700 on Thursday with the number of deaths at 686, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. A total of 1229 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours.At least 34 people have died due to the deadly infection since Wednesday.A day earlier on Wednesday, India had breached the 20,000 mark with 20,471 Covid-19 positive patients in the country. On April 14, the number of coronavirus cases had hit the 10,000 mark amid a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the disease.ALSO READ | Coronavirus growth in India linear, not exponential, much better than US, UK, says govtA total of 4,325 patients across states have recovered from the deadly infection so far and have been discharged. One person has migrated. At present, India has 16,689 active coronavirus cases.Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, followed by Gujarat and national capital Delhi coming in third.Though the total number of coronavirus cases soared to 21,700 on Thursday, nearly 20 per cent Covid-19 patients have recovered so far in the country, according to health ministry data. . This takes the recovery percentage of Covid-19 patients positive to 19.89 per cent.India currently has 12 districts that have not reported any fresh case in the last 28 days or more. “There are now 78 districts in 23 states/UTs, which have not reported any fresh cases during the last 14 days,” a health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-coronavirus-cases-climb-to-21-700-686-dead/story-kzRTm37YhPhvOt2wv8Ux2H.html
23-04-2020||India||Hunger, disease and despair marks Rohingyas lives during lockdown in Hyderabad||Till the other day, it was the fear of being deported back to the strife-torn Myanmar that was haunting the thousands of Muslims settled in the old city of Hyderabad, following the talk of enforcement of National Register of Citizens (NRC) across the country in the name of weeding out illegal immigrants.Now, their concern has shifted to surviving the national lockdown triggered by Covid-19 pandemic.Living in very sub-human conditions in make-shift huts made of tin sheets and thatched roofs that are covered with polythene sheets in the slums of Balapur, Hafeez Baba Nagar, Pahadishareef, Kesavagiri and Chandrayangutta, nearly 6,000 Rohingya Muslims have been leading pathetic lives for the last seven to eight years, with the fear of being deported to their country constantly haunting them.“Forget about going back to our country, now, our worry is how to feed our families. There is no work to do, as everything is closed. We cannot even step out of our settlement because the entire area has been barricaded by the police. Whatever little money we had earned last month, has now been exhausted,” lamented 42-year old Fareed Alam, father of three daughters and a son from Hafeez Baba Nagar.Most of the Rohingyas, who had migrated to Hyderabad in groups between 2011-13, have been eking out their living as rag pickers, rod bending workers, cleaners at local Irani cafes, bike mechanics, construction workers, and labourers in small industries.Some of them, like the 36-year old Noor Basha, travel to far off districts to earn a living for the family. “I had been working in a stone crushing plant at Velgatur in Jagityal district about three months ago and my family is stuck up in the settlement near Balapur in Hyderabad. Now, I have no work here as the plant is closed; nor can I go back to Hyderabad, about 230 km away from this place due to lockdown and stringent police restrictions,” Basha said.While he is surviving on the food donated by some locals in Jagitial, his family, comprising his wife and two children, is virtually starving. “My 12-year old son is suffering from an eye infection and I have no money to send to the family for his treatment. He, too, is not in a position to go the hospital because of the lockdown,” Basha said.Thanks to some NGO volunteers, these Rohingyas could get some groceries a few days ago. “We have distributed packets comprising rice, edible oil, wheat flour, dal, chilli, onion, salt and sugar, apart from hygiene kits comprising sanitisers, hand washes and masks to these families in the first week of April. We hope that would suffice for a month,” said Vikas Gora, deputy director of Save the Children, a popular NGO, which has been working in collaboration with United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) for the rehabilitation of Rohingya refugees.“In any conflict or disease outbreak, children and women are the worst victims and our effort is to reach out to them to ensure food security and child protection. We have also been conducting COVID awareness campaigns amongst the refugees using audio and video messages,” Gora said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever, there are several Rohingyas, who say they haven’t got any help even from the NGO activists. “Most of the distribution of food and other essentials is being done for the people on the roadside. We are in an interior location and nobody has come to our settlements because of the restrictions,” a Rohingya Muslim, who preferred anonymity, complained.Gora, however, said his NGO had reached out to the maximum number of families and done door-to-door distribution of groceries and other material. “We shall cover all families in the coming days,” he said.While the Rohingyas have still been facing the stigma of “being outsiders” settled in India, the episode of last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin has cast a shadow on them as the police and health department authorities started probing whether any of these Rohingyas had attended the Jamaat.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Enquiries revealed that only four Rohingyas attended the Jamaat conference and they along with their close contacts had been kept at a quarantine centre at Rajendranagar on the city outskirts. We shall not allow them into the settlement again, unless they produce a certificate that they got completely cured,” Fareed Alam said.The Hyderabad police, too, are extending all possible help to the NGOs to carry the relief material to the Rohingya camps. “We appreciate the support of the Telangana government and various departments in respecting the rights of the refugees,” Gora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunger-disease-and-despair-marks-rohingyas-lives-during-lockdown-in-hyderabad/story-HkTb0EKbC3Llg0DdiysQTN.html
23-04-2020||India||Delhi gallery sells works of masters, raises Rs 1 crore for Covid-19 relief||The DAG, a modern and contemporary gallery, has raised Rs 1 crore for Covid-19 relief work by selling 51 works by masters, including Nandlal Bose, MF Husain, Krishen Khanna, Jamini Roy and Krishna Reddy, among others. The amount will be sent to either the PM CARES fund or the Chief Minister’s relief fund, depending on the buyer’s discretion.Among the 51 works — all owned by the gallery —were oils, acrylics on canvas, serigraphs, works on paper and board, as well as a photograph and a sculpture. The online fixed sale which began April 20 was slated to end on April 30, but all the works were sold within a couple of days, DAG managing director and CEO Ashish Anand said. The works were all priced lower by between 25-35% to facilitate the sale, Anand said. In all 32 buyers picked up the works, which ranged between Rs 50,000 and Rs 500,000.HT spoke to Anand regarding the sale, and the pandemic’s likely impact on the Indian art market. Read edited excerpts.Q. What did you think about the sale, as it happened during the pandemic?A. It was a fixed price sale, not an auction. So the sale was a combination of the quality of work and competitive pricing and also because all of us have been hit by Covid, and we were in a mood to contribute. Q. Let’s unpack the phrase, competitive pricing. Are these the prices that would have been fixed if we hadn’t been hit by a pandemic?A. Our gallery prices are higher. So for example, if we’re selling the Nandlal Bose for Rs 250,000, probably at the gallery, it would have been priced about Rs 350,000. So we also brought the prices down to make it lucrative for anyone to buy. The decision became so much easier for people, as they would have realised they are getting a good deal and the money is going towards the efforts of nation building. The prices of all works were reduced in the range of 25-35%. All the work sold in the first 48 hours.Q. What, according to you, is the impact the pandemic could have on the art market?A. In the short term, there will be a lull in the market. But it will gain its momentum. A lot of business, in the art market too, will move online. People will start having virtual exhibitions, online viewings, and that means a larger base will view the works... and the market will expand. How many people come and view exhibitions in a brick and mortar gallery? A handful. Art is an underpenetrated asset class. There are not more than 2,000 buyers who buy art in India, and the market is less than Rs 1,500 crore. That’s small for a country like India. Q. How would DAG pivot itself in the future, if as you predict, the market expands, the base of buyers increase? We’re also looking at a recession in the near future.A. People have lost a lot of wealth across all the asset classes. Temporarily yes, the impact [on the art market] will be visible. There will be a temporary lull. I think it boils down to democratising art. If more and more people get involved, galleries do virtual exhibitions, more people start looking at art as an asset class, I don’t see any impact on prices. Art remains isolated from impact of this kind because the market is very small. When you have such a small number of buyers, the prices may come down — it’s an immediate shock — but the only way is up. It should be the first asset class to pick up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gallery-sells-works-of-masters-raises-rs-1-crore-for-covid-19-relief/story-ZhH8CuzVuaJmJKkJ4A6ZIJ.html
23-04-2020||India||World Bank approves ₹585 crore for Himachal roads project||The World Bank has approved $82 million (₹585 crore) for State Roads Transformation Project (HPSRTP) for Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. While presiding over a review meeting of the public works department here, Thakur said the project envisages upgradation of major roads as well as modernisation of the department. He said works of 45km Barotiwala-Baddi-Sain-Ramshehar; 14.5km Dadol-Ladraurr road; 28km Mandi- Riwalsar-Kalkhar; and 3.5km Raghunathpura-Mandi- Harpura-Bharari will be undertaken with first tranche of project funds. Works related to construction and maintenance of road projects in the state have been adversely affected due to the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, he said, stressing on efforts to fix renewed targets taking a realistic view of the situation. The CM also emphasised on optimal utilisation of locally available labour so that work on ongoing projects could be expedited. “The state government has decided to allow inter-district movement of trucks carrying construction material from mining sites to project areas,” Thakur said, adding that the government will soon consider opening of hardware shops so that works do not hamper for want of construction material. He said the government will also consider inter-district movement of road construction machinery to the sites. The government will also contemplate to allow movement of concerned field staff as jurisdiction of national highway division was in more than one district, he said, adding that special thrust should be made on maintenance and repair of roads. “Roads reflect the developmental picture of any State thus special emphasis should be laid on their periodic repair and local labour can be deployed for such activities,” he said. During the meeting, it came to fore that a target of construction of 900km road length was fixed for the year 2019-20 but only 800-km was achieved as works were halted due to Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. Also, construction of 4,960-km roads has been fixed under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) for the year 2020-21 for which financial allocation of ₹1,666 crore had been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-approves-585-crore-for-himachal-roads-project/story-E1oGU1uqRKzbgP3Pff5HQP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Quarantine, strict lockdown only way forward for Mumbai’s hotspots: BMC||With almost 60% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 positive patients reported from 7 of the 24 wards in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is trying tooth and nail to bring down the positive cases in these few wards, in order to stabilise Mumbai’s Covid-19 figures. The hotspots for the Covid-19 outbreak in the city are Worli, Dharavi, Byculla and Mazgaon, Kurla, Wadala and Andheri west. As of April 21, 2045 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from wards corresponding to these areas, of the total 3,445 cases reported in Mumbai till that day. A senior civic officer said, “We are closely monitoring our strategy for these few wards. Even though the same kinds of measures are taken across Mumbai to curb the outbreak, the measures in these wards are more intensified.”Another officer added, “The good news is, that shows us we are doing something right, is the new positive cases progressively discovered daily, in these wards are among people who were already institutionally quarantined by BMC. These people were quarantined as risk contacts after the first Covid-19 cases were discovered in the respective areas. There are very few stray surprise cases outside of those already being monitored by BMC.”The solution for BMC going forward is quarantining more people who are contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. As of now, there are 245 type one Covid-19 care centres (for asymptomatic but positive cases) with a bed capacity of 16,000. There are another 79 type two Covid-19 care centres (high risk but non-positive cases) with 9000 beds. BMC will scale up the number of quarantine centres for Covid-19 suspects or asymptomatic positive persons soon - today itself, and an announcement will be made this evening, an officer said. Another method of containing the outbreak in these areas is monitoring human movement with drone images. “We are flying drones every day, all the time, and carefully inspecting feed from them for any crowding, lathering, or even one or two stray humans walking around. Police or ward staff is immediately intimated, and these people are moved indoors. Food packets are delivered on time to ensure people are not prompted to venture out of home for any food.” Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G north ward (Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar), said, “We are increasing our quarantine facilities and ensuring that our hotspot areas and containment zones have a regular supply of food and medicine requirements in order to make sure that people in these areas do not step out of their homes. There are 49 containment zones in G north ward, of which 37 are in Dharavi alone.”As of Wednesday, there are 817 containment zones in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-quarantine-strict-lockdown-only-way-forward-for-mumbai-s-hotspots-bmc/story-Idxd6dINla8qTIuR2ZTncK.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus growth in India linear, not exponential, much better than US, UK, says govt||The government on Thursday said that the coronavirus growth in India has been more or less linear and not exponential due to the success of certain strategies and the country had fared much better than developed countries like the United States and the UK on this count. Centre also noted that the country’s recovery rate of covid cases has been rising steadily to reach close to 20% with 4,257 people out of total 21,393 infections have been cured so far including 388 who were cured yesterday.An analysis of India’s containment strategy was presented during the daily briefing by the officials of health and home ministry, which was also attended by C. K Mishra. Mishra is the chairman of the second of the 11 empowered groups formed by the government to channelize country’s response to the contagion.The government officials pointed out another positive development seen in the addition of eight new names to the list of districts across the country that have not reported any new coronavirus case in the last 14 days. The list of such districts has now swelled to 78, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.He added that a total of 1409 additional positive coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of active cases to 16,454.Mishra said that the last 30 days of national lockdown indicate that India’s containment efforts have been successful to a large extent.“We have been able to cut transmissions, minimize the spread and increase the doubling rate. We have also been able to consistently ramp up our testing and have utilized this time to prepare ourselves for the future challenges the virus may present,” he said. He added that the percentage of positive cases vis-a-viz the number of tests conducted has stayed almost the same during the last 30 days in India which suggested that there was no exponential jump in infections.“The growth of the virus has been more or less linear and not exponential due to certain strategies that have helped India contain the spread to a particular level,” said Mishra.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19It is important to note that both the number of tests and positive cases have risen in the last month.The official said that India has far less number of positive cases per 5 lakh tests done compared to Italy, UK, US and Spain. He added that South Korea was one major country that had done even better than India on that parameter.Shedding further light on the containment strategy, the government official said that India had successfully decentralized its response to the virus by roping in the private sector and empowering districts to be at the forefront of disease fighting.“We have expanded the testing base, expanded the test base and we have mobilized all resources in the public and private domain. We have decentralized our response to coronavirus by mobilizing the private and the private sector. We will expand our testing further to a much higher level in the days to come,” the official said.He added that the government’s first strategic goal is to ensure that people don’t have to visit hospitals for treatment of coronavirus and it is achieved through social distancing, lockdown and taking care of the elderly.The government’s second goal, he said, is to create enough infrastructure and health facility for every person who has to visit hospital for Covid care. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-growth-in-india-linear-not-exponential-much-better-than-us-uk-says-govt/story-N39scsza6Ci51cBVLKLIwJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajasthan only state with 6 districts with more than 100 Covid-19 cases each||Rajasthan has become the only one with six districts that have more than 100 cases of Covid-19, according to the government’s data.In Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the country, only four districts have more than 100 cases.The number of Covid-19 infections in Tonk and Ajmer district crossed 100 on Wednesday. Tonk now has 115 cases and Ajmer 104. Jaipur has the highest number of cases with 737, Jodhpur has 307, Kota has 118 and Bharatpur 103 cases of Covid-19. By Thursday afternoon, Rajasthan had recorded 1890 cases of Covid-19.Follow coronavirus live updates here.From detecting four cases in a day, on April 1, in Tonk, the number of cases increased constantly thereafter and crossed 100 on Wednesday, but in Ajmer, which recorded its first case on March 29, there was a sudden spurt in the last two days with over 75 cases.Kota and Bharatpur had also witnessed a sudden increase in number of case. The education hub, Kota reported its first case on April 6. Four days later, 14 cases were reported and on April 15, 34 cases were reported. Similarly, in Bharatpur, the first case was reported on April 1, but sharp increase started from April 17.Rajasthan health Minister Raghu Sharma said more people testing positive is not a concern but it is helping to get the real picture of the pandemic.“Under a strategy it was decided to conduct maximum number of tests across the state. Our testing capacity was zero on March 2, which we have increased to 4,700 per day and in coming time will take it to 10,000 in a day. Next in agenda is developing testing facility at all district headquarters,” he saidDespite the rising number of positive cases in the state, Rajasthan has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country amongst the similar situated state. According to the health department data, Rajasthan with 1890 cases and 27 deaths has a mortality rate of 1.43%, and stands at 15th position after states such as Punjab, Jharkhand, MP, UP and Delhi.The highest mortality rate of 8.33% has been recorded in Meghalaya, which recorded 12 cases and a death; and lowest in Kerala of 0.68%, the state has recorded 438 positive cases and three deaths.Data shows that around 27 districts across 10 states in the country have more than 100 cases, of which maximum six are from Rajasthan . Other states with maximum affected districts are Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh with four districts each, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu with three each, Madhya Prahesh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala two each and Telangna and Karnataka one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-only-state-with-6-districts-with-more-than-100-covid-19-cases-each/story-11GQ5gZFIctIZ3XmDukf1I.html
23-04-2020||India||Blood shortage for Thalassemic children in Jharkhand looms during Covid lockdown||At least 560 children from across Jharkhand suffering from Thalassemia, a genetic blood disorder which requires regular blood transfusion, are staring at a possible shortage of blood since donations have dried up due to the lockdown.Atul Gera, founder of Life Savers, a voluntary group which organises blood donation camps for a daycare centre associated with a Ranchi hospital said that “they could not afford not to get donations done, not even for a day”.Since the lockdown, the group has only managed to get 248 units of blood through six outdoor donation drives. Before the lockdown, they would have received at least 450 units.Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder characterised by less haemoglobin and fewer red blood cells in the body than is required. The delay lowers the haemoglobin levels leaving the patient weak and prone to damage to other vital organs. Therefore, thalassemic persons need regular blood transfusion.The daycare centre started in July 2018 at the Ranchi Sadar Hospital. Life Savers, a sister concern of the Jharkhand Thalassemia Foundation, organizes blood donation camps for this centre. Gera said that there are an estimated 5000 thalassemic children across the state.While the children are currently getting blood from the hospital’s blood bank, and other arrangements have been made, the decrease in blood donation is a worrying trend even in a post-lockdown scenario.“Getting donors is the primary and critical requirement to run this centre. In order to cater to the needs of all the registered children, we need at least around 750 units of blood donated every month. It’s a challenge as even in normal times we are only able to get around 450 donations a month. Since the past one month, we are down to around 250 units,” Gera said.The hospital has a blood bank, but Life Savers organises outdoor blood donation camps in the city, which are the main source of donations. Before the lockdown, they would hold camps every day; since March 25, however, only about six have taken place so far.For Coronavirus Live Updates“The outdoor camps which we conduct with different organisations, residential societies are the main source of donations because people are generally reluctant due to various reasons to travel all the way to the blood bank,” Gera said.At present, most of the donations are being done at the indoor facility in the hospital. Donors are given masks and sanitisers and asked to maintain distance from each other.Ranchi district civil surgeon, Dr. BB Prasad, said though there has been a dip in blood donations, the hospital is managing by acquiring blood from other hospitals.“It’s a new facility but we make sure that requirements are met. We send required blood from RIMS (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences),” he said.Special arrangements have been made to ensure blood donation drives continue to take place: An e-pass is issued by the blood bank and sent to the donors through WhatsApp. The donors are required to carry an identity proof along with the e-pass, valid for two hours, to establish their identity.In case any outdoor camp is held, their details are also posted on social media tagging the administration, police authorities and concerned authorities so that they are in the loop. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Donors are checked at various points but luckily no one has complained of being stopped till now,” Gera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-shortage-for-thalassemic-children-in-jharkhand-looms-during-covid-lockdown/story-thMjFjlTyACnhiPoxN7ddK.html
23-04-2020||India||Dearness allowance hike for government staff paused till July 2021, no arrears||The Centre on Thursday held back a revision of the dearness allowance paid to all Union government employees for 18 months and proposed a similar move by state governments to collectively save about Rs 1.20 lakh crore to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.The department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, on Thursday issued an order freezing dearness allowance (DA) payments to central government employees and dearness relief (DR) to pensioners until July 2021, citing the “ crisis arising out of Covid-19”. “However, Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief at current rates will continue to be paid,” the order said.DA and DR will be restored prospectively after June 30, 2021, but no arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 shall be paid,the order said.Thursday’s decision will save Rs 37,530 crore, the officials mentioned above said, requesting anonymity. To fund the increasing expenditure on Covid-19 testing and treatment, and social spending, amid a decline in revenue caused by the lockdown enforced to stop the virus’s spread, the central government has put in place several austerity measures including a 30% cut in the salaries of ministers and MPs, and suspension of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu had opted for pay cuts soon after.State governments have also ordered pay cuts to trim spending. The Union government is separately working on a similar proposal for the state government employees that would save about Rs 82,566 crore. “Normally state governments follow the Central government’s order on DA and DR at a time when a major increase on health and welfare expenditure is anticipated,” one of the officials cited above said.A senior official in Bihar government said requesting anonymity, “Cash-strapped states have no option but to follow the directive of the Centre. But, some states may give DA to their staff if they have surplus funds. Normally, states follow the Centre’s template on this matter.”The Union cabinet had last month decided to raise the dearness allowance (DA) by 4 percentage points, from the existing 17% to 21% of basic pay or pension of employees to compensate for a price rise.But formal orders on the DA increase weren’t issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the national lockdown within a fortnight of the cabinet’s decision.The Centre is also considering cutting one day’s salary of its staff every month for 12 monthsThe government announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package on March 26 to provide immediate relief to the poor because of the lockdown. While the government will continue to provide required help to farmers, daily wagers, and micro and small industries, it will also take some regulatory and fiscal measures to boost the economy and that would require a vast amount of money, the two officials mentioned above said.According to industry estimates, a Rs 16 lakh crore economic stimulus package, inclusive of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore already announced, is needed to boost the economy so that millions of jobs and livelihoods are protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dearness-allowance-hike-for-government-staff-paused-till-july-2021-no-arrears/story-j4uPyzNGi73vzHu31Ab9AO.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screening and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screeningDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up coronavirus disease screening and other Covid-19-related research and development activities, the defence ministry said in a statement. Read more. Maharashtra deputy CM seeks trains for migrant workers, cites law and orderMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as he fears a law and border problem. Read more. Centre freezes dearness allowance till July next yearThe Centre on Thursday announced that additional dearness allowance (DA) due to the central government employees from January 1, 2020, will not be paid due to the Covid-19 crisis. It also announced the freezing of dearness relief to pensioners from January 1. Read more. ‘Had stuffed up for RCB two years ago’: Shane Watson recalls redemptive ton for CSK in 2018 finalFormer Australia batsman Shane Watson on Thursday recalled his match-winning century for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League 2018 final. Read more. Anil Kapoor has told Abhishek Bachchan ‘jo jo films daddy nahi karenge, send them to me’Actor Anil Kapoor has found an interesting way to source roles in films. In a recent interview with Film Companion’s Anupama Chopra, Anil shared how he has roped in Abhishek Bachchan for the job. Read more. Bill Gates lauds India’s Covid-19 tracker Aarogya Setu: Here’s how you use the appMicrosoft co-founder and billionaire Bill Gates has praised the Indian government and PM Narendra Modi for the recently introduced Aarogya Setu app. Read more. Living a Zoom life? Here are some relatable memes that’ll make you LOLOnline video conferencing apps are popular instruments of communication for many these days. Among these apps is Zoom which not only helps people get on endless video calls, it’s also providing people with something else, hilarious memes. Read more. Deepika Padukone, Anushka Sharma, Katrina Kaif: Throwback to the best looks created by SabyasachiFrom classic printed sarees to richly embroidered lehengas, from elegant ethnic suits to co-ords, the designer’s design narrative is an ode to nostalgia, heritage and classic art traditions. Read more. IIT Hyderabad’s CfHE invites applications for fully-paid fellowship program, check detailsCenter for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE), Indian Institute of Technology- Hyderabad on Thursday invited applications for the Fifth Batch of its fully-paid Fellowship program. Read more. Mumbai to modify anaesthesia machines into ventilators for mild Covid-19 symptomsMaharashtra recorded 431 cases in the last 24 hours. The state’s total is now 5649. The BMC has decided to convert anaesthesia machines into ventilators to save time in procurement. These machines will be used as oxygen supply aids for Covid-19 patients. A panel of anaesthetics experts recommended this solution to the BMC Commissioner on Wednesday. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajnath-singh-unveils-drdo-powered-mobile-lab-to-speed-up-covid-19-screening-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OE5YK9RS5i6FtuJEelYE7L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cooperation between Centre, states key to tackle Covid-19: Former PM Manmohan Singh||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday said the success of the ongoing lockdown restrictions would be judged on the country’s ability to tackle coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Singh made the remark while addressing the Congress Working Committee (CWC) through video-conferencing, while highlighting the key to success in the combat against Covid-19 would be the cooperation between the Centre and states.“It is necessary to focus on a number of issues in this fight and that will depend upon the availability of resources,” added Singh.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the issue of migrant workers needs to be addressed on a priority basis. “Lockdown is a pause button. As a nation, we need to think of a transition from a complete lockdown to lockdown only in hotspots and commencement of activities in green zones,” he added.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the Centre was yet to release Rs 4,400 crore of Goods and Service Tax (GST) dues. “In place of 100,000 rapid testing kits, we’ve received only 10,000 and that too of Chinese make. Their authenticity is yet to be tested,” he added.His Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot said his government had repeatedly emphasised the need for rapid testing but unfortunately the test kits turned out to be below par.“There is an urgent need for centralised procurement of kits and ventilators in a bid to assure their availability, quality, and quantity. We gave an advance pension to 80 lakh pensioners. We transferred Rs 2,500 each among the poor and destitute. We’re also distributing 10 kilograms of wheat to each household,” he added.Gehlot said the fight against Covid-19 could never be won unless the Centre provides financial support to states. “Normalcy can’t be restored even after lockdown restrictions are lifted till the Centre announces a comprehensive financial package for states,” he added.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said out of 36 Covid-19 positive cases in his state, all but eight have recovered. “We’ve given rations for two months (April-May) ration of 35 kilograms free to 56 lakh families (2.44 crore people). We’ll provide free ration for June as well. The 35-kg free ration includes rice, gram, jaggery, and salt,” he said.Baghel expressed concern about students and migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh, who are still stuck in other states because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions. “There needs to be a policy by the central government for the return of migrant workers and students. Unfortunately, the Centre is silent on this,” he added.Baghel also demanded financial assistance from the Centre. “How will we win the fight against Covid-19 unless the Centre gives us financial aid?” he said.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said his government has given Rs 2,000 to every household, Rs 5,000 to every farmer, additional Rs 2,000 to every construction worker, and Rs 10,000 to every woman self-help groups from its own kitty.“The Centre hasn’t given the Rs 600 crore of GST compensation and Rs 2,200 crore of the finance commission’s share to us. It hasn’t given any assistance to us. How will a state survive in times of crisis? We’re not enemies. We’ve to act and work together,” he added.Senior leader Ahmed Patel said the conditions to fight Covid-19 were not satisfactory. “The Centre needs to find solutions to the financial crisis being faced by all states. Our doctors and health workers are also facing several challenges,” he added.Former finance minister P Chidambaram said the finances of states were in dire straits and they need urgent assistance. “The health infrastructure also needs to be addressed and a humane policy formulated for the return of migrant workers,” he added.Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said crude oil prices have fallen to rock bottom yet the Centre refuses to give any relief to the common man. “The Congress must aggressively take up the issue,” he said.Former defence minister AK Antony said, “It’s our responsibility to act as watchdogs and ensure course correction. A large number of Indians are stuck abroad. They must be permitted to return home after they undergo tests. State governments must be consulted and special flights arranged to evacuate them. Why isn’t the Centre doing so? he asked.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra said compassion is the key to fight the pandemic. “There should be no hostility towards Covid-19 patients. We need to permit migrant workers to return to their homes after they undergo tests and take due precautions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooperation-between-centre-states-key-to-tackle-covid-19-former-pm-manmohan-singh/story-Rdn6BkOckmWOpNZN3mnPlL.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screening||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up coronavirus disease screening and other Covid-19-related research and development activities, the defence ministry said in a statement.The MVRDL has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, Hyderabad-based Employees’ State Insurance Corporation hospital and private industry.The DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease. It has developed several products to combat the pandemic, including ventilators, PPE kits, large area sanitisation solutions and Covid-19 sample collection kiosks.Singh appreciated the setting up of the ‘Biosafety Level 2 and Level 3’ laboratory in a record time of 15 days (in the ordinary course, it could have taken six months), the ministry said in a statement. The minister said the testing facility, capable of processing more than 1,000 samples a day, would strengthen the country’s capabilities to fight the coronavirus disease.“The lab is the combination of a BSL 3 lab and a BSL 2 lab essential to carry out the activities. The labs are built as per World Health Organisation and Indian Council of Medical Research biosafety standards to meet international guidelines. The system has built-in electrical controls, LAN, telephone cabling and CCTV,” the ministry said.Singh said the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had taken a raft of timely measures because of which the spread of Covid-19 in the country was far less compared to many other countries. He also appreciated the contribution of the armed forces in the fight against Covid-19, with special reference to setting up of quarantine centres, providing healthcare facilities and evacuating Indian nationals from other countries.The video conference launch of the facility was attended by minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, minister of state for labour and employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar and DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy.“The mobile lab will help carry out Covid-19 diagnosis, virus culturing for drug screening, convalescent plasma derived therapy, comprehensive immune profiling of Covid-19 patients towards vaccine development and early clinical trials specific to Indian population. The lab screens 1000-2000 samples per day. This lab can be positioned anywhere in the country,” the statement said.The DRDO acknowledged the contributions of M/s iCOMM for providing containers, M/s iClean for designing and building the BSL-2 and BSL-3 labs in a time-bound manner and M/s Hi Tech Hydraulics for providing the base frame.The DRDO last week shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on personal protective equipment (PPE) from Gwalior to New Delhi to cut down delays and ensure faster delivery of the safety gear to healthcare workers battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-drdo-powered-mobile-lab-to-speed-up-covid-19-screening/story-ElcyBOt2HPxcQgwL6tydMI.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan spends Rs 2,440 on each person in quarantine centres||The Rajasthan government has set a daily limit of Rs 2,440 to be spent on each person in the state-run Covid-19 quarantine centres, according to an order of the disaster management department to district administrations. As on Wednesday, there were 23,437 people in government quarantine facilities across the state that began functioning from March 23. In Jaipur, out of 54 centres, 14 were running and with 1,643 inmates. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 patients in the state has reached 1,935, with Jaipur alone accounting for 737 cases.Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the state’s chief secretary is the chairman of the state executive committee (SEC) but on March 15, the government delegated the powers to the additional chief secretary (ACS), medical and health department. Under these powers, the ACS became the nodal authority for determining the number of centres and duration of stay in them.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The order which was issued some time earlier but became public on Thursday, said the maximum expense per person per day could be Rs 2,440. Payments will be made on actual or this limit, whichever was less.According to the order, Rs 600 is to be spent on food and beverages. This includes Rs 100 on breakfast, Rs 180 each on lunch and dinner, Rs 80 on water and Rs 60 on tea and snacks. The expenditure on linen and laundry is capped at Rs 60.The expenditure also includes Rs 500 on food for staff deputed at the quarantine centres and Rs 600 for personal protective equipment (PPE) kit for health care workers.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health department, said part of the amount is for the quarantine centres themselves.“Technically, expenses on guards, PPE for health workers and food for staff can’t be counted as expenses per person.” The officer said Rs 2,440 was the upper limit set by the disaster management department. “There may be lesser expenditure at some places,” Singh said.A sum of Rs 550 is to be spent on cleaning and disinfection. The break-up includes Rs 50 for cleaner, Rs 50 for ward boy, Rs 70 for sanitizer, Rs 300 for N-95 mask, Rs 50 for triple-layer mask and Rs 30 for hypochlorite solution.An amount of Rs 100 has been earmarked for spraying machine and Rs 30 for a guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-spends-rs-2-440-on-each-person-in-quarantine-centres/story-9TPYYnsIT14QOXGD1SUuVI.html
23-04-2020||India||About 57,000 passengers, crew onboard ships mostly from China not allowed to disembark||Taking all precautions to contain the spread of coronavirus, the government has not allowed to disembark about 57,000 crew and passengers onboard 1,769 ships, mostly from China, an official said on Thursday. All these crew and passengers underwent thermal scanning, as per the WHO guidelines, the official added.“Adhering to all precautions and laid-down protocols to prevent any further spread of COVID-19, cargo was handled at Ports. No shore passes or daily passes were issued to these 56,727 crew and passengers on board 1,769 vessels reaching Indian Ports till April 21,” the official told PTI. The 1,769 ships reached the Indian ports with cargo between January 27 and April 21. Of these, as many as 1,401 ships reached major ports and were allowed anchoring at designated places for loading/unloading of export-import cargo.Of the 56,727 crew and passengers onboard these ships, 49,750 reached the major ports, the official said.India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia) that handled nearly 705 million tonnes (MT) cargo in 2019-20. For maintaining smooth operations across ports, the shipping ministry has initiated a number of steps that include waiving of rentals. The government has asked all major ports to ensure that no penalties, demurrage, charges, fee, rentals are levied on any port user (traders, shipping lines, concessionaires, licensees etc) for any delay in berthing or loading/unloading operations or evacuation of cargo caused by the reasons attributable to lockdown measures from March 22. Besides, for existing and operational PPP projects, major ports can permit waiver of all penal consequences on a case-to-case basis along with deferment of certain performance obligations. The official said hospitals across the major port trusts have been supplied with personal protective equipment (PPE) and the arrangement of sufficient staff round the clock has been made. Ports and PSUs under the Ministry of Shipping have contributed more than Rs 52 crore from the CSR funds towards PM CARES Fund. Besides, employees of ports, PSUs and other offices of the ministry have contributed over Rs 7 crore from their salaries towards PM CARES Fund. The number of vessels handled by ports during 2019-20 was around 20,837 against 20,853 vessels in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-57-000-passengers-crew-onboard-ships-mostly-from-china-not-allowed-to-disembark/story-6yp8lShE37IGP1Ql74mRzJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Create exclusive Covid-19 facility, testing centre for Delhi Police personnel: LG Baijal||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities to create a dedicated Covid-19 facility for Delhi Police personnel, news agency ANI reported.According to reports, Baijal has also directed the administration to set up an exclusive testing centre for Delhi police personnel who are working amid the coronavirus outbreak. The administration has already started screening media professionals after nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.“Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities to create a dedicated #COVID19 facility for Delhi Police personnel. LG has also directed setting up an exclusive testing center for Delhi police personnel working amid the #Coronavirus outbreak. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/1cpS81DiCcThis comes when the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has crossed the 2,000-mark. On Thursday, as per the figures released by the Ministry of Health, Delhi reported 2,248 total cases of Covid-19 out of which 724 patients have been cured or discharged and 48 have died.  The national capital has a total of 89 containment zones.   Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health pic.twitter.com/ZRz1BOYFJWMeanwhile, the Delhi government has issued orders for strict compliance of its earlier order for landlords not to demand rent from labourers and students for one month.“District Magistrates shall undertake awareness campaign on the issue particularly in areas having higher density of workers/migrant workers/students to advise affected persons to lodge complaints to police control room by calling 100,” the order dated, April 22 read.India reported 1,409 new cases and 41 deaths in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported. Coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark with 21,393 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-exclusive-covid-19-facility-testing-centre-for-delhi-police-personnel-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal/story-2SGfoFYdUFefvL6FsG9bOP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Kerala govt employees to face one-month salary cut, docs cry foul||Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that 11 more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala and that the state will step up its fight against the virus in view of steady rise in cases.For the last two weeks the state had reported minimum cases and often the number of recovered was double than new cases and experts said it was on the verge of flattening the virus curve. Sensing improvement, at one point the government was ready to resume operations across more sectors. However, the situation suddenly changed on Tuesday after the state reported 19 new cases.The health department has decided to test all expatriates in north Kerala who came back to the country after March 1. It was forced to take a decision after many returnees turned positive even a month after their return. Late onset of the virus and asymptomatic nature of patients are posing a big challenge to state which reported the first case in the country on January 30, a China-returned medical student.North Kerala’s district Kannur has emerged as the latest hotspot of the state reporting 58 active cases, following which authorities enforced the lockdown ruthlessly and arrested those who came out without valid reasons. Inspector General of Police Ashok Yadav, who has been given the special responsibility of the district, said police will adopt the same measures in the neighboring Kasaragod district to make a turnaround.“Stringent measures are taken to keep people inside their houses. We have given them emergency numbers and they can contact those numbers for any need. We will arrest those who come out of their homes,” said the IG.Giving details of fresh cases, the CM said out of 11 cases, seven (total cases 437) were reported from Kannur. Among the infected are two house surgeons and a health worker in Kozhikode. House surgeons had travelled on a train from Delhi in which some Tablighi Jammat members were travelling. Meanwhile, the government has decided to cut one month’s salary in five installments (five months) from government employees to meet the mounting Covid-19 expenditure. Many employees’ organisations owing allegiance to opposition parties criticised the move and said they will move the court. The state government doctors’ association has also decried the move saying it will take sprit out of overworked doctors and health employees. “Sad, the government should have spared health workers who are on the forefront of the war,” said association secretary Joseph Chacko. Salaries of legislators, ministers and board members will also be cut by 30% for one year, the CM said. “The pandemic has literally crippled our economy. We need money for health sector and other emergency services,” said the CM justifying the cut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-one-month-salary-of-kerala-govt-employees-to-be-cut-docs-cry-foul/story-rUq9NhcvdckLB55hotP0HM.html
23-04-2020||India||After slamming ‘Islamophobia’ charge, Naqvi says wrong to blame all Muslims||Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday advised against the demonisation of entire Muslim community for mistakes made by some individuals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat.Naqvi’s comments are a reference to a big chunk of India’s coronavirus cases being traced to the Muslim sect that held a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March allegedly in violation of social distancing norms. Several members of the Jamaat who returned to their respective states were responsible for spreading COVID-19 locally. “Entire Muslim community cannot be held responsible for one group’s crime,” Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi told PTI on the Tablighi Jamaat row.Naqvi’s comments assume significance since he had dismissed the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)’s concerns of Islamophobia in India a couple of days ago and asserted that India was “a heaven” for Muslims and secularism and social harmony was “a passion” in India and not “a political fashion”. OIC’s Islamophobia comments were a reference to criticism in certain sections that attempts were made to single out the Muslim community for the spread of coronavirus through the targeting of Jamaat members.Naqvi hit out at the OIC and said that those trying to vitiate the atmosphere of prosperity of Indian Muslims, cannot be friends of Indian Muslims. On Thursday, he also repeated his appeal to the community to maintain social distancing and adhere to national lockdown measures during the holy month of Ramazan that begins on Friday in some parts, and on Saturday in most parts of India. “Confident that Muslims will fully adhere to lockdown and social distancing guidelines during Ramzan,” Naqvi told PTI.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Several bodies representing the Muslim community including the Islamic Centre of India and the Delhi Waqf Board have also appealed for daily prayers during Ramazan to be held at home and asked mosques to create awareness about official guidelines to fight the coronavirus pandemic.According to an advisory by the Delhi Waqf Board, people should stay at their homes to offer Namaz during Ramzan, however, Imams, Muazzins and Mutawallis can offer the prayers at mosques.It has also asked the mosques to announce the guidelines after each Azaan and also at other times through loudspeakers.Most state governments including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan have asked state officials to ensure that there are no public gatherings at the time of the ‘sehri’ and ‘iftar’ rituals during Ramzan.The Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats has issued an advisory asking Muslims in the state not to organise community ‘iftars’ and instead pray for health workers, police and those involved in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.For Coronavirus Live Updates“In these trying times please remember the entire Ummah, our nation, all the doctors, the frontline health workers, police and all involved in fighting this pandemic in your duas (prayers),” the advisory said.The governor of Rajasthan held a video conference with Khadims of Ajmer Dargah and requested them to advise devotees to practice social distancing and follow lockdown rules. The Dargah members in return promised all cooperation in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-slamming-islamophobia-charge-naqvi-says-wrong-to-blame-all-muslims/story-9TvgiAfpbuLYR1d7nDshZL.html
23-04-2020||India||Indigo rolls back pay cut in April salary of employees, heeds Centre’s appeal||IndiGo, the country’s largest airline by market share, announced on Thursday that it has decided to roll back the earlier announcement of a pay cut in employee salaries for the month of April.The decision is in deference to the Union government’s wishes, the top brass of the airline said. “In deference to our Government’s wishes of not reducing pay during the lockdown, we have decided not to implement the previously announced pay cuts during the month of April. However, Excom members and SVPs have volunteered to take pay cuts this month. For everyone else, you can expect your April salaries to be paid without the pay cuts,” Indigo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in an email to all employee of the company.Earlier last month, IndiGo had announced that employees of the carrier would take a 25% pay cut along with Dutta himself leading from the front to take a pay cut.ALSO READ | IndiGo announces pay cut for senior employees, CEO takes 25% cut amid Covid-19 outbreakTo boost the morale of the employees and to generate hope amid the severe financial crisis which has hit the Indian aviation sector, Dutta further said, “Another area where we can exercise control is in shaping the nature of the customer experience as we take to the skies again. We are working actively with the Government, the airports, and our competitor airlines in defining the nature of this experience.”“Customers will probably start flying tentatively at first and we need to make sure that we instill enough confidence in the early users so that the first trickle of customers turns into a torrent,” he said.India has been under a nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the coronavirus pandemic. All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. As a result, revenues of the Indian aviation industry have been hit hard.The aviation industry is in a complete lockdown mode with bookings being cancelled until any further orders. Aviation players across the globe have taken extreme measures to cope with the recent turmoil. Spice Jet’s Ajay Singh too took a 30% pay cut in the month of March owing to the coronavirus lockdown that has left the industry struggling to cope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-heeds-centre-s-appeal-rolls-back-pay-cut-in-april-salary-of-employees/story-ecbXDxVJUrYZ74Mu0TIp4I.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Rs 10 lakh insurance cover for journalists reporting during Covid-19’: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday announced that the state government will provide insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh each to all journalists in Haryana who are reporting during the coronavirus pandemic, news agency ANI reported.Khattar’s announcement comes at a time when scores of media professionals have tested positive for coronavirus while performing their duties during the Covid-19 lockdown. Nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the administration will start testing media personnel for coronavirus. The testing began on Wednesday at a dedicated Covid-19 centre in Delhi.State govt has decided to provide insurance of Rs 10 lakh each to all journalists who are reporting during #Coronavirus pandemic: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar (File pic) pic.twitter.com/9u7U8pi9lJ“Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted out.The Karnataka government had also issued a similar order on the Covid-19 testing of media persons who are working in the field during the coronavirus crisis. In its advisory, the central government on Wednesday urged all media professionals to take care of their health and observe necessary precautions. “It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted with Covid-19 while covering the happening in certain parts of the country,” the statement read.Print and electronic media are part of essential services and professionals working in the field are exempt from the lockdown. India entered the ninth day of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-10-lakh-each-to-all-journalists-reporting-during-covid-19-haryana-cm/story-olFmT1uAB7oEkwFNTc06RN.html
23-04-2020||India||Civil servants’ initiative ‘CARUNA’ offers raft of suggestions to fight Covid-19||Bureaucrats have offered a raft of suggestions to the Central government to combat the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic such as determining a geospatial risk radius, turning shipping containers into intensive care units (ICUs), transforming stranded migrant labourers into human capital and using a unique disinfecting formulation called Medecide Antiviral Conversion Spray (MACS).The suggestions have been compiled in a report by CARUNA, the Civil services Association Reach to support National disasters, comprising 29 Central and All India Service Associations, which was submitted to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Wednesday. “It is a compilation of various reports,” said Sanjeev Chopra, vice-president, IAS Association. “It is a collective effort that required enormous collaboration. Many people from 29 associations, who are a part of CARUNA, have contributed to it,” he added.The 28 ‘ideas for action’ that have been suggested by the bureaucrats can be broadly categorised under agriculture, medical equipment, public grievances, migrant labour-related issues and lockdown easing policies. The group has recommended determining a ‘geospatial risk radius’ in a bid to limit activity and avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, as part of lockdown easing solutions. Movement relaxation should be determined according to this radius that was calculated by correlating population density with respect to active cases. “For example, the population density of Himachal Pradesh is eight million with a population density of 144 per square kilometres and Covid-19 positive cases of 11 (assuming 10x, ie 110 undetected cases) --- this means the risk of encountering an active case is in a radius of 12.7 kilometres from a given location,” the report said. “If an area has zero known cases, a risk of one in 200,000 has to be assumed and limit movement to 21 kilomteres for the first 14 days of relaxation,” it added.It has recommended reducing the number of workdays and introducing flexible-timing for Central government offices. Shifts and incentives for officials coming to work, including enhanced life insurance coverage, and work from home for those staff, who are considered non-essential, has also been recommended. “Collection of a crop at a local level and rapid payment to farmers to ensure the availability of food and income... This will serve two purposes. Financial security to the local farmers and to the migrants who are living there,” the report suggested for the agriculture sector.District-wise helplines to help farmers sell their produce, storage issues and up to Rs 10 lakh loan for dedicated agencies who would procure fruits and vegetables directly from farmers and ensure a fair price for farmhands and consumers have been recommended. The report suggested CURA (Connected Units for Respiratory Ailments) using shipping containers as ICUs and also the production of low-cost ventilators.“Industry heavyweights, including Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Motors, Kalyani Group, and Hyundai India, have been asked to explore the possibility of reconfiguring their plants to produce ventilators. Mahindra and Mahindra is working on an indigenous low- cost device,” it said. A unique disinfecting formulation called Medecide Antiviral Conversion Spray (MACS) for Covid-19 has been earmarked as “game-changer for India”. “It is water-based and easy to apply with traditional equipment and methods, including fogging and spray that lasts for 28 days. Medicide provides a new and unprecedented means of attack on the environmental spread of infectious diseases by binding to surfaces where applied, allowing the disinfectant molecules to actively fight and kill new pathogens that touch the surface, on a continuing basis. It kills the virus for 28 days after application and deters the contagion,” the report said.CARUNA also recommended the training of the second line of health workers to counter the pandemic.The group made a separate suggestion for vulnerable communities such as stranded migrant labourers, forest dwellers and fishing communities. “Migrant labourers can be used for the making of masks, construction of isolation facilities and movement of medical supplies after they undergo proper training,” the report added.The group has also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to appeal to those, who have savings of Rs 5 lakh and above, to contribute at least Rs 10,000 to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. CARUNA suggested that the PM requests citizens to donate at least 10% of their earnings from fixed deposits earned last year to the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-servants-initiative-caruna-offers-raft-of-suggestions-to-fight-covid-19/story-zy94tL4WXmBhYxaXs1vysJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Maharashtra deputy CM seeks trains for migrant workers, cites law and order||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as he fears a law and border problem. In the letter, the deputy CM says that the migrant workers who have been staying at shelter camps will likely take to streets on May 3 on completion of the second phase of the lockdown.“This could lead to the law and order problem, like it happened in Bandra in Mumbai on the last day of the first lockdown,” read the letter.On April 14, nearly 1000 out-of-work migrant labourers gathered outside a railway station in Mumbai’s Bandra, hours after Prime Minister extended the lockdown to May 3 to check the spread of the coronavirus infections, demanding for trains to take them home.“The Railway ministry should plan well in advance for the special trains for these workers to various parts of the country. The trains should be operated from Pune and Mumbai,” the minister wrote.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured migrant labourers in the state that his government would ensure that they are sent home once the lockdown is lifted.“I give you my word that the Maharashtra government will take you to your homes, the day this crisis ends. I believe that when you go back to your homes, you should go back happily and not out of fear,” said the CM..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-seeks-trains-for-migrant-workers-cites-law-and-order/story-C2fte98CZ0Bb85rKLU1g5O.html
23-04-2020||India||Bengal Governor questions Mamata Banerjee’s ‘red carpet’ to WHO team||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to Twitter on Thursday to fire another salvo at the Mamata Banerjee government over the ‘red carpet’ treatment for a World Health Organization (WHO) team and asking the government about the outcome of the visit.“Urge @MamataOfficial to ensure seamless way forward for Central Teams. Concerned at Rebuff to Central Teams. Red Carpet visit of WHO to East Midnapur and Bishnupur. What outcome and gain of WHO visit? Declare! Time to take to Constitution. Let concerned handle Mikes/Brooms,” Dhankhar tweeted. Urge @MamataOfficial to ensure seamless way forward for Central Teams.Concerned at Rebuff to Central Teams. Red Carpet visit of WHO to East Midnapur and Bishnupur. What outcome and gain of WHO visit ? Declare !Time to take to Constitution. Let concerned handle Mikes/Brooms.His tweet came amid the visits by an inter-ministerial central team to Bengal that initially triggered a controversy with the state government criticising Centre’s decision to send these teams as ‘unilateral’ and ‘undesirable’.Also read: WB Guv Dhankhar requests Mamata to avoid confrontation with centre to combat Covid-19 crisisHowever, the state administration has started cooperating with the central team after a strongly-worded letter from the Union home ministry that warned the government that obstructing the central team amounted to violation of the Disaster Management Act and orders of the Supreme Court.A team of WHO representatives had visited the districts of East Midnapore, a Covid-19 hotspot in the ‘red zone’, and Bankura in the ‘orange zone’ on Monday. The state administration had fully cooperated with the WHO team during its one-day visit.Incidentally, the Bengal unit president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Dilip Ghosh, too, had criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for preferring “foreign advice” over those coming from the Centre.“She has formed a global committee of advisors that includes foreign nationals. It would be acceptable if the Prime Minister formed a global advisory panel. But why is a state government preferring advice and praise from abroad instead of cooperating with the Centre? This is because the government has a lot to hide that the Centre’s scrutiny would expose,” Ghosh had said on Wednesday.Governor Dhankhar has been taking pot shots at the Bengal government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ruing Trinamool Congress has mostly refrained from responding to the governor, saying that they would better ‘ignore’ him. The party’s Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson Derek O-Brien recently described Dhankhar without naming him as “a twitter-happy nominated person from New Delhi.” Also read: Amid lockdown, Bengal governor and government lock horns over ‘PDS scam’Dhankhar’s repeated swipes at the state government had also earned him criticism from Congress’ national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who recently targeted the governor in series of tweets. “Governors shd b seen ¬ heard. Latter only in official letters thru proper channels. They reign but do not rule (except during pres rule or govt formation). They shd be true friends, philosophers &guides, nt inimical to those elected to run state. #WB #Govnor #Dhankar,” Singhvi wrote. Governors shd b seen ¬ heard. Latter only in official letters thru proper channels. They reign but do not rule (except during pres rule or govt formation). They shd be true friends, philosophers &guides, nt inimical to those elected to run state. #WB #Govnor #Dhankar“Does nt behove #Governor #WB 2have presser nor say tht he “ warned” CM repeatedly & deprecates her “Centre bashing every morning.” Govnor cnot enter political fight btween #Centre & #WB. Has no power 2warn #CM on such matters. Cnot b more royal than King & v all know who tht is!,” Singhvi wrote in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-questions-mamata-banerjee-s-red-carpet-to-who-team/story-H2em7vr2KlXPXxyTZYenpN.html
23-04-2020||India||Bengal man dresses up like coronavirus to spread awareness against Covid-19||On Wednesday morning, the residents of Chinsurah in West Bengal’s Hooghly district, around 50 kilometres north of Kolkata, were in for a surprise. A man dressed up like coronavirus was moving around in the local markets to spread awareness against Covid-19.42-year-old Milan Pandey could not keep himself from dressing up as the virus and stepped out of his home despite the lockdown.  “Every day I could see people moving around on the streets despite the lockdown. Many of them might have had some urgency but some people had no reason to step out. They were not even maintaining social distance. So I decided to raise awareness,” he said.Pandey is a wage labourer and is out of work now due to the lockdown. A few days ago, he had approached the local police station requesting them to allow him to spread the awareness. The police asked him to stay home.“But I decided to do something for society. I prepared a placard, dressed up in red, prepared a cap with protruding sticks and made a loudspeaker out of paper. I then hit the road,” said Pandey.But that was not all. Pandey even wore a mask and tied some sticks around his waist to practice social distancing. In this manner, he roamed about in the markets of Chinsurah and spread his message.Large parts of urban and semi-urban areas of Hooghly district, along with some gram panchayat areas, have been declared Covid-19 containment zones by the state administration.“I told people not to crowd, not to spit on the roads, wear masks and maintain social distance,” he added.The locals welcomed Pandey’s move who, despite his unemployment and hardships, decided to spread awareness against the disease that has killed lakhs of people across the world.“It was really good to see that a man who was facing hardships hit the streets to raise awareness and save others,” said Taraknath Das, a resident of Chinsurah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-man-dresses-up-like-coronavirus-to-spread-awareness-against-covid-19/story-qUoc3Zm168paOt0W6nntdJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Family faces boycott over Covid-19 rumour, Jharkhand CM orders probe||A family in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district is allegedly facing social boycott over a coronavirus rumour for the past five days. The family of four has alleged that they are not even allowed to use water from village tube-wells or wells.The incident came to light when a video of the kids crying in hunger went viral on social media. On Thursday, chief minister Hemant Soren took cognisance of the incident and asked Ramgarh deputy commissioner (DC) to take immediate action and provide relief to the family.“My appeal to people is do not pay attention to rumours. In this epidemic situation, we can fight the coronavirus and rumour only with social support,” the CM tweeted.The incident took place at Murudih village under Gola police station. Geeta Devi, the mother of two children, said, “I have been working in Didi Kitchen run under Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) and feeding the poor during this period of lockdown. Many families in the village were suffering due to lack of PDS ration, I helped them get ration.”On April 18, when she was serving food to the poor through Didi kitchen, few villagers came and alleged that she was coronavirus positive.“I asked them how? One of them alleged that my brother-in-law came from Chhattisgarh and he is suffering from Covid-19. I tried to convince them that nobody came from anywhere at my home. But, they did not allow me to serve food,” said Devi, whose husband Ishwar Kumar Mahto is a labourer. The husband is presently jobless due to nationwide lockdown in place to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.The next day, when Devi went to a nearby tube-well for water, villagers stopped her from drawing the water. “No food was cooked that day for lack of water. In a bid to prove villagers wrong, all in the family went to Gola for coronavirus check up on April 19. The report came negative but the health officials asked us to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” she said.Despite the negative coronavirus report, the family, she alleges, was asked to leave the village.“The next day on April 20, my LPG cylinder needed refilling, but the villagers did not allow it. They are not allowing us to even come out of the house for any necessity,” Devi said, adding, “I went to Gola police station on April 21”.The police visited the village on Wednesday evening. “The family was in deep crisis. We helped them to get water from the village tube well and convinced the villagers to not pay heed to rumours. If the family is tortured again, we will lodge a case against the villagers,” said Gola police station in-charge, Dhananjay Kumar.Devi said, “I have filled all my containers with water. So, I did not go out to take water today (Thursday). But, I do not find any change in the behaviour of villagers. We are living in fear that we may be beaten, if we go outside.”A section of villagers questioned as to why the family needed to be tested if they were not carrying the disease. “The family went for a Covid-19 check up. If they did not have coronavirus, why did they go for the test?” said a villager who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-faces-boycott-over-covid-19-rumour-jharkhand-cm-orders-probe/story-8XJDTzLkUOO3DrcvVaU6TK.html
23-04-2020||India||Delhi airport becomes major hub for Covid-19 related medical essentials||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has designated Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport as a major hub for import and distribution of Covid-19 related medical essentials, news agency ANI reported.  A 3800 square metre dedicated distribution facility has been made operational at the airport for the purpose.The civil aviation ministry has been vested with the operations of supplying medical and other essential commodities across the nation. In the past month, India supplied essential drugs to countries from the United States to the Maldives, among other nations.  Ministry of Civil Aviation has designated Delhi International Airport as major hub for import and distribution of COVID-19 related medical essentials. A 3800 sq mt dedicated distribution facility has been made operational at the airport: GMR pic.twitter.com/pbU7BSGrWFIn a tweet posted on Thursday, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri stated that the ministry has operated 339 flights so far, transporting 587 tons of medical and essential cargo under ‘Lifeline Udan’.“The way India has implemented the Lockdown & has been able to control the spread of COVID19 to a large extent is being seen around the world as a template. Lifeline UDAN continues to transport essential medical supplies to different regions,” Puri tweeted out. 339 flights587 tons3,37,639 kmsThe way India has implemented the Lockdown & has been able to control the spread of COVID19 to a large extent is being seen around the world as a template. Lifeline UDAN continues to transport essential medical supplies to different regions. pic.twitter.com/EXoqTARPI7The ministry launched ‘Lifeline Udan’ earlier this month under which flights operated by Air India, Alliance Air, Indian Air Force, Pawan Hans and other private carriers are supplying goods across the country amid the coronavirus crisis. In its statement, the ministry said, “The cargo compulsorily supplies goods such as regents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits and PPE, masks, gloves and other essential items as applicable by the State and Union Territory Governments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-becomes-major-hub-for-covid-19-related-medical-essentials/story-QxF2M0IxrCIyFQcA9kTXRK.html
23-04-2020||India||Security forces nab 5 ULFA bomb experts in Assam, bust recruitment drive||In two separate operations, Indian Army and Assam Police apprehended five hardcore United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) cadres and rescued seven minors recruited recently, the army and police said on Thursday.Five members of the proscribed outfit were nabbed by a joint team in Charaideo district of upper Assam early on Thursday and that led to the seizure of a large cache of arms.“Based on a tip-off we cordoned Tairai village on Wednesday night and nabbed the ULFA-I cadres who were holed up in the house of one Bhuban Gogoi,” Charaideo district superintendent of police Anand Mishra said.The arrested men were identified as Apurba Gogoi, Simanta Gogoi, Yogen Gogoi, Lakhyajit Gogoi and Siddhartha Gogoi.“All of them are hardcore cadres who are experts in bomb making as well. They were involved in several cases of murders, extortions, kidnappings since 2012 as well as the Republic Day blast this year in Sonari,” said Mishra.Though the cadres were unarmed at the time of their arrest their interrogation led to recovery of several assault rifles, pistols, ammunition and bomb making materials.In a separate operation, seven minors who were recently recruited by ULFA-I were rescued by the Indian Army and Assam Police in a joint operation.The teams were also able to nab four other members and six over ground workers of the proscribed outfit in the operation carried out in six districts of Assam on April 21 and 22.“Based on specific intelligence input, the joint teams launched a well-coordinated and intensive campaign spread over Golaghat, Jorhat, Sibsagar, Charaideo, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts,” the army said in a statement.According to the army, the arrested ULFA-I cadres and over ground workers were actively involved in recruiting new cadres and had been successful in luring several youths to join the outfit.“The rescued youths belonging to well-to-do families were influenced and lured into joining the insurgent group through social media and online propaganda videos,” the statement said. Following their rescue, the seven minors were counselled and reunited with their parents. “They were rejuvenated to see their missing children especially in these tough times of Covid-19 pandemic,” the statement said.The four cadres and six over ground workers have been handed over to Assam Police for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-nab-5-ulfa-bomb-experts-in-assam-bust-recruitment-drive/story-radtHmHa8VvdKxPGEO0iuI.html
23-04-2020||India||Decision on green nod to Parliament building renovation may take a week||The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has not made public its decision regarding environmental clearance for expansion and renovation of the Parliament building following a meeting on Wednesday.The EAC on constructions, townships and area development projects met on Wednesday to consider environmental clearance for several infrastructure projects, including the contentious Parliament building project that will cost Rs 922 crore, according to estimates by the Central Public Works Department, and involve transplanting at least 233 trees from the existing site.The project was discussed in detail by the 13-member committee but the decision cannot be immediately shared, the panel’s members said.“The decision is not final until the minutes are drafted. It will take a week. We have to hear 15 more projects tomorrow and the day after,” T Haque, chairman of the EAC, said on phone.The renovation of the Parliament building is part of the Centre’s larger “central vista” project, which includes a new Parliament, a new central secretariat complex for ministries, and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.Several concerns have been raised by architects and urban planners regarding the project. One of them is that despite central vista being a single development project, it has been broken into parts for ease of obtaining environmental clearance.The CPWD has listed the Parliament building as an “individual project” in environment impact assessment documents. It states that there are no “interlinked projects”.HT reported on February 21 the new Parliament complex is proposed to be built on a plot adjacent to the existing building, and yet is being considered by the EAC only as a renovation project. Land use for the 9.5-acre plot was changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority last month.DDA last December changed the land use of a 15-acre plot from recreational to residential on Dalhousie Road near South Block, where the prime minister’s new residence is to be built.LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society activists, raised these issues and asked why such a large amount of money is being invested in the Parliament building amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“As you are aware this project is not just about renovations to the existing Parliament but involves the construction of an entirely new building of an additional 65000 sq m on a separate plot next to the present Parliament,” LokPATH wrote to the EAC on April 21.It said that according to “the applicant, the present cost of the project is Rs 922 crore. At a time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to prioritise government spending for medical facilities and public health infrastructure. Since the global and Indian economies are also very fragile, it would be wasteful and cruel to allow such a project to come up when millions of fellow citizens in the agriculture, fisheries and other basic sectors are struggling to cope financially.”On Wednesday, LokPATH again wrote to the Central Vista Committee that the approval by DDA for land use change had been done when there are cases pending in courts on the matter. The land use change can alter the character of open and public use spaces and allow extensive building activity in the area, apart from restricting public access, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-green-nod-to-parliament-building-renovation-may-take-a-week/story-dTP0kr55nghk3RmZonRz2N.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with all and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with allFrom a host of medical emergencies like the requirement of cancer and arthritis-related medicines to neighbours alerting the authorities about quarantined patients violating guidelines, the Covid-19 crisis has citizen helplines ringing off the hook, for both the government as well as the social sector. Read more‘Entire world is praising PM Modi’s way of handling Covid-19 crisis’: Amit ShahUnion Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. Read morePrisoners on parole can mark attendance via WhatsApp call or sharing location: Delhi HCThe Delhi High Court has come up with a unique way for the prisoners to mark their attendance at the police station during the period of emergency parole by asking them to either WhatsApp video call or send their google location to the Investigating Officer (IO) to ascertain their location. Read more‘Kim Jong-Un’s exit wouldn’t change US goals’: Mike PompeoThe United States will keep seeking North Korea’s denuclearization no matter who is in charge in Pyongyang, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Wednesday, amid speculation about leader Kim Jong Un’s health. Read morePakistan batsmen’s 30s, 40s was for team, Indian players’ 100s was for themselves: InzamamFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq played in an era where his side had a better record over India as compared to the recent times. Read moreApurva Agnihotri writes note for late actor Kushal Punjabi on his birth anniversary: ‘Ride on my brother, till we meet again’Actor Apurva Agnihotri is missing his friend Kushal Punjabi, who died last year. Taking to Instagram, Apurva shared a post dedicated to his late ‘brother’. The photo shows Apurva in a helmet and Kushal smiling bright. Read moreShakespeare Day 2020: Lesser-known facts, famous quotes by the Bard of Avon, William ShakespeareOne of the most prolific and iconic writers in the English language and also the world’s greatest dramatist, William Shakespeare was born this day in 1564. He is popularly called the Bard of Avon since he was born and raised in Stratford upon Avon, Warwickshire. Read more This woman who arranged a virtual blind date for her mother and prof is the best wingman you could ever wantVirtual class is the new norm of life for millions of students and teachers across the world. Recently, a student named Aly Oliver recorded some of her classes and for a very special reason. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-from-medical-emergencies-to-lockdown-violations-citizen-helpline-deals-with-all-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hz2WXXtZGrl1sJZtkHqJbJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Two held for attack on Arnab Goswami, political bickering begins||The police in Mumbai have arrested two people for an alleged attack on journalist Arnab Goswami and his wife, officials said on Thursday, in an incident that stirred a political blame game. Goswami, the editor-in-chief and owner of Republic TV, said in a complaint at NM Joshi Marg police station that the incident took place at Ganpatrao Kadam Marg around 12:15am when he and his wife were returning home from a studio in Bombay Dyeing Complex in Lower Parel. Both of them were unhurt.“Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.The attackers were carrying a bottle of ink which they threw on his car, a police official told news agency PTI. Goswami’s security guards, who were behind in another car, caught hold of the two persons and handed them over to the NM Joshi Marg police, he added.Those arrested have been identified as Pratik Kumar Shamsunder Mishra and Arun Dilip Borade, both residents of Sion in Mumbai. “Both the accused were arrested immediately after the incident with the help of security personnel who were with Arnab,” Abhinash Kumar, the deputy commissioner of police (zone 3), said.The suspects have been arrested under the charges of wrongful restraint and intentional insult with the intent to provoke breach of the peace, among others.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress. In a video posted after the alleged attack, Goswami said he was told by his security guards that the attackers were Youth Congress workers. There was no confirmation by the police.Goswami has faced flak over his remarks aimed at Congress president Sonia Gandhi during a discussion on the Palghar incident in which three persons, including two sadhus, were lynched.Senior Congress leaders, including chief ministers, have criticised Goswami, with the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, alleging that it was “deeply disgraceful that PM & BJP eulogize this brand of TV anchors”.Maharashtra energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut denied any role of the Congress party in the alleged attack on Goswami. The Congress shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party in Maharashtra.“I don’t think that any Congress worker can attack him because Congress has never worked in this manner. The party that has been created by the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, has maintained both moderation and balance since the beginning,” said Raut, according to ANI. “But the way he (Goswami) has tried to insult Congress president by using indecent language…Who gave this right to him?” the Congress leader added. Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including party president JP Nadda, condemned the alleged attack on oswami and targeted the Congress over the incident.“Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues its rich tradition of trampling free speech,” Nadda tweeted. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-for-attack-on-arnab-goswami-political-bickering-begins/story-PWkUO6w8LDXnQu3KmirT7M.html
23-04-2020||India||Karnataka partially eases curbs, NASA says pollution at 20-year low in North India amid lockdown: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark on Thursday. The Ministry of Health updated the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country to 21,393 on Thursday morning. The figure includes 16,454 active cases, 4,257 patients who have been cured or discharged and 681 fatalities.Gujarat has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases which now near the 2,500-mark. Delhi has more than 2000 coronavirus cases. 724 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection in the national capital.In Maharashtra, cases inch toward the 6,000-mark. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Here are the key developments: 1. Union Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. Shah stated that the “truth is self evident” as the entire world is praising the Prime Minister and his approach towards tackling the coronavirus outbreak in the country.2. Tablighi Jamat chief Maulana Saad has completed the 14-day quarantine and got himself tested for coronavirus disease Covid-19, his lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi told Hindustan Times. “He has completed his quarantine and undergone a test. The report is awaited,” said Ayyubi.3. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said that the suggestions she gave to the government on tackling the Covid-19 crisis, were only acted upon partially. Her comments came during a meeting of the Congress Working Committee.4. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on Thursday said that success of lockdown will be judged on the country’s ability to tackle Covid-19. He said that cooperation between the Centre and States is the key to success in the fight against coronavirus.5. The Karnataka government partially relaxed Covid-19 lockdown norms in the state from Thursday. IT and IT-enabled services have been allowed to operate with essential minimum staff. Certain construction activities, manufacturing of packaging materials, courier services, have also been started.6. According to satellite data published by US space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), air pollution over northern India has plummeted to a 20-year-low for this time of the year amid the Covid-19 lockdown. 7. First Lady Savita Kovind on Wednesday stitched face masks at Shakti Haat in the President’s Estate as part of the fight against Covid-19.8. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has alleged that the federal government was trying to malign the state and that “canards” were being spread about the state’s testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state.9. Some industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown.10. Co-founder of Microsoft and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the coronavirus menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-partially-relaxes-curbs-nasa-says-air-pollution-at-20-year-low-in-north-india-amid-covid-19-lockdown-10-points/story-EHvapf13hmquRb8TIHUaQN.html
23-04-2020||India||BJP continues to spread virus of communal prejudice, hatred: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the Centre doesn’t appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to end.“A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) held through video conference.Prime Minister Narendra Modi initially announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, and later extended it till May 3. A decision on lifting the lockdown is expected to be made after Modi’s meeting with chief ministers on April 27.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sonia Gandhi said states and local governments are the in frontline of the battle against Covid-19 and alleged that funds legitimately owed to Congress-ruled states were held back.“Let me also share with you something that should worry each and every one us Indians. When we should be tackling the coronavirus unitedly, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred. Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage,” she said.“There are a few success stories and we should applaud them. Most of all we should salute every single Indian leading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in spite of the absence of adequate PPE – doctors, nurses, paramedics, health workers, sanitation workers and all other essential service providers, NGOs and the lakhs of citizens providing relief to the most needy all over India. Their dedication and determination truly inspire us all,” she added.Sonia Gandhi reiterated her party’s commitment to extending constructive support to the government in dealing with the crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak, but she said the situation had worsened since the CWC’s last meet.“Since our meeting three weeks ago, the pandemic has increased disturbingly – both in spread and speed,” she said. She said the focus must continue to be on successfully engaging with health, food security and livelihood issues.“We have repeatedly urged the prime minister that there is no alternative to the testing, trace and quarantine programme. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE (personal protective equipment) kits are being provided to our doctors and healthcare workers but the number and quality is poor,” she said. According to the health ministry, India has reported over 21,300 infections and 681 deaths as of Thursday morning.Sonia Gandhi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders have repeatedly demanded scaling up of testing, calling it the biggest weapon against the Coronavirus. “If we don’t ramp up testing and go for aggressive testing, we will be forced to again go into lockdown,” Rahul Gandhi told a news conference last week.At the CWC’s meeting on April 2, the party’s highest decision-making body pledged to continue its unstinted support to the Centre and state governments in dealing with the situation. However, it criticised the Centre for “not giving any thought to the deteriorating” economic situation following the pandemic, and demanded a task force consisting of world renowned economists to suggest measures to deal with the crisis.With the lockdown being extended, Sonia Gandhi said all sections of society, particularly farmers, farm workers, migrant labour, construction workers and workers in the unorganised sector, continue to face acute hardship and distress.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage She said trade, commerce and industry had come to a halt and crores of livelihoods had been destroyed.She said since the lockdown began on March 25, she had written several times to the Prime Minister and offered her constructive cooperation and also made several suggestions to alleviate the suffering of rural and urban families.Sonia Gandhi has so far written six letters to Modi, mentioning the problems faced by construction and rural workers and migrant labour, and demanded financial packages for them. She also sought the suspension of the Rs 20,000-crore “central vista” project and transferring all funds from the PM CARES Fund to the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PM-NRF) to fight the pandemic.Sonia Gandhi told the CWC these suggestions had been framed using feedback received from different sources, including Congress chief ministers.“Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the Central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she said. Sonia Gandhi said the entitlement of food grains under the National Food Security Act have not yet reached beneficiaries, contending that 11 crore people in need of subsidised food grains continue to be outside the public distribution system.“It should be our commitment to provide 10 kg of food grains, 1 kg of pulses and half a kg of sugar to each person of the family every month, in this hour of crisis,” she added.She also contended that 12 crore jobs were lost in the first phase of the lockdown and insisted that unemployment is likely to increase further as economic activity remains at a standstill. “It is imperative to provide at least Rs 7,500 to each family to tide over this crisis,” she said. Referring to migrant workers, she said they are still stranded, jobless and desperate to return home. “They have been hit the hardest and must be provided with food security and a financial safety net in order to survive this period of crisis.” Farmers are facing serious difficulties too, Sonia Gandhi said, adding the weak and unclear procurement policies and disrupted supply chains need to be addressed without delay. “Necessary facilities must be made available to the farmers for the next round of kharif crops, which will begin in the coming two months,” she said.She said micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) employ nearly 11 crore personnel and make up a third of the GDP. “If they are to be protected from economic ruin, it is imperative that a special package be announced urgently for their survival,” she added.Sonia Gandhi has constituted an 11-member consultative group, headed by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 outbreak, and frame the party’s views on various issues. Rahul Gandhi is a member of the panel.At its first meeting on Monday, the group discussed the revival of the MSME sector, smooth crop procurement and the issue of stranded migrant workers. The panel on Wednesday sought public suggestions for an economic stimulus package for MSMEs.The Congress has reiterated its demand for immediate direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 in all Jan Dhan, pension and PM-Kisan scheme bank accounts to enable the poor to sustain themselves during the lockdown.In a video message issued last week, the Congress chief praised doctors, police, health and sanitation workers who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 despite the shortage of PPE, calling them “corona warriors”.She regretted reports of harassment of doctors in some parts of the country and urged people to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and social distancing norms.“This fight will weaken without your support, and we should not allow this to happen. At some places, I hear reports about ill-treatment meted out to doctors. This is wrong. Our culture and tradition does not allow this and we should support them,” Sonia Gandhi had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-trace-quarantine-model-has-no-alternative-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19/story-U1QfumxreB2n5VUWwdqNVK.html
23-04-2020||India||Man allegedly refuses to take delivery from a Muslim, arrested||Ghanshyam Chaturvedi (51), a Mira Road resident, was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly refusing to accept grocery ordered online a day before from a delivery man, who belongs to a minority community, according to the delivery person’s statement to the police.The accused was produced before the Thane sessions court on Wednesday and released on bail of Rs 15,000 personal surety, said Sanjay Hazare, senior police inspector, Kashimira police station, under whose jurisdiction Mira Road falls.On Tuesday evening, the grocery items were delivered at the gate of the apartment complex because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which was initially enforced for 21 days on March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The delivery person had taken all the precautions against Covid-19, as he was wearing the personal protective equipment such as mask and gloves. The customer and his wife came down at the gate to collect the grocery items.Trouble started when Chaturvedi asked the delivery man his name while his wife was going through the list of items that they have ordered. When he learnt that the man is from a minority community, he asked his wife to return the grocery items.“The delivery man was shocked about Chaturvedi’s behaviour and recorded the entire conversation on his cellphone,” Hazare said.“I risked my life to deliver all the essential items. But the man’s (Chaturvedi) behaviour was shocking and tragic, as he was focusing on my religion amid these hard times,” the delivery person told Kashimira Police authorities. He approached the police on the advice of his family members.“Chaturvedi was arrested under Section 295 (a) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code,” Hazare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-resident-allegedly-refuses-to-take-delivery-from-muslim-man-arrested/story-lBSXCd8lO27rgKlPbEQDSJ.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Entire world is praising PM Modi’s way of handling Covid-19 crisis’: Amit Shah||Union Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India.Shah stated that the “truth is self evident” as the entire world is praising the Prime Minister and his approach towards tackling the coronavirus outbreak in the country.Shah said that every Indian is feeling safe under PM Modi’s leadership and has trust in him. “’Truth is self evident! Entire world is praising PM @narendramodi, the way he is handling COVID-19 global pandemic, taking care of Indians and helping the world community in such challenging times. Every Indian is feeling safe and trusts his leadership,” Shah tweeted out. Truth is self evident!Entire world is praising PM @narendramodi, the way he is handling COVID-19 global pandemic, taking care of Indians and helping the world community in such challenging times. Every Indian is feeling safe and trusts his leadership. pic.twitter.com/caq5y8HjioCo-founder of Microsoft and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the coronavirus menace.“We commend your leadership and the proactive measures you and your government have taken to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 infection rate in India, such as adopting a national lockdown, expanding focused testing to identify hot spots for isolation, quarantining, and care, and significantly increasing health expenditures to strengthen the health system response and promote R&D and digital innovation.”Gates said he is glad that the Indian prime minister’s government tapped its exceptional digital capabilities as a formulated response to Covid-19. “I’m glad your government is fully utilising its exceptional digital capabilities in its COVID-19 response and has launched the Aarogya Setu digital app for coronavirus tracking, contact tracing, and to connect people to health services.”Earlier this month, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus lauded steps taken by PM Modi to help the poor during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.My appreciation to Prime Minister @narendramodi for announcing a $24 billion package to support 🇮🇳's vulnerable populations during #COVID19 crisis, including:-free food rations for 800M disadvantaged people-cash transfers to 204M poor women-free cooking gas for 80M households.“My appreciation to Prime Minister @narendramodi for announcing a $24 billion package to support ‘s vulnerable populations during #COVID19 crisis, including:-free food rations for 800M disadvantaged people-cash transfers to 204M poor women-free cooking gas for 80M households,” the WHO chief had tweeted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-world-is-praising-pm-modi-s-way-of-handling-covid-19-crisis-amit-shah/story-EnrUVQLXNUNkPo4VtwnljI.html
23-04-2020||India||Prisoners on parole can mark attendance via WhatsApp call or sharing location: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has come up with a unique way for the prisoners to mark their attendance at the police station during the period of emergency parole by asking them to either WhatsApp video call or send their google location to the Investigating Officer (IO) to ascertain their location.Generally, a prisoner or a convict on parole or furlough has to mark his attendance to the local police station. However, with the conditions of the lockdown, the court said that the prisoners can also use the feature of WhatsApp video call and google location.In a couple of orders passed on April 20, Justice AJ Bhambani said that the inmates can ‘drop-a-pin’ on Google maps so that the IO/SHO can verify their presence and location. The court also said that the prisoners cannot leave the city without the permission of the court.The order comes in two cases - one where a 73-year-old retired school teacher had moved the court challenging his conviction in a POCSO case for sexually assaulting a minor. In his plea, he had contended that he is old and is being treated for various ailments including hypertension, diabetes and bronchial asthma.However, appearing for the state, the additional public prosecutor opposed his bail stating that he has been sentenced to 10 years for a heinous crime and hence should not be granted any bail.Justice Bhambani, after hearing the arguments, said that “in the unprecedented circumstances of a public health emergency that prevail today and the consequent need to decongest prisons for the overall medical safety of all prisoners, this court is persuaded to grant to the appellant interim suspension of sentence for a period of three months with a list of conditions”.In a similar order, where the court was hearing an appeal by a man called Ompal, Justice Bhambani granted him interim bail. Ompal was convicted for administering intoxicating substance to other workers while he was working as the van driver that was loading money for the ATMs.He had moved the court seeking bail stating that his wife and three children have been facing problems in his absence. He contended that his wife, who works at a local school, has received no salary owing to the lockdown.The court allowed him bail at a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with similar conditions to mark his attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prisoners-on-parole-can-mark-attendance-via-whatsapp-call-or-sharing-location-delhi-hc/story-MR8N0bmS6kFywG6pnTZruK.html
23-04-2020||India||Petrol, diesel price hike temporary, says Assam minister; cites fall in monthly revenue||Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said that government’s decision to hike prices of petrol and diesel is an effort to protect the state’s revenue.“The increase in prices of petrol/diesel is an effort to cover some losses and partially protect our revenue. This is a temporary measure and there will be a roll-back once the coronavirus crisis ends,” Sarma said on Wednesday.The minister also said that due to Covid-19 lockdown, most people are unable to use their own vehicles and two-wheeler and also the owners of the other vehicles - like trucks and buses - running their automobiles in a limited way, people at large would not be affected.“Pain has to be shared by every one to overcome the crisis,” Sarma remarked.Assam earns an average of Rs 166 crores monthly as royalty from sale of oil. But due to prices coming down that figure would be less than Rs 50 crore per month, he added.The state government issued a notification on Tuesday notifying that the VAT (Value Added Tax) for diesel has been fixed at 23.66 paise in the rupee or Rs 17.45 per litre, whichever is higher, and VAT for petrol and other motor spirits at 32.66 paise in the rupee or Rs 22.63 per lire, whichever is higher.With this, the price of petrol increased from Rs 71.61 to Rs 77.46 per litre and of diesel from Rs 65.07 to Rs 70.50 per litre.The revised rates have come into effect from April 22 midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-price-hike-temporary-says-assam-minister-cites-fall-in-monthly-revenue/story-y6DmRwFisr6WfkEelLSbON.html
23-04-2020||India||From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with all||From a host of medical emergencies like the requirement of cancer and arthritis-related medicines to neighbours alerting the authorities about quarantined patients violating guidelines, the Covid-19 crisis has citizen helplines ringing off the hook, for both the government as well as the social sector.Caremongers, a crowd-sourced initiative that started off as a conversation between school friends on March 20 has received over 50,000 requests for help from across and outside the country. Sample this. Dr. Priya Khanna, who lives in New York, was in urgent need of a plasma donor. Infected by Covid-19, she was lodged at Clara Mass Medical Center on April 10. It was with the help of Caremongers that Priya was able to find a donor within less than a week. “We have been receiving several requests for all kinds of issues,” said Mahita Nagraj, a digital marketing professional and founder of the Caremongers. “We try and connect people across the world so that help can provided as soon as possible.” The group now comprises of over 36,500 volunteers attempting their bit to help in ease the woes of the coronavirus outbreak. They have delivered groceries, medicines and connected others in need of assistance for obtaining a particular blood type.“In Mumbai, a large part of the problems are facing are medical issues,” said Keith Menon, a volunteer and architect based in Mumbai. “From cancer medication to hydroxychloroquine to help ease rheumatoid arthritis to people needing to reach hospitals, we are working overtime.” “We are also helping the vulnerable groups living in chawls (slums) and migrants obtain ration,” he added. The government, which launched a combined Covid-19 public grievance portal under the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, has received a total of 51,989 complaints as of Wednesday. Of these, nearly 25,000 complaints across ministries have been disposed off in a period of 1.57 days. “There have been many supply related complaints,” a government source familiar with the matter. “Chemists and medicine stores not being open and stores inflating prices of essential goods have come to our notice.” Among the quarantine-related incidents, there have been neighbours who have complained that those under home-quarantine are violating the terms of their isolation. “Then, of course, there’s police harassment and families not knowing where the officials took their relatives because they suspected that they were Covid-19 positive.”There have also been many cases of husbands trying to reach their pregnant wives who had just delivered a child. There have also been a host of migrant labour related issues (3457), salary and employment related issues (3427) and evacuation related issues (3033) that have been reported to the government. “A family from Chandigarh is stranded in Dubai as they would visit the city often,” said the above mentioned source. “They have asked to be evacuated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizen-helpline-deals-with-all-from-medical-emergencies-to-violation-of-lockdown-guidelines/story-fS0hZvCl52s9ijISrbbBJM.html
23-04-2020||India||Arnab Goswami attack case: Sad to see public hounding of a journalist, BJP chief Nadda takes on Congress||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has said that public hounding of a journalist like Arnab Goswami is sad.“Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech,” Nadda said on Twitter. Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech.His comments came after a police complaint was filed by Goswami claiming his car was attacked past midnight on Wednesday in Mumbai by two unknown people.In his police complaint, the Republic TV chief said that the attack took place around 12:15 am. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.Goswami’s wife was also present in the car when the incident took place. Both of them escaped unhurt.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.On Wednesday, Congress leaders had complained against Goswami accusing him of attempting to communalise the death of three persons in Maharashtra’s Palghar. Congress leader Nitin Raut also lodged a complaint against him in Nagpur on Wednesday. “It is an attempt to give religious colour to the incident by the media. Goswami is one of them. We have decided to request the CM to take action against him,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-attack-case-sad-to-see-public-hounding-of-a-journalist-bjp-chief-nadda-takes-on-congress/story-uieDOmw1sQczGJ7W8p68MM.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Govt acted on our Covid-19 suggestions in miserly way’: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said that the suggestions she gave to the government on tackling Covid-19 crisis, were only acted upon partially. At a meeting of party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee, Gandhi said that “large-heartedness and alacrity from the Central Government is conspicuous by its absence”.“Since our meeting three weeks ago, the pandemic has increased disturbingly - both in spread and speed,” the Congress president said in her opening remarks.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “I offered our constructive cooperation and suggestions. Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity from the central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she added.She also said that certain sections of the society, like farm labourers, migrant labourers, construction workers and those in unorganised sector, are facing acute hardships. “Trade, commerce and industry have come to a virtual halt and crores of livelihoods have been destroyed.”“We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, trace and quarantine. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE kits number and quality is poor,” she said.Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who was also a part of the meeting, said, “Success of lockdown is to be judged finally on our ability to tackle Covid-19. Cooperation between the Centre and states is key to the success of our fight against Covid-19.The Congress president has written a series of letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on different issues related to the coronavirus pandemic since March 23.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In her letters, she has welcomed PM Modi’s decision to provide free 5 kg ration to a person in addition to the entitlements under the National Food Security Act from April to June, and offered suggestions to help counter the adverse impact of the lockdown on the livelihoods of the people.She has also formed a consultative group of the Congress party, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, to deliberate on current matters related to the coronavirus outbreak and formulate the party’s views on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-acted-on-our-covid-19-suggestions-in-miserly-way-sonia-gandhi/story-ymbD5drk5K5rk9JYHMpSML.html
23-04-2020||India||Over 30 Covid-19 suspects go missing in Delhi, search underway: Report||Over 35 coronavirus suspects, who had been quarantined at two different facilities in Delhi, went missing in suspicious circumstances, HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported. District police of Delhi’s neighbouring states have been alerted while a search operation is underway. The Delhi Police have also formed several teams to look for the missing suspects. According to Delhi Police sources, the incidents took place at Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar and Azadpur Colony in Model Town.On April 15, more than 100 coronavirus suspects were admitted at a centre in Azadpur Colony of Model Town. Around Tuesday, night it was reported that three to four people disappeared from there. The complaint was lodged with the police on behalf of the centre in-charge as soon as the matter was detected.The second incident was reported from a centre in Mukherjee Nagar area. Around 125 people were admitted to the quarantine centre here around April 16. From here, more than 30 Covid-19 suspects were reported missing under mysterious circumstances sometime on Monday night. The incident was also reported to the concerned police station by the centre in-charge.According to Delhi Police sources, some Nepali origin suspects have also been reported to be among the missing Covid-19 suspects. All are being looked for. An investigation is also being done to find out the cause behind their escape. It is reported that no person from the respective quarantine centres helped these suspects in escaping.2248 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 48 people have died from the infection while 724 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-covid-19-suspects-go-missing-in-delhi-search-underway-report/story-4jEkJtsdBpqjnCZnDjSBvI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Was attacked while returning home’: Arnab Goswami files police complaint||Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and his wife were attacked past midnight on Wednesday in Mumbai by two unknown people while they were driving home from their studios, a complaint filed by the television journalist said.Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.The Republic TV chief has filed a police complaint in which he said that the attack took place around 12:15 am. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.He also said that the attackers were apprehended by Mumbai Police protection team.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.On Wednesday, Congress leaders had complained against Goswami accusing him of attempting to communalise the death of three persons in Maharashtra’s Palghar. Congress leader Nitin Raut also lodged a complaint against him in Nagpur on Wednesday. “It is an attempt to give religious colour to the incident by the media. Goswami is one of them. We have decided to request the CM to take action against him,” said Raut.An FIR was registered against him in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur after several complaints by Congress workers.Union minister Prakash Javadekar condemned the attempt to attack Goswami. “This is against democracy and it is really ironical that those who preach tolerance have become so intolerant. Therefore we condemn this attempt,” said Javadekar.He also called for action on the complaint.BJP president JP Nadda said it was shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress chief ministers “publicly threatened him”.“Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-tv-chief-arnab-goswami-claims-he-was-attacked-while-coming-home-from-office/story-GOMwnfVNS0nGXqxIuYs7JL.html
23-04-2020||India||After proxy war in Kashmir, Pak launches cyber war against India and PM Modi||Indian security agencies have linked the spurt in social media messages targeting India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to a coordinated effort that has the “imprint” of Pakistani intelligence.According to an assessment handed to the government on Wednesday, the effort was designed to flood social media with messages to fuel anti-India sentiment, particularly in the Gulf countries, “by spreading false propaganda on Islamophobia in India”.The Pakistani deep state, the report said, was attempting to bring a schism between India and close allies in the Gulf by attacking PM Modi who has invested heavily to deepen India’s ties with the Middle-East.The assessment by North Block includes a long list of troll handles based in Pakistan and in the Gulf countries that were being used to achieve this objective.Also Read: From a Twitter handle, the story of Pakistan’s new terror group for KashmirThe spike in social media messages targeting New Delhi isn’t a first.Security officials had noticed a similar pattern last year when Jammu and Kashmir was placed under a communication lockdown last August, hours before Parliament took up legislation to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status under the Constitution.On social media and otherwise, Pakistan had made a concerted effort to embarrass India over nullification of Article 370 but didn’t get far, a government official said. Also Watch | Covid-19 | Ayurvedic drug trial; Pak PM test result; Amarnath yatra: 10 updatesThere was, as reported by Hindustan Times, also evidence how new terror groups funded by the Pakistani deep state first made their presence felt on social media even before it launched the first attack in Srinagar. All when the Internet was still banned in Kashmir.“What has been the novelty in the instant case is the use of prominent personalities in Gulf countries to scale up a systematic agenda of fake propaganda … This effort has clear imprints of the involvement of Pakistan ISI,” a top government official told Hindustan Times, citing the analysis of tweets that targeted New Delhi.On Tuesday, the hashtag that was powered by entities in Pakistan was “ShameOnModi”. A day earlier, the hashtag was “ChaosInIndia”.The campaign that targeted PM Modi was driven by systematically engineering circulation of video clips of isolated incidents of attacks or harassment of Muslim individuals in India to project as if the entire community was under attack.The assessment classifies the Twitter handles into four categories: among the hundreds analysed by security agencies, the report classifies aggregators, feeders, spreaders and influencers.Twitter handles classified as feeders collect the videos from aggregators, devise the appropriate messaging for the videos or photographs and then forward it to the spreaders. Officials said it was not a coincidence that the Twitter handles of most of these feeders were created recently - between January and April - and indicated there was a clear plan and organised effort to target New Delhi.Many of the handles classified as spreaders are based in Pakistan as well.Like the handle that has the picture of a 20-something. She (it could well be a male) had started her day on Twitter this Tuesday with a few posts remembering Iqbal, the pre-eminent poet revered on both sides of the border. Then, she got down to work. By the end of the day, she had posted 200-plus tweets and retweets; an average of one every three minutes with the same hashtag.The report listed scores of Twitter handles, each echoing tweets posted by the others, and using graphic images and videos - many of them several years old - to provoke outrage.This time, however, the report said, there were also spreaders located in different countries of Gulf Cooperation Countries: Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. These are all old but unverified Twitter handles, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-proxy-war-in-kashmir-pak-launches-cyber-war-against-india-and-pm-modi/story-81Ic2r5lwATXUKWyGiRAYI.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid, a mother Earth’s lesson to human beings in universal responsibility: Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama on Wednesday compared the ongoing global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic with a “lesson in universal responsibility” being taught to human beings by the mother Earth and stressed upon the need to realise the importance of sustainable development. “On this 50th anniversary of Earth Day, our planet is facing one of the greatest challenges to the health and well-being of its people,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “And yet, in the midst of this struggle, we are reminded of the value of compassion and mutual support.” “The current global pandemic threatens us all, without distinctions of race, culture or gender, and our response must be as one humanity, providing for the most essential needs of all,” he said.Drawing upon the Indian culture of treating the entire world as one big family – the Vasudahiav Kutumbkam, the Dalai Lama said, “Whether we like it or not, we have been born on this earth as part of one great family.” “Rich or poor, educated or uneducated, belonging to one nation or another, ultimately each of us is just a human being like everyone else,” he said. “Furthermore, we all have the same right to pursue happiness and avoid suffering. When we recognize that all beings are equal in this respect, we automatically feel empathy and closeness towards others,” he said. “And, out of this comes a genuine sense of universal responsibility: the wish to actively help others overcome their problems,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “Our mother earth is teaching us a lesson in universal responsibility.” “This blue planet is a delightful habitat. Its life is our life; its future, our future. Indeed, the earth acts like a mother to us all; as her children, we are dependent on her,” he said, adding “In the face of the global problems we are going through it is important that we must all work together.Stressing upon the need to realise the criticality of sustainable development, he said, “I came to appreciate the importance of environmental concern only after escaping from Tibet in 1959, where we always considered the environment to be pure.” “Whenever we saw a stream of water, for instance, there was no worry about whether it was safe to drink. Sadly, the mere availability of clean drinking water is a major problem throughout the world today,” he pointed out. “We must ensure that the sick and the valiant health-care providers throughout the world have access to the fundamental necessities of clean water and proper sanitation to prevent the uncontrolled spread of disease. Hygiene is one of the bases of effective health care,” he added.“Sustainable access to properly equipped and staffed health-care facilities will help us meet the challenges of the current pandemic that ravages our planet,” he said. The Dalia Lama, however, saw the present global adversity as an opportunity. “It will also offer one of the strongest defences against future public health crises. I understand that these are precisely the objectives set forth in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that address challenges to global health,” he said. “As we face this crisis together, it is imperative that we act in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation in order to provide for the pressing needs, particularly of our less fortunate brothers and sisters around the world,” he said. “I hope and pray that in the days ahead, each of us will do all we can to create a happier and healthier world,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-a-mother-earth-s-lesson-to-human-beings-in-universal-responsibility-dalai-lama/story-1dUj8uQv21PoL7EcrwaQYP.html
23-04-2020||India||Over 30% of patients recover in Delhi, Maharashtra near 6000 cases: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark on Thursday. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country has jumped to 21,393. The figure includes 16,454 active cases, 4,257 patients who have been cured or discharged and 681 fatalities. Gujarat has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases which now near the 2,500-mark. In Maharashtra, cases inch toward the 6,000-mark. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Delhi has more than 2000 coronavirus cases. 724 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection in the national capital which is more than 30% of the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi and second highest in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 5652 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 269 deaths so far while 789 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 2407 coronavirus cases and 179 recoveries so far. 103 people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2248 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 48 people have died from the infection while 724 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1890 on Thursday. The state has reported 27 fatalities, and 230 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1629 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 635 recoveries and 18 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1592 positive cases of coronavirus. 80 people have died from Covid-19 here while 148 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh1449 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 173 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 21 have died from the infection here.Telangana945 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 194 people have made a recovery from the virus while 23 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 813 positive Covid-19 patients and 120 cases of recovery. 24 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 438 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 323 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 427 Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths. 131 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 407. 5 people have died from the infection while 92 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 262 and 251 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 140 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 49 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 456 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 15 deaths and 79 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 83 Covid-19 positive patients, 32 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 143 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 46 coronavirus patients, 23 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 27 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 14 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 18 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 26 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 18 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 49 Covid-19 cases, 3 patients have died and 8 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the ninth day of the extended lockdown phase on Thursday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-of-patients-recover-in-delhi-maharashtra-near-6000-cases-coid-19-state-tally/story-uSMV2fAFSUAPfFGTcMIRhL.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 casesThe ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters. Read moreTripura villagers clash with Mizoram police, security beefed up at inter-state borderAfter a clash between few villagers and Mizoram Police along the Tripura-Mizoram border, the Tripura Police has tightened security and deployed large contingents of TSR jawans to avert any further tension. Read more States request use of ESI fund for wages amid Covid-19 lockdownA clutch of industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown. Read moreAfter success in Tamil Nadu, government to roll out telesurvey to identify Covid-19 hotspotsAfter a successful pilot in Tamil Nadu, the government has started a pan-India telesurvey to reach out to people without smartphones to conduct a Covid-related search. Calls will be placed from the phone number ‘1921’ asking people questions about symptoms of the disease. Read more Thick blood clots in kidneys, lungs and brains of Covid-19 patients scare doctorsAs the novel coronavirus spread through New York City in late March, doctors at Mount Sinai Hospital noticed something strange happening to patients’ blood. Signs of blood thickening and clotting were being detected in different organs by doctors from different specialties. Read more World Book and Copyright Day 2020: History, significance, theme and quotes by famous authorsWorld Book Day, celebrated by UNESCO and other related organisations, is the global celebration of books and reading material observed in more than 100 countries. Read moreManoj Bajpayee’s Aligarh paved the way for Ayushmann Khurrana’s Shubh Mangal Zyaada Saavdhan; it deserves a reappraisalBefore there was Moonlight there was Aligarh. But unlike that film, which won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 2017 and made $65 million worldwide, Aligarh came and went largely unnoticed by the star-crazy Hindi film industry, not even a juicy controversy enough to attract audience interest in its same-sex love story. Read moreOn this day: Chris Gayle scripted history, blew away Pune Warriors IndiaThe Indian Premier League (IPL) has seen a number of brilliant knocks over the years but none of them were as explosive as Chris Gayle’s unbeaten 175 against Pune Warriors in 2013. The destructive innings from the West Indies opener remains the highest score in the tournament’s history and it was also the fastest T20 hundred at that point. Read moreWatch| ‘Virus with us for a long time’: WHO warns against complacency in Covid battle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-3-cities-account-for-one-third-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tNGlb4AoGLJbBVJSjzoBpJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases breach 21,000-mark in India, fatalities at 681||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients reached 21,393 on Thursday and fatalities rose to 681, according to Union health ministry data.India now has 16,454 active cases and the number of people who have been cured stands at 4,257 the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8 am.Maharashtra reported 6,710 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 789 discharged patients and 269 deaths. Gujarat has now become the second-worst hit state with 2,407 active cases and Delhi follows with 2,248 infections.The government on Wednesday promulgated an ordinance to make attacks on health care workers non-bailable with maximum punishment of seven years in jail and Rs 5 lakh fine. The ordinance received President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent later in the day.The Union Health Ministry also advised chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories to adopt adequate measures in ensuring the safety of health workers involved in Covid-19 services.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) called off its proposed ‘white alert’ and ‘black day’ protests scheduled for April 22 and 23 following a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah through video conference on Wednesday. The doctors’ body has been demanding that the Centre bring a law to protect healthcare workers from rising attacks at a time when they are battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-breach-21-000-mark-in-india-fatalities-at-681/story-ktmJdQNWX1mDndyZgEVGdM.html
23-04-2020||India||Tripura villagers clash with Mizoram police, security tightened at inter-state border||After a clash between few villagers and Mizoram Police along the Tripura-Mizoram border, the Tripura Police has tightened security and deployed large contingents of TSR jawans to avert any further tension.While the police declined to name the cause of the clash, the matter is under investigation.Two FIRs have been lodged on both sides of the inter-state boundary on the issue so far. Tripura Police arrested three villagers in connection with the case; they were later released by a local court.“An FIR was lodged at West Phaileng police station in Mizoram, claiming that two Mizoram police personnel were assaulted by some locals of Kanpui village on April 18. The village falls inside Tripura. We arrested three persons the subsequent day. One of them fled during a routine medical check-up in hospital. The rest two were released on bail after they were forwarded in the court on April 20,” said superintendent of police of North district Bhanupada Chakraborty. The third accused is still absconding.Kanpui village, located in Jampui Hills is around 200 kilometres from Agartala. It falls within Tripura’s North district. An abandoned house was burnt on April 20 night by some unknown miscreants. The officials said that no untoward incident has occurred so far, as security has been tightened along the inter-state boundary. “The situation is under control. No clash has been reported,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-villagers-clash-with-mizoram-police-security-beefed-up-at-inter-state-border/story-oreGdCSP4UOTyZ8qQVyRGL.html
23-04-2020||India||Doctors get legal shield, reports on casualties spark concerns: Covid-19 news today||In the backdrop of persistent attacks on healthcare workers who are at the front line of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has approved an ordinance to make such attacks cognisable and a non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and also impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. Meanwhile, reports by the New York Times and the Financial Times that analysed cumulative mortality figures have triggered fresh concerns, claiming there may be tens of thousands of more deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic around the world than the toll numbers which are currently established.Covid warriors get bigger legal shieldIn the backdrop of persistent attacks on health care workers in the front line of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Centre has approved an ordinance to make such attacks a cognisable and non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. Read more Covid-19: All eyes on stimulus packageA key economic advisory council of the Union government will meet this week to brainstorm the public spending needed to revive the economy amid mounting demands for a fiscal stimulus. Read more Excruciating hours, bad PPE doctors’ key issuesDoctors and nurses at some of the main coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals have said that they continue to work with substandard protective gear, lack access to proper meals, and have to pull in long, gruelling shifts, giving details of how those at the front lines of the pandemic remain vulnerable – from the disease as well as contagion-wary citizens. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe US was set to temporarily stop the issuance of green cards (initially for 60 days, according to US President Donald Trump) but will not institute an immigration ban, as Trump had initially threatened. Read moreCurbs on movement needed as travel hubs become Covid-19 hotspotsThe 170 districts that the government identified last week as Covid-19 hotspots are home to seven in 10 people who migrate between states for reasons other than marriage, and nine in 10 of all domestic air passengers embark on their journeys from airports in these places, a Hindustan Times analysis showed, highlighting how containing these areas may be critical to India’s fight against the deadly pathogen. Read more Rapid testing on hold, govt plans to scale up PCR testsIndia is working on testing up to 50,000 people a day by the end of the month -- using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test -- as the country approaches the May 3 deadline for the end of the ongoing lockdown, resulting in a potential increase in infections. Read more This is a battle between life and livelihood, says union ministerThe national lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 has left thousands of workers jobless, and forced many of them to leave big cities for their homes. Union minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge) Santosh Kumar Gangwar tells Smriti Kak Ramachandran in an interview about how the states and the Centre are coordinating to ensure the workers are paid and their interests are looked after. Read morePM Modi will meet CMs on April 27 to discuss post-lockdown plansThe meeting, officials indicated, is likely to review the set of relaxations of the federal lockdown allowed from April 20 and discuss the future roadmap that includes longer locking period for red or containment zones, as identified by the government. Read moreCivil aviation ministry HQ to be sealed as worker tests +veThe ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh, is to be sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, becoming the first staffer at a central ministry to be confirmed as a Covid-19 carrier. Read more 3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 casesThe ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters. Read moreCovid deaths could be much higher than known: ReportsThere may be tens of thousands of more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic around the world than currently established, according to reports by the New York Times and the Financial Times that analysed cumulative mortality figures. Read moreNo mutation in important sites of virus, effective vaccine is possible: Dr Soumya SwaminathanIndia cannot depend on rapid antibody tests of unproven quality for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis and molecular tests remain the gold standard, says Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based World Health Organisation (WHO) who is leading the global partnerships on scientific research on a vaccine and drug therapies for the infection. In a phone interview, Swaminathan said India, for now, is doing enough testing, but will have to scale it up as the numbers rise. Read more Four cases to 900 in 20 days: What went wrong in IndoreA government team is investigating what the city administration of Indore did wrong to lead to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases jumping from 4 on March 24 to 900 in 20 days. Read more Pandemic protocols as elite athletes plan training returnIndia’s elite athletes are eyeing a return to training after more than a month of staying at home, but under restrictive new pandemic protocols. Read moreMamata slams Centre over ‘faulty’ Covid-19 testing kitsWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the federal government was trying to malign the state and that “canards” were being spread about the state’s testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-get-legal-shield-reports-on-casualties-spark-concerns-covid-19-news-today/story-z00t2VgwI7o01aswwDoViO.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: President Ram Nath Kovind’s nod to promulgate ordinance to punish those attacking healthcare staff||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday gave assent to an ordinance brought in by the Narendra Modi government to make attacks on health care professionals a cognisable and non-bailable offence, turning it into a law.The new law will also provides for expediting investigation, imprisoning those convicted to up to seven years, and imposing stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Underlining its importance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted on Wednesday, “The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals.” He also underlined that there could be “no compromise” on their safety.The government’s decision, following a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, came in the wake of assurances of safety given by home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan to representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The IMA subsequently cancelled protests scheduled on Wednesday and Thursday.Later on Thursday, the home ministry also sent an advisory to all state governments to ensure adequate security to all health care workers, and take strict action against any individual obstructing their functioning of, and the performance of the last rites of these workers.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe new law has amended the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and comes after a spate of incidents in which doctors and paramedical workers, engaged in testing suspected Covid-19 cases for confirmation, or treating patients, were assaulted and their vehicles damaged by people who feared catching the infection or stigmatised and ostracised health care workers for their proximity to confirmed or suspected cases.The government, Opposition, and civil society have repeatedly called for honouring these professionals workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-nod-to-promulgate-ordinance-to-punish-those-attacking-healthcare-staff/story-f0HaDIpTxRD0mqOYJVIEaM.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: First Lady Savita Kovind stitches face masks for shelter homes in Delhi||First Lady Savita Kovind on Wednesday stitched face masks at Shakti Haat in the President’s Estate as part of the fight against Covid-19.These masks will be distributed at various shelter homes of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board. The First Lady was seen covering her face with a red colour cloth mask.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBy stitching masks, the First Lady has given a message that everyone can fight the Covid-19 pandemic together.Health experts have recommended that people should maintain social distancing and other preventive measures in addition to wearing face coverings.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The masks, which are commonly in use since to contain corona spread, are cloth masks, three-layered surgical masks and N95 respirator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-first-lady-savita-kovind-stitches-face-masks-for-shelter-homes-in-delhi/story-DM6wcvp7Htdrlj3tp8xQuN.html
23-04-2020||India||73 cops quarantined after 5 Moradabad violence accused test positive for Covid-19||As many as 73 police personnel who came in contact with those arrested in connection with the Nawabpura stone-pelting incident here last week were quarantined on Wednesday after five of the accused tested positive for coronavirus, a police official said.The five accused are among the 17 who were arrested after a mob attacked a team of health workers in Nawabpura area here on April 15 to prevent it from taking a coronavirus-infected man to an isolation facility.Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak said samples of all 73 police personnel, who have been quarantined at different centres here, have been sent for testing.“We have enough staff at Nagphani police station to tackle the situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73-cops-quarantined-after-5-moradabad-violence-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-LCVf7fTLVH3DXuSMAXJTEK.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US was set to temporarily stop the issuance of green cards (initially for 60 days, according to US President Donald Trump) but will not institute an immigration ban, as Trump had initially threatened.An anti-immigration and anti-immigrant stance was at the heart of Trump’s successful 2016 presidential campaign, and with elections due this year in the US, his motivations are clear.Trump couched his moves as an effort to prevent Americans losing jobs to foreigners, but the fact is, businesses roiled by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdowns it has necessitated — in the absence of a cure, this seems to be the only way — are merely laying off people, not replacing American workers with foreign ones.The US President touted the malaria drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a wonder cure but several studies and opinions from experts (including one on Tuesday from a panel of US experts asked to weigh in by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, headed by Dr Anthony Fauci) have recommended against its use. In India, too, the Indian Council of Medical Research said a clinical trial to judge the efficacy of the wonder drug doesn’t make sense simply because there isn’t any evidence that HCQ is a good prophylaxis.Isolation, quarantines, and lockdowns seem to be the best prophylaxis at this point in time, although the economic consequences are something governments will have to live with — and address by announcing relief and stimulus packages. India has announced a relief package aimed at the most vulnerable, and its central bank has infused liquidity into the system and ensured that too many loans won’t go bad, but the government is yet to announce a package, although there are reports that one was discussed during a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs at the Prime Minister’s residence on Wednesday.The current lockdown in India lasts till May 3, though there has been some opening up in terms of business activities — especially in areas with not too many cases of Covid-19.Last week, an analysis by Hindustan Times found that the 170 districts classified as red zones by the health ministry are also important centres of commercial activity. Another analysis has found that 90% of India’s air travellers start their journeys from an airport located in a red zone. Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad Chennai, Pune and Ahmedabad are all in the red zone (if not entirely, then at least significant parts of the cities are).There have been reports including one in this newspaper, that interstate air travel may not be opened up immediately after May 3, even if there is no further extension of the lockdown. This data explains why it’s a bad idea to open up air travel when the pandemic is still raging through some cities (Mumbai and Ahmedabad, especially, have seen a rapid increase in cases over the past few days). Another city that has seen the number of cases soar is Indore, which, not too long ago, was winning awards for being India’s cleanest city. Interestingly, the primary reason seems to be a violation of the lockdown.That the fight against Covid-19 isn’t easily won is evident in the experience of Agra — whose initial efforts at fighting the disease’s spread were so successful that they gave birth to a so-called Agra model. On Wednesday, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city of the Taj crossed 300 . It is equally evident in the case of Kerala: 19 cases were recorded on Tuesday, after only 2 and 6 were reported on Sunday and Monday respectively. The state, which currently tests around 624 people per million of its population, plans to start community testing and strictly enforce the lockdown.It’s almost become a cliché now, but the only things that work seem to be widespread testing, and staying in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-OQT1iPpaK0aWEKHEdBK6hI.html
23-04-2020||India||States request use of ESI fund for wages amid Covid-19 lockdown||A clutch of industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown.According to an official aware of the details, these industries, mostly in the micro, small and medium sector, have pointed out that the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is an extraordinary situation, and employers are facing difficulties in paying wages even as their establishments are shut, affecting their revenue generation.Among the states that have raised the issue of allowing ESIC funds for the payment of wages are Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. According to the functionary aware of details, the states and the industry bodies have pointed out that they should be given some sort of financial aid to be able to adhere to the union home ministry’s advisory issued on March 29, to ensure that wages are paid in full and on time during the lockdown, now extended till May 3.In a representation to the ministry, Himachal Pradesh has, for instance, said many sectors, including the industrial sector, have expressed difficulty in complying with the order of the government to pay wages during the lockdown. “Most of them are MSMEs with limited financial ability to sustain prolonged closure and still meet their obligations towards their employees. It may also jeopardise the industrial growth and productivity in the state. I would, therefore, like to make a special request to you to please directions to the ESIC to bring in proposed changes to providing unemployment benefits like release of financial assistance to the workers registered with the employees State insurance Corporation for the lock down period [sic],” the letter written by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reads.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had, on April 10, written to Santosh Gangwar, minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge), suggesting the utilisation of ESIC, MGNREGA and other such funds by the Centre to provide part of the wages or lump sum financial assistance to industrial workers during the lockdown.He insisted that the industrial sector in Punjab, which largely comprises MSMEs, was already under a lot of stress and stretched for resources, and hence it would be impossible for them to implement the union home ministry’s March 29 directions that all employers pay wages to their workers on the due date without deduction.A functionary of the ministry said no decision on the issue has been taken so far.The ESI is a self-financing health insurance scheme for workers in the formal sector and offers compensation in the form of cash up to three months of unemployment. The social security scheme offers full medical care to the insured person and his or her family with no ceiling on expenditure on the treatment. It offers benefits during sickness, maternity and disability. It also offers unemployment allowance under the Rajiv Gandhi Shramik Kalyan Yojana to those rendered unemployed because of the closure of a factory/establishment, retrenchment or permanent invalidity; equal to 50% of wage for a maximum period of up to two years. And under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, the ESIC offers cash compensation up to 90 days, once in a lifetime, to be claimed after three months during one or more spells of unemployment with certain preconditions.CK Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, however, said the ministry should not consider the demand to divert funds from the ESI: “It is a bad move, the funds are created from the sweat and toil of workers and it is for their health and other benefits. The funds cannot be diverted for wages as it is bound by an act, and without the consultation of the ESIC board it be ultra vires [sic],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-request-use-of-esi-fund-for-wages-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-sfF03g4V0RSggIPEViJoCP.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown stops India in its tracks||On April 16, the national carrier Indian Railways marked its 167th anniversary with no passenger trains plying on its network for the first time in its history. It has been a nearly month since the suspension of public transport in the country, including air, rail and bus services after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown beginning March 25. The lockdown was extended on April 15 to curb the spread of the coronavirus, which has infected over 20,000 people in India alone. Studies have shown that public transport poses a major threat in the spread of the global pandemic.“There were good reasons to extend the lockdown till May 3. I understand the problems being faced by people who need to travel and request them to bear with us,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri had said when the lockdown was extended in mid-April. During the lockdown, the Indian Railways that operated on a mammoth network ferrying 23 million passengers across 13,000 trains has only operated freight trains to supply essential commodities. “The day the railways doesn’t operate it seems like the world has come to a standstill. Even so...more than 800,000 wagons have been deployed across the country since the lockdown operating on just one third of our staff strength,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.No passenger has stepped foot inside the New Delhi Railway station, which handles roughly 500,000 passengers a day. The Indira Gandhi International Airport in the national Capital, which is the twelfth busiest in the word catering to roughly 69 million passengers annually, now only caters to cargo planes and aircraft ferrying foreigners seeking evacuation. Bus terminals such as Anand Vihar and Kashmere Gate would, in non Covid times cater to between 50,000 and 100,000 passengers every day. All interstate terminals are now empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-stops-india-in-its-tracks/story-CqpsoLeYv5QLrqs3G5NNqM.html
23-04-2020||India||3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 cases||The ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters.A separate analysis based on HT’s own data showed that one in every three cases reported in the country has come from three cities – Mumbai, Delhi or Ahmedabad. To be sure, the data released by the ministry accounts for only 18,330 cases. According to HT’s dashboard, which is based on data from the Covid19india.org tracker and state health departments, there were 20,004 cases as of Tuesday night. According to the ministry’s data, 12 districts across eight states – Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Pune, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Thane, Surat, Chennai, Bhopal, Agra and Jodhpur – account for 50.8% of all 17,250 Covid-19 positive cases for which district is known. The remaining 1,080 cases are people who have been found positive from Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in Delhi. They have not been classified into any specific district. According to this data, the pandemic has now spread to 58.3% of the country’s 731 districts. There are 222 districts with up to 10 cases, 66 districts with 11-20 cases, 42 districts with 21-30 cases, and 96 districts with more than 30 cases.Interestingly, the concentration of cases in Delhi does not show up in this data as the national capital is not a separate district in itself like other high-caseload cities such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore and Pune are. Delhi, due to its complex nature of being the capital, is divided into 11 revenue districts. Three of these districts – Central Delhi with 184 cases, South East Delhi with 130 cases and West Delhi with 122 cases – feature in the 25 worst-hit districts in the country.In a separate analysis based on HT’s dashboard on Tuesday , Delhi, which was broken down in the ministry data into separate districts, reported 2,272 cases and stands only behind Mumbai (3,451 cases) as the worst-hit city in the country. Ahmedabad came in on the third spot with 1,378 cases. This also meant that 35.5% of all patients in the country can be traced to just these three cities.Only eight cities account for more than half (51.3%) cases in the entire country, highlighting the urban spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-cities-account-for-one-third-cases/story-0bLHYRODsG1bGXHzPLDgJM.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala records a spike after downward trend||Kerala witnessed spike in Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row with 11 people testing positive on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases to 127, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.After reporting cases in single digits and higher number of recoveries for some days, Kerala recorded a spurt on Tuesday with 19 people testing positive and 11 on Wednesday.Seven out of the 11 new cases were from Kannur District, which has emerged as the latest hotspot for the disease accounting for state’s 61 cases.One new case each was detected from Malappuram and Kottayam, a Green Zone, the chief minister said.“With the 11 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 affected persons in the state has gone up to 426. A total of 29,150 people are under observation in the state with 346 in isolation wards at various hospitals,” Vijayan said.“On Monday, people came out in large numbers thinking lockdown norms were eased. It is not like that, we have to be careful. Sudden spurt in cases shows it,” said the CM.In Pathanamthitta, a person was tested positive on Tuesday after 36 days of observation. “It is really a worrying point. We have asked our experts to study such cases,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-a-spike-after-downward-trend/story-0BcWUHU3QV2zr5OD72DpVI.html
23-04-2020||India||Popular Odia comedian takes to selling vegetables to support kin amid lockdown||On most days, life is a struggle for 39-year-old Ravi Kumar. A mimicry artist who often does comic roles in Odia films, Ravi Kumar or Black Ravi as he is known among his peers for his dark complexion, does everything --- painting trucks, walls, doing stage shows - to feed his 11-member family including elderly parents.Last month, soon after the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic was announced, Ravi added another skill set to his repertoire. He turned a vegetable vendor hawking fresh vegetables by the roadside in Bhubaneswar and then selling the same door-to-door on his cycle.What sets Ravi and other vegetable vendors apart is the way he sells his vegetables using his mimicry skills. “I sell brinjal, bitter gourd, pumpkin, tomato and parwal while mimicking Bollywood actors Nana Patekar, Amitabh Bachchan, Dharmendra and Odia comedian Jayee. That draws a lot of people,” he said. As the coronavirus pandemic turned life upside down for crores of Indians, people like Ravi who earn their livelihood through their creative skills have been forced to look for alternative careers.“I could not just wait for the lockdown to get over to start earning. When the lockdown was announced I was shooting for an Odia movie called Bali. I also used to do wall-painting and paint trucks. As there was no opportunity to do the same during the lockdown, I took to vending vegetables in Samantarapur area of Bhubaneswar,” Ravi, whose unique mimicry has earned him a huge fan following, said.The popular comedian who has acted in more than 30 Odia films, 10 daily soaps and several video albums, said he was offered money by people to do wall painting, but refused as it would have amounted to violating the lockdown. “But I have a large family to feed. Apart from my two daughters, I have to look after 4 children of my deceased brother and sister-in-law and a younger brother. So I took to vending of vegetables as it is allowed during lockdown,” Kumar elaborated.Every morning, Kumar puts up the vegetable stall by the roadside till 10 am when the sun’s rays start hurting. He then takes the leftover vegetables on a cycle and hawks door-to-door till everything is sold. In the evening, he sells mushrooms and raw and boiled eggs by the roadside. With the money that he earns, he also supports a widow near his house.The comedian said he is also urging other people in his locality to take up vegetable vending as an alternative profession to run their family during lockdown. Another popular comedian Pragyan Khatua, who does a comedy show on an Odia TV channel, said Ravi is a person who would not beg before anyone. “His mimicry and anchoring skills are unmatched. He has seen difficult days and knows the value of living with dignity,” said Pragyan.The lockdown while affecting the income of comedians like Ravi has dealt a huge blow to the Odia film industry, already plagued by allegations of churning out sub-standard movies. The Utkal Cine Chamber of Commerce, a body of filmmakers and producers said the lockdown would hit the industry’s plans of releasing movies during the Raja festival. “We release much of our movies during Raja festival in June. Now shooting has stopped affecting the livelihood of 1,000 technicians, 800 producers and distributors, 140 cinema hall owners and 1,600 cinema hall staffers in Odisha. Once the lockdown is lifted, we are not sure how many people would come to cinema halls,” Dilip Mishra, chairman of the body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-odia-comedian-takes-to-selling-vegetables-to-support-kin-amid-lockdown/story-S0uP2tJBEb8kCP7EXtJKNM.html
23-04-2020||India||Odisha journalist taking sick son to hospital assaulted by cop for flouting lockdown||A journalist of an Odia newspaper in mineral-rich Keonjhar district was on Wednesday allegedly beaten up by a police sub-inspector while he was taking his ailing child to a hospital.Subrat Kumar Swain, correspondent with Odia daily Sambad, was heading towards the Keonjhar district headquarters hospital in his car with his 4-year-old son when sub-inspector Ashutosh Mohanty stopped him and allegedly hit him with his baton. Swain said he told the sub-inspector that he was going to hospital to consult a doctor as his son was feverish since the previous night.“Although I had the necessary lockdown pass and showed my identity card, the police officer misbehaved with me and beat me,” alleged Swain. Following this, the journalists in Keonjhar surrounded the police station demanding action against the cop.Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra said he has asked the additional SP to inquire into the matter. Till the probe into the matter is over, the sub-inspector will not be deployed on road patrolling duty, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-journalist-taking-sick-son-to-hospital-assaulted-by-cop-for-flouting-lockdown/story-85O55zHwPDCdsbqWFtO1GK.html
23-04-2020||India||Excruciating hours, bad PPE doctors’ key issues||Doctors and nurses at some of the main coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals have said that they continue to work with substandard protective gear, lack access to proper meals, and have to pull in long, gruelling shifts, giving details of how those at the front lines of the pandemic remain vulnerable – from the disease as well as contagion-wary citizens.The problems persist even as the government has taken several steps to prevent attacks faced by several health workers – doctors, nurses and workers who go to neighbourhoods for disease surveillance. The Union Cabinet decided on Wednesday to amend the epidemic disease act to lay down prison terms and fines for those attacking health workers.Health care professionals said while the decision solves one part of the problem, another big area of concern remains. In the less than one-and-a-half months since the Covid-19 outbreak began in Delhi, at least 87 health staff in private and government facilities have contracted the disease.In Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital, a resident doctor, who asked not to be named, said the personal protective equipment (PPE) bodysuits given to them is prone to tearing. Sharing images of his bodysuit torn from nearly chest to his waist, the doctor said: “I have not done much physical movement, the condition of the bodysuit is only from the regular checkups that I did today.“The quality problem appears to be particularly acute in suits that were donated to hospitals after reports of shortages gained attention last month. “Earlier, the problem was that we were not getting ample supply of PPE kits in hospitals, but now a lot of NGOs and private individuals are donating these kits. Though the gesture is appreciated, there is no way of ensuring the quality of these PPE and such problems have been highlighted by several doctors,” said Dr Parv Mittal, president of Maulana Azad Medical College and Associated Hospitals’ Resident Doctors Association. The association represents doctors of four hospitals: Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences and Guru Nanak Eye Centre. Out of these hospitals, Lok Nayak is the biggest Covid-19-designated hospital in Delhi. It admitted 214 new positive patients on Tuesday.PPE kits include several items: a bodysuit, a pair of shoe cover, disposable goggles, gloves, disposable face mask, a collection in which they are meant to be discarded, and a hand towel. A second doctor, who asked not to be named, said several of these items are often missing from the kits or are damaged, needing them to use crude quick-fix solutions like adhesives.Multiple complaints have been sent to the hospital administration, central and state governments but the matter is still unresolved, the doctor added. “We have to reuse N-95 masks for three to five days at least. And we still do not know if those are N-95 masks at all. If questions are raised on the substandard quality of PPEs, we are asked to adjust or exchange the set saying that they are donated. If everyone is getting only donated items, what happened to the ones being procured by the government?” the doctor said.Things have improved in some hospitals, but the distribution of protective gear is still erratic and limited to only selected staff members, he added.Responding to the complaints, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that since the donations of PPEs are made in bulk, some pieces may end up damaged. “One or two from a pack of 100 PPEs could have been damaged but how can we stop accepting kits because of that? The need of the hour is to protect our front-line workers, who are risking their life and safety to fight this pandemic,” Jain said while speaking to reporters.The shortage of PPE also forces doctors and nurses to spend their entire day in one overall, which means they need to avoid bathroom breaks and are forced to wear adult diapers. “We cannot remove our PPEs once we wear it, because there are not enough suits to change into. This means that we cannot even drink water during duty,” said a 38-year-old nurse at east Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, asking not to be named. “It is very hard. There have been days when I have spent my entire after-duty time drinking water because I am so dehydrated,” she said, adding that shifts usually stretch into 14 hours and the diapers are often at the verge of leaking. She said the meals offered to them are also insufficient and of poor quality. On Monday, she said, her only meal consisted of a bun with butter, a bottle of cold coffee and one bar of chocolate. “The food in the initial days was good and the portion size was enough to get you through the day. How do they expect people to keep working without proper food and water? In such a situation, if we fall ill no one will be there to even look after us,” she said.Mini Joseph, joint secretary, Joint Federation of Nurses, said: “If there are four nurses on duty, only one or two get PPEs, while the rest have to manage with only masks and gloves. Everyone from sanitation workers, to lab technicians and even nurses are risking their lives but not everyone is getting proper protection. Who gets to decide who gets safety gear and who doesn’t?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excruciating-hours-bad-ppe-doctors-key-issues/story-U3jUOdCylXTWKsLTT0twGL.html
23-04-2020||India||This is a battle between life and livelihood, says union minister||The national lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 has left thousands of workers jobless, and forced many of them to leave big cities for their homes. Union minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge) Santosh Kumar Gangwar tells Smriti Kak Ramachandran in an interview about how the states and the Centre are coordinating to ensure the workers are paid and their interests are looked after. Edited excerpts:How is the ministry ensuring that workers’ demands and concerns are addressed by the states since labour is on the concurrent list?The ministry has set up a workers’ helpline and 20 control rooms across India. Seventy-five senior officers from the office of the chief labour commissioner (central) are addressing various wage and employment-related grievances under the central sphere, and also the issues of migrant workers. The coordinated efforts of central and state governments are required to resolve these grievances; so we have asked all states and Union Territories to sensitise officers of their labour departments about these control rooms, and designate nodal officers to coordinate with them. This will allow greater synergy between the Centre and the states, and a quicker resolution of complaints.Will you consider demands from states and industry bodies to use Employees’ State Insurance funds for payment of wages during the lockdown? The finance ministry has released a relief package. Presently, we are listening to the stakeholders and seeking suggestions. All of this will be shared with the finance ministry and all the ministries concerned. As for questions about a financial package, that should be dealt with and responded to by the finance ministry. We wrote to states and Union Territories on March 24 that they can use appropriate money from their portion of the Rs 31,000 crore accumulated from the building and construction cesses. We have informed the states that if they wish to, they can use a portion of this fund for eligible beneficiaries. A reasonable amount of money from the fund can also be transferred into the accounts of an estimated 35 million registered building and other construction workers.There are concerns that if workers are not paid, they may not enough money to survive.We have about 400 million people in the unorganised sector. The states will have to come up with ways to ensure they are also looked after. This is a battle between life and livelihood, but with the comprehensive efforts of citizens and the government, India will win the battle soon. We have to come out of this situation with practical solutions that benefit both the workers as well as the employers.The government has also made it possible for people to withdraw EPF (Employees’ Provident Fund). There has been a good response to that scheme because it has helped improve liquidity and put money into the hands of the workers. Further, support to a big section of employees and employers has also been extended. The expenditure of Rs 4,860 crore will be taken care of by the government through the 24% EPF contribution.What has are the kinds of complaints you have received on the helpline?In three days, we received over 300 complaints and about 60% of these pertain to states. We closely monitor these helpline numbers to assess the rate and quality of disposal of grievances/complaints/distress calls - whether they have been addressed in time or if there is an issue that needs to be dealt by any state government. A majority of the complaints have been about non-payment or delays in payment of wages, and action has been taken. We get real-time testimonies from people whose complaints are being resolved. Some of the other requests were for faster resolution of EPFO (Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation) claims. Several industry bodies have raised the issue of a shortage of manpower across sectors because of a large scale movement of the migrant workforce...The agriculture sector has largely been exempted from the lockdown, and there is no shortage there. I have been told that labour for agriculture is actually now available at a little competitive daily wage basis than before. But the situation will be better in future and the labour will eventually move where the job opportunities are available.People should not hesitate to lodge complaints with the helpline numbers. We are here to solve their problems; the numbers are provided on the website of the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-a-battle-between-life-and-livelihood-santosh-kumar-gangwar/story-LKRBsuhG978KvtL9A8YiRI.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajasthan task force seeks Covid fund, incentives||A Rajasthan government task force has sought the setting up of a national coronavirus disease (Covid) management fund, the suspension of Central permissions for setting up industries, except highly polluting ones, and the deferring of repayment of all state development loans by three months to revive the economy and improve the state’s financial health.For specific sectors, it has sought a revolving fund for self-help groups (SHGs), money as seed capital to provide financial aid to small and medium industries and a mandatory chief health officer to reassure people about safety, according to the task force’s report accessed by HT.The report also quoted a study by the International Labour Organisation to say that around 90% or 400 million people working in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis. “The latest CMIE report on job destruction due to Covid-19 states that about 12 crore Indians have already lost employment over the first lockdown [sic],” the report said, adding that medium and small enterprises and the service sector were “staring at bankruptcy.”The task force set up by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the first week of April said that there would be a two to three percentage point decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, primarily because three of the four drivers of growth are seeing a huge “negative shock” in the first half of 2020. The three drivers that will see a fall are private consumption, investment and exports, the report said.“A temporary lockdown can have a permanent negative impact, especially in agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing and the service sector… A national strategy to minimise the impact of coronavirus on the economy must, therefore, counter the above negative effects,” the report said.The task force headed by economic advisor to the chief minister and former union finance secretary Arvind Mayaram had sought inputs from experts such as former RBI governors Raghuram Rajan and Urijit Patel, former chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu and industry captains such as Naina Lal Kidwai, chairman, India Advisory Board, Advent Private Equity, and Anil Agarwal of Vedanta Resources.At the national level, the task force suggested ramping up the interstate movement of goods and services, the immediate transfer of all the budgeted amount of Central Sector Schemes and Central Sector funds to the states, suspending prior approval under Central laws for setting up industries except polluting industries falling under red category and a Covid debt mobilisation plan, in which the amount equal to 4% of the GDP can be mobilised.The report also asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India to reschedule and defer all repayments and interests on State Development Loans (SDLs), for three months, with no penalty for deferred payment, and incentives to manage fiscal deficits, which are likely to increase in the current financial year because of the falling revenue and increase in Covid expenditure.“The most significant impact that the GOI can have on fighting the economic downturn rests in this coordinated use of fiscal and monetary policy, which only the GOI can do as it has vested sovereign powers. It must recognise that the front-line battle, where resources are urgently required, is at the state level. Therefore, in the spirit of co-operative federalism, states should be trusted with untied resources,” the report said.The report suggested introducing the position of Chief Public Health Officer (CPHO) to provide direction to medical, health and family welfare department staff, including medical professionals, scientists, and epidemiologists, as they plan and respond to the emergency, the report said.To boost the MSME sector, the report suggested providing seed capital as grant in aid, in addition to Mudra loans. The MSMEs may also be supported with reimbursement of salaries for three months by the government or given GST credit equal to 50% of the workers’ wage bill of six months (to be availed over the next two years), the report said.To support the local village economy, self-help groups (SHGs) could be given a revolving fund to lend money to their members as well as to migrants who have lost jobs because of Covid. The infusion of funds to the groups and their federations will meet their consumption needs and help them revive the livelihood of their members, as well as provide capital to improve consumption. Although the suggestions of the task force are aimed at restarting the economy in Rajasthan, the officials said the measures can be implemented anywhere in the country. The task force report will now be submitted to the Central government as the state’s inputs for reviving the national economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-task-force-seeks-covid-fund-incentives/story-gTwqsyRVb7ScoHzeCZ6zDM.html
23-04-2020||India||Debate over Chinese, Korean kits after states flag concerns||Hyderabad/Jaipur:After complaints of faulty Covid-19 kits prompted the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to suspend rapid antibody testing for two days, a debate has started over the efficacy of Chinese and South Korean kits being used in the states to conduct the tests that are supposed to deliver results faster than the time-consuming Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method.While some states such as Rajasthan and West Bengal received the Chinese rapid testing kits imported by ICMR, states such as Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on their own have imported the kits from South Korea.Rajasthan and West Bengal governments have both complained about the efficacy of thousands of Chinese rapid testing kits, saying they were delivering faulty results after which the ICMR on Tuesday suspended the tests across the country. Only 6% of the samples that tested positive in the RT-PCR tests were found to have tested positive in the antibody testAndhra Pradesh, which has imported 200,000 rapid testing kits from South Korea, has had no complaints so far. The state’s medical and health commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, said as many as 10,000 samples were tested using the South Korean kits and there had been no complaints by expert overseeing them.“The tests have been stopped following instructions from the Indian Council of Medical Research. We will resume testing after getting the nod from the ICMR,” he said.Bhaskar declined to reveal how many of the 10,000 samples had tested positive and negative. “We cannot reveal the details without approval from the ICMR,” he said. The health commissioner said the rapid antibody tests cannot be relied upon entirely to test whether a person was positive or negative for Covid-19. “It is only a screening test and not the final test to prove whether a person is Covid-19 positive or negative. You cannot take the result of these rapid antibody tests on its face value,” he said.Bhaskar said the rapid tests had to be done only on people who were suffering from Covid-19 related symptoms for at least 10 days. “If we do rapid antibody tests before this 10-day period, there is a possibility that it may give a false negative result. The person might test positive in the RT-PCR, which is an authentic test,” he said.The Rajasthan government, which was the first to say no to rapid tests using Chinese kits, said only 5.4% of the results of tests using the kits procured by ICMR were accurate. “The co-relation between the PCR test and rapid kit test should have been 90% but it was only 5.4%,” said Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma.Dr S Banerjee, head of the medicine department at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital, and a member of the panel formed to check the efficacy of the rapid testing kits, said when an antibody test is positive, two bands appear on a test card after a drop of blood from the sample is put on it. If a single line appears on the card, the test is deemed to be negative. “In the tests they conducted, the kit did not show two bands even for (Covid) positive patients,” he said.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief secretary Rajiv Sinha termed conducting tests with the rapid kits a “wastage of time,” alleging that the ICMR did not check the efficacy of the kits before sending them to the state. West Bengal has received 10,000 rapid testing kits, of which 220 were used.Bhaskar refused to comment on whether the Korean kits were superior to Chinese kits.“We have imported Korean kits and not Chinese kits. So it is not proper to talk about Chinese kits without using them,” he said. Special chief secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said recently that the state had preferred importing rapid antibody testing kits from a South Korean company because of doubts over the Chinese-made kits.Because of the increase in demand from Indian states, the South Korean company SD Biosensor Healthcare Private Limited has set up a kit manufacturing unit in Manesar, Gurugram, having the capacity to make 500,000 kits, a statement from the embassy of India in Seoul said on Tuesday.India is importing 500,000 kits from the South Korea, which are expected to reach India by April end. Some other state governments such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have also placed orders with South Korean firms for rapid testing kits. Purchase of rapid testing kits from China has been put on hold for the time-being, said ICMR officials.There is also a considerable price difference between the kits imported from the two countries. A Rajasthan government official said the cost of a Chinese kit was Rs 600; a Chhattisgarh government official said the state had procured the kits from a South Korea for Rs 337 apiece.(Joydeep Thakur in Kolkata and Ritesh Mishra in Raipur also contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debate-over-chinese-korean-kits-after-states-flag-concerns/story-Fz3B8KfHUn4t97S8Z5NkcL.html
23-04-2020||India||Rapid testing on hold, govt plans to scale up PCR tests||New Delhi: India is working on testing up to 50,000 people a day by the end of the month -- using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test -- as the country approaches the May 3 deadline for the end of the ongoing lockdown, resulting in a potential increase in infections. The move comes even as efforts to boost testing using rapid testing kits (RTKs) that do antibody tests have floundered. Experts have always warned that these aren’t good at early diagnosis and better used to track an infection’s spread in a population; the initial RTKs imported by India have also given readings with wide variations. causing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to suspend on Tuesday their use for two days. Meanwhile, the ministry of health has equipped labs, acquired testing kits, and trained staff to work on two shifts to scale up Covid-19 testing using RT-PCR, the gold standard of tests for the disease. RT-PCR is used for qualitative detection of genetic material called nucleic acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test for infection. “Rapid antibody tests are surveillance tools, they are not tools for disease positivity. For diagnosis of Covid-19, we need RT-PCR, and a planned scale-up is happening. The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved 304 public and private labs to test for Covid-19 across states, and on Friday, we expect to cross 500,000 cumulative tests,” said CK Mishra, secretary, ministry of environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for medical emergency.“There is no shortage of machines, and reagents including RNA extraction kits and composite kits, and orders have been placed with domestic and international suppliers in anticipation of testing being increased over the coming weeks,” said Mishra.India has ordered 12 RT-PCR systems that can test up to 1,000 samples each in a single run, of which six are expected to be delivered in early May. These will add to two such machines in ICMR labs in Bhubhaneshwar and Noida.As of April 21, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved 47 companies to manufacture and import PCR kits, of which four are indigenously developed and manufactured; 16 are from China; and the rest are from other parts of Asia, Europe, and the US.The government has at least 300,000 RNA extraction kits in stock, along with an equal number of composite kits. The distribution of essential diagnostics supplies has also been decentralised to 15 depots across the country to ensure uninterrupted supply and prevent transfer delays.The Pune-based Mylab, which was the first Indian company to get an indigenously developed test approved by ICMR, plans to double its output over the next 10 days. “Since we got the CDSCO nod on March 23, we have dispatched three lakh tests and will increase this number to seven lakh by the time the lockdown lifts,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab.Sachin Gulati, who is a partner at the Delhi-based Solutions One, imports CE- and ICMR-approved PCR kits from the Seegene in South Korea. “There’s no shortage, I have a revolving stock, and have 800-900 kits on demand, with each one testing 100 samples. More are on the way, and we supply to both government and private hospitals and labs,” said Gulati.But overlooked ancillary products needed for testing are threatening to play spoilsport. .“The machines and kits are available and we have several vendors to choose from, but ancillary products like swabs and viral transport media, which is needed to transfer swab samples to the lab, are in short supply. Getting these basics right is important, as we need nylon, dacron or flexon swabs for sensitivity; cotton ones can contaminate the sample and influence results,” said Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dangs Labs, which was among the first labs to get approved for Covid-19 testing in India.“Getting trained technicians is also proving to be a challenge in the private sector,” added Dr Dang. “Government labs have trained staff on call, but for us [in the private sector], adding staff is a big problem also because of the fear and stigma associated with Covid-19.” To increase diagnostic reach, ICMR has approved machines used to test drug-resistant tuberculosis for Covid-19 tests, with the Prime Minister’s empowered group identifying as many as 250 Gene-Xpert cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) and 150 Truenat machines.Truenat is a small battery-operated machine that can run 32 to 48 samples. It takes just up to 60 minutes from swab to confirmation and can be operated by health workers with basic training even at the Primary Health Centre, while CBNAAT are widely available across India. CDSCO has approved indigenous Truenat beta-CoV test as a screening test.“These machines give results in an hour, don’t need a sophisticated lab, and people trained to use them are there at the grassroots level, which will help deliver testing to underserved areas,” said a health ministry official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-on-hold-govt-plans-to-scale-up-pcr-tests/story-CwsoSHR5Pko6VBbtElqbUP.html
23-04-2020||India||Curbs on movement needed as travel hubs become Covid-19 hotspots||The 170 districts that the government identified last week as Covid-19 hotspots are home to seven in 10 people who migrate between states for reasons other than marriage, and nine in 10 of all domestic air passengers embark on their journeys from airports in these places, a Hindustan Times analysis showed, highlighting how containing these areas may be critical to India’s fight against the deadly pathogen.These numbers can also explain the need for barring interstate travel – flights, trains and buses have not been allowed to carry passengers for nearly a month now and the government has indicated that transport may not be allowed to resume immediately after the nationwide lockdown ends on May 3 – to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.The government last week classified 170 districts, nearly a quarter of the country’s 731 districts, as Covid-19 hotspots. These include districts which have reported large outbreaks or multiple clusters of cases.Even though these hotspots comprise only about 23% of all districts, 29% of the country’s geographical area, and are home to about 37% of the country’s population, they have a relatively high share of migrant population. According to a Hindustan Times analysis of 2011 Census data, these hotspots were home to nearly 25 million people who have migrated from other states for reasons other than marriage. They make up an overwhelming 67% of all such interstate migrants in the country.To be sure, this is a close approximation for present times because the population figures would have changed since the Census was last conducted, and some district boundaries have also changed since then.Work, employment or business was a reason for migration for over a third of these 25 million migrants who live in these hotspots. About 2% migrated for educational purposes while the rest migrated for other reasons or with their families.That the hotspot districts are home to a majority of migrants is understood by the fact that nearly half of the population in these districts live in urban areas. The hotspot districts put together have about 48% urban population compared to 21% in other districts combined.This also makes non-agricultural economic activity more predominant in these districts. According to the Census figures, there were about 155 million full-time workers (or main workers) in the hotspot districts and only about 39% of them were cultivators or agricultural labourers. In contrast, nearly 59% of the 207 million full-time workers in other non-hotspot districts were cultivators or agricultural labourers.Allowing interstate travel also means allowing a large number of these migrants to travel to all corners of the country, thereby risking spread of the coronavirus disease in places which have not reported the infections yet.To be sure, it is not only the migrants who travel between states. These hotspots are also the hub of air travel in general. According to data from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) analysed by Hindustan Times, commercial airlines in India carried more than 123 million domestic passengers in the year 2017-18, of which 90% or nearly 111 million passengers embarked on their journeys from airports in the Covid-19 hotspots. Out of these 111 million people, more than 11 million, or 10%, travelled to airports in non-hotspot areas. Also, 92% of the 12 million passengers who began their journey from airports in non-hotspot regions travelled to airports in the hotspots.All the eight cities that saw the highest number of outbound domestic passengers are now Covid-19 hotspots. These are Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune and Ahmedabad. Nearly 70% of all domestic air passengers began their journeys from one of these eight cities. Delhi and Mumbai are cities with the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 patients, and every one in three domestic air passengers begin their journeys from one of these two cities.Indian Railways, on the other hand, is a large network with rail routes spanning 67,415 kilometres and 7,321 stations. Its non-suburban trains carried nearly 3.7 billion passengers in 2018-19, which is 10 million passengers a day on average. According to Indian Railways statistics, more than 80% of these passengers travelled in second-class train coaches, which are usually overcrowded and carry risk of spreading infections if footfalls are not strictly curtailed.These figures explain why the government may find it difficult to resume interstate passenger transport services until proper measures to contain the clusters of outbreak are taken in the hotspot districts. A letter sent by the Union health secretary Preeti Sudan to district authorities on April 15 suggested that a hot spot district can be classified as a non-infected district only if no new case is detected for 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-on-movement-needed-as-travel-hubs-become-hot-spots/story-Q9vU45DeWbZEyMO2sDnSJL.html
23-04-2020||India||Four cases to 900 in 20 days: What went wrong in Indore||A government team is investigating what the city administration of Indore did wrong to lead to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases jumping from 4 on March 24 to 900 in 20 days.The spike in cases in Indore resulted mainly from people violating lockdown norms and the administration’s failure to engage with the community in an effective way, found a central team sent to review the situation a week ago.“People in Indore initially never thought they could get the disease as they were smug about their clean city tag. So the approach initially it seems was quite lax. The lockdown measures weren’t adequately followed, and since the virus had already reached the city, people were transmitting,” said a Union health ministry official in the know of things, requesting anonymity. Indore is ranked India’s cleanest city in the Union government’s cleanliness survey.One of the members of the investigating team told HT that people were on the streets during the lockdown, which led to the wide spread in infection.“The movement of people wasn’t effectively restricted and the local administration did not seem have managed to engage with the community effectively as their health workers met with a lot of resistance on ground. That also limited the implementation of preventive measures. Later when they woke up and started aggressive testing, the numbers had already shot up,” said the team member on condition of anonymity.The local administration, while agreeing that the sudden spurt of cases caught them off guard and admitting it should have started preparing to deal with the infection much earlier, said it is now on track to contain the spread.“Initially, we were caught off guard, and it took us some time to figure out a strategy and to build capacity to deal with the infection. Our response was later than what it should have been. The first case, a bunch of four people, came on March 24, but when the numbers kept on increasingly quickly we realised that the virus probably was in circulation since long. March 24 was too late to wake up as we had limited testing capacity then, and we were faced with a situation where we had a very limited time to ramp up capacity. It happened too suddenly,” says Mohammed Suleman, additional chief secretary, state health department.After about 30-40 cases started pouring in on a daily basis, the state government, which was working with one testing laboratory and Indian Council of Medical Research’s viral research and diagnostic laboratory in Bhopal, added 11 more labs within a month, and have also been sending samples for testing to National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi, and National Institute of Biologicals in Noida (Uttar Pradesh).“From one lab in March end to 12 testing labs in a matter of few weeks, we scaled up our testing facility literally on war footing to be able to conduct aggressive testing. Between April 7 to April 15 we have lifted 5,000 samples. Currently, within Indore we can test 2,000 samples a day but we need to test at least 1,000 more in a day. We are working on it but it will take some time,” said Suleman.As for people on streets, Suleman says initially there was a lot of interstate movement of people that took time to curtail.“Indore is a commercial city, and a lot of people come here on business. Since there was restriction on cargo movement, several people were hiding in trucks to make their way out of the city. We even tracked many of those people till the border. Within the city we managed to curb movement but it was this section that created problems,” he said.Another major challenge was engaging with the community. “Initially our healthcare workers met with a lot of resistance. Many localities here are congested and I thought of taking people out from these localities to spacious quarantine facilities to break the transmission chain but people weren’t willing to leave their homes, especially those who did not have symptoms. We had to involve religious leaders, and communicate through them to convince these people. That took a lot of effort and time,” said Suleman.Finally some 3,000 people were moved to various quarantine facilities in the city.The main focus for the state administration is now to further increase the testing facility as it is taking long for the results to come. “About 2,000 of my samples are in Delhi right now, that we send by air. In Bhopal also we lifted some 6,000 samples last week that will be tested in batches. We are in the process of increasing our testing capacity but it will take some time before equipment is bought, manpower trained and put on job. We are really hurrying up the process though,” said Suleman.Experts have reiterated the need for effective implementation of lockdown measures for breaking the transmission chain.“The incubation period of SARS CoV2 is 5-7 days. The range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time. By restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic. This is an extreme example of social distancing,” said Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-cases-to-900-in-20-days-what-went-wrong-in-indore/story-QnWhGzNg9FStVuN0UOYkfK.html
23-04-2020||India||No mutation in important sites of virus, effective vaccine is possible: Dr Soumya Swaminathan||India cannot depend on rapid antibody tests of unproven quality for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis and molecular tests remain the gold standard, says Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based World Health Organisation (WHO) who is leading the global partnerships on scientific research on a vaccine and drug therapies for the infection. In a phone interview, Swaminathan said India, for now, is doing enough testing, but will have to scale it up as the numbers rise. Edited excerpts:Is India testing enough people?Data from India shows that 4-5% people, mostly at-risk populations (symptomatics, contacts, healthworkers or people in containment zones), who have been tested in India are positive for Covid-19, compared to 30-40% in other countries. This indicates testing is appropriate to the situation, but it will have to be scaled up as numbers increase.India has suspended rapid antibody tests because of quality issues. How reliable are rapid tests?Quality serological tests take around six months to be developed with ample data and validation. There’s a flood of tests with unproven quality, which cannot be depended on for diagnosis.Molecular (polymerase chain reaction, or PCR) tests are the gold standard for diagnosis because they reveal current infection. This result is actionable, as it can be followed by isolation and treatment for the patient, and quarantine and testing for close contacts. Rapid antibody tests show past infection, and are useful as an epidemiological tool to map community infection and study Sars-Cov2 transmission.Are high summer temperatures expected to slow Sars-CoV2 transmission?We don’t know if temperature will have an effect. From what we know, it may reduce transmission by 10%-20%, but we can’t depend on it to stop transmission.Only 2-8% people in affected populations have antibodies against Covid-19, indicates early data. How many does herd immunity offer protection to?We are very far away from herd immunity. For diseases with high rates of transmission, a higher number of people need to be infected for herd immunity. This virus has an R0 of 2-3, so at least 80% people need to have antibodies against the virus for herd protection. (RO, or R-nought, is the basic reproduction ratio that gives the number of people infected by one case).South Korea has reported reinfection or reactivation in recovered patients. Will reinfection affect global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19?There is no evidence reinfection can happen. Molecular tests often detect fragments of the virus RNA that is not viable (cannot cause infection) several days after patients have clinically recovered. Diagnostic results depend on several factors, on how samples are collected, how procedures are followed, and depending on which tests are used, can show false positives or false negatives. We need more studies of the natural history of this infection and what kind of immunity is generated by people.CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) has identified several promising candidates, including some that are already in clinical and pre-clinical trials. How soon can a vaccine be ready?Our goal is a vaccine before 18 months. Normally, it takes about a decade to develop a vaccine, but global partnerships (between health agencies, academics, donors, industry, nations and philanthropies) have helped hasten development of vaccines against emerging public health threats. A vaccine against Ebola took five years, the one against zika took less than two years. The global effort to develop a Covid-19 vaccine in less than 18 months is unprecedented and would be an amazing achievement.How has the virus evolved? Is the new vaccine expected to offer long-term protection?Over 10,000 viral genome sequences of Sars-Cov-2 have been shared by 70-80 countries with GISAID , which is a global initiative to share influenza data. Since the start of the pandemic, laboratories in countries across the world have generated viral genome sequence data with GISAID, which has enabled real-time progress in the research and development of vaccines and drug therapies.Some evolution in the virus is bound to happen, but the rate of mutations is lower than the influenza viruses. Scientists have identified three different closely related lineages, which give valuable insights into the origin of the virus and epidemiological data on how it is spreading across the world.None of the changes are on any important sites – the spike protein, polymerase or protease -- which are being targeted by potential vaccines and drug therapies. These sites have no major mutations, so an effective and long-lasting vaccine appears possible.What is the progress on WHO’s Solidarity Trial for Covid-19 treatment? Which are the most promising therapies?It’s too early for results. India is part of this trial, with 1,200 patients enrolled so far globally. The approvals have been obtained by the National AIDS Research Organisation in Pune, which will coordinate the study.How do you rate India’s Covid-19 response?India’s containment response was very prompt and robust and was rolled out very early, much before cases started rising. It’s exemplary, and the doubling rate of Covid-19 is now eight days. The challenge for India now will be to sustain the gains when the lockdown lifts and to ensure infection rates stay low across all states.New infection rate has dropped in some states like Kerala.Kerala has done a great job. Several things contribute to its success, such as a strong primary health system, a good panchayati raj system and local governance, high education levels and public participation. This was also evident during the containment of Nipah virus disease outbreak, when robust public health measures ensured infection did not spread to other states.Do you think Covid-19 has ushered in a new social reality for the world?I believe it will, at least for the next two to three years before we get a vaccine to the majority of the susceptible population. Social distancing will become the norm, which will change the way we work and socialise, with fewer conferences, events and large gatherings.The WHO warned of a second wave of infection on Monday. How high is the threat of resurgence after lockdowns lift?That’s really the question everyone is interested in and is impossible to predict. It depends on a number of things, and can be different in different countries. A lot depends on what steps are taken between lifting the lockdown and the steps post that, and most countries are going for a phased lifting. We see in China that it’s come down to a very low level of new infections, they still have infections. It’s important to get the infection rate down, as places like Taiwan, Hongkong, South Korea and Singapore have done. They still have new infections, but they are more localised outbreaks, which are quickly detected and contained.Will US President Donald Trump’s freeze on funding affect WHO’s work?The WHO will stick to its mandate and continue to support countries in implementing science-based measures to slow transmission, reverse and stop Covid-19. The 193 United Nations member-states recently pledged solidarity in the response to Covid and to support the WHO, in its global role to coordinate and give technical guidance on international health. It’s early days yet, and we hope this decision does not affect our important work too much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-mutation-in-important-sites-of-virus-effective-vaccine-is-possible-dr-soumya-swaminathan/story-wPqzNPl29JBAODcyraBx2L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cabinet approves Rs 15k crore for Covid-19 emergency fund||The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved on Wednesday investments to the tune of ₹15,000 crore for ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package’ to mount an urgent response for containing the spread of the virus in the country.The funds sanctioned will be utilised in three Phases. These interventions and initiatives would be implemented under the health ministry.In the first phase, the health ministry with the support of all the other line ministries has already undertaken several activities. An amount of ₹7,774 Crore has been provisioned for immediate Covid-19 Emergency Response and rest for medium-term support (1-4 years) to be provided under mission mode approach, an official statement said.The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit Covid-19 in India through the development of diagnostics and Covid-dedicated treatment facilities, centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs required for treatment of infected patients, strengthen and build resilient National and State health systems. These interventions and initiatives would be implemented under the overall umbrella of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the statement said.The Cabinet also approved fixation of Nutrient Based Subsidy rates for Phosphatic and Potassic (P&K) fertilizers for the year 2020-21. Expected expenditure for release of subsidy on P&K Fertilizers during 2020-21 will be Rs. 22,186.55 crore, the press information bureau said.The Cabinet also approved extension of relaxation of mandatory requirement of Aadhaar seeding of data in respect of beneficiaries of the States of Assam and Meghalaya and UTs of J&K and Ladakh for one year from 1st April, 2020 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-15k-cr-for-covid-emergency-fund/story-oHwjtCo2KwLcmWvM3SMMlK.html
23-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi seeks ideas for MSME revival||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday sought public suggestions for an economic stimulus package to revive micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that have borne the brunt of the 40-day lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The suggestions, together with the Congress’s own, will be sent to the central government, which is soon expected to announce a stimulus programme to counter the impact of the pandemic on the economy . The Congress is crowd-sourcing the public suggestions on social media. “Covid-19 has devastated our micro, small and medium businesses. The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions and ideas for what an MSME economic stimulus package should cover on voiceofmsme.in or on our social media platforms,” he tweeted, using the hashtag “HelpSaveSmallBusinesses”.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday formed a consultative committee under the chairmanship of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to discuss issues related to the viral outbreak, and formulate the Congress’s stand . At its first meeting on Monday, the 11-member group discussed the revival of the MSME sector,procurement and farm produce and the plight of migrant workers stranded by the lockdown.Former union minister Jairam Ramesh, a member of the group, said the panel will prepare a detailed plan for revival of MSMEs, smooth procurement of wheat, mustard and gram and measures to resolve stranded migrants’ problems,and submit the blueprint to the Centre.“We have worked out a very concrete MSME revival package which we will submit to the central government in a day or two,” Ramesh said, adding both Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi had insisted that absolute priority be given to the MSME sector, the second largest employer in India after agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-seeks-ideas-for-msme-revival/story-6WDTbvHjvwERUZ7kez3g8L.html
23-04-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry HQ to be sealed as worker tests +ve||The ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh, is to be sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, becoming the first staffer at a central ministry to be confirmed as a Covid-19 carrier. The complex will be sealed “as per the prescribed protocol,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri told Hindustan Times, adding that all officials who had come in contact with the employee will be tested for the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19.The Delhi government is taking “appropriate steps” in line with the protocol for contact tracing and risk profiling, the ministry of civil aviation said in a statement on Wednesday.. “An employee of the ministry who had attended office on 15 April 2020 has tested positive for COVID19 on 21st April. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the Premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self-isolation as a precaution,” the statement said. The staffer who tested positive complained of a pain in his throat a few days ago after which he got himself tested on Tuesday, a government official said. The 46-year-old man lives in South Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. “He tested positive on April 21. We have put all his family members in home quarantine,” South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra said. “We have informed the civil aviation ministry about it and asked them to check who all came into close contact with him and put them in home quarantine. We have also asked them to carry out measures to disinfect the building. We are trying to ascertain from where he got the infection.” The person also visited a milk booth in his neighbourhood which has been sealed.“We stand by our colleague at civil aviation ministry who has tested positive for COVID19 and have extended all possible medical help and support. Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures.I wish him strength and speedy recovery,” Puri tweeted later in the day.Covid-19 reached Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament complex on Tuesday. A special housekeeper of the Lok Sabha, whose son works in Parliament too, and the daughter-in-law of a Rashtrapati Bhavan sanitation worker tested positive. A cluster of 125 residential houses in the Rashtrapati Bhavan estate was sealed and the New Delhi Municipal Council turned a large number of residential houses near Kali Bari Marg, where the parliament employee lived, into a containment zone.According to home ministry guidelines issued after the extension of the national lockdown until May 3, the government has ordered a phased return to office of central government ministry officials. The new guidelines call for 100% attendance by officers above the deputy secretary level and 33% attendance by junior staff Some junior staff have expressed concerns over commuting to work under the lockdown. “Commuting has been tough as there aren’t enough vehicles for junior staff. We are supposed to carpool with others and tying up {arrangements} gets a bit tough,” one government employee said, requesting anonymity. (With inputs from Risha Chitlangia:)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-hq-to-be-sealed-as-worker-tests-ve/story-o9vBnOLuyGBz68VdOEsc6H.html
23-04-2020||India||DDMA forms ‘empowered groups’ to monitor Covid-19 mitigation strategies||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) formed five ‘empowered groups’ in the Capital earlier this week, to monitor ongoing Covid-19 mitigation strategies, identify problems and formulate new interventions. The groups, formed by the DDMA’s special CEO Ravi Dhawan on Monday (April 20), constitute senior bureaucrats, doctors and experts from various fields as members. The groups are tasked with emergency planning, strengthening hospital infrastructure, procuring medical equipment, disease surveillance, augmenting human resources in health care, ensuring availability of essential and medical supplies, alleviating the distress caused by disruption due to lockdown, social distancing, among others. In several instances, an empowered group is tasked with overseeing multiple response activities. The coronavirus disease has so far infected 2,248 people, and killed 48 in the national Capital.For all health-related work, including capacity building, the authority appointed an eight-member group headed by senior IAS officer and South Delhi Municipal Corporation chief Gyanesh Bharti. Other members of this group include principal secretary health and family welfare Padmini Singla and Dr Nutan Mundeja, the director-general of health services. Government officials said such groups would help gauge all Covid-19 management activities from an overall perspective. “There are a number of teams, activities, operations that are simultaneously at work in the Capital right now — containment, surveillance, contact tracing, treatment, checking medical and essential stocks. All of these require constant monitoring,” the official said.“These groups are empowered to identify problem areas and provide effective solutions; delineate policy; formulate plans; strategic operations and take all steps necessary for the effective and time-bound implementation of these plans/strategies/decisions in their respective area,” read the order issued by Dhawan, a copy of which is with HT.A second senior government official said each group also has experts from the respective field, apart from bureaucrats. “We have roped in policy researchers to look into the strategic issues relating to the lockdown. Then we have got an experts from Unicef and a noted consultancy firm to address public grievances and review suggestions that we get from various quarters. Disaster management experts have been assigned to look into economic and welfare measures and so on,” the official said, on condition of anonymity. The suggestion to form such groups in the city was made by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in a letter to Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev earlier this month. In the letter, Gauba informed Dev that the Union government had constituted 11 empowered groups to perform “specific tasks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddma-forms-empowered-groups-to-monitor-covid-19-mitigation-strategies/story-Wk3Ls2NPll7N7SqOyY1axK.html
23-04-2020||India||PM Modi will meet CMs on April 27 to discuss post-lockdown plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet state chief ministers on April 27, when the nationwide lockdown enters its final week.The meeting, officials indicated, is likely to review the set of relaxations of the lockdown allowed from April 20 and discuss the future road map that may include longer locking period for red or containment zones, as identified by the government.The meeting, which will be attended by all CMs, may also include Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah and a few senior officials of the Prime Minister’s Office.Officials said Modi will seek opinion of the CMs on how to consolidate on the gains achieved from the sweeping lockdown imposed from March 25 to contain the rapid spread of the highly contiguous virus. At the same time, there is a scope for a review of the relaxation measures that were taken to gradually restart some sectors of the economy.“The scope of the meeting is enormous. At this stage, the Prime Minister or the union government would not do anything without taking the states into confidence. Like, the extension of the lockdown was also announced after taking feedback from all CMs, public health experts and district magistrates,” said an official with knowledge of the developments.In his earlier meetings, Modi had categorically stated that the lockdown is the only option to save lives in India and that no one has advised him to lift the lockdown abruptly.Prime Minister Modi will address various Gram Panchayats across the country on April 24 to mark the National Panchayati Raj Day. Modi will also launch the unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App on the occasion to provide an unified portal with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP).The Pm is also expected to hail the work done by the panchayati institutions in tackling Covid-19 and especially the efforts of women self-help groups. According to an official, the self help groups have been the backbone of the government’s effort to tackle Covid-19 in the rural India.According to an official release, the PM will also launch the Swamitva Scheme for an integrated property validation solution for rural India. “The demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods – Drone’s technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and Survey of India,” said the release.Modi is also expected to inform the people of the progress made against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and his views on the road ahead in his serial radio address –Mann ki Baat- on Sunday. In a statement, public broadcaster All India Radio (AIR) said the 11th instalment of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’, a broadcast to the people of India by Modi, is scheduled for Sunday, 26th April at 11 AM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-on-april-27-to-discuss-next-steps/story-qODgNw2ls2QWCpihCVSJNK.html
23-04-2020||India||Karnataka allows IT, ITeS firms to reopen state’s economy from Thursday||The Karnataka government has decided to partially ease lockdown restrictions in the state to allow IT and ITeS companies to reopen offices with “essential minimum staff” from Thursday. Restrictions will be eased for select sectors starting 00:00 hours of April 22, according to a notification issued by the state chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. While IT and ITeS companies will be allowed to reopen their workplaces, majority of their staff will have to continue working from home. The nod to IT firms is seen as a critical move since Karnataka is one of the largest exporters of IT and ITeS, and is the biggest employer in the organized sector in the state.In a detailed 14-page order, the chief secretary said that works under MNREGA, courier services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facilities management, self-employed electricians, IT repairs and other industrial projects can resume from Friday outside the containment zones. The list of services also includes plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters, food processing industries in rural areas, manufacturing units of essential goods, packaging material and construction activities including metro rail, roads and irrigation works.More than 400 containment zones have been identified by the government across the state. The notification emphasized that wearing of masks, social distancing and other measures should be followed strictly and only local workers could be employed in these activities and fresh workforce cannot be brought in from elsewhere.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has been under immense financial pressure ever since the lockdown came into effect on March 24, paralyzing almost all revenue-generating activities across the state. However, apart from the above-mentioned exceptions, Karnataka’s primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar emphasized that lockdown in other sectors would continue till May 3 as announced earlier. This means schools, colleges, malls, theatres, metro, bus, train or flight services will remain suspended along with all religious places and gatherings.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-it-ites-firms-to-reopen-state-s-economy-from-thursday/story-E5kwrIkPIfp4QcI9uuNhxO.html
23-04-2020||India||How India turned Covid-19 crisis into outsized global outreach exercise||When Kenyan Foreign Minister Raychelle Omamo called up External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday, the conversation was largely centered around the Covid-19 outbreak. Jaishankar’s counterpart was worried about the drug supplies with the virus now rearing its head in Africa and remote parts of the globe.Jaishankar told his Kenyan counterpart that not only would India provide hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol on a commercial basis but would also send some more as a gift, or assistanceIn another conversation with Armenian Foreign Minister Zohrab Mnatsakanyan, Jaishankar underscored that India is already in the process of airlifting drugs to his country.Jaishankar’s diplomatic outreach to other countries has been guided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clear observation early this month that asked his team to positively respond to requests for help by other countries to fight Covid-19, people familiar with the development said.PM Modi had made the point that if you help someone when they need it to face a crisis, the gesture won’t be forgotten easily.It is this advice that has driven much of the response of Indian diplomats. Officials said India is flying out about 28 lakh hydroxychloroquine and 13 lakh paracetamol tablets to 32 countries as assistance. In addition, drug supplies are being made to 42 countries on a commercial basis.The Indian priorities have been clear with first supplies going to the SAARC countries and extended neighbourhood in Gulf. Europe, Americas, and the Indo-Pacific were covered in the next phase.After supplies reached these countries, India moved to supplying assistance to smaller countries and Island nations. These include Burkina Faso, Marshall Islands, Eswatini, Comoros, Dominican Republic, Seychelles and Jamaica.Global demand for hydroxychloroquine boosted after some studies indicated that the drug, when paired with azithromycin, helped clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually.India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, had initially banned exports last month before partially easing rules to allow the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol after meeting all domestic requirements. Health ministry officials have confirmed that the government had access to a lot more than the estimated requirements to cater to any eventuality.The government, officials said, was conscious that the battle against Covid-19 might end up to be a long haul, a lot longer than was initially expected. They said the government is priming up its health sector to not only tackle a sudden Covid-19 flare-up but also diseases accompanying the rains in India such as dengue, measles and cholera.“ We also have to be ready for a possible second wave of the pandemic later this winter,” said a senior official.Apart from drugs, India has also started sending wheat shipments up to 75 metric tonnes to Afghanistan through the Chabahar and has also offered both wheat and rice to Iran as humanitarian assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-indian-turned-covid-19-crisis-into-outsized-global-outreach-exercise/story-QfyRaVNWCOcPIj2shq56xO.html
23-04-2020||India||Agri supply chains get a reform boost in lockdown times||From a taxi aggregator-like app to book trucks, to an expansion of market points, the ongoing lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to have given a fillip to some agricultural reforms that had been long considered but never implemented. The government has, in the past, made attempts to reform agricultural “marketing” (the market, or mandi, system that controls buying and selling of farm produce). But not many came through. One reason for this, a government official said requesting anonymity, is that supply agents in bulk markets exert outsize influence over farmers.But, a second official said, since the lockdown has disrupted traditional farm-to-fork supply chains, the void created has enabled the government to quickly move in with reforms to keep supplies going. The government has taken initiatives to boost direct selling, the first official cited above said. Usually, farmers have to go through smaller crop aggregators to access bulk buyers. Over time, this has spawned layers of intermediaries spanning the farm-to-fork supply chain. This results in a large “price spread”, or the fragmentation of profit shares due to the presence of several middlemen. Farmers often get the lowest shares. Amid the lockdown, the Union government has recommended states to sidestep the mandi system by suspending some archaic provisions of the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) Acts. According to the PMO, in one of a series of meeting with state chief ministers he held this earlier month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed direct marketing of crops. Agricultural marketing in India is a complex system, with a mix of organised and unorganised markets. Farmers mainly sell in mandis, which are state-run market yards known as APMCs. There are about 585 such highly regulated APMCs in 16 states and two Union Territories.But the government had last month allowed agri-businesses, known as farmer producer organisations (FPOs), to buy directly from farmers. Ushered in during the 1960s, APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area as the farmer, rather than directly to buyers elsewhere. Now farmers are virtually free to sell to any buyer.“To hold these lockdown-induced reforms over the long term, some change in laws would be required. Many of the provisions are now being tested on an emergency basis,” said R Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Another key reform, ushered in on March 26, is the granting of warehouses the status of legal selling points. Since buying and selling can now happen at warehouses, farmers need not incur costs in transporting grains to mandis.FPOs have now been incorporated into the National Agricultural Markets system, which is an online platform.The government has also explored the app ecosystem to push reforms. It has launched the cab aggregator-style app-based hiring of trucks through Kisan Rath, an android application. Tech teams, with help from the private sector, will also be pressed to digitise neighbourhood kirana or general provisions stores in 25 cities, the second official soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-supply-chains-get-a-reform-boost-in-lockdown-times/story-Gq4iR4WFvhoJmOrx3nGZdP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Assam hikes petrol price by Rs 6, diesel by Rs 5 while international crude prices tank||While international oil prices have crashed as the world grapples with the unprecedented crisis triggered by the outbreak of coronavirus, Assam has gone against the trend by deciding to hike the retail prices for petrol and diesel.The state announced an increase in price by nearly Rs 6/litre for petrol and nearly Rs 5 per litre for diesel. A notification in this regard was issued on Tuesday by the state’s finance (taxation) department.The notification issued by principal secretary Samir Kumar Sinha under the provision of The Assam Value Added Tax Act, 2003, came into effect from 12:00 am on April 22.Effectively, the price of petrol increased from Rs 71.61 to Rs 77.46 per litre and the price of diesel increased from Rs 65.07 to Rs 70.50 per litre.The last few days have seen a consistent decline in the crude oil prices in international trading markets. The prices of Brent crude oil, which is bought by India, have crashed to below 2001 levels to reach $16.84 per barrel. It is a dramatic drop from the peak prices of $147 a barrel registered in July 2008. The oil price hike comes as the state economy reels under the impact of coronavirus and the resultant lockdown, clamped to contain the spread of Covid-19. The flow of funds to the state coffers have dried up significantly as most of the revenue-generating activity remains hampered.“Due to a decrease in international oil prices, it will affect the amount Assam gets as royalty for oil from ONGC and Oil India Limited. This increase in prices is an attempt to cover some loss, maybe Rs 50 crore in 30 days. This is a temporary measure and there will be a roll-back once the coronavirus crisis gets over,” said Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday. Assam earns an average of Rs 166 crores monthly as royalty from the sale of oil. But due to prices coming down that figure would be less than Rs 50 crore per month, said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-hikes-petrol-and-diesel-price-while-international-crude-prices-tank/story-KixDCmRZEDKwx1MlO2QVUO.html
23-04-2020||India||Salute to this brave mom who puts nation first!||To ensure that the lockdown is implemented and we stay safe, women cops working long hours have no option but to bring their children to work. With her one-year old crying in the background, police constable Chitralekha starts to converse with us on a phone call.In Uttar Pradesh’s small town, Mainpuri, the 25-year-old is performing her duty with her one-year-old child in tow. She says, “It is my duty to serve the people of the nation. During such distressing times, it’s all the more important to serve the nation. It is my top priority right now.”Deployed on the bypass road in Mainpuri since the lockdown began, she adds, “My duty entails spreading awareness about the deadly virus. People of Mainpuri are cooperating with us and are following all rules of the lockdown.”Chitralekha is on duty for 12 hours every day. She covers her toddler with a cloth when she travels with him. She says, “I keep washing his hands and always keep a sanitiser ready.”For a new mother, to travel with her kid is not easy but Chitralekha has been doing it since her baby was six months old. She adds, “Through this exercise, I think I have instilled the values of patriotism in my kid, unknowingly.The police constable is grateful for the support she has got from everybody including her colleagues, senior officials and people in general. She says, “Everyone is working hard to ensure that Indians remain safe and sound. We don’t want our people to suffer. The police and the doctors are working tirelessly to make sure the curve is flattened and we don’t end up like other countries .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salute-to-this-brave-mom-who-puts-nation-first/story-sDVampnU5ZdtxLYyAOvvBP.html
