24-04-2020||India||Trump’s idea to inject disinfectant stuns world||Washington US President Donald Trump’s inquiry over injecting people with disinfectants to guard against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) left medical experts and scientists across the world stunned on Friday, with many issuing warnings to not introduce bleach in the body in an attempt to kill SARS-CoV-2, which causes the infectious disease.Bill Bryan, an undersecretary at the Homeland Security Department, told reporters during the White House’s daily task force briefing on Thursday that research showed bleach could kill the virus in saliva or respiratory fluids in five minutes and isopropyl alcohol could kill it even more quickly. The research also appeared to show that the virus was vulnerable to heat and humidity, with direct sunlight killing it quickly. Speaking after Bryan, Trump said: “So, supposing we hit the body with a tremendous – whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light – and I think you said that that hasn’t been checked, but you’re going to test it.”“Then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning,” he continued, and added: “So it would be interesting to check that.”The remarks came on a day the US Food and Drug Administration cautioned against the use of malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, touted by Trump, in Covid-19 patients outside of hospitals and clinical trials, citing risks of serious heart rhythm problems.On Friday, death toll from the highly contagious Covid-19 crossed 50,000 in the US, which is now the epicentre of the pandemic. More than 3,300 fatalities were reported across the country over the last 24 hours.Physicians and medical experts were aghast at the US President’s suggestions. Deborah Birx, coordinator of the US President’s taskforce, appeared to distance herself from the suggestion even as the briefing was still on.“Deborah, have you ever heard of that?” the President asked Birx while responding to questions from reporters. “The heat and the light, relative to – certain viruses, yes, but relative to this virus?”Birx responded: “Not as a treatment.” “I mean, certainly fever is a good thing. When you have a fever, it helps your body respond. But not as, I’ve not seen heat…”Trump cut her off: “I think it’s a great thing to look at.”Soon after the White House briefing, Reckitt Benckiser, parent company of the maker of Lysol and Dettol, said: “As a global leader in health and hygiene products, we must be clear that under no circumstance should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body (through injection, ingestion or any other route).”The White House said that Trump’s comments were taken out of context. “President Trump has repeatedly said that Americans should consult with medical doctors regarding coronavirus treatment, a point that he emphasised again during yesterday’s briefing,” said White House spokesperson Kayleigh McEnany.The US President has previously touted the use of the anti-malarial Hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 with little proof of its effectiveness.After Trump’s latest remarks, Craig Spencer, director of global health in emergency medicine at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center, told The Washington Post: “My concern is that people will die. People will think this is a good idea.” “This is not willy-nilly, off-the-cuff, maybe-this-will-work advice. This is dangerous.”Stanford University’s Eugene Chu wrote on Twitter: “Clorox, Tide Pods, and Lysol (disinfectants) will kill the coronavirus. No question about it. But if you are infected, then the coronavirus is inside your cells. If you use any of those disinfectants to kill the coronavirus within your own cells, then you’ll die right along with the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-s-idea-to-inject-disinfectant-stuns-world/story-icU2MbqOX9iXSLpcEcfpDK.html
24-04-2020||India||Maharashtra positive cases at 6817, deaths cross 300-mark, three-digit increase in Covid-19 cases for 21 days in a row||After 32 days of lockdown, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Maharashtra reached 6817 cases on Friday with 394 new cases. 5279 of these cases are in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone, which saw all the relaxations that came into effect on April 21withdrawn within a day. Friday’s increase was less compared to Thursday that saw 778 cases—the highest in a day since March 9 when the first Covid 19 cases were registered in the state.In Mumbai, the case count went up to 4,447 as 242 new cases were registered in a day.Monday was also the 21st consecutive day when the number of new cases in the state was in three digits. This is the reason why most of the cases -- 6519 -- are registered in April month alone.Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1000 cases on April 7 but crossed the 2000- mark within six days on April 13. The rise from 2000 to 4000 cases was also completed in six days on April19. The addition of next 2000 cases, taking the tally past 6000, only took four days.Though, the numbers are high, senior officials said the state is yet to reach community transmission stage as there is no exponential growth in Covid 19 cases. “The two 14-day cycles of incubation period of infection were completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22 when international traffic was stopped. We will have to wait for another seven days to assess the rising trend. If the rise continues and if the fresh cases are rising by more than 50% (over the previous day) on daily basis then it can be called exponential growth and only then can we say that the stage of community transmission has arrived,” said Dr T P Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). He clarified that exponential growth is also of two types: one is 50% rise in daily cases and another is doubling of cases, meaning 100% rise in a day. “If exponential growth starts than the state government will also have to extend the lockdown period for another three weeks till May 24 to break the incubation cycle,” Dr Lahane said.The death toll also crossed 300 mark in the state with 18 new deaths registered. Of them, 11 were in Mumbai, five in Pune and two were in Malegaon of Nashik. The total number of casualties in Mumbai increased to 178.Of the 18 deaths, 12 patients had co-morbidity conditions said the health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.40% (283 cases till Thursday) from 7.41% (148 cases) since last Monday (April 13). However, it continues to be higher than the national average of 3.11% till Thursday, as per the state medical education department data.As the cases are rising, the epidemic is also spreading to more areas of the state. Nanded reported its first case on April 22. With this, only three districts - Wardha, Bhandara, Gadchiroli - are left without a single case of Covid 19 as of now.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state health department has conducted 1,02,189 tests at various public and private facilities till date, 94,485 of these have tested negative. State currently has 512 active containment zones. Around 7,702 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 28.88 lakh for the virus. Around 957 patients have been discharged from the hospitals after recovery.It has also kept 8814 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities while 1,19,161 are home quarantined, states the state health officials.The Maharashtra government is also ready to start clinical trials of plasma therapy in the coming days after finally receiving the nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In the beginning, it will be started at Sassoon Hospital in Pune as permissions for other three hospitals in Mumbai, Nagpur and Solapur are still awaited. The state has also got permission for pool testing for Covid 19 that allows for using five samples in a single test. So far, only one sample is being tested at a time.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Once clinical trials are successful, the state can start plasma therapy as a treatment for Covid 19 patients. “We have received permission from the Centre for conducting clinical trials of plasma therapy in the state. Once cleared by the ethics committee of the state, it is going to be started in the next 3-4 days at Sassoon Hospital, Pune. It will also be started at JJ Hospital in Mumbai, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Nagpur and Solapur Medical College in Solapur once permissions are in place,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).The plasma therapy uses antibodies from the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those are affected. The concept behind the therapy is that the plasma of a recovered patient contains antibodies with the ability to fight the coronavirus.State health department officials said that with the new form of testing the state’s capacity would increase 10 times. The pool testing could help clusters or hotspots faster, officials added. The testing method involves putting multiple swab samples together and testing them in a single real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. If a batch tests positive, then everyone whose samples were a part of that batch would have to be tested separately. Conversely, if a batch tests negative, then all the samples are negative.Tope said that the state has also suggested use of portable pulse oximeter and chest X-ray test to help diagnose coronavirus patients and to subsequently decrease the mortality rate. A statement from the state health department said that it was suggested that the PPE kits should be disinfected and used again; this suggestion was appreciated in the meeting of union health minister and health ministers of all the states. The minister also said that the Centre is positive about allowing new testing facilities at six medical colleges in Maharashtra.So far, the state government has also done counselling of over 47,000 migrant workers wanting to go back to their native villages. This is being done with the help of psychiatrists and health staff, said the health minister. More than 6 lakh migrant workers are staying in over 944 shelter homes prepared by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-positive-cases-at-6817-deaths-cross-300-mark-three-digit-increase-in-covid-19-cases-for-21-days-in-a-row/story-jk62y8DxAvetWUS7rZaV0K.html
24-04-2020||India||62-year-old Kerala tests negative for Covid-19 in 20th test||A 62-year-old asymptomatic woman in Kerala who tested positive 19 consecutive times for the coronavirus finally was free of the virus on Friday. “She was tested negative twice and will be discharged from the hospital after the state medical board gives its permission,” said Pathanamthitta district medical officer Dr. N SheejaThe woman had been hospitalised 45 days ago after she contracted the disease following contact with a family who had returned from Italy, one of the worst hit countries in the world.The three-member family returned to their home in the district’s Ranni area on February 29 and had attended many functions before testing positive a week later. While all members of the family, including a 94-year-old man and his 88-year-old wife, woman had been discharged, this 62-year-old, not related to the family, remained hospitalised.She was first hospitalised on March 10 after she showed symptoms and soon after tested positive for the coronavirus. Later on, while she was free of the symptoms, she tested positive 19 times.In Kozhikkode (north Kerala) a person returned from Dubai on March 18 was turned positive at least 29 days after he was exposed to the virus. The World Health Organization (WHO) had prescribed a 14-day quarantine period but the state had extended it to 28 days to make it ensure that an asymptomatic person is disinfected. At least eight such cases where the person tested positive beyond the WHO period were reported from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/62-year-old-kerala-tests-negative-for-covid-19-in-20th-test/story-yGThilsaHfdEZO6OovZqBL.html
24-04-2020||India||IITs may not increase fee this year as HRD weighs options||New Delhi: The union human resources development ministry is considering asking the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) to not take up their fee this year on account of Covid-19, and the economic distress it has causes -- something the IITs said they would be open to. IIT Delhi said it has already decided to not hike the fees for its post graduate courses.“There is a view in the HRD ministry that premier institutions can step forward and take decisions which will benefit the student community as a whole, that the IITs should try to not hike fees. There have been discussions on this and the ministry could request the IITs to not implement a fee hike this year,” said a government official who asked not to be named.The decision on the fee for undergraduate courses is taken jointly in the IIT council, which is headed by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank while individual IITs take a call on the fee structure of other courses they offer.“The matter is at present in the discussion stage,” said a top official in the HRD ministry who asked not to be named.IIT Bombay Director Subhasis Chaudhuri said his institute will go by the decision of the IIT council. The director of another IIT, who asked not to be named, said he understood the logic behind the step but would like to see what the other IITs have to say. “The HRD ministry has already requested private schools not to pressure students into paying fees. It also wants them to not go for big, arbitrary hikes in view of the situation. In this light , the ministry will be seen as walking its talk, if its own institutions took the lead,” said the first official . The official added that apart from the IITs, the Indian Institutes of Information Technology too could be requested to spare the students a fee hike this year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iits-may-not-increase-fee-this-year-as-hrd-weighs-options/story-3eU5xvDy6dYWM0ScVWSSjK.html
24-04-2020||India||UGC to meet next week to decide if varsities should hold exams online||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has convened a meeting next week to discuss whether universities have the capacity to hold online exams and commence the next academic session, officials aware of the matter said. The higher education regulator will also seek to deliberate on whether it better to start the next academic year and hold exams later at the meeting.Two key committees submitted their reports on the new academic calendar and on promoting online education ahead of the meeting on Friday amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a national lockdown to check its spread and led to a closure of educational institutes. Vice-chancellors of Central University of Haryana and Indira Gandhi National Open University, R C Kuhad and Nageshwar Rao, headed the panels. “The Kuhad committee has examined the option of holding online exams. But keeping the country’s diversity in mind, a one-size-fits-all approach cannot be adopted. Not every university has the capacity to hold online exams. There may be students who can be at a disadvantage also if there are online exams. An assessment of the capacity to conduct online exams has to be carried out. So we are going to deliberate on all these aspects and then recommend the future course of action,” said an official, who did not want to be named.UGC chairman D P Singh said both reports have been received and will be taken into consideration. “Whatever decision the commission takes, will be conveyed to the universities.”A member of one of the committees cited the diversity of the country and educational institutions and said the latter will have to take a call but a road map can be suggested.A UGC official said the next academic session can commence while exams may be held later. “Another option can be to advance summer vacations. The National Testing Agency could also be involved. However, individual circumstances of universities have to be factored in also,” the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-to-meet-next-week-to-decide-if-varsities-should-hold-exams-online/story-5hrA7LPUK3t73VGp4XlaAL.html
24-04-2020||India||Don’t allow adversary to take advantage: Rajnath to forces||New Delhi: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday asked top military commanders to ensure that India’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the Covid-19 situation when the Pakistan army continues to violate the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) to help terrorists sneak into Jammu & Kashmir.Pakistan has violated the ceasefire 247 times this month (up to April 22), taking the count of border violations to 1,391 this year so far. The total number of ceasefire violations stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.The minister, via video conference, asked the commanders from the three services to ensure the operational readiness of their forces while battling the coronavirus disease. The armed forces are an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic and are working on a war footing to deal with Covid-19, including setting up dedicated hospitals, flying medical supplies and operating quarantine facilities.A statement issued by the defence ministry said Singh directed the armed forces to spend financial resources judiciously and avoid wastage in view of the economic burden imposed by Covid-19. Emphasising the need to strengthen jointness in the armed forces, Singh asked the top commanders to identify and prioritise tasks that could be accomplished quickly and would assist in the revival of the economy after the lockdown is lifted.Those who took part in the video conference included chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, defence secretary Ajay Kumar, secretary (defence finance) Gargi Kaul.The commanders-in-chief briefed the minister on the steps taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus among the forces as well as assistance being offered to the civilian administrations. The statement said the senior military commanders appreciated the recent devolution of emergency financial powers by the defence ministry to ensure timely procurement of necessary medical supplies and bolstering of the hospital infrastructure. The commanders said they were ready to pitch in to maintain essential services locally if requested by the civilian administration.Singh was to chair the Unified Commanders Conference (UCC) in Delhi on April 22-23 but the conclave was postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak. The UCC was to be attended by national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff, the three service chiefs and a battery of senior officers of the armed forces and the ministry.The army had earlier indefinitely deferred a conference of its top commanders scheduled from April 13 to April 18.Such top conferences cover key issues such as the country’s security dynamics, emerging security scenarios, enhancing operational capability, taking steps to stay prepared for all challenges and budgetary aspects. Issues related to theaterisation would have also been discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-allow-adversary-to-take-advantage-rajnath-to-forces/story-F7HnapXFVNV3qihc3IilwI.html
24-04-2020||India||Kerala HC orders US-based firm Sprinklr to maintain data confidentiality||The Kerala High Court in an interim order on Friday restrained US firm Srpinklr from breaching confidentiality of data and directed the state government to get the consent of individuals before sharing their data with the foreign company.Though the court expressed serious reservations over the way the firm was shortlisted and entered into an agreement for wetting data it said it did not want to upset the ongoing coronavirus control measures.Hearing a clutch of petitions filed by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, BJP state president K Surendran and others a division bench of Justices Devan Ramachandran and T R Ravi asked the state government to anonymise the data and directed Sprinklr not to use these for any promotional campaign. In April first week, the state IT department had inked an agreement with the US software firm to process a huge volume of data collected by grassroot health workers of the state. Though no money was involved in the contract, the opposition alleged that it was a breach of privacy and data. Later, it was also found that the cabinet and law department were not consulted before signing the deal and the opposition later moved the court alleging serious lapses. “Sprinklr shall not directly or indirectly deal with the data entrusted to them by the Kerala Government in conflict with the confidentiality clauses in the contract and will return the data as soon as their contractual obligations are over,” the court said in the interim order. The case will be taken up after three weeks.Both the government and opposition claimed their contentions were upheld by the court. “The court did not stay the agreement. The government took such a decision in a peculiar situation and we are duty-bound to protect data of our people,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The court expressed serious reservation over the deal. It also rejected the government contention not to seek the consent of individuals. It is time for the government scrap the deal,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. After the controversy surfaced, state IT secretary M Shivasankar, also the CM’s private secretary, told the media last week that he took the decision personally as the pandemic situation was getting out of control in the state. Later, he also appeared in a promotional video of the deal which was removed from Sprinklr’s website after the controversy cropped up.“We direly needed an entry that could vet a considerable amount of health data to identify infection patterns to streamline the containment strategy. Spirnklr agreed to provide the service without charge. The arrangement did not warrant the prior vetting of the finance or legal departments. It was my decision at a desperate time,” he said justifying the deal. But the opposition said he owned up to the decision to save the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-orders-us-based-firm-sprinklr-to-maintain-data-confidentiality/story-q4WDZR4ioEJolaQn57PPvM.html
24-04-2020||India||Raj crosses 2k-mark after 44 new cases||Jaipur: The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases surpassed 2,000 in Rajasthan on Friday with 44 fresh cases, as it became the fourth state to breach the grim milestone in the battle to contain the infectious disease that has prompted the government to lock down the country till May 3.While the number of cases climbed to 2008, four deaths were reported from Jaipur on Friday, taking the toll in the state to 31. Of the fresh positive cases, 21 were reported from Jaipur, 18 from Kota, four from Jhalawar and one from Bharatpur.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, said a 79-year-old man from Jamwa Ramgarh in the Jaipur district died of Covid-19 on April 22. He was admitted at the SMS hospital on April 13 for an emergency surgery. While his first sample tested negative for Covid-19, a second sample taken on April 23, after his death, was found positive for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen.A 60-year-old man who was suffering from coronary artery disease died on April 23. He was admitted to SMS hospital on April 22 and was found positive on the evening of April 23, said Singh.The developments came even as the central government deployed six teams, including one in Rajasthan’s Jaipur, to assess an alarming rise in the number of cases and present a report on remedial action to control the outbreak.Singh said that data showed that of every 100 people tested in Rajasthan, 2.85 were testing positive, while the national average for infected people was 4.4.The highest number of infected persons per 100 tests was being reported from Delhi, with 7.94 cases, followed by Maharashtra with 6.86 cases. The states ranking lower than Rajasthan were Tamil Nadu, with 2.7 positive cases per 100 tests, Kerala with 2.1 cases, Andhra Pradesh with 1.96 cases, Haryana with 1.7 cases and Karnataka with 1.45 cases.Health minister Raghu Sharma said that while the total count crossed 2,000 in Rajasthan, the rate of infection appeared to be slowing. He said 193 people were so far discharged after recovering from Covid-19.Sharma said that the state was increasing the capacity and the mortality rate in the state was lower than the national average.On Friday, the Rajasthan government allowed the working time in factories to be increased from 8 hours to 12 hours per day with limited workforce. The Rajasthan Factories and Boilers Inspection Department has given exemption to factories to operate at full capacity with around 60-65% of the usual manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-crosses-2k-mark-after-44-new-cases/story-hbqO3V90PXtBmgxi6X4TCL.html
24-04-2020||India||Kerala shuts its borders with Tamil Nadu||Thiruvananthapuram: Last month when north Kerala district Kasaragod turned a virus hotspot, Karnataka closed its borders with Kerala, forcing the latter to take the inter-state issue to the Supreme Court . Now, Kerala has closed its borders with Tamil Nadu . Many human rights activists and others have criticised the state’s double standards. The issue took a serious turn last week when a patient from Tamil Nadu died after Kerala police turned away the ambulance carrying him. The ambulance driver later said he literally begged officials at the check post to save the life of the patient. It’s easier for many patients in Tamil Nadu’s border areas to go to Kerala’s large cities (which are close-by) for treatment. Thiruvananthapuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan said he was not aware of the case and that usually ambulances and trucks carrying essential supplies do not face any problems at the borders. A senior police officer said many ambulances were smuggling people into the state and this might have forced officials to deny permission to the vehicle carrying the patient.A government sokesperson said Krala was forced to take strict action after people who returned from Tamil Nadu fell ill. He cited the case of a Kulathupuzha resident who tested positive after his trip to Tamil Nadu to attend a function. At least 15 of this person’s primary contacts have been quarantined and a complete lockdown was imposed on three neigboring villages Thenmala, Aryankavu and Kulathupuzha.“Some of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu depend on Kerala for medical needs. There are many instances that serious patients were turned away at the borders. When Karnataka closed its border Kerala made it a big national issue. Sad, now Kerala is resorting to the same tactic. If the situation continues like this we will move the court,” human rights activist P Selvaraj said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-shuts-its-borders-with-tamil-nadu/story-pxJJ7FCJLtRJXsRIlP8DBK.html
24-04-2020||India||DRDO offers oxygen plants to far-flung hospitals||New Delhi: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has decided to provide medical-grade oxygen plants to hospitals in far-flung areas to generate their own supplies of the gas that is crucial in treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, two government officials said on Friday.The oxygen-generating system is an offshoot of a critical system on board the homegrown Tejas light combat aircraft and it utilises “the pressure swing adsorption technique and molecular sieve technology” to generate oxygen directly from atmospheric air, the first official cited above said on condition of anonymity.All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Thursday that many of the Covid-19 patients “can be saved by just giving them oxygen”. “If they do not get oxygen, it can trigger various other problems...,” he said about the contagious respiratory disease that has killed at least 195,000 people across the world.The technology has been approved by the Centre for Military Airworthiness and Certification, a regulatory body under DRDO.The first official said that “the oxygen plants will help provide medical-grade oxygen supply during the pandemic in hospitals in urban, rural and far-flung areas”. “The installation of these plants will reduce the dependence of hospitals on oxygen cylinders. They will be of great help in high altitude and inaccessible, remote areas,” the official added.The oxygen generator has been developed by Bengaluru-based Defence Bioengineering and Electro-medical Laboratory (DEBEL, a DRDO unit) and the technology has been transferred to a Coimbatore-based private firm.The firm has the capacity to install four plants in two weeks, 20 in five weeks and production can be ramped up if required, the second officer said, asking not to be named. “The benefits include reduced logistics of transporting cylinders to remote areas. The plants will ensure low cost, continuous and reliable oxygen supply round the clock,” he added.The technology is in service with the Indian Army, which has installed oxygen plants at some of its facilities in Ladakh and the North-east. The plants can also be used for filling up oxygen cylinders. Each plant can fill 47 litre (water capacity) cylinders at the rate of 60 per day, he said.DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, having developed several products to combat the pandemic, including ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, large-area sanitisation solutions and sample collection kiosks.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up Covid-19 screening and other research and development activities. The MVRDL has been developed by the DRDO, Hyderabad-based Employees’ State Insurance Corporation hospital and private industry.DRDO last week shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on PPE kits from Gwalior to New Delhi to reduce delays and ensure faster delivery of safety gear to health care workers battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-offers-oxygen-plants-to-far-flung-hospitals/story-nKkyKO6uuhyYGSLuXzWPMO.html
24-04-2020||India||Australia supports India’s demand for WHO reform after Covid: Envoy-to-be||New Delhi: Australia supports India’s call for the reform of the World Health Organization (WHO) once the world has overcome the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak as part of efforts to shape the post Covid-19 global order, Australian high commissioner-designate Barry O’Farrell said on Friday.O’Farrell acknowledged Covid-19-related lockdowns and travel restrictions across the region had affected the repatriation of Australian citizens stranded in India, but said more than 2,000 of them had already been flown back on five flights, and more would return on four flights next week.In an interview with Hindustan Times, he also spoke of the measures put in place by Australian authorities to help the hundreds of thousands of Indians stranded in that country, especially students who have been provided an emergency grant of Australian $500 each (about Rs 25,000). There are about 600,000 Indians, including some 90,000 students, currently in Australia and as with stranded citizens in other parts of the world, they have been asked to “stay put” in view of travel restrictions, people familiar with developments said.“There have been regular discussions about how best we can shape the post-Covid world order. For instance, Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi’s call at the G20 for reform of the WHO, which is something that our government has also been supportive of,” said O’Farrell, who has so far been unable to present his credentials because of the pandemic.“The Australian government has talked about the need to have an independent review of the way that the [WHO] has handled this pandemic, but only once the worst of Covid has passed. We think that could be a natural area of future collaboration between the two governments.”During a virtual meeting of G20 leaders on March 26, Modi had called for the reform of inter-governmental organisations, such as WHO, saying they were based on the last century’s model and have not adapted to deal with new challenges.Australia, O’Farrell said, has been a long-standing supporter of India “taking a leadership role in the multilateral system, including as a permanent member of the UN Security Council”. He added: “Our belief is that stepping up in that way will also be critically important in the post-Covid world.”Of the 6,500 Australian nationals who registered with the high commission here, more than 2,000 returned in five flights so far and more will be repatriated by four flights next week, O’Farrell said. The evacuation has been complicated by travel restrictions in places such as Singapore, via which flights have to transit.“Has it been easy? No. The people here at the high commission have been working flat out exploring options and…not every company that we’ve approached was either able or willing to provide services,” he said.While praising the “incredible assistance” from the Central and state governments, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and police forces for facilitating the movement of Australian citizens, O’Farrell said not everyone who had registered intended to leave India.“It’s clear to me…that India’s policy settings have averted some of the alarmist predictions and projections made back in February-March,” he said, adding such factors were influencing decisions by Australian citizens whether to return or stay on in India.O’Farrell said he is in close contact with India’s envoy in Canberra, A Gitesh Sarma, to ensure the welfare of Indians stranded in Australia. The Australian government and universities have announced measures to support Indian students, “who are our friends, colleagues, classmates and temporary members of the Australian community to ensure they have the support needed to get through this difficult time”, he said.The Australian federal government put Australian $100 million into the university sector, which in turn put “almost as much into funds and food banks for assisting international students”, he said. This included an emergency grant of Australian $500, fee reductions and food pantries for students, he added.Modi and his Australian counterpart, Scott Morrison, who spoke on phone on April 6, have scheduled a “virtual summit” very soon and the foreign ministers and foreign secretaries of the two sides are also in touch on cooperating in the fight against Covid-19.“We’ve also noted India’s generosity in providing free medical supplies to its friends in need, not just in the immediate region but also in relation to Australia.We look forward to further positive support from India on our request for PPE (personal protective equipment) and other key medical supplies,” O’Farrell said, adding Australia too had recently sought hydroxychloroquine from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-supports-india-s-demand-for-who-reform-after-covid-envoy-to-be/story-3uyqqIqQnMzAIsYQI0PYfJ.html
24-04-2020||India||No move to shift Andhra capital to Vizag immediately, Jagan govt tells HC||The Andhra Pradesh government will not take any steps to shift the capital city from its present location of Amaravati till the state legislature passes bills pertaining to decentralisation of administration and repeal of AP capital region development authority act.Advocate General Subrahmanyam Sriram, arguing on behalf of the state government, gave an assurance to this effect to the state high court on Friday. He sought 10 days’ time to file an affidavit in the court in this regard.Sriram told the court that the government would not make any moves on shifting of administrative capital to Visakhapatnam and judicial capital to Kurnool from the existing capital city of Amaravati, until the legislations were enacted by the state legislature for decentralization of administration and abolishing of Amaravati capital region authority.A division bench comprising chief justice J K Maheshwari and judges A V Sesha Sai and M Satyanarayana Murthy, which was hearing a petition filed by Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi (Amaravati Protection Committee), asked the Advocate General to record his statement or submit an affidavit within 10 days, stating that the capital would not be shifted from Amaravati till the bills were passed.The two bills were originally passed in the state assembly on January 20, but were stalled in the state legislative council two days later. Legislative council chairman M A Shariff referred the two bills to the select committee using his discretionary power, but the legislature secretary refused to constitute the select committee on procedural grounds.Meanwhile, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government adopted a resolution in the assembly abolishing the legislative council and sent the same to the Centre for approval. The council will get abolished if the Centre passes a bill in the Parliament to that effect.Arguing on behalf of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi, advocate U Muralidhar Rao brought to the notice of the high court that the government was making attempts to shift the capital overnight notwithstanding the present Covid-19 pandemic situation.He submitted to the court the minutes of an internal meeting of executive committee of AP Secretariat Employees Association on shifting of the Secretariat to Visakhapatnam and also media reports about YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy announcing the shifting of administrative capital to Visakhapatnam at the earliest.The high court bench said if the government goes ahead with the capital shift despite the assurance given by the Advocate General, the petitioners could invoke urgency through the high court registry and request an earlier hearing before the bench.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-move-to-shift-andhra-capital-to-vizag-immediately-jagan-govt-tells-hc/story-5Du9PKu8wabr90fBNIT20K.html
24-04-2020||India||Bombay, Orissa and Meghalaya high courts get new chief justices||The Central government on Thursday cleared the appointment of new chief justices to three high courts - Bombay, Orissa and Meghalaya.Calcutta high court judge, Justice Dipankar Datta was appointed chief justice of Bombay high court.Justice Biswanath Somadder will be the new Meghalaya high court chief justice while Justice Mohammad Rafiq will take over as Orissa high court chief justice.The Supreme Court collegium had recommended these three appointments on April 18.Justice Datta will take over from the current chief justice of Bombay, Justice BP Dharmadhikari who will retire from office on April 27.Justice Datta, who was born in 1965, obtained a law degree in 1989 and practiced in the Supreme Court and high courts before he was appointed judge of Calcutta high court in 2006.Justice Somadder who originally hails from Calcutta high court is currently serving as a judge of Allahabad high court.Like Justice Datta, justice Somadder also began his law practice in the year 1989 and was elevated as a judge of the Calcutta high court in 2006 before he was transferred to Allahabad high court in October 2019.Justice Mohammad Rafiq, who is currently serving as chief justice of Meghalaya high court, was transferred to Orissa high court in view of Justice Somadder’s appointment as the new chief justice of Meghalaya high court.Justice Rafiq, whose parent high court is Rajasthan, was elevated as the Meghalaya high court chief justice in November 2019.The Orissa high court has been without a permanent chief justice since January 5 after the retirement of former chief justice, KS Jhaveri. The high court is currently headed by acting chief justice Sanju Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-orissa-and-meghalaya-high-courts-get-new-chief-justices/story-GSQfc4kOyHp51lBA5hhpuL.html
24-04-2020||India||With 427% jump in search, Covid-19 blocked out other queries: Yahoo report||A month into the lockdown, search queries for coronavirus-related matters saw a whopping jump of 427%, a report by search engine Yahoo revealed. The ‘Search in the Lockdown’ report reveals that while search terms for news events such as ‘Delhi election results,’ ‘Delhi riots’ and ‘JNU violence’ were top trends, through the lockdown, novel Coronavirus-related searches such as ‘COVID-19 updates’, ‘symptoms of COVID-19’, ‘COVID-19 treatment’, ‘COVID-19 death toll’ and ‘Live COVID-19 tracker’ were what people were looking for online. Among the searches that people were looking for related to coronavirus, ‘lockdown in India’, ‘vaccine for coronavirus’, ‘social distancing’ and ‘Hydroxychloroquine’ were some of the top searches, the report reveals.While before the lockdown, navigational searches for ‘WhatsApp web’ and ‘YouTube’ were the most searched tools for communication, after the lockdown searches for ‘Zoom’, ‘Skype’, ‘Google Hangouts’, ‘Microsoft Teams’ and ‘GoToMeeting’ took over.Ramayana overtook Big Boss, Drive, Tanhaji, Housefull 4 and Good Newwz as their top entertainment searches, soon after the government announced that the mythological series will be telecast during the lockdown on state-run Doordarshan TV. Several requests for more mythological programs to be brought back for people at home during the quarantine were registered. Pandemic movie Contagion also jumped to the top five in India. Among female celebrities, Priyanka Chopra was dethroned by Kanika Kapoor, who tested positive for Covid-19. Chopra was followed by Disha Patani, Deepika Padukone and Sara Ali Khan. Amitabh Bachchan took over as the most searched male celebrity after he urged his fans on social media to stay safe, taking over from Rajinikanth who was the most-searched male celebrity before lockdown. Salman Khan, Aamir Khan Akshay Kumar and Tiger Shroff were other names people looked for online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-427-jump-in-search-covid-19-blocked-out-other-queries-yahoo-report/story-O2khsGT07RRwGfLB8V6HHN.html
24-04-2020||India||Asha worker attacked for collecting data on Covid-19 patients in Odisha||A man was arrested in Balasore town of Odisha for allegedly attacking an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker and her family members at their home.The attack comes just days after the Centre brought in an ordinance to check the mounting attacks and protect health workers at the forefront of battle against coronavirus.The arrested person was identified as Ramesh Mahalik of Niliabag area, where six Covid-19 positive cases have been detected over the last week. ASHA worker Subhadra was attacked in her home on Thursday. The ASHA worker alleged that the accused made objectionable comments while she was collecting details of people with Covid-19 symptoms in the Niliabag containment zone. “As the ASHA worker returned to her home, the accused, along with his family members, entered her house forcibly and assaulted her and her family, including the woman’s daughter and mother-in-law,” said Balasore SP B Jugal Kishore. The ASHA worker and her family members were later rescued by her neighbours.On Wednesday, an ASHA, anganwadi worker and the local sarpanch in Jajpur district, another Covid-19 hotspot zone, were attacked by a few people who had returned from Bengal when the former advised them to stay in a quarantine facility. ASHA worker Rama Pramanik, anganwadi worker Rama Sundari Panda, sarpanch Madhab Mallick of Rahasol grampanchayat was advising five persons of the panchayat to stay in quarantine when the latter attacked. The five persons had returned from Kolkata recently, but refused to stay in quarantine saying they showed no symptoms of Covid-19. On Monday morning, ASHA worker Madhuri Nayak in Nayagarh district was scalded when her neighbour allegedly threw hot rice gruel on her face while the former was on her way to Nuagaon for spreading awareness about coronavirus. Nayak was rushed to the district headquarters hospital for treatment. The police have arrested accused Manua. The positive cases in Odisha surged to 94 today with five more cases being reported, all with travel history to Bengal. Of the 94 cases, 38 have travel history to Bengal forcing the state government to seal 57 routes connecting Odisha with its immediate neighbour and stopping even ambulances that were being used to enter Odisha borders.The Centre on Wednesday had asserted that the government has “zero tolerance” for violence and harassment against doctors, nurses, paramedics and other healthcare personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asha-worker-attacked-for-collecting-data-on-covid-19-ve-patients-in-odisha/story-AZxHd8YHM1zGLnPkBdMUmN.html
24-04-2020||India||MP red-flags shortage of testing kits, Indore tally crosses 1000||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday red-flagged a shortage of coronavirus testing kits and sought help from the Centre even as the Covid situation in the state remained grim with 25 of its 52 districts having positive cases.To make matters worse, Covid-19 positive patients crossed the 1,000 mark in Indore-- the worst affected city in the state. Two other districts with positive cases in three digits include Bhopal (360) and Ujjain (102)..Notably, the state government’s red-flag came just two days after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made an appeal to people saying, “Those whose samples have been taken need not go anywhere. Now, our testing capacity is 2,000 per day. Madhya Pradesh has 22520 RT PCR and 14200 manual RNA kits.”The state is much behind its neighbouring states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat in samples collection and testing.According to the state health bulletin released on Friday, the state has 1,846 Covid-19 positive patients including1029 from Indore alone. State capital Bhopal has 360 patients, while Ujjain’s tally shot up to 102 on Friday from 76 on Thursday. There are at least 12 districts with patients tally in double-digit, which include Khargone with 61 patients, Dhar with 36, Khandwa with 35 and Jabalpur with 31 patients. 92 patients have died so far including 55 in Indore alone. Drawing the attention of union health minister Dr Harshvardhan during a video conference on Friday, newly appointed health minister of the state Narottam Mishra said, “We have enough machines. We can get more machines but we don’t have testing kits. You will have to give more testing kits. Shivraj Singh Chouhan is making efforts to control the situation but if testing kits are made available, this will give relief to us.”As per the report on April 19, the state government had ordered for 116,500 manual extraction kits but only got 14,200 such kits. Similarly, the government had ordered 102,600 RT PCR kits but got 22,520. The state was only left with 200 manual extraction kits and 5,300 RT-PCR testing kits in stock, triggering concern.“We need the kits immediately,” Mishra told Harsh Vardhan on Friday. In Indore, commissioner Akash Tripathi said that the administration was in touch with every vendor. “All of them have said waiting time for kits is about two weeks,” said Tripathi.The officials said that because of the poor availability of kits in the state, samples were sent to other states for testing, leading to delays in getting results. As per health department officials, there is a delay of 7 to 10 days in getting reports since all the labs approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are overburdened.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Friday, Mishra urged the union health minister to intervene for the release of more than 1,700 test reports done by a Noida lab. On Friday itself, the state government sent as many as 1,600 samples--- 600 from Indore and 1,000 from Bhopal to Puducherry—hoping lab there will be able to provide early results.Till Friday, the state had sent 35,076 samples for testing and received reports for 26,233 samples. As many as 8,843 reports were still pending, as per the state government’s report.In Rajasthan, the Congress government has sent 74,400 samples for testing with only 4,343 reports pending. In Maharashtra, the number of samples sent for test stood at 96,369 as on Thursday.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “We have been saying right from day one that the government’s approach is wrong. It’s mainly focused on lockdown restrictions and social distancing, whereas the work on creating more and more labs to enhance the testing capacity of the state and getting more and more testing kits was lacking and stuck in a bureaucratic approach.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-s-covid-tally-crosses-1-000-mp-raises-alert-over-testing-kits/story-ZL0CZLt2Wv5gyM02lcxzhJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Cabinet secy to meet chief secretaries on Saturday||Two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets state chief ministers to decide on the road map after the federal lockdown ends on May 3, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba has called a meeting of all chief secretaries and top policemen of the states along with select union secretaries on Saturday. The meeting, scheduled on Saturday morning, will be focused on the concessions given by the Union home ministry to the states during the lockdown period but it will not be a mere stock taking exercise, an official, who will be present during the discussion, said on Friday.The cabinet secretary is expected to point out some loopholes and different interpretations of the central advisory that has led to confusion at the local levels and also take feedback from the senior bureaucracy on the possible measures they would expect to come into force when the lockdown ends on May 3.The presence of director generals of state police forces assume significance as there will be a detailed discussion on the law and order issues faced in different states in implementing the concessions during the lockdown.Select Union secretaries are expected to make presentations and may also provide clear instructions to the states for an effective implementation of the relaxations that are aimed at providing employment and boosting the economy.But the meeting will also lay the foundation for the Prime Minister’s meeting on Monday as the government has now turned its focus into planning for the days and weeks ahead. The official added that the discussions and the outcome of the cabinet secretary’s meeting will be shared with the Prime Minister’s Office.After India completed 21 days in lockdown, the Narendra Modi government had announced a gradual restart of the economy with a sharp focus on the agriculture sector and the ease of services, including e-commerce, for urban India. Most of the measures started from April 20 even as the Covi-19 hot spots, as identified by the states or local authorities, continued to face tough containment measures to contain the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-cabinet-secy-to-meet-chief-secretaries-on-sat/story-lnFxn7TUMjcgEUh1flwNxL.html
24-04-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: Maharashtra govt releases over 4,000 prisoners to decongest jails||The Bombay High Court has directed the state government to expedite the process and release on temporary bail or parole those prisoners who are serving sentences of less than seven years as per the directions of the Supreme Court to decongest jails in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court also directed the high power committee to expedite hearing and deciding on the representation made by two inmates who are accused of crimes under special enactments and were refused interim parole.The single bench of justice G S Kulkarni issued the directions while hearing a suo moto petition which was prompted by the letter from advocate Satish Talekar who claimed that there was little or no effort on the part of the state to implement the SC directions. On its part, the state informed the bench on Thursday that as per the SC directions, 4,060 out of 11,000 prisoners had been released on interim bail or parole. The state also assured the bench that no prisoner in jails across Maharashtra was affected by Covid-19. Public Prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted a letter dated April 20 by additional director general (prisons) which stated that none of the inmates in prisons across state was affected with coronavirus and so far, 4060 under trials were released on temporary bail. The letter stated that further action to release more prisoners as prescribed by the high-powered committee was underway.After hearing the submissions through video conferencing, justice Kulkarni observed, “I am of the opinion, that as the state is already in process of releasing 11000 prisoners, it is not necessary to issue immediate directions. However, it is clarified that the State Government may expedite such steps which are being taken, so that the SC orders are implemented in letter and spirit.”The court asked the high-powered committee to consider the representation made by inmates who were refused temporary bail or parole as they were booked for crimes under special enactments and decide it at the earliest and posted further hearing on April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-maharashtra-govt-releases-over-4-000-prisoners-to-decongest-jails/story-nuYNPYXO3wO3QC6kHWItQJ.html
24-04-2020||India||To avoid crowding, police bury militants killed in J&K gunfight away from their villages||Police on Friday said they buried three local militants killed in a gun battle in south Kashmir’s Shopian district at a location away from their native villages in order to avert a large gathering amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Officials said relatives of the dead men were present at the burial along with a magistrate. All legal formalities were completed before the burial, they added.On Wednesday, four militants were killed in a gun battle at Mulhora village in Shopian district. After the skirmish ended, police didn’t reveal the identities of the slain militants and buried their bodies at Sonmarg in Ganderbal district, 110 km from the spot of the gun battle.Asked about the identity of the militants killed in Shopian, inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said three of the four men were identified by their families. “They (families) participated in the burial in the presence of a magistrate,” he said.Kumar acknowledged the militants weren’t buried in their native villages. A senior police officer, who declined to be named, confirmed the militants were buried in Ganderbal.This is the second time since the Covid-19 lockdown began in Kashmir that the bodies of militants have been buried away from their villages.On April 17, two unidentified militants were killed in Shopian and hours later, two families wrote an application to the local deputy commissioner saying the slain men were their kin.Police took the bodies of the two men to north Kashmir’s Baramulla district and buried them there and officials later said no one had approached them regarding the dead men.Later, Shopian’s deputy commissioner permitted two members of the families to travel to Baramulla. The families have now submitted an application to Baramulla’s deputy commissioner, demanding exhumation of the bodies.However, officials said exhumation can be done only after legal formalities are fulfilled as required by the government.On April 8, when a Jaish-e-Mohammed commander was killed in a gun battle in Sopore, his body was handed over to relatives after they gave an assurance to police that they would observe social distancing at the funeral.However, hundreds of people gathered for the funeral and photographs of the event went viral on social media. A day later, police registered a case against several people for violating social distancing norms, and more than 12 people were taken into custody.Similarly, when four militants were killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district in the first week of April, a large number of people attended their funeral and didn’t observe social distancing norms.Since the beginning of the lockdown, 17 militants have been killed across Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-avoid-crowding-police-bury-militants-killed-in-j-k-gunfight-away-from-their-villages/story-hvmNipjpIQDQHTQrXHRSeO.html
24-04-2020||India||As PM dials Odisha CM, Jagannath temple says rath yatra decision after May 3||Decision on conducting the annual rath yatra at Puri will be taken only after the nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic is lifted on May 3, said Jagannath temple authorities on Friday.Earlier this morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a discussion with chief minister Naveen Patnaik. However, it was not clear what the leaders discussed. With the Covid-19 cases surging to 94 in Odisha, Puri king Gajapati Maharaj Dibyasingh Deb, who heads the management committee of the 12th century Jagannath temple, said it is the responsibility of both the Centre and state government to decide whether the rath yatra, scheduled for June 23, can be held in presence of only servitors and officials or not at all. Any decision in this regard, will be based on the revised guidelines which are expected to come up after the lockdown ends on May 3, said Deb.The temple doors have been shut since March 20 due to the pandemic. Only day-to-day rituals are being done by the temple priests.“As per the present restrictions, no congregation or religious functions can be organised in temples and religious institutions. We have to respect and abide by the guidelines for lockdown. However, the construction of chariots cannot be taken up till May 3,” said Dibyasingha Deb, who chaired a meeting of the temple administration.The Puri king, who is first among equals of all devotee of Lord Jagannath, said most of the rituals including Snan Yatra, Anasara Bidhi, Sri Gundicha Yatra, Bahuda Yatra, Niladri Bije of the Lord will be held in the month of June. “As there is still time, we will wait for the new guidelines after the lockdown ends. The Managing Committee will conduct a meeting after the guidelines are released,” he said.About a million devotees throng Puri for rath yatra every year for the 10-day long festival, the most important one in Odisha.The Puri king said that the chariot construction work that was supposed to start on the auspicious day of Akshay Tritiya and Chandan Yatra on April 26 will also stay suspended till May 3.The Gajapati and officials led by Puri temple chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar met Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati seeking his guidance on conduct of the temple rituals of the rath yatra like Akshay Tritiya as there will be no public participation during lockdown period.Meanwhile, Nayak Patajoshi Janardhan Mohapatra, who heads Chhatisa Nijog, a body of temple servitors(priests) of Puri temple, suggested that instead of scrapping the festival totally, it should be scaled down and conducted in a controlled environment with the help of police personnel and temple servitors. “The police personnel and the servitors should be identified, tested and kept in isolation well in advance. The government should announce that the festival would be conducted with absolutely no participation by public,” said Mohapatra.If the car festival is not held this year, it would be the first time in the last 284 years when it could not be held. Jagannath temple historian Bhaskar Mishra said in the last 425 years of car festival, the event has been scrapped 32 times, mostly during invasion. “It was scrapped for the first time in 1568 when Kala Pahad alias Kala Chand Roy, a general of Bengal king Suleiman Kirrani attacked the temple and pillaged the deities. For the next 9 years, Rath Yatra could not be held,” said Mishra.The last time the car festival could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district, said Mishra.The uncertainty over the rath yatra comes at a time when the Naveen Patnaik government is gearing to rebuild Puri as a world heritage city pumping in Rs 3,208 crore in infrastructure development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-pm-dials-odisha-cm-jagannath-temple-says-rath-yatra-decision-after-may-3/story-xt7aCXSAUZIxcPcIpjHq4K.html
24-04-2020||India||‘Ramzan Mubarak!’: Prime Minister Modi’s wish includes victory against coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted the Muslim community on the eve of the beginning of the holy month of Ramzan and said that he prayed for everyone’s safety, well being and prosperity while wishing for a decisive victory against coronavirus pandemic for a healthier planet.“Ramzan Mubarak! I pray for everyone’s safety, well-being and prosperity. May this Holy Month bring with it abundance of kindness, harmony and compassion. May we achieve a decisive victory in the ongoing battle against COVID-19 and create a healthier planet,” a tweet by the prime minister said.Prime minister’s message coincided with the sighting of the new moon which marks the beginning of Ramzan fast from Saturday ink most parts of the country.Governments, Muslim clerics and leaders have appealed that prayers during Ramzan be held inside homes and not at mosques or at other places of religious gathering keeping in mind the threat of infections spreading further. Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid Syed Ahmed Bukhari has requested the devotees to not invite neighbours at their homes during Ramzan and also to ensure that not more than three persons offer prayers together in a room.“I appeal to all that do not invite your neighbours to your house to offer prayers during Ramzan. Ensure that there are not more than three people in one room even while offering prayers with your family members. COVID-19 will end only when we will unite,” Bukhari was quoted as saying by ANI.The agency reported that a poster was put up outside the Jama Masjid that said: “Due to coronavirus, it is mandatory to keep the distance from the people. So, offer prayers at your homes instead of mosques.”Ramzan began on Friday in Kerala and in coastal Karnataka districts. The holy month will begin tomorrow morning for the rest of the country including capital Delhi.Delhi Police on Friday said that azan may be carried out in accordance with the National Green Tribunal guidelines and urged people to follow the lockdown norms during the Ramzan.The police’s appeal followed a video put on social media that purportedly had a couple of policemen claiming that azan was not allowed during the lockdown.Delhi government later clarified that there was no restriction on azan (call for prayer). “In lockdown, there is complete ban on gathering of people for prayers in mosques or at any other religious place,” Sisodia said in a tweet on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramzan-mubarak-prime-minister-modi-s-wish-includes-victory-against-coronavirus/story-ZhzEdxE39foxMUBLyiYh4H.html
24-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In key video conference with PM Modi, what could be on states’ wish list and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In key video conference with PM Modi, what could be on states’ wish listChief ministers, especially of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states, are likely to seek inter-state transport for migrant labourers, an increase in their borrowing capacity and go head for offering work for food when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with them via video-conferencing on Monday. Read more. India sees biggest Covid-19 spike in 24 hours with 1,752 cases, 37 deathsIn its biggest single-day jump since the beginning of the outbreak, India on Friday reported 1,752 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total to 23,452. The number of deaths rose to 723 with 37 more people dying from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. Read more. In Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown exit plan, Mumbai and Kolkata are big worriesThe Centre is leaning towards a calibrated exit from the Covid-19 national lockdown beginning May 3 that would strike a balance between ensuring the pandemic doesn’t flare-up and easing restrictions in order to revive the economy. Read more. Australia backs India’s call for WHO reform post Covid-19 crisis, says envoy-designateAustralia supports India’s call for the reform of the World Health Organization (WHO) once the world has overcome the Coronavirus crisis as part of efforts to shape the post Covid-19 global order, Australian high commissioner-designate Barry O’Farrell said on Friday. Read more. How to download and send Ramadan WhatsApp StickersAlthough majority of us are at homes during the Covid-19 lockdown, some of us are celebrating the auspicious Ramadan festival. And WhatsApp Stickers can be the perfect way to wish each other. Read more. Defending Jacob review: Chris Evans escapes from under the shadow of Marvel in new Apple TV thrillerChris Evans and his beard star in Defending Jacob, the Apple TV+ original series, about the implosion of a small family after their teenaged son is accused of killing a schoolmate.Read more. Tweeple share their cooking-fails to cheer up 9-year-old who messed up her dish. Thread is a must readFor anyone who loves to cook or bake, the most heartbreaking thing is when what you made doesn’t turn out the way you expected it to. That’s what happened with this young girl who tried but messed up her dish while baking it. Read more. Book hoarder’s paradise: Why do we stock up on books only to read them at leisure?If an individual were to calculate their cash inflow and outflow by means of a balance sheet at the end of every financial year, book hoarders are one of the few spendthrift names that would definitely get a mention in what could be a list of defaulters. Read more. Rajnath Singh interacts with top commanders of Armed forces: Key pointsUnion Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to top commanders of the Armed forces to review operational preparedness. The minister was apprised about the situation at the borders. Singh met the Armed forces to ensure that India’s adversaries do not get any opportunity to exploit the current situation arising due to Covid-19. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and three service chiefs were part of the meeting.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-key-video-conference-with-pm-modi-what-could-be-on-states-wish-list-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KkwVLLLpg0jIV9khxHnByN.html
24-04-2020||India||In tests at Delhi’s biggest containment zones, a 6/11 score raises hope||Six out of the 11 biggest containment zones in national capital Delhi have reported an increase in cases during tests conducted over a five-day period, a top Delhi government official told Hindustan Times.The national capital has a total of 92 containment zones across its 11 districts. The spread of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the remaining containment zones is well under control, the official said.The health department had carried out tests between April 19 and 23 to get a sense of the spread of infection in these Covid-19 hotspots.The positive cases shot up from 2 to 51 in Sadar Bazar, rose from 20 to 32 in Nabi Karim, from 3 to 20 in Chandni Mahal zone and from 8 to 13 in Nawabganj.Also read: In key video conference with PM Modi, what could be on states’ wish listIn north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri’s C block that covers people living in 10 lanes, the cases went up from 20 to 32 while in Budh Nagar, Inderpuri containment zone, one additional case was reported taking the total to 3.There was no increase reported from Nizamuddin Markaz and basti (it has 12 cases), Bara Hindu Rao (10), EA block of Inderpuri (2), Jahangirpuri’s B block (8) and Dilshad Garden (6).The test results have prompted Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to order officials to further demarcate the big containment zones into sectors. Or as one official described them, “safe zones”.For instance, four sectors - C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-4 - have been carved out of Chandni Mahal containment zone, home to 5.5 lakh people. And another three - S-1, S-2 and S-3 - in Sadar Bazar.A senior health department official said the government was keen that safe zones within large containment zones be carved out to keep them insulated from the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen. So Chandni Mahal may still be one containment zone but it is divided into four sectors.Also read: In Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown exit plan, 1 principle and 2 crucial worriesThe size of a containment zone is directly proportional to the population density of the cluster in question and the scale of the outbreak.Many of these are small, in some cases as small as a single lane in a residential colony.But there are other areas where the administration had notified an entire locality - home to lakhs of people - as a containment zone.In all, there are 11 containment zones in the city that have a population of more than 10,000.Of these, there are 8 where the population is between 10,000 and 40,000 people.The three mega containment zones are in central Delhi: Sadar Bazar where 3.5 lakh people are under a hard lockdown, Chandni Mahal with a population of 5.5 lakh and Nabi Karim, which has a population of 1.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-6-11-score-in-delhi-s-biggest-containment-zones-prompts-tweak-in-tactics/story-am35PsrzLNU0rmvq4neeyJ.html
24-04-2020||India||PM Modi lauds villages for ‘do gaj doori’ mantra in social distancing||Marking out villages for special praise in the fight against coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday underlined how the ‘do gaj doori (a distance of two yards)’ mantra practised by villages is a useful social distancing example to be followed by everyone.The slogan given by rural India “showed the wisdom of the people”, he said.“With its simple mantra of Do Gaz Ki Doori, rural India has described social distancing in simple words, villages have showcased the best of their principles, traditional values to fight coronavirus,” Modi, who used a ‘gamcha’ as face mask, said.Asking villages to be self-sufficient, the PM told gram panchayats how the coronavirus pandemic has taught valuable lessons that the country should not look for solutions outside the country.“This pandemic has thrown at us new challenges and problems which we have never imagined, but it also taught us a very good lesson with a strong message. It has taught us that we have to be self-reliant and self-sufficient. It has taught us that we should not look for solutions outside the country. This is the biggest lesson we have learnt,” said the PM addressing gram panchayat heads on the occasion of the National Panchayati Raj Day.Panchayats, along with the women-run Self-Help Groups, have provided key support to the government outreach in vast belts of rural India. Many of them have undertaken door-to-door campaigns while others have stitched masks or made hand sanitisers, providing vital help in India’s action against Covid-19 pandemic.“Every Village has to be self-sufficient enough to provide for its basic needs. Similarly every district has to be self-sufficient at its level, every state has to be self-reliant at its level and the whole country has to be self-reliant at its level”, Modi said, as he underlined that “progress of panchayats will ensure the development of the nation and democracy”.The PM’s interaction with panchayats also comes days before his meeting with the CMs to decide the future course of action after the extended, federal lockdown ends on May 3. A series of activities have already been allowed in rural areas including wide-ranging relaxation for agricultural workers. After May 2, there are distinct possibilities of more relaxations in the offing while the government will continue to monitor the containment zones.The PM announced that he will make the panchayats stronger as he wants to provide self-sufficiency to villages. “In the last five years nearly 1.25 Lakh panchayats have been connected through broadband from a mere 100 before. Similarly, the number of Common Service Centres had crossed 3 lakhs”, he said.He also pointed out the mobile manufacturing in India, which has led to reduction in costs but improved connectivity in Indian villages.The PM also launched e-Gram Swarajya App and Swamitva Scheme. While the e-GramSwaraj helps prepare and execute Gram Panchayat Development Plan, the Swamitva scheme helps to map rural inhabited lands using drones and latest survey methods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-villages-for-do-gaj-doori-mantra-in-social-distancing/story-VRAOnUjbzxL7ohPdJmftSK.html
24-04-2020||India||Goa CM celebrates birthday as ayurvedic consultant at govt hospital||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant chose a unique way to celebrate his birthday deciding to don a lab coat and revisit his old days as an ayurvedic practitioner to show his solidarity with those working on the frontline in the battle against the epidemic. “Today is my birthday, but i had decided that I would not celebrate it. Even though I am the chief minister, by profession I am an ayurvedic doctor. To support the medical fraternity and the frontline warriors, I have decided to spend half my day at Asilo Hospital to show solidarity. I sat in the ayurvedic OPD and asked Dr Samir that I will handle all the patients who walk in today. I felt nice to sit for the first time in 2008,” Sawant said. Sawat was visiting the government run Asilo Hospital in North Goa District where he had practised as an ayurvedic doctor back in 2008 before actively involving himself in politics full time. He was elected to the Goa Legislative Assembly for the first time in 2012. “If anyone is fighting this 24*7 it is the medical staff and so I am dedicating my birthday for the corona warriors. The message should go that the entire country is behind them and not only the politicians,” Sawant said. Sawant also welcomed the ordinance making attacks on doctors an offence punishable with a jail term of seven years. “The ordinance making attacks on doctors and medical staff punishable with one year to seven years, is a very welcome step. In Goa the situation is very good, medical professionals are respected and supported, But we have to give a message around the country that we all have to support the medical fraternity to make us corona free,” he added. Goa became the first state in the country to have brought down its count of known active Covid19 patients to zero after all the seven people who contracted the disease tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-celebrates-birthday-as-ayurvedic-consultant-at-govt-hospital/story-LQCEy6p613kkvjBc8gjHTI.html
24-04-2020||India||Kerala shuts borders with Tamil Nadu after spike in Covid-19 cases, activists cry foul||Last month when north Kerala district Kasaragod turned into a coronavirus hotspot, Karnataka had closed all its border points with Kerala and the latter took the inter-state issue to the Supreme Court, however, now Kerala has closed its borders with Tamil Nadu after Covid-19 cases shot up in the neighbouring state. Many human rights activists and others have criticised what they called Kerala’s “double standards” in trying times. The issue took a serious turn last week when a patient from Tamil Nadu died after the Kerala police turned away the ambulance carrying him. The ambulance driver, later said, he literally begged the officials at the check post to save the life of the patient but he was threatened and forcibly sent back.When asked about this Thiruvananthapuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan said he was not aware of the case and usually ambulances and trucks carrying essential supplies do not pose any problems at the borders. A senior police officer said many ambulances were discreetly taking stranded people to the state and this might have forced officials to deny permission to the vehicle carrying the patient.However, a government spokesperson said the state was forced to take strict action after some people came from the neighbouring state through forest routes turned Covid-19 positive and transmitted the virus to many others. He cited the case of a Kulathupuzha resident (Kollam) who tested Covid-19 positive after his trip to Tamil Nadu to attend a function. At least 15 of his primary contacts have been quarantined and a complete lockdown was imposed on three neighbouring villages Thenmala, Aryankavu and Kulathupuzha.“Some of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu heavily depend on Kerala for medical needs. There are many instances where serious patients were turned away at the borders. When Karnataka closed its border, Kerala made it a big national issue. Sad, now Kerala is resorting to the same tactic. If the situation continues like this we will move the court,” a rights activist in Marthandam P Selvaraj said protesting against Kerala’s attitude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-shuts-borders-with-tamil-nadu-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases-activists-cry-foul/story-EFEAobORsVK8ZErSEdLgXP.html
24-04-2020||India||IIT Delhi’s coronavirus testing kit in line with PM’s self-reliance message, says govt||IIT Delhi’s development of first indigenous Covid 19 probe free real-time PCR diagnostic kit to have won the approval of Indian Council of Medical Research has been hailed as an example of the make in India initiative being pushed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as one of the implements of self-reliance needed to defeat the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Friday felicitated a team of scientists from IIT Delhi comprising Prof. Vivekananad Perumal and Prof. Manoj Menon and said that the institute had taken an important step towards achieving the goal of self-reliance set by PM Narendra Modi.The IIT team has developed a probe-free method as opposed to the probe-based methods currently in use for testing for coronavirus. It uses comparative sequence analysis to identify unique regions in COVID-19 which are not found in other human coronaviruses, thereby, providing an opportunity to specifically detect Covid-19. It has approved by India’s top medical research body ICMR and is likely to make testing for the virus lot more affordable.The team is targeting large scale deployment of the kit at affordable prices with suitable industrial partners as soon as possible. The development follows a decision to suspend rapid testing for Covid antibodies using China-made kits after several states complaint of massive variations in results.Pokhriyal said that in line with the PM’s vision for the country to develop its own strengths and not be dependent on the world, institutes like IITs were encouraged to step up their research and innovation initiatives with respect to the Covid 19 pandemic.The prime minister on Friday reiterated his emphasis on self-reliance in times of crisis like these.“This Pandemic has thrown at us new challenges and problems which we have never imagined, but it also taught us a very good lesson with a strong message. It has taught us that we have to be self-reliant and self-sufficient. It has taught us that we should not look for solutions outside the country. This is the biggest lesson we have learnt,” said the PM, while interacting with 2.5 lakh gram panchayat heads on the Panchayati Raj Day.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The kit made by IIT Delhi has been validated at ICMR with a sensitivity and specificity of 100%. This makes IITD the first academic institute to have obtained ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay.IIT’s Ramgopal Rao said the kit made by the institute can be easily scaled up as it does not require fluorescent probes.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-delhi-s-coronavirus-testing-kit-in-line-with-pm-s-self-reliance-message-says-govt/story-SmZg4IdmlN7QucfhwOQJnI.html
24-04-2020||India||Assam facilitates return of 391 students stranded in Kota||Assam took a cue from other states such as Uttar Pradesh (UP), Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Uttarakhand on Friday, facilitating the return of 391 stranded students from Rajasthan’s Kota, the country’s coaching capital, amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions. The students started their 2,000-kilometre homeward journey from Kota in 17 buses and will reach Assam on Sunday after passing through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.“Earlier, we’re not planning to bring them back, but we decided against it after UP, MP and Uttarakhand governments brought back their students. Besides, our students are young and are distressed because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Assam’s health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.Kota, a hub for coaching centres catering to engineering and medical aspirants, is a popular destination for thousands of students from across India.The Assam government air-dropped eight police officers to Kota on Thursday who are accompanying the students back home. Each student has to pay Rs 7,000 for the trip back home.“UP government has arranged for a night’s stay for the students at Kosi Kalan town. The students reached Jhansi by Friday afternoon and will reach Assam on Sunday morning. They will be quarantined for two weeks after they reach Assam,” said Sarma.The students, who were in quarantine in Kota, will be kept either at Sreerampur on the West Bengal-Assam border or in the state capital, Guwahati.They will have to undergo a test after five days following which doctors will decide whether their quarantine be extended beyond two weeks.Sarma said that the state government might facilitate a similar return journey for students from Assam, who are stranded in other states.Body brought back from GujaratOn Thursday night, the body of a youth from Assam’s Baksa district, who had died in Ahmedabad on April 19 was brought back by road.The youth, Rahul Barman, who used to work in a private company in Ahmedabad, was found dead in his rented accommodation on April 19.“We thank Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani for providing an ambulance to bring back the body. Our sincere gratitude to the two drivers, Nilesh Chavda and Hiren Dave, who drove for 40 hours to bring the body back,” said Sarma.Inter-district movement of people to begin on SaturdayPeople stranded in one part of Assam due to the ongoing lockdown restrictions, who are interested to return to their homes or their workplaces, will be allowed to do so for three days beginning Saturday based on prior permission from the authorities concerned.The state government will also provide state transport buses to allow over 41,000 people who called on a helpline number to travel to one destination of their choice during these three days, starting Saturday.Home delivery of medicinesThe state government has also decided to start home delivery of medicines for those who are unable to get their prescribed drugs close to their place of residence. Those willing to avail of the service will have to call 104. “If the medicines are available in the same district, it will be delivered within 24 hours. If it have to be procured from another part of the state, delivery will be done within 48 hours, and for medicines, which need to be brought from outside the state, it will be done within a week,” Sarma said. If the medicines cost less than Rs 200, the state government will provide free of cost. For medicines, which cost more, the patients have to bear the cost.Assam Police has done over 4,800 home deliveries of medicines to date.The state has reported 36 Covid-19 positive cases so far, including one death and 19 have recovered. The state government has provided $1,000 each to 49 people from the state stranded abroad, Rs 25,000 each to 829 patients from the state who went for treatment to other states, and Rs 2,000 each to 200,000 people from the state, who work in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-facilitates-return-of-391-students-stranded-in-kota/story-TkaoCdo1KbbOGC6Ap23gCK.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Stocks of free pulses shipped to states||The Union government has shipped over 107,077 tonne of pulses to more than 12 states under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to eligible households, which include the poorest 20% of the population, a statement from the agriculture ministry said. “In order to provide the food security during the prevailing situation due to COVID 19 pandemic, the Government has decided to distribute pulses to the eligible households under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY). About 107,077.85 MT pulses have so far been issued to the States/UTs,” the agriculture ministry statement said. However, some states have not started distribution yet and drawing up schedules for their distribution. States that have started distributing 1 kg of free pulses to each household include Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Goa, Gujarat and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. A majority of states, including Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi have only received the partial stock. These states are planning their distribution schedules and will start distribution to eligible beneficiaries in phased manner according to their plan, the ministry said. According to data collected from different states, pulses will be distributed to 190 million household across 36 states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-stocks-of-free-pulses-shipped-to-some-states/story-r2bFvKh1rXGijiRxfQDTZK.html
24-04-2020||India||Australia backs India’s call for WHO reform post Covid-19 crisis, says envoy-designate||Australia supports India’s call for the reform of the World Health Organization (WHO) once the world has overcome the Coronavirus crisis as part of efforts to shape the post Covid-19 global order, Australian high commissioner-designate Barry O’Farrell said on Friday.O’Farrell acknowledged Covid-19-related lockdowns and travel restrictions across the region had impacted the repatriation of Australian citizens stranded in India, but said more than 2,000 of them had already been flown back on five flights, and more would return on four flights next week.Also read: India is poised for deep structural health reformsIn an interview with Hindustan Times, he also spoke of the measures put in place by Australian authorities to help the hundreds of thousands of Indians stranded in that country, especially students who have been provided an emergency grant of Australian $500 each (about Rs 25,000).“There have been regular discussions about how best we can shape the post-Covid world order. For instance, Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi’s call at the G20 for reform of the WHO, which is something that our government has also been supportive of,” said O’Farrell, who has so far been unable to present his credentials because of the pandemic.“The Australian government has talked about the need to have an independent review of the way that the [WHO] has handled this pandemic, but only once the worst of Covid has passed. We think that could be a natural area of future collaboration between the two governments.”During a virtual meeting of G20 leaders on March 26, Modi had called for the reform of inter-governmental organisations such as WHO, saying they were based on the last century’s model and haven’t adapted to deal with new challenges.Also read: PM Modi asks G20 for an effective global response to coronavirus: ReportsAustralia, O’Farrell said, has been a long-standing supporter of India “taking a leadership role in the multilateral system, including as a permanent member of the UN Security Council”. He added: “Our belief is that stepping up in that way will also be critically important in the post-Covid world.”Of the 6,500 Australian nationals who registered with the high commission here, more than 2,000 returned in five flights so far and more will be repatriated by four flights next week, O’Farrell said. The evacuation has been complicated by travel restrictions in places such as Singapore, via which flights have to transit.“Has it been easy? No. The people here at the high commission have been working flat out exploring options and…not every company that we’ve approached was either able or willing to provide services,” he said.While praising the “incredible assistance” from the Central and state governments, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and police forces for facilitating the movement of Australian citizens, O’Farrell said not everyone who had registered intended to leave India.Also read: Six coronavirus vaccines in human trials bring hope of early success“It’s clear to me…that India’s policy settings have averted some of the alarmist predictions and projections made back in February-March,” he said, adding such factors were influencing decisions by Australian citizens whether to return or stay on in India.O’Farrell said he is in close contact with India’s envoy in Canberra, A Gitesh Sarma, to ensure the welfare of Indians stranded in Australia. The Australian government and universities have announced measures to support Indian students, “who are our friends, colleagues, classmates and temporary members of the Australian community to ensure they have the support needed to get through this difficult time”, he said.The Australian federal government put Australian $100 million into the university sector, which in turn put “almost as much into funds and food banks for assisting international students”, he said. This included an emergency grant of Australian $500, fee reductions and food pantries for students, he added.There are about 600,000 Indians, including some 90,000 students, currently in Australia and as with stranded citizens in other parts of the world, they have been asked to “stay put” in view of travel restrictions, people familiar with developments said.Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, who spoke on phone on April 6, have scheduled a “virtual summit” very soon and the foreign ministers and foreign secretaries of the two sides are also in touch on cooperating in the fight against Covid-19.“We’ve also noted India’s generosity in providing free medical supplies to its friends in need, not just in the immediate region but also in relation to Australia.We look forward to further positive support from India on our request for PPE (personal protective equipment) and other key medical supplies,” O’Farrell said, adding Australia too had recently sought hydroxychloroquine from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-backs-india-s-call-for-who-reform-post-covid-19-crisis-says-envoy-designate/story-0pEM6lTjG4xVeKDkOEy4TM.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In key video conference with PM Modi, what could be on states’ wish list||Chief ministers, especially of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states, are likely to discuss inter-state transport of migrant labourers, an increase in their borrowing capacity and food for work programmes when Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets them through video-conference on Monday.This will be the third such meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers. While the meeting will deal with the Covid-19 pandemic in general, one of the main items on the agenda is likely to be whether the lockdown imposed to check its spread should continue beyond May 3.Most chief ministers want the lockdown to be lifted in districts not affected by the pandemic, even as differences remain on how the curbs should be enforced in the remaining areas.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his Andhra counterpart, YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, want the lockdown to be restricted to the containment areas and their buffer zones and not entire districts. Others like Maharashtra and Delhi chief ministers, Uddhav Thackeray and Arvind Kejriwal, want no relaxation in norms in entire Covid-19 affected districts. Officials in most BJP-ruled states said they will follow the Centre’s directions on the lockdown.Across multiple states, officials said chief ministers would submit detailed proposals on reviving the economy at the meeting and seek economic stimulus for small and medium scale industries. Reopening of industries is seen as an important step in dealing with the growing concern over joblessness among migrant workers. Distress calls from migrant workers have reduced in states where industries have reopened after the Centre’s conditional permission for reopening them in rural areas outside the Covid-19 zones following the extension of the lockdown until May 3. “In Assam, where industrial activities started from April 20, the calls for bringing back migrants have fallen,” a Bihar government official said on condition of anonymity. Chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded migrant labourers to return home. “Whenever the lockdown is lifted, there will have to be a definite plan for the migrants, maybe through special trains so that they can be tracked, screened and quarantined accordingly,” the Bihar official said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also sought special trains for bringing back workers to his state.Officials in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Haryana said they will seek additional relaxations for factories including making in-situ lodging for workers voluntary and allowing them to run in multiple shifts.Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu are likely to demand the reopening of automobile sector supply chains as well as showrooms. Officials in West Bengal and Bihar said they are likely to seek full resumption of work in the tobacco industry as it employs around 15 million women. Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh want the information technology industry to fully function in non-Covid-19 regions with social distancing and hygiene norms in place. The states are expected to raise the issue of their worsening financial condition. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is likely to seek the release of the state’s Goods and Services Tax arrears worth Rs 4,400 crore for the last four months and also an interim compensation of Rs 3,000 crore for April, said a state government official.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has sought implementation of the Finance Commission’s recommendation of giving 42% of the Central taxes to the states as against 41%. The commission reduced the funding to states citing slower than expected for the current fiscal. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Thursday said the Centre needs to help the state financially. “I will request the PM to take states into confidence while making changes in the monetary policy and defer payment of loans taken by the state governments,” Rao said. He insisted the Centre must relax the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management rules to increase the borrowing limits of the states. An Andhra government official said Reddy too will raise the issue of a cut in central tax devolution for April and seek compensation for the same. He added the state has lost revenue of about Rs 15,000 crore in March and April. Officials said Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are likely to demand food for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.Kerala is expected to seek flights to bring back around two million expatriates, mostly from West Asia. The state will also ask for a special financial package, said a Kerala government spokesperson. Several chief ministers are expected to raise the issue of the shortage of personal protective equipment and testing kits. “Our chief minister [Mamta Banerjee] will raise the issue of not enough testing kits and faulty rapid testing kits...,” said a West Bengal official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-key-covid-19-video-conference-with-pm-here-s-could-be-on-states-wish-list/story-tpgjXqrlv6BWu24sXKZsaO.html
24-04-2020||India||A 4-month-old baby succumbs to coronavirus in Kerala||Kerala reported its fourth coronavirus casualty on Friday with the death of a four-month-old infected infant in Kozhikode medical college hospital, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan adding that three more fresh cases were reported in the state. The CM said the baby had congenital heart disease and other problems and doctors tried their best to save her life. Her parents and also doctors and nurses, who treated the child, have been quarantined. Doctors said the baby tested positive two days ago and they have no idea how she contracted the disease. With three new cases, the total positive cases in the state rose to 450, the chief minister said. 334 persons have been discharged while 116 are still recovering in hospitals, 56 of those in Kannur, the latest hotspot in the state. The total number of people under observation in the state is 21,725.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe CM said he has written another letter to the PM requesting his intervention in clearing hurdles in brining bodies of state residents who died abroad. He said the latest no-objection certificate required from the Union Home Ministry was posing a delay in bringing the bodies. Vijayan said he will also speak to the prime minister about this issue.Note: Please check if the word in bold in the last paragraph has been an appropriate addition. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-4-month-old-baby-succumbs-to-coronavirus-in-kerala/story-8rbbNXv5MSR0JB6REdboqK.html
24-04-2020||India||India sees biggest Covid-19 spike in 24 hours with 1,752 cases, 37 deaths||In its biggest single-day jump since the beginning of the outbreak, India on Friday reported 1,752 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total to 23,452. The number of deaths rose to 723 with 37 more people dying from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said.The previous highest single day increase was on April 20 when 1,540 cases were reported.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 17,915 as 4,813 people were cured and discharged, and one patient migrated, the ministry added.Thus, about 20.52 per cent of the cases have recovered so far, an official of the ministry said. The total number of cases include 77 foreign nationals.The ministry also said that the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has now improved to 10 days, from the 7.5 days reported earlier this week.It further said that the decision to impose lockdown was timely, and was effective in controlling the coronavirus spread.Out of 37 deaths reported since Thursday evening, 14 were reported from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, three from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh,Tamil Nadu and Telangana and one from Karnataka.The death toll reached 24 in Uttar Pradesh, 20 in Tamil Nadu while Karantaka has reported 18 deaths.Punjab has registered 16 deaths while West Bengal has reported 15 fatalities. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each.Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry’s data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-covid-19-spike-in-24-hours-with-1752-cases-37-deaths/story-n0xMVskK6cnKYGGE15VvpM.html
24-04-2020||India||DRDO offers oxygen plants to hospitals in far-flung areas||In its latest offering to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has stepped forward to provide medical oxygen plants to hospitals in far-flung areas to generate their own oxygen supply, two government officials said on Friday.The oxygen generating system is an offshoot of a critical system on board the homegrown Tejas light combat aircraft and it utilises “the pressure swing adsorption technique and molecular sieve technology” to generate oxygen directly from atmospheric air, said the first official cited above.“The oxygen plants will help provide medical-grade oxygen supply during the corona pandemic in hospitals in urban, rural and far-flung areas. The installation of these plants will reduce the dependence of hospitals on oxygen cylinders. They will be of great help in high altitude and inaccessible remote areas,” the official said.The technology has been approved by Centre for Military Airworthiness and Certification, a regulatory body under DRDO. The oxygen generator system has been developed by Bengaluru-based Defence Bioengineering and Electro-medical Laboratory (DEBEL, a DRDO unit) and the technology has been transferred to a Coimbatore-based private firm.The firm has the capability to install four plants in two weeks, 20 in five weeks and production can be ramped up if required, said the second officer. “The benefits include reduced logistics of transporting cylinders to remote areas. The plants will ensure low cost, continuous and reliable oxygen supply round the clock,” he said.The technology is in service with the army which has installed oxygen plants at some of its facilities in Ladakh and the North-east. The plants can also be used for the filling up oxygen cylinders. Each plant can fill 47 litre (water capacity) cylinders at the rate of 60 per day, he said.The DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease, having developed several products to combat the pandemic including ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, large area sanitisation solutions and Covid-19 sample collection kiosks.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up coronavirus disease screening and other Covid-19 research and development activities. The MVRDL has been developed by the DRDO, Hyderabad-based Employees’ State Insurance Corporation hospital and the private industry.The DRDO last week shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on PPE kits from Gwalior to New Delhi to cut down delays and ensure faster delivery of the safety gear to healthcare workers battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-offers-oxygen-plants-to-hospitals-in-far-flung-areas/story-wZpmIVcTIgJnYKVfMvggxM.html
24-04-2020||India||Insensitive, inhumane: Congress on Centre’s decision to freeze DA||The Congress on Friday criticised as “insensitive and inhumane” the Centre’s decision to freeze the inflation-linked dearness allowance and dearness relief of central government employees and pensioners in an attempt to save money to fund the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The opposition party said the government should have instead suspended the bullet train and the New Delhi central vista beautification projects costing the state exchequer “lakhs of crores of rupees.”“It is an insensitive and inhumane decision of the government to cut DA of central employees, pensioners and jawans who are serving the public while fighting coronavirus, instead of suspending the bullet train project and the central vista beautification project of lakhs of crores (of rupees),” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. On Thursday, the Centre held back an expected increase in DA by 4 percentage points to 21% of basic pay until July 2021 and asked the states to emulate it. The Centre alone stands to save $37,300 crore by freezing the DA, HT reported on Friday; together, the Centre and the states together would save Rs.1.2 lakh crore. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters through video conferencing that the government should curtail 30% of its own expenditure and shelve the Rs.20,000 crore central vista redevelopment project as well as the Rs.1.10 lakh crore Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project to save money it can use o fight the coronavirus pandemic.“The government, instead of helping people by giving them financial support in this crisis, is hurting them. Instead of curtailing its own wasteful expenditures, the government is cutting the money of the middle class people,” he said.If the government cuts its own expenses by 30%, Surjewala said it could yield around Rs 2.5 lakh crore, which could be used to pay the dearness allowance and dearness relief for employees, pensioners and defence personnel.Accusing the government of “misconceived” priorities and policies, he said that on the one hand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was telling the states and the private sector not to cut salaries of employees and on the other, he was himself doing so.“Is this not an indicator to states and private sector? If this mayhem continues how you will put money in the hands of people?” he asked.“Why are you attacking the incomes of the most vulnerable sections and instead not cutting your own waste expenditure?” he asked.Surjewala said the government was adding “insult to injury” by not offering people relief at a time when economic growth and incomes have taken a hit from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insensitive-congress-on-centre-s-decision-on-da-move/story-LGvjTh9lvDPK36FD60sbNI.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak in India under control, sans lockdown cases would have around 1 lakh by now: Govt||The government said on Friday the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a timely step, without which there would have been an estimated one lakh COVID-19 cases in India by now.In a press briefing, officials said the virus outbreak is under control in the country and credited a robust surveillance network along with implementation of the lockdown and other containment measures for it.Of the 11 empowered groups formed to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people once the lockdown is lifted, chairman of Empowered Group One and Niti Ayog member V K Paul said according to their analysis, lockdown has been effective in slowing the rate at which COVID-19 cases is doubling in India, and it now stands at 10 days.“If we go back to March 21, the cases were doubling in around three days. An important turn came on March 23 after the Janata Curfew had happened. The direction changed and the doubling rate increased to five. By then, we had already put in place travel restrictions and had created an environment of social distancing.“There were some disturbances in between and we went back a little. But from April 6, the doubling time started improving,” he said.Paul also said the big decision of imposing the nationwide lockdown taken by the prime minister has “proved to be very timely and beneficial”, as shown by the change in the growth trajectory of India’s COVID-19 cases.“The curve has begun to flatten. Had we not taken the decision of clamping the nationwide lockdown, we would have had around 1 lakh COVID-19 cases by now, as per a reasonable estimate. Now, the outbreak is under control,” the Empowered Group One chairman said. Officials, however, said these projections are based on the growth pattern at a particular time.Director of National Centre for Disease Control S K Singh that surveillance has been the country’s primary weapon in the fight against novel coronavirus. “We started our surveillance mechanism even before the first case was reported in India. This played an important role in helping us contain the spread of the infection,” Singh said.He informed reporters that around 9.45 lakh suspected coronavirus cases are under the surveillance network at present and upon detection of symptoms of the infection, samples are taken from these people for testing.Singh said the surveillance network has been set up at district level as well, so that household survey, quarantine and isolation are done as part of cluster containment plan.Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said in the last 28 days, as many as 15 districts have had no new case, while there are 80 districts in the country that have not reported any new coronavirus case in the last 14 day.He also said in the 24-hour period since Thursday morning, 1,684 COVID 19 positive cases have been reported taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 23,077.“A total of 4,748 people, which is 20.57 per cent of the total number of cases, have been cured so far,” Agarwal said. PTI PLB ASG NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-in-india-under-control-sans-lockdown-cases-would-have-around-1-lakh-by-now-govt/story-QlN392Qj7upg8fQ4Lcg7cM.html
24-04-2020||India||‘Coronavirus is in control, no need to fear hidden spike’: Govt offers big assurance||The government on Friday said that there was no need to fear a hidden spike in the number of coronaviurus cases in India since the country’s testing strategy has been adequate to prevent such a scenario.Government’s backing for its testing protocol or strategy came on Friday during the routine ministerial briefing on the status of coronavirus containment efforts in the country. The officials chairing two out of the 11 empowered groups constituted by the Centre to devise, implement and monitor India’s strategy against the pandemic said that despite expanding the testing net by 24 times, the number of positive coronavirus cases had not risen exponentially. “Our testing strategy has stood the test of time. The volume of testing has been adequate; despite an increase in testing, the proportion of positive cases has not increased. No need to fear of hidden spike in cases, the disease is in control,” said the chairman for the empowered group number 1.Concerns have been raised in the past by experts about India’s strategy of testing symptomatic cases and the threat of a jump in infections through asymptomatic carriers of the disease. The government data shows that a very high percentage of positive people have been found to be asymptomatic, giving rise to such concerns. But the government officials said that their analysis didn’t find any cause for concern.“Since the lockdown, growth in positive cases has not been exponential. During the lockdown period, despite a 24 fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising,” the official quoted above said.He also claimed that surveillance of suspects and clusters and containment zones had played an important role in the containment of the disease. He added that a big behavioural change had been seen in the society which deserved to be credited for the success achieved so far in fighting the disease through social distancing measures.“Besides containing spread, augmenting testing, improving preparedness, the nation has brought about a massive behaviour change through a Jan Andolan,” the chairman for empowered group 1 said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has also decided to constitute three more inter-ministerial central teams (IMCT) that will be dispatched to Surat, Ahmedabad in Gujarat, and to Hyderabad and Chennai to evaluate implementation of containment efforts on the ground level. Also Read: Govt lists 3 decisions that changed coronavirus’ course in India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-is-in-control-no-need-to-fear-hidden-spike-govt-offers-big-assurance/story-stw1u3jzvZAuTnIwGZ6XKL.html
24-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Infant dies of Covid-19 in Kerala, three positive cases confirmed||A four-month-old baby girl became the youngest vicitm of COVID-19 in Kerala on Friday as 3 more people tested positive for the deadly virus in the state, which has reported 450 cases so far.Samples of 15 people returned negative in the state.Earlier, two elderly persons had succumbed to the disease.The baby was admitted to the Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode on April 21 with history of fever, cough, breathing difficulties and seizure after being treated at two other hospitals and the end came at 6 AM, a medical bulletin said.The three positive cases were reported from Kasaragod, the northernmost district, through contacts with infected persons, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here.The active cases touched 116, while at least 21,725 people are under observation and452 in various hospitals. So far over 21,000 samples have been sent for testing of which 20,830 have returned negative.In Kannur, 56 people, are presently undergoing treatment for Covid-19, while in Thrissur and Alapuzhathere are no positive patients, Vijayan said.Eight people, who walked through the forest route from Coorg in Karnataka to Kerala have been sent to covid care centre.This week, 57 peoplehad walked from Coorg to Keralaand all of them have been lodged at the Corona care centre atIritty in Kannur district,the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-infant-dies-of-covid-19-in-kerala-three-positive-cases-confirmed/story-YfstdfzjrEIQGth0Z0bJZO.html
24-04-2020||India||‘Don’t let adversary exploit Covid-19 crisis’: Rajnath Singh to top military commanders||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday asked India’s top military commanders to ensure that India’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the Covid-19 situation at a time when the Pakistan army continues to violate the ceasefire on the Line of Control to help terrorists sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.Pakistan’s army has violated the ceasefire 247 times this month (up to April 22), taking the count of border violations to 1,391 this year so far. The total number of ceasefire violations by the neighbouring army stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.The minister, via video conference, asked the commanders from the three services to ensure the operational readiness of their forces while battling the coronavirus disease. The armed forces are an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic and are working on a war footing to deal with Covid-19, including setting up dedicated hospitals, flying medical supplies and operating quarantine facilities.A statement issued by the Defence Ministry said Singh directed the armed forces to spend financial resources judiciously and avoid wastage in view of the economic burden imposed by Covid-19. Stressing on the need to strengthen jointness in the armed forces, Singh asked the top commanders to identify and prioritise tasks that could be accomplished quickly and would assist in revival of the economy after the lockdown is lifted.Those who took part in the video conference included chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, defence secretary Ajay Kumar, secretary (defence finance) Gargi Kaul and commanders-in chief from the three services.The commanders-in-chief briefed the minister on the steps taken by their commands to prevent the spread of the coronavirus among the forces as well as assistance being offered to the local civilian administration to combat the pandemic. The military has taken a string of preventive measures to stop the spread of the disease within its ranks.The statement said that the senior military commanders appreciated the recent devolution of emergency financial powers by the defence ministry to ensure timely procurement of necessary medical supplies and bolster the hospital infrastructure. The commanders said they were ready to pitch in to maintain essential services locally if requested by the civilian administration.Singh was to chair the Unified Commanders Conference (UCC) in Delhi on April 22-23 but the conclave was postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak. The UCC was to be attended by national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff, the three service chiefs and a battery of senior officers of the armed forces and the ministry.The army had earlier indefinitely deferred a conference of its top commanders that was scheduled to take place in Delhi from April 13 to April 18.Such top conferences covers key issues such as the country’s security dynamics, emerging security scenarios, enhancing operational capability, taking steps to stay prepared for all challenges and budgetary aspects. Issues related to theaterisation would have also been discussed but the coronavirus outbreak has put many things on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-let-adversary-exploit-covid-19-crisis-rajnath-singh-to-top-military-commanders/story-CWd8I4wCO2pp9wM8Gx4CwK.html
24-04-2020||India||In Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown exit plan, 1 principle and 2 crucial worries||The Centre is leaning towards a calibrated exit from the Covid-19 national lockdown beginning May 3 that would strike a balance between ensuring the pandemic doesn’t flare-up and easing restrictions in order to revive the economy.The government has, from this week, already relaxed restrictions in rural areas to let people harvest crops and work in a select group of industries with access controls and proper protocols.“From May 3, the idea is to expand the list of permitted activities in a way that does not lead to a free-for-all,” a top government official told Hindustan Times. The basic principle is to adopt a step-by-step approach under constant monitoring as the Modi government knows that India is in for a long haul.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“There was a time when the global community including the WHO was worried about how India would be able to control the virus infections and death with experts and armchair strategists predicting a doomsday scenario. We showed the world by pre-empting the virus through strong procedures. We will be able to handle it in future also,”said a senior Union minister of the government.The exit plan is still work in progress and will depend, for one, on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with chief ministers on April 27. In the end, it will be driven by the Centre‘s analysis of how the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes Covid-19 is spreading within states, districts and the thousands of containmenment zones notified across the country closer to May 3.Officials associated with the empowered committees mandated to track the disease and formulate the government’s response said their primary worry at the moment is the spread of the disease in the metro cities, particularly in its slum clusters due to high density of population and lack of social distancing.2 big Covid-19 concernsNearly half of Mumbai’s 930 containment zones are in slum areas such as Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum cluster.Mumbai ‘s 4,200 cases make up for 18 per cent of the country’s Covid-19 count; 65 percent of Maharashtra’s total of 6,400.In Delhi, officials said, the situation appeared to be largely under control except for some pockets where cases had been reported despite a hard lockdown.There are other emerging hotspots such as Gujarat’s Surat and Ahmedabad, Telangana’s Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu’s Chennai as well that are being tracked closely. On Friday, the government announced that it would send central teams to these four cities to take a closer look at the problem.But the big worry apart from Mumbai is West Bengal’s Kolkata, which, officials insist, was looking at the entire disease control exercise from a political prism. That Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has set up a committee which will decide if a death can be attributed to Covid-19 is being cited as an indicator of its approach.A central team that was in Kolkata to hold discussions with state health officials have also reported non-cooperation from the state authorities, and holes in the claims made by the state. Bengal has reported all of 500 cases.The state government insists that it hadn’t been reporting many cases because it was at the beginning of the Covid-19 curve and had detected its first case only on March 8. But it hasn’t been testing many people. According to data submitted by the state government, Bengal had only conducted 400 tests daily till four days ago which has been raised to 900 tests.Testing CapacityGovernment officials said the Centre’s decision on the lockdown would have to take these facts into account as well as the capacity for testing a larger number of people, particularly given that many people who were asymptomatic had tested positive for the virus.The lockdown exit plan will also take into account the capacity to carry out tests.India’s testing relies at the moment on the RT-PCR process, the most definitive diagnostic test that involves matching the molecular signatures established with the virus.For large-scale testing, particularly as a surveillance tool, the government prefers the antibody rapid tests that give results in minutes, even if it has many imperfections. The government has contracted with Chinese firms to acquire more of these test kits - 6.5 lakh kits had been bought recently - and has decided to buy these kits from South Korean manufacturers too.Exiting Lockdown is complicated Exiting the lockdown has been a tricky part of dealing with Covid-19 for governments across the world.US President Donald Trump, who has been consistently nudging states to reopen as soon as possible, appeared to tweak his stand this week when he disagreed with Georgia’s decision to open movie theatres, nail salons and tattoo parlours.The World Health Organisation has said countries should exit the lockdown in phases. But that isn’t rocket science. Young IAS officers, just a few years in service, had made the same point in a national survey conducted by the government last month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had underscored the same point in his interaction with chief ministers early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-centre-s-covid-19-lockdown-exit-plan-mumbai-and-kolkata-are-big-worries/story-M5iHWRUmdPWYJpG2yqchsJ.html
24-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre’s Covid-19 inspection teams rushed to 3 more states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre’s Covid-19 inspection teams rushed to 3 more statesCentral teams to investigate lapses in controlling the coronavirus disease and allegations of coronavirus lockdown violations will be sent to three more states, the government said today amid a bitter row with West Bengal. Read more. Tamil Nadu declares complete lockdown in 5 cities, including ChennaiTamil Nadu has declared a complete lockdown in five cities from Sunday to halt the spread of the highly contagious novel coronavirus, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said this afternoon. Read  more.Six coronavirus vaccines in human trials bring hope of early successHuman safety trials of a coronavirus vaccine began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with new vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. Read more. As Covid-19 count crosses 4k, Mumbai records 1k of them in just 3 daysThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in Mumbai crossed the 4,000-mark on Thursday, as the data shared by the state government’s ministry of health and family welfare showed that 1,100 new cases were added to the tally in only three days. Read more. World busy with Covid-19, Beijing pushes South China Sea agendaA US warship sailed through the sensitive Taiwan Strait on a “routine” transit for the second time in a month, the US military said on Friday, hours after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo accused China of taking advantage of the world’s focus on the Covid-19 pandemic to push its territorial ambitions in the South China Sea. Read more. ‘He is an ice-man on the field’: Shane Watson on working under MS Dhoni at CSKFormer Australia allrounder Shane Watson on Thursday recalled his century for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League 2018 final and said that it was a special experience working with former India captain MS Dhoni at the franchise. Read more. Anushka Sharma had told designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee these two things about her wedding wearActor Anushka Sharma who is practising social distancing during lockdown with husband and cricketer Virat Kohli has been sharing images on social media with her followers on how she is staying at home and urging fans to do the same.Read more. Amitabh Bachchan spotted 11 tigers in this picture. How many can you see?With the recent popularity of Tiger King, it looks like our favourite big cats are everywhere on the Internet nowadays. But this time around, they’re here to boggle your mind in a much-less-provocative manner. Read more.Delhi Police responds to SOS tweet, delivers medicine amid lockdownDelhi Police responded to SOS tweet by an MBBS student and delivered medicine amid lockdown.Deeksha Chandra tweeted tagging Delhi Police that one of her uncles is suffering from neurological disease. Chandra said that her uncle needed medicine but could not get it due to lockdown.SHO Madhu Vihar Rajeev Kumar took it upon himself to get the necessary medicine from a chemist shop located on the other end of the town and deliver it to Chandra’s uncle.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-s-covid-19-inspection-teams-rushed-to-3-more-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eqm4l3QhcmTdmoHy7ELaCI.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In Patna, 25 health workers at multi-specialty hospital sent on home quarantine||At least 25 health workers, including three doctors and 10 nurses, at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous multi-specialty hospital in Patna, were sent on 14-day home quarantine on Friday after coming in contact with a multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) patient, who had also tested positive for coronavirus.The 30-year-old man from Siwan who was admitted to IGIMS on April 22 evening, tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The hospital authorities immediately referred him to the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which is a designated Covid-19 special hospital in Patna, hospital officials said.“We are in the process of collecting samples for the Covid-19 test of all our health personnel who came in contact with the patient,” IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said.“The patient, who complained of breathlessness, also had mild fever and cough. Since he was diagnosed with MDR TB, we referred him to the special ward for such patients. Our personnel took the patient’s nasopharyngeal swab sample for a Covid-19 test yesterday and by late evening the patient had tested positive for the virus,” said Dr Mandal.“In keeping with the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), we cleaned, sanitized and sealed our MDR TB ward, which was empty. All doctors, nursing, paramedical and sanitary staff of the MDR ward and those who attended on him in the emergency are being tested for Covid-19 and sent on home quarantine, as per government guidelines,” added Dr Mandal.Earlier, on April 19, a medical officer at the primary health centre (PHC) of Sadar block at Biharsharif in Nalanda district had tested positive for the virus in the first reported case of a doctor being infected in Bihar. The doctor had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient who had returned from the Gulf.“We collected swab samples of over 200 health personnel, including mine, besides sending around 50 PHC personnel on home quarantine, after a doctor there tested positive for the virus,” Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Ram Singh said. None of the samples, taken as part of the doctor’s contact tracing tested positive, he added.Another doctor, pursuing his post graduation (PG) course in medicine at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, had tested positive for the virus on April 21. Many junior doctors there are now demanding that they be sent on home quarantine after the hospital authorities collected samples of around 50 medical professionals. JLNMCH superintendent Dr Ram Charitra Mandal did not respond to phone calls.Early this month, six health workers from two private health facilities — three paramedical staff from Sarnam hospital on Bypass Road in Patna, two from Munger’s National Hospital and a private ambulance driver there — had tested positive after coming in contact with Bihar’s first reported fatality to the virus on March 21.Around 83 PG medicos of NMCH had on March 23 sought permission from the medical superintendent for home quarantine, taking the alibi that many among them had developed Covid-19 like symptoms while examining patients at the facility.The demand came a day after Bihar reported its first three cases of the fast-spreading contagion. That was also the period when the state was woefully short of personal protective equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-patna-25-health-workers-at-multi-specialty-hospital-sent-on-home-quarantine/story-iw2ADFte3QMJHTwJVLaN0O.html
24-04-2020||India||Govt lists 3 decisions that changed coronavirus’ course in India||The Central government on Friday presented facts and figures to claim that India had succeeded in slowing down the spread of coronavirus to a significant level as seen in the rise of the contagion’s doubling rate--from 3 days at around March 21 to 10 days as of Saturday on April 24-- within a month.The government specifically mentioned three timely decisions—suspension of international flights, implementation of nationwide lockdown and the implementation of testing and quarantining protocol—as landmarks that prevented an exponential growth of coronavirus as seen in the west.The government officials representing two out of 11 empowered groups formed to formulate and monitor the country’s containment efforts said it was important to recognize the success of India’s strategy which was likely to deliver even more positive results which will continue to emerge till mid-May.“On March 21, the total number of positive cases was 300 and the doubling rate was around 3.2 and 3.3 days. After Janta Curfew, around March 23, the direction changed, the doubling rate rose to 5 days. This was perhaps the impact of travel restrictions imposed. Post April 6, the doubling rate consistently went past 5-days and headed towards 10 days. This was the positive impact of the complete lockdown,” said the chairman of empowered group number 1.He said that the lockdown decision has played a major role in saving lives of Indians.“The lockdown decision was a timely decision, it helped us contain the positive cases to around 23,000 as of today, while it could have gone up to 73,000. Curve has begun to flatten. The nation has shown that lockdown has been effective in saving lives, containing the infection and slowing down the doubling rate. We need to build on these gains,” said the chairman. The officials said that apart from blips due to some setbacks, statistics have shown a consistent improvement in the containment of the virus despite the number of increasing infections. Health ministry official Lav Agarwal pointed out that the recovery rate from coronavirus has gone past the 20 per cent mark, marking an important milestone.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He added that 15 districts in the country have not reported any fresh cases since the last 28 days and three new districts have joined this list, whereas 80 districts in the country have not reported any positive cases in the last 14 days.He said that 1,684 new Covid positive cases were reported since yesterday, taking the total number of positive patients to 23,077. Out of these,17,610 were active cases. The total number of recoveries was at 4,748 including 491 persons who have been declared cured since yesterday. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lists-3-decisions-by-modi-govt-that-changed-coronavirus-course-in-india/story-Omuwj2UR5fyxHQ10ehD3jO.html
24-04-2020||India||IATA estimates 47% drop in annual passenger numbers in India in 2020||International Air Transport Association (IATA), which represents major world airlines, has estimated that India’s passenger traffic will see negative growth of 47 per cent in 2020 as compared to 2019. IATA said that Indian aviation and related sectors like tourism will suffer 2.93 million job losses, with the number of annual passengers falling to 89.7 million in the country. The latest estimates from IATA indicate a worsening of the country’s impact from the Covid-19 crisis in the Asia Pacific region.Airlines in Asia Pacific will see the largest revenue drop of US $113 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 and a 50% fall in passenger demand in 2020 compared to 2019, IATA estimated.Conrad Clifford, IATA’s ergional vice president (Asia-Pacific) identified India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka and Thailand as priority countries that need to take action. “The situation is deteriorating and airlines are in survival mode. There will be more casualties if governments do not step in urgently to ensure airlines have sufficient cash flow to tide them over this period.,” he said.“Providing support for airlines has a broader economic implication. Jobs across many sectors will be impacted if airlines do not survive the COVID-19 crisis. In Asia-Pacific, 11.2 million jobs are at risk, including those that are dependent on the aviation industry, such as travel and tourism,” Clifford added.While the airlines continue to transport essential goods, after the COVID-19 pandemic is contained, governments will need airlines to support the economic recovery, connect manufacturing hubs and support tourism; due to which the governments need to act urgently now-before it’s too late, IATA stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iata-estimates-47-drop-in-annual-passenger-numbers-in-india-in-2020/story-4j6PL097cbjOGxjnCJQTEK.html
24-04-2020||India||Mystery of India’s lower death rates seems to defy coronavirus trend||Parts of India have recorded dramatic falls in mortality rates after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to fight the new coronavirus, suggesting there has not been an undetected surge in virus-related deaths.All over the world, mortality rates are being scrutinised to determine the true impact of the coronavirus, which emerged in China late last year and is known to have infected more than 2.7 million people globally, with nearly 190,000 deaths.While death rates in some countries have risen sharply in recent weeks, in India the opposite seems to be happening, at least in some places, leaving hospitals, funeral parlours and cremation sites wondering what is going on.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“It’s very surprising for us,” said Shruthi Reddy, chief executive officer of Anthyesti Funeral Services, which operates in of Kolkata and the southern tech hub of Bengaluru.The company handled about five jobs a day in January but has only had about three a day this month.“We’ve declared employee pay cuts if revenue falls below a threshold,” Reddy said.Other numbers tell a similar story.Central Mumbai, home to some 12 million people, saw deaths fall by about 21% in March compared with the same month of 2019, according to municipal data. Overall deaths plummeted 67% in Ahmedabad, the biggest city in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat, over the same period. Data from at least two other cities, along with accounts from state health officials, show a similar pattern. Half a dozen funeral businesses and crematoriums also reported slumps in business, especially in April.“If we’re not seeing an increase in deaths, the suspicion that there may be more COVID-19 fatalities out there is not true,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India.FEWER ACCIDENTSModi imposed a lockdown of India’s 1.3 billion people on March 25 in a bid to stop the spread of the coronavirus, which has infected some 23,077 people, killing 718 of them, according to the latest figures.India has tested about 525,000 people, meaning some 4% were positive. In the United Sates, about 18% of tests are positive, according to the COVID Tracking project.India’s apparently lower death rates stands in contrast to what has been seen elsewhere.The Netherlands recorded about 2,000 more deaths than normal in the first week of April, for example, while in Indonesia’s capital of Jakarta the number of funerals rose sharply in March. Some towns in Italy also saw a jump in recorded deaths. Indian doctors, officials and crematorium employees suspect the lower death rate is in large part attributable to fewer road and rail accidents.“Road accident cases, and even patients with alcohol or drug abuse, stroke and heart attacks have been coming in fewer numbers,” said Dr Himanta Biswa Sarma, health minister for Assam.Accidents on India’s chaotic roads killed more than 151,400 people in 2018, according to official data, the world’s highest absolute number. The coronavirus lockdown, which is due to end on May 3, will cut road deaths by at least 15% this year compared with 2018, Paresh Kumar Goel, a director at the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, said. With passenger trains halted, fatalities from all-too-common rail accidents have also plunged. In Mumbai alone, for example, more than half a dozen people typically die every day on the rail network.FEWER MURDERS TOO?Neeraj Kumar, who is in charge of a crematorium on the banks of the holy Ganges river in Uttar Pradesh, said victims of crime were also not being brought in.“We used to get at least 10 accident-related bodies every day and many related to murder cases. But after the lockdown we’re only receiving natural death cases,” Kumar said.The site used to perform up to 30 cremations a day but in the month since March 22, only 43 people had been cremated, Kumar said after leafing through the crematorium’s record book.But the lower rates might also reflect difficulties in reporting deaths during the lockdown, officials said. “There could be an increase when the lockdown ends,” said Dr Bhavin Joshi, a senior health department official with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.Requests for India-wide data from the national registrar went unanswered, while an official at the New Delhi Municipal Council said they could not provide numbers. Reuters was also unable to obtain data for West Bengal, where some doctors have accused the government of understating coronavirus deaths. Only a state-appointed committee is allowed to declare that a patient has died from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-mystery-of-india-s-lower-death-rates-seems-to-defy-coronavirus-trend/story-cFUg3YGdSk8Cs3gv5dQwQO.html
24-04-2020||India||Telangana hospitals design special menu for Ramadan for fasting Covid-19 patients||With the commencement of the holy month of Ramadan from Saturday, the Telangana government has decided to ensure nutritious meals for hundreds of Muslim patients who have been undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in hospitals, but are keen on observing the fast all through the day.Instructions have been issued to the authorities of Gandhi Hospital, the nodal centre for Covid-19 patients, to see that the Muslim community gets balanced nutritious food for Sehri (the pre-dawn meal) and Iftar (the post-dusk meal), so that they do not face any issues during the course of treatment.According to the tentative menu prepared by the hospital authorities, the fasting Muslims would get roti, plain rice, dal and vegetable curry for Sehri which would be served at around 3.30 am. On alternate days, they would get mutton or chicken curry along with roti, plain rice and vegetable curry for Sehri.After Iftar prayers, the Muslim patients would be served khichdi or flavoured oil rice (bagara rice) or vegetable biryani along with tomato chutney and chicken fry. On alternate days, they would be served chicken biryani, plain rice, vegetable curry, dal and eggs.“The menu has been designed to ensure that the fasting Muslim patients get loads of proteins and carbohydrates to improve immunity and provide energy needed to fight the Covid-19 disease,” a hospital official said.For other Covid-19 patients, too, the hospital authorities have been following a healthy diet chart. Starting with a plate of idli, bread and jam for breakfast, rice, sambar, dal and curd regularly. For non-vegetarians, eggs and chicken curry are also given once a day.All patients are served with a diet that includes a mix of all dry fruits including almonds, cashews and dates. Besides, they are also being given fruits like oranges, sweet lime and bananas for immunity and instant energy.All the patients are provided with only bottled mineral water. Beverages like tea and milk are served twice a day along with Osmania biscuits.Health minister Eatala Rajender said the patients are served with food neatly packed in clean and fresh packets. “We are also providing free WiFi and have allowed our patients to use their mobiles phones so that they can be in touch with their families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hospitals-design-special-menu-for-ramadan-for-fasting-covid-19-patients/story-GCG0ncy8hDOoZB1KjkfMrL.html
24-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 count crosses 4k, Mumbai records 1k of them in just 3 days||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in Mumbai crossed the 4,000-mark on Thursday, as the data shared by the state government’s ministry of health and family welfare showed that 1,100 new cases were added to the tally in only three days.On April 20, Mumbai crossed the 3,000-mark, as the total count climbed to 3,032. The city has recorded 419, 232, and 522 Covid-19 positive cases on April 21, 22, and 23, respectively. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities are facing a big challenge to contain the rapid surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Mumbai breached the 1,000-mark almost a month after an Andheri-based couple became the first to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, from the city. On April 16, Mumbai’s tally crossed 2,000 and since then it has risen to 4,205 as on Thursday evening.Covid-19 related deaths, too, are steadily rising in the city over the past few days. Mumbai recorded 28 fresh deaths over the past three days. The first death related to Covid-19 was reported in the city on March 17 when a 64-year-old man passed away at Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Disease. The toll crossed 100 in 27 days, which has since risen to 167 till Thursday evening. At least 80 people, who have succumbed to Covid-19, are senior citizens.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe civic authorities attributed the rapid surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases to aggressive testing. “The rate of tests in Mumbai is much higher than Kerala, Karnataka, and Delhi. We’ve also traced around 95,000 contacts of Covid-19 patients and many of them have tested positive,” said Pravin Pardeshi, commissioner, BMC.The civic health department’s data showed that Mumbai has tested 55,000 swab samples, which tops Tamil Nadu (59,000), Gujarat (33,000), Delhi (27,000), and Kerala (21,000).The civic body authorities also screening all senior citizens, especially those who are living in slums. “Senior citizens, who have not tested Covid-19 positive but suffer from co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, are being screened on a door-to-door basis by teams of doctors and accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers. If necessary, doctors will refer some of them to a dispensary in the vicinity for further treatment,” Pardeshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-count-crosses-4k-mumbai-records-1k-of-them-in-just-3-days/story-1BkUV6O6zxf00ipGaPTYeN.html
24-04-2020||India||Centre’s Covid-19 inspection teams rushed to 3 more states||Central teams to investigate lapses in controlling the coronavirus disease and allegations of coronavirus lockdown violations will be sent to three more states, the government said today amid a bitter row with West Bengal.The three states are Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.The ministry of home affairs said the situation is “especially serious” in major hotspot districts or emerging hotspots like Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat, Thane in Maharashtra, Hyderabad in Telangana and Chennai in Tamil Nadu.The government said the Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCT) will focus be on a range of issues, including compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per revised consolidated guidelines, preparedness of health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of relief camps for labour and poor people.The IMCTs will be headed by additional secretary rank officers and comprise public health and disaster management specialists.Earlier this week, the centre had sent six IMCTs – two each to Maharashtra and West Bengal, and one each to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.The Mumbai-Pune central team has been asked to expand its inspection activity to Thane district in Maharashtra as well.Sharing the feedback of the IMCTs sent to Mumbai and Indore this week, MHA official Punya Salila Srivastava said “Indore team has reported that there are 171 containment zones in the city, of which 20 are very critical”.The official added that the team visited the hotspots and they had a detailed discussion with teams involved in contact tracing etc. “The team found that there were adequate testing kits, PPEs, masks and other safety equipment available. Lockdown is being followed properly and safety of Health infrastructure and safety of healthcare workers is being ensured,” Srivastava added.She said that the Indore team also interacted with farmers, disabled, traders, NGOs, medical colleges, migrant labourers in camps, among other stakeholders. The Indore team, Srivastava added, found that government has provided a facility whereby farmers are able to sell their produce at MSP without going to mandis, thereby decongesting them.The Mumbai IMCT went to slums of Dharavi and suggested installation of portable toilets there to augment the number of community toilets as slum-dwellers have to come out to use very few community toilets.Srivastava said that Mumbai team has also suggested to arrange for institutional quarantine for 2,000 - 3,000 people; to increase testing capacity and increase strength of surveillance teams using volunteers. The team also deliberated upon provision of medical facilities for non-Covid patients.In West Bengal, central teams were allowed to visit the containment zones after a warning by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla. The teams had complained to the home ministry that local administration was not cooperating with them. The Trinamool Congress had accused the Centre of targeting states ruled by opposition parties, asking “why no teams were sent to Uttar Pradesh or Gujarat”.Congress leader Ahmed Patel had said a Central team should also be sent to Gujarat and the exercise should not be limited to select states..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-covid-19-inspection-teams-rushed-to-3-more-states/story-kvNiOj5CqRZpglwxHcNEiM.html
24-04-2020||India||Union HRD minister’s daughter coordinating voluntary facemask making drive||While Human Resources Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is busy encouraging online education so that academics of students doesn’t suffer during the ongoing lockdown, his daughter Aarushi is coordinating a voluntary face mask making drive.National convener of Sparsh Ganga drive, a pro-Ganga conservation campaign, Aarushi Pokhriyal is herself stitching homemade face masks and coordinating with hundreds of Sparsh Ganga female members and activists in this drive.Citing immense demand for face masks, Aarushi said that for movement in public, masks are mandatory “so we need to spike up homemade face masks on a large scale”.Already womenfolk across the district have made 11,000 face masks which are being provided to police, sanitation and even army personnel.While stitching a cotton cloth mask herself at her Delhi residence, Aarushi said that “We are staying at home, at least we can contribute directly in the fight against Covid-19 by providing people face masks.”Rita Chamoli, Haridwar district coordinator of Sparsh Ganga drive, said that more than a hundred volunteers have been making face masks for the past ten days to contribute to the nation’s fight against the epidemic.Citing difficulty in the procurement of raw clothing material, Rita said that if the government or local administration provides some relaxation in this aspect, their women volunteers can double up the facemask production.Mahakumbh Mela police force in charge, Janmejay Khanduri, who was recently handed over a thousand face masks by these women activists, lauded their concern saying, “This motivates every personnel involved in anti-Covid operations directly or indirectly.”Patanjali Yogpeeth general secretary, Acharya Balkrishan has also lauded the self volunteerism shown by Sparsh Ganga women activists assuring of cooperation to them in making face masks on a mass scale as soon as waivers are granted from the state government.“Fight against Covid-19 is long so we need to wear face masks on a routine basis. If we are provided raw material, we can expand our campaign across the state,” said Manu Rawat, a volunteer who is making masks on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-hrd-minister-s-daughter-coordinating-voluntary-facemask-making-drive/story-K8Oz0hxhNHzwZNBo3QpsTK.html
24-04-2020||India||In a first, e-passing out parade held for 42 CRPF officers||New Delhi: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) conducted an e-passing out parade (e-PoP) for the first time in its history for 42 directly appointed gazetted officers, who joined the ceremony wearing masks and gloves.The newly inducted officers were at the force’s academy at Kadarpur (Gurugram) for the webinar passing out parade held amid the Covid-19 lockdown, and they were addressed by Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and CRPF director general AP Maheshwari, who were at another location.The directly appointed gazetted officers, including four women, wore face masks and gloves and were administered the oath to serve the country. Later, academy officials pipped the rank of assistant commandant on their shoulders.Maheshwari read out a message from home minister Amit Shah to the officers. In his message, Shah told the officers: “I believe that after your training, you have achieved a certain level of maturity to efficiently deal with the numerous challenges in completing operational tasks and discharging your duties.”He added, “I am confident that the newly appointed officers passing out today will infuse new energy into the CRPF. I would expect that you will provide effective and efficient leadership to the soldiers under your command, by leading from the front.”Shah further said, “I am confident that you will perform your duties with full honesty and devotion, and will be successful in establishing a clean image of yourself. You will enrich the glorious traditions of the force by devoting yourself to maintain the integrity, unity and sovereignty of the country, as per the fame and glory of this force.Assistant commandant is the entry level rank for cadre officers in paramilitary or Central armed police forces, and they head a company of about 100 personnel.These officers, selected by the Union Public Service Commission after an all-India test, have completed a 52-week training course covering field tactics, combat operations, weapons training and legal education.The officers completed their training on March 5. However, their PoP scheduled for March 22 was put on hold due to the pandemic.“Later it was reworked into an e-PoP to enable the young officers to render their valuable service to the people during the ongoing public health crisis,” said the CRPF spokesperson, deputy inspector general Moses Dhinakaran.The officers will stay in the academy during the lockdown until May 3 and will be deployed or posted in units according to necessity arising out of the Coronavirus challenge, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-e-passing-out-parade-held-for-42-crpf-officers/story-MHPOSiwwqFE3b86C8QKtCM.html
24-04-2020||India||These 10 cities are worst hit by Covid-19. Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad among top 5||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India rose to more than 23,000 on Friday and half of them are in 10 cities of the country.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, India’s Covid-19 tally is now at 23,077 with 17,610 active cases, 4749 people cured or migrated and 718 deaths.The government has classified 170 districts identified as hotspots, or red zones, across the country and most are part of Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad cities.Here is the list of 10 cities with the highest number of Covid-19 cases:MumbaiMaharashtra’s capital remains the worst affected city in the country, which has reported 4205 cases out of the state’s 6427. Mumbai has also recorded 167 out of the state’s 283 deaths.Mumbai’s Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has demarcated 438 neighbourhoods as containment zones, the highest in the country. DelhiThe national capital has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country with 2376 infected and 50 deaths. The Delhi government has declared 92 areas in the city as containment zones.It is also the second Indian city to record more than 2000 cases. The Union health ministry data shows nearly 63% of the cases in Delhi are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation at Nizammudin held in March.AhmedabadGujarat’s largest city has 1652 Covid-19 cases out of the state’s tally of 2624. The cases are mostly from the congested slums of the old city area, which has left the authorities worried.IndoreThe Madhya Pradesh city has emerged as Covid-19 hotspot with 1029 cases. Two more deaths have been reported in Indore, known as Madhya Pradesh’s commercial capital, taking the tally of deaths to 55. According to the state health department’s bulletin on Thursday evening, Madhya Pradesh has recorded 1687 infections, with smaller districts showing signs of an alarming increase in patients.The numbers are considerably higher given the population of the country’s cleanest at 3.2 million is one-fifth of Delhi’s at 16 million.PunePune is second-worst hit city in Maharashtra after Mumbai with 876 cases and 63 deaths. The first case in the city was recorded when a couple returned from Dubai and tested positive for Covid-19 on March 9.JaipurThe number of confirmed cases in the Rajasthan capital stood at 761 out of the 2008 people infected in the state. Jaipur also accounts for 17 deaths out the 31 fatalities across Rajasthan.Of these, most Covid-19 cases have come from Jaipur’s Ramganj locality. A 45-year-old resident of Ramganj, who returned from Oman on March 12, has been identified as a super spreader. He was asked by health officials to stay in home quarantine but continued to meet people and even offered prayers at a local mosque.He tested positive on March 26 and curfew was imposed in Ramganj, a crowded neighbourhood with a population of nearly 500,000. ThaneIn Thane, 595 people have tested positive for the coronavirus disease or Covid-19.HyderabadThe Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which includes Hyderabad, has reported 526 out of the 970 confirmed cases in Telangana. Most of the cases detected in Hyderabad are related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and located in the old city area, according to the state authorities.ChennaiThe Tamil Nadu capital is the worst hit with 405 Covid-19 cases out of the state’s tally of 1683.AgraAgra has reported 336 cases out of Uttar Pradesh’s 1510 people infected with Sars-Cov-2. The first confirmed cases were reported towards the end of February. The containment measures taken by the district administration were initially lauded but the number of cases has increased in the city of the Taj Mahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-10-cities-are-worst-hit-by-covid-19-mumbai-delhi-ahmedabad-among-top-5/story-QR5ena9FBEoJsFZPRHAjWJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu declares complete lockdown in 5 cities, including Chennai||Tamil Nadu has declared a complete lockdown in five cities from Sunday to halt the spread of the highly contagious novel coronavirus, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said this afternoon.The five cities are: Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tiruppur.In Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai shutdown will be from April 26 to April 29 between 6 am and 9 pm; while in Salem and Tiruppur it will be in enforced from April 26 to 28 between 6 am and 9 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-declares-complete-lockdown-in-5-cities-including-chennai/story-AtjRcWOC7jVmcBxV30FHBM.html
24-04-2020||India||Six coronavirus vaccines in human trials bring hope of early success||Human safety trials of a coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University began on Thursday even as Indian company Serum Institute of India started work on making the vaccine locally so as to be ready in case the trial succeeds.The trial began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with a new vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 . This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.If the trials are a success, scientists hope to have one million doses ready by September, and to dramatically scale up manufacturing after that.Also read: In a first since January, China reports single digit increase in Covid-19 casesPune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with the Oxford University to manufacture the vaccine in India even as the trial starts. “SII plans to begin manufacturing the ChAdOx1 vaccine in anticipation of the clinical trials in the UK succeeding by September/October. SII will initiate the manufacture at its own risk to jump-start manufacturing and have enough doses available, if the clinical trials work,” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla.The trial will study whether the new vaccine is safe and can generate strong immune responses against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and protect healthy people from infection.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans.To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’ surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection.“This type of vaccine uses recombinant technology where you insert a gene for an important protein of the virus you want to build immunity to, into a weak virus that can safely infect human beings. Here it is the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 by which it enters cells, into a weak adenovirus. The expectation is that the weak recombinant adenovirus infection will cause antibody development against Sars-CoV-2 spike protein, thereby creating immunity,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.Also read: Why mystery of India’s lower death rates seems to defy coronavirus trend“The ChAdOx1 vaccine uses a modified adenovirus carrying the coronavirus spike protein like a Trojan horse to enter human cells. The cells start making and releasing spike proteins, and, bingo, the immune system responds,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The vaccine is safe and well tolerated, but some people may report mild and temporary side effects such as a sore arm at the injection site, headaches or fevers in the first couple of days after vaccination, said researchers. In the study, half of the healthy volunteers, between 18 and 55 years old, will receive the Covid-19 vaccine, and half a control vaccine, which protects against meningitis but not Covid-19.“By vaccinating with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, we are hoping to make the body recognise and develop an immune response to the spike protein that will help stop the Sars-CoV-2 virus from entering human cells and, therefore, prevent infection,” said researchers led by Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group.Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Oxford University, told The Times last week that she was “80% confident” that the vaccine being developed by her team would work.“I think there’s a high chance that it will work based on other things that we have done with this type of vaccine. It’s not just a hunch and as every week goes by we have more data to look at,” she said.The ChAdOx1 vaccine platform has been used to produce vaccine candidates against many viruses, including those causing influenza, chikungunya, and zika. The Oxford group has used it to develop a vaccine against Middle-East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) coronavirus, which showed promising results in clinical trials.“Vaccines based on viral vectors offer a high level of protein expression, have long-term stability, and induce strong immune responses in humans, which make them highly effective,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Vaccine development against Covid-19 has progressed at an unprecedented pace and scale, with 78 projects reaching the active stage of development since China shared the genetic sequence of Sars-CoV-2 with the World Health Organization on January 12, 2020, according to the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), one of the world’s biggest public funders of vaccine development.Like the Oxford Vaccine Group, most developers are leveraging existing work on vaccines against Mers and rapid response platforms with 2019-nCoV genetic sequences inserted to speed up vaccine development. The research focus is on platforms based on nucleotides, which are the building blocks of genetic material, DNA and RNA, because of their potential for speed and flexibility for antigen manipulation.“The Oxford vaccine will be the third CEPI-funded vaccine to enter into phase 1 trials, along with Inovio’s INO-4800 DNA vaccine candidate and Moderna’s mRNA-1273 candidate... Producing a safe, effective, and globally accessible vaccine is our best hope in ending this pandemic. We aim to do this at a speed never before seen in vaccine development,” said Dr Richard Hatchett, chief executive officer, Cepi, in a statement.Cepi has initiated eight Covid-19 vaccine development projects with Curevac, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Moderna, Novavax, University of Hong Kong, University of Queensland, and a consortium led by Institut Pasteur, with a goal of having at least three vaccine candidates submitted to regulatory authorities for licensure for general use.“If an international vaccine trial is successful, its emergency use can be sanctioned globally. If a vaccine trial is well designed and successful anywhere in the world, it can be used as the virus is the same. Some other countries are more suitable for efficacy trials, but no regular trial approval is needed in India following emergency use approval,” said Dr Ganguly.Vaccine development, on an average, takes 10.71 years from the preclinical phase, and has a market entry probability of 6%, according to a study in PLOS One, a peer reviewed scientific journal.Adaptive and parallel vaccine development phases, innovative regulatory processes, and advanced scale up manufacturing capacity have helped fast-track development, which traditionally takes an average of a decade. Even accelerated efforts, such as that for the first Ebola vaccine, took five years.“Our goal is a vaccine before 18 months. Normally, it takes about a decade to develop a vaccine, but global partnerships (between health agencies, academics, donors, industries, nations and philanthropies) have helped hasten development of vaccines against emerging public health threats. A vaccine against Ebola took five years, the one against zika took less than two years. The global effort to develop a Covid-19 vaccine in less than 18 months is unprecedented and would be an amazing achievement,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organization, told HT on the phone from Geneva.The Oxford scientists are hoping to cut even that optimistic estimate by two-thirds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-coronavirus-vaccines-in-human-trials-bring-hope-of-early-success/story-N3ZcJMi93NeF0puSIAFuvL.html
24-04-2020||India||Bengal IMCT team finds major gaps in state’s Covid-19 preparedness at hospitals||One of the Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess the on-ground situation there, after inspection of health care facilities at two hospitals in Kolkata, has found major anomalies like waiting time of five days or more for test results of patients in isolation wards; bodies lying on the beds of the ward for four hours while a death certificate is being prepared and no social distancing maintained at the hospital, increasing the risk of spread of the infection.Apurva Chandra, leader of the IMCT, has written a letter to the West Bengal chief secretary seeking clarification on these observations as well as further details on testing capability of the state government, details of persons who returned to Kolkata from abroad till March 8, etc.Chandra has also sent the team’s observations to the ministry of home affairs.The team visited CNCI (Chitranjan National Cancer Institute) and M R Bangur hospitals in Kolkata, dedicated for Covid-19 patients, on Thursday.In his letter, Chandra has stated that “there were a large number of patients in isolation wards of CNCI as well as Bangur hospital awaiting Covid-19 test results for five days or longer. Specifically at CNCI, there were four patients, since April 16 awaiting test results, two since April 17 and 3 since April 18. Some of the patients have tested negative. It is not clear why the test results should take such a long time and there is a danger of Covid-19 negative patient acquiring the infection in the hospital while awaiting his test result”.The team further observed – “The patient admission at Bangur hospital appears to be chaotic. There was no social distancing in the waiting area. Two patients appear to be in very poor health but there was no medical support available.”About Bangur hospital, it further stated that the patients are referred here from other medical facilities. “However, it seems the patients are left on their own to report to the hospital and are not escorted. This would always leave scope for some patients not turning up or delaying reporting to the hospital.”Subsequently, the team noted that there were only 12 ventilators at Bangur hospital while it caters to 354 serious Covid-19 patients. To this, the hospital authorities informed the team that in case a ventilator is not available and ventilator support is required for a patient, the patient is transferred to some other facilities.On the basis of social media reports that dead bodies were lying on beds in a ward, IMCT enquired about the matter on the spot and found that “it is possible that dead bodies were lying on bed in a ward as it takes at least four hours to issue a death certificate, after which the body is shifted to a mortuary”. The state government has been asked to furnish records in this regard.Based on a presentation given to the IMCT by state’s principal secretary (health) on Thursday, Chandra has asked for details of people who came from abroad to Kolkata till March and whether all those required to be tested have been found negative.On the state government’s claim that number of tests have gone up from around 400 per day to 900 per days in last four days, IMCT has sought details on how many of these are repeat tests and how many are first time patients.West Bengal informed the IMCT that surveillance teams are screening 1.25 lakh to 2 lakh people every day in each district. On this, the central team has sought details of number of screened people actually tested for Covid-19 and found positive. IMCT also observed that from state government’s presentation before it, “it appeared that the state is reaching its peak capacity for testing”. IMCT has suggested that West Bengal should consider having 2,500 to 5,000 tests a day.In a separate letter to the chief secretary West Bengal, IMCT has also asked for details on committee of doctors to declare the cause of death for Covid-19 patients and time taken by the committee in coming to its conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-imct-team-finds-major-gaps-in-state-s-covid-19-preparedness-at-hospitals/story-87x2dStccdGz4cyW9zwYhP.html
24-04-2020||India||PM Modi launches Swamitva Yojana to boost rural economy: Here’s all you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched ‘Swamitva Yojana’ or Ownership Scheme to map residential land ownership in the rural sector using modern technology like the use of drones. The scheme aimed to revolutionise property record maintenance in India was launched on the Panchayati Raj Diwas by the prime minister, who also interacted with members of Gram Panchayats across the country through video conferencing.Here’s everything one needs to know about the ‘Swamitva Yojana’1. Swamitva Yojana is meant to create a record of land ownership in rural areas using modern technology.2. The scheme is piloted by the Panchayati Raj ministry of the Union government and has been launched on April 24 2020, the Panchayati Raj Diwas.3. The need for this Yojana was felt since several villagers in the rural areas don’t have papers proving ownership of their land. In most states, survey and measurement of the populated areas in the villages has not been done for the purpose of attestation/verification of properties.4. Swamitva Yojana is aimed to fill the above gap to provide ownership rights to people in the villages. It is expected to go a long way in settling property rights in rural hinterlands and likely to become a tool for empowerment and entitlement, reducing social strife on account of discord over properties. 5. The residential land in villages will be measured using drones to create a non-disputable record. It is the latest technology for surveying and measuring of land.6. The scheme will be carried out in close coordination with the Central Panchayati Raj ministry, Survey of India, Panchayati Raj departments and Revenue departments of various states.7. Drones will draw a digital map of every property falling within the geographical limits of a village and demarcate the boundaries of every revenue area.8. Property card for every property in the village will be prepared by states using accurate measurements delivered by drone-mapping. These cards will be given to property owners and will be recognised by the land revenue records department.9. The delivery of property rights through an official document will enable villagers to access bank finance using their property as collateral.10. The property records for a village will also be maintained at the Panchayat level, allowing for the collection of associated taxes from the owners. The money generated from these local taxes will be used to build rural infrastructure and facilities.11. Freeing the residential properties including land of title disputes and the creation of an official record is likely to result in appreciation in the market value of the properties.12. The accurate property records can be used for facilitating tax collection, new building and structure plan, issuing of permits and for thwarting attempts at property grabbing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-swamitva-yojana-launched-by-pm-narendra-modi-all-you-need-to-know/story-UpshkST02eW59ZGsF9jxLK.html
24-04-2020||India||Five migrant workers from Bengal go missing while returning from Odisha||Five migrant workers from three villages in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district have gone missing while they were returning home from Odisha earlier this week.Their families claimed that they talked to the youths for the last time on Tuesday when they were somewhere in Burdwan in Bengal. The police have started a probe.Families of the youths said that around two months ago Rashel Sheikh,18, Bahadur Sheikh,16, Uzir Sheikh, 19, Jiyaur Sheikh,40 and Ashraful Sheikh,42, from Lichutala, Raghunathpur and Hasanpur villages in the Suti police station area went to Odisha.After the lockdown was announced they had no place to live and were not getting any food, the families told the police.Samaun Sheikh, brother of Rashel Sheikh, said “Rashel and the others went to Odisha looking for jobs. They were working as masons and labourers at a construction site. On April 20, they boarded a truck along with 12 others and left for West Bengal.”The truck, said Sheikh, had gone to Odisha to unload potatoes from Burdwan district and the driver agreed to carry the men in exchange for Rs 2000 per head.“At around 10 am on April 21, the driver dropped them off near a bus terminus. My brother said over phone that he and the others were safe. We have not heard from them since then,” said Sheikh.“Rashel and the others had planned to board any vehicle heading for Murshidabad. His phone, as well as those of the other four, are switched off. We are extremely worried.”On Thursday, the families contacted officials at Suti police station.Superintendent of police Jangipur police district, Y Raghuvamshi, said, “We came to know of the incident on Thursday. We are trying to find the missing men.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-migrant-workers-from-bengal-go-missing-while-returning-from-odisha/story-gJP2bRStuHiT749AZUzjIN.html
24-04-2020||India||‘Stop wasteful expenditure like bullet trains, focus on Covid-19’: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Friday hit out at the central government, accusing it of “continuing with wasterful expenditure like the central vista project”, instead of giving money in the hands of people.“Despite the coronavirus crisis, Modi government is carrying on with its wasteful expenditure like the Rs 23,000 crore Central Vista project and the Rs 1,10,000 crore bullet train project, nor has the government announced a 30% reduction in govt expenditure,” Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said while addressing a digital press conference.“We demand that instead of cutting down salaries/allowances of soldiers, pensioners, government employees, government cut down on its wasteful expenditure like the Central Vista Project worth Rs 20,000 crore or bullet train project worth Rs 1 lakh 10 thousand crore,” he added.“We demand that the BJP government immediately stop this misguided policy. Modi government must give money in the hands of those dealing with a financial crisis in the times of coronavirus pandemic,” said Surjewala.These remarks come a day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi said that the suggestions she gave to the government on tackling Covid-19 crisis, were only acted upon partially. At a meeting of party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee on Thursday, Gandhi said that “large-heartedness and alacrity from the Central Government is conspicuous by its absence”.“I offered our constructive cooperation and suggestions. Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity from the central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she added.he also attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred” when the entire nation should be united in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.In a resolution adopted at the meeting, the CWC accused the BJP of seeking to “inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles the Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-wasteful-expenditure-like-bullet-trains-focus-on-covid-19-congress-to-centre/story-vo1SvD50YAkdW6v1MbMMIM.html
24-04-2020||India||Use of rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 put on hold: Centre tells HC||Rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 are purchased but their use is put on hold in view of divergent outcome of some sample tests, the central government informed Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday.Assistant Solicitor General UM Aurangabadkar informed the bench of justice Nitin Sambre that procurement of rapid antibody test kits has been completed in part at the central government level, however, its use is put on hold in view of the divergent results of sample tests.“These kits are used only for surveillance and the same cannot be used for VRDL centers,” said Aurangabadkar. He also clarified that the kits at the disposal of Indian Council for Medical Research and will be distributed to States, if demanded by them. The court was hearing a petition filed by Nagpur resident CH Sharma over raising concerns about the quality of healthcare provided at four government medical colleges in Vidarbha region. Sharma complained that the four colleges did not have enough medical seats for imparting medical education to students, lacked proper equipment required for taking care of the patients and also for imparting education, the colleges lacked adequate staff, expert teachers and they also suffered from paucity of funds.On March 18, 2020, he moved high court again pointing out that the government medical colleges in Vidarbha were completely ill-equipped to handle Covid-19 patients and create isolation facilities.During the course of hearing on the petition on Thursday, the court was also informed that VRDL laboratories cannot be made operational at Yavatmal and Chandrapur before May 20, for want of infrastructure.Dr. Ajay Kewaliya, Dean of Indira Gandhi Medical College at Nagpur also informed the court that the Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction Machines (RT-PCR) required for the laboratories are procured through Haffkine Institute, which in turn imports the machines from Singapore and shipment of the machines is a time consuming process.In this backdrop, justice Sambre directed the authorities concerned that “once the equipment is received and the labs are installed, the operation of the same shall not be withhold for want of testing kits and it shall be the duty of the Competent Authority,o including the State Government,o to make available sufficient number of testing kits for making such labs operational.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-rapid-antibody-test-kits-for-covid-19-put-on-hold-centre-tells-hc/story-GWKq6Iz5hN0y8om5g9rkpM.html
24-04-2020||India||Indore Covid-19 cases cross 1,000, death toll at 55||Covid-19 hot spot Indore’s tally of cases crossed 1,000 on Friday with no sign of a let-up in the situation even after a month of lockdown and curfew restrictions in the city known as the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh.Ujjain, a district neighbouring Indore, has emerged as another hot spot of Covid-19 cases in the state with 76 infections reported so far.The chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of Indore, Praveen Jadia, said: “With new cases, Indore now has 1,029 Covid-19 cases. Two more deaths have been reported, taking the tally of deaths to 55. However, most of the new cases are either from among those who are already quarantined or hospitalised in Covid-19 care hospitals.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis in Bhopal said Madhya Pradesh was in the sixth position on a nationwide tally of Covid-19 patients according to an analysis done on Thursday, and Indore accounted for 58% of all cases in the state.Also, 65% of the dead and 49% of those who recovered were from Indore, the institute said.Jadia said a total of 1,817 teams engaged in surveys and screening have covered about 1.5 million people in Indore so far, and are expected to complete covering the entire city in the “next four days or so”.According to the health department’s bulletin on Thursday evening, Madhya Pradesh has recorded 1,687 infections, with smaller districts showing signs of an alarming increase in patients.There was an increase of 25 patients in Ujjain, talking the tally to 76. Apart from Indore and Ujjain, three districts in the Malwa-Nimad region – Khargone, Khandwa and Dhar – had 51, 35 and 36 patients, respectively, as of Thursday.Other districts where the number of patients is increasing include Jabalpur (30), Raisen (26), Hoshangabad (26), Barwani (24) and Dewas (20).Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “The alarming increase in small cities while the state government is not able to control the situation in Indore and Bhopal should set alarm bells ringing in the administration...It needs to undertake measures very fast to control the situation not only in the affected districts but other districts too. As many as 26 districts of the total of 52 have been affected.”In a letter written to secretary of the Union health ministry, a copy of which is available with Hindustan Times, Nidhi and SR Azad, another public health expert, wrote: “Several districts of Madhya Pradesh have shown decreasing number of patients in the past few days, which is not possible until and unless there are inaccurate sample test reports in such cases or there are some administrative issues. This is a serious issue. The Central government must take cognisance of the same.”Additional chief secretary (health) Mohammed Suleman and commissioner (health services) Faiz Ahmad Kidwai couldn’t be reached for comments. Earlier, Suleman had said, “Variations in data come after reconciliation between lab and district data. Repeat samples and rejections need to be factored in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-covid-19-cases-cross-1-000-death-toll-at-55/story-dfvXxqycwkVggei9AtPWsN.html
24-04-2020||India||Did Prashant Kishor fly to Kolkata during lockdown? Centre begins probe||The Centre has sought to investigate allegations against election strategist Prashant Kishor taking a cargo flight from New Delhi to get to West Bengal, officials aware of the development said. The enquiry began following news reports alleging that the election strategist had been summoned by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to handle the state government’s response over its tussle with the central government regarding actions taken to tackle coronavirus situation in the state. “We have begun an enquiry and asked the airports to check whether Mr Kishor has in fact defied lockdown orders and attempted to take a flight. Information has been sought from the airports as well,” a senior civil aviation ministry official said requesting anonymity. Denying the allegation, Kishor told Hindustan Times that the reports were false. “I have not been to any airport after March 19. If anyone has any information contrary to this, they must put the details in public domain,” he said. According to sources, Kishor had flown from Kolkata on March 19 after a series of meetings with the state government. The lockdown was announced a few days later. “We have asked airlines who were operating cargo flights to Kolkata and they have denied any involvement,” a senior official at the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.Both International and domestic passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 22 and March 25, respectively. Only cargo flights have been allowed to operate. Thus far, 347 cargo flights have operated since the lockdown.This also comes at a time when the state government and the Centre have been at loggerheads since the extension of the lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has pulled up the West Bengal government over its handling of the lockdown and the Covid-19 crisis in the state in at least three letters written in the past week. The home ministry had last week shot off a letter to the Bengal government directing it to allow the two interministerial central teams sent to review implementation of lockdown measures in select districts to carry out their duties. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hired Kishor-led IPAC in June last year after the the Lok Sabha election. The BJP had won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the states only four less than the TMC’s 22. In July, I-PAC had kicked off its campaign with Mamata Banerjee public outreach campaign – ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ (Tell Didi) with the aim to reach out to at least 80% of the 1.6 crore households in West Bengal over the next 20 months ahead of the 2021 legislative assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-prashant-kishor-fly-to-kolkata-during-lockdown-centre-begins-probe/story-yKLYY7LTVHoj7q89zMBi4M.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt response on central air-conditioning||The Delhi high court (HC) on Friday sought the response of the Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government on a plea that urged an alternative arrangement for the use of centrally air-conditioned buildings in the national capital because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A two-member bench, comprising Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, issued notices to various authorities, including the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Delhi government among others. The bench said that the concern was vital after advocate KC Mittal, also chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi, moved a plea seeking the constitution of a committee of experts that would examine the problem and suggest technical solutions. The central government’s standing counsel, Ajay Digpaul, who appeared for CPWD, told the HC that guidelines in this regard have been issued on April 22 and the dos and don’ts would be submitted in the court on the next date of hearing.Advocate Sanjoy Ghose, the standing counsel of the Delhi government, submitted an elaborate plan on how the air conditioners could be kept clean. Mittal’s plea said that the centrally air-conditioned buildings inadvertently help the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, or other air/aerosol-borne infections. It sought that directions for adequate precautions be issued for the use of centrally air-conditioned buildings in Delhi to prevent the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The HC has fixed May 1 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-response-on-central-acs/story-HukDPxWI5uiXlKSSXXC3XO.html
24-04-2020||India||Good news: These states have zero cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19||Coronavirus disease Covid-19 has wreaked havoc across the globe, and led to thousands of fatalities. In India too, more than 23,000 people are affected by the disease.But, there a still are a few states which are either not affected by the disease, or have cured all the Covid-19 patients. These states are mostly in the Northeast, which has so far successfully managed to tackle the spread pf Sars-CoV-2 virus.Here is the list of those states:Sikkim: Sikkim has not reported any case of Covid-19 so far. The state government has decided to bring back thousands of stranded people, including students and patients, from outside Sikkim once the lockdown is lifted, news agency PTI reported on Thursday. To ensure the state remains free from the infection, the Sikkim government banned on entry of domestic and foreign tourists since the first week of March.Nagaland: The lone Covid-19 patient which surfaced in Nagaland was shifted in Assam, where he is being treated in a hospital. The patient, who is a resident of Dimapur district, will be tested again on April 26. S far, a total of 543 samples out of 607 have tested negative from Nagaland. Results for the remaining 64 are yet to come, news agency PTI reported. All the district headquarter hospitals have been converted to Covid-19 facilities, and the state family welfare department has partnered with the Nagaland Medical Council for providing OPD services at Kohima and Dimapur.Tripura: Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Thursday said the state has become free from coronavirus disease Covid-19 after its second patient tested negative. Out of the two Covid-19 patients, the first one - a woman - was released from the isolation ward of a hospital in Agartala on April 16 after she was found negative following consecutive tests. The woman was shifted to a quarantine centre in Gomati district, nearly 50 kilometres away from state capital Agartala.Other notable mentions:There are a few states where the pandemic has not reached at emergency levels. In fact, in these states, the number of infected people is limited to one. These states are Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-these-states-have-zero-cases-of-coronavirus-disease-covid-19/story-hf0YCHifuEAUgY4hdKTi6K.html
24-04-2020||India||In Bengal Covid-19 crisis, guv Dhankhar and CM Mamata caught in letter wars||Firing another salvo, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee of “abject failure” in dealing with the situation over Covid-19 and appeasing the minority community.This was his second response to Mamata Banerjee’s letter to him on Thursday that accused the governor of violating “constitutional dharma”.“I can figure out that your entire strategy is crafted to deliberately divert people’s attention from your abject failure in combating and containing coronavirus in West Bengal. Your appeasement of the minority community was so explicit and awkward that as regards a question about the Nizamuddin Markaz incident by a journalist, your reaction was “Do not ask communal questions.” This is most unfortunate and cannot be appreciated,” Dhankhar wrote in his letter to the chief minister on Friday.“Ours is the only state where central teams whose only role is affirmative and in aid of the State, are made to face unwholesome scenario. In all other states, it was seamless. Your cover-up “mechanism” would lead to very painful results. Banning of mobile phones inside Isolation Wards is a case in point. Time to reveal the real picture so that our fight against the coronavirus may be enhanced and sharpened,” wrote the governor.The governor was scathing in his appraisal of the chief minister’s actions during the pandemic.“Your communication is part of “alibi strategy”. It emanates from a script that seeks to cover up ‘monumental failures’ in these challenging times by series of ‘blunders’ while people of the state are suffering untold miseries, media is muzzled, health warriors are stressed and there is virtual suspension of human rights of those not belonging to your party. Emasculation of the administration and police has reached pinnacle as a consequence of their politicisation,” he wrote.Banerjee, in her letter, had accused the governor of directly attacking the chief minister and the ministers in her cabinet, holding press conferences against the state government of which he himself is the Constitutional head and alleged that one of Dhankhar’s text messages to her was “unprecedented in tone, tenor and language.”“I firmly disown your accusations,” Dhankhar wrote on Friday, adding that the allegations were “bereft of any factual premise.” Following a series of social media responses from the governor criticising the state government on various grounds, Banerjee had written to Dhankhar, “You appear to have forgotten that I am an elected chief minister of a proud Indian state. You also seem to have forgotten that you are a nominated Governor.” “You may continue to ignore all advice and inputs given by me and my council of ministers (as you appear to have taken upon yourself to do since the day of your appointment), but at least you should not ignore the wise words of Babasaheb Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly,,” Banerjee wrote. Late that night, in his first response to the chief minister, Dhankhar had written, “Your constant refrain of the governor being ‘nominated’ is lamentable and can be ascribed only to elementary ignorance of the Constitution” and that “I need to indicate firmly that there has been total failure at your end all through as regards compliance of constitutional prescriptions.”In his Friday letter, Dhankhar wrote, “There are Constitutional prescriptions for you that mandate discharge of obligations through the Governor. There has been consistency at your end in complete disregard of the same, to my great dismay.”Dhankhar even criticised the way CM Banerjee has been travelling across Kolkata over the past few days and using microphones to urge people to stay indoors.“As an escape route you thought of being in your favourite pastime of being in ‘accusatory mode’ and taking to streets. Let me indicate in times of such gigantic crisis ‘street fighter approach’ is counterproductive and has the potential to spell disaster for the people,” Dhankhar wrote on Friday.“Please ask those who may pick courage to show the mirror- how sagacious is it for CM to take mike and broom day after day in this grim situation. Real time action and effective governance is need of the hour - not theatrics or politicking,” he wrote.This war of words is taking place amid a raging battle between the Centre and the state over the visit of two inter-ministerial central teams. The team for south Bengal is to visit four hotspot districts in the ‘red zone’ and the one for north Bengal is to visit three districts in the ‘orange zone.’The central teams’ arrival in the state initially triggered a controversy with the state government criticising Centre’s decision to send these teams as ‘unilateral’ and ‘undesirable’. However, the state administration started cooperating with the central teams after a strongly worded letter from the Union home ministry. The letter warned the state that obstructing the central team amounted to violation of the Disaster Management Act and orders of the Supreme Court. The teams have started making visits from Wednesday. However, Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, on Thursday too, questioned the Centre’s motive behind sending these teams. He said, “West Bengal stands on 12th position in the country as far as Coronavirus is concerned. Of the 11 states placed above us, Central teams visited only three. I cannot understand the logic behind this. What is the big violation here? We are following all protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-covid-19-crisis-guv-dhankhar-and-cm-mamata-caught-in-letter-wars/story-YFtZzM0VMt2brSif5FpYkK.html
24-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 10 Indian states with highest number of Covid-19 cases||Coronavirus disease Covid-19 is infecting more and more states in India every day. The spread of the disease has slowed, but many states are under its grip.While the total number of Covid-19 positive cases have crossed 23,000-mark, there are four states which have the bulk of these infecte patients.Here is a list of states with highest number of Covid-19 cases:1. Maharashtra: With the addition of 778 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra recorded the highest 24-hour jump on Thursday. The tally of infected has reached 6,427 in the state, according to state health department data. The Union health ministry has, however confirmed 6,430 Covid-19 positive cases so far.2. Gujarat: The state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. A total of 2,624 people are said to be suffering here, of which 258 people have been discharged while 112 lost their lives, according to Union Health Ministry data. Nine of the fatalities have been reported since Thursday.3. Delhi: With 2,376 Covid-19 cases, Delhi is third on the list. Two people have died in the national capital since Thursday; the total number of fatalities here stand at 50, according to the Union Health Ministry.4. Rajasthan: Rajasthan on Friday morning reported 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 with 36 new infections, including 13 from Jaipur. The desert state is on the fourth spot in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. Rajasthan had reported 1000 cases on April 14, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1005.5. Madhya Pradesh: The state has seen rapid increase in the Covid-19 cases, with Indore emerging as ine of the hotspots in the country. The state has reported 1,699 positive cases of Covid-19 till Friday. Eighty three people have died from Covid-19 here while 203 have recovered, according to the Union Health Ministry.6. Tamil Nadu: The southern state is close behind Madhya Pradesh in terms of Covid-19 positive cases. Tamil Nadu has reported 1,683 cases till Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. The death toll has reached 20 in the state.7. Uttar Pradesh: With further increase in numbers, Uttar Pradesh has 1,510 Covid-19 positive cases. While 206 people have recovered from the disease in Uttar Pradesh, 24 have died from the infection here, according to Union Health Ministry.8. Telangana: Another southern state is fast approaching the 1,000-mark for Covid-19 positive cases. The Covid-19 positive cases have reached 960 in Telangana. Nearly 200 (197 to be exact) have made a recovery from the virus while 24 people have died from Covid-19.9. Andhra Pradesh: The state has recorded 895 positive Covid-19 patients and 141 cases of recovery. Twenty seven people have died here, as per the latest data from Centre on Friday.10. Kerala: As per the health ministry, Kerala reported 447 coronavirus cases on Friday. The state has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 324 people have successfully recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-with-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases/story-bqzMYKiVGhWFLPCAqAG4bO.html
24-04-2020||India||6-month-old baby, 3-year-old child booked in Uttarakhand for not following Covid-19 quarantine||A six-month-old baby and a three-year-old child were among more than 40 people booked in a village in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district for ‘not following home quarantine and endangering the life of others.’ As soon as the incident came to light, villagers raised objection following which the official, on whose report they were booked, was suspended by the district magistrate and a probe was ordered, said officials. The suspended official identified as Girish Singh Rana, an assistant engineer in irrigation department, was deployed as Covid-19 magistrate by district magistrate (DM) Ashish Chauhan in Chinyalisaur area to ensure home quarantine of the people who return to the district, said officials. Chauhan said the incident happened on April 10 when a family comprising the two children returned to their village from Haryana along with 47 others and were asked to remain in home quarantine as a precautionary measure.“However, it was found that they didn’t follow the home quarantine following which action was directed against them. Covid-19 magistrate concerned Rana was asked to prepare a report of the violators for necessary action,” Chauhan said.Also read: Some poor Uttarakhand students start selling vegetables to help their families financiallyChauhan said Rana inquired about the incident over the phone while making the report on the violators and didn’t visit the villages as per norms. “He didn’t inquire about the age of the violators due to which the names of these two children also came up in the list,” he said. The local revenue police officer booked the 47 people, including the two children, for violating home quarantine and endangering lives of others while four others were booked by regular police for the same offence.Soon, the district administration came to know about it and ordered an inquiry into the incident. “During the inquiry, when the revenue police officer asked Rana about it, he confessed that he had submitted his report after collecting details over phone only and without any ground visit. Considering it as a serious dereliction of duty, I immediately suspended him on April 22 apart from ordering a probe into it,” said Chauhan.Another official privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity, “As the cases against all the 47 people including the two children and their parents were based on that bogus report, the case would be quashed soon.”The district administration has said about 5700 people returned to Uttarkashi during the coronavirus pandemic. They said 2900 of them have completed their surveillance period after home quarantine, 2400 are still under surveillance and about 250 are still under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-month-old-baby-3-year-old-child-booked-in-uttarakhand-for-not-following-covid-19-quarantine/story-KoCCWEE51ZlDeIGHqruyPK.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kejriwal says initial plasma therapy trial outcome promising||Delhi chief minister Arvind Keriwal has urged those who recover from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to donate plasma for those hospitalised with severe infections after the condition of four people treated with the therapy appeared to show an improvement.“The initial results are very promising and I would request those who have recovered from the coronavirus infection to come and donate their plasma. Many of you must have donated blood for dengue – for that too we do not take the blood, only the platelets are taken out and the rest of the blood goes back to your body,” he said.“This is the same thing, we will just take out the plasma. You can save the life of a patient. We will call you for donations, we will arrange transport, and we will ensure you are not harmed in any way,” Kejriwal said.So far, 2,376 people in Delhi have been infected and 50 have died.Last week, Delhi’s biggest facility for treating Covid-19 cases – Lok Nayak Hospital –received permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research and drug regulatory body Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to conduct a randomised control trial in collaboration with the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.For the treatment, a blood component – plasma – rich in virus fighting antibodies is taken from those who recover from Covid-19 and given to those who have severe infection to help them fight the virus.SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said: “This therapy is not new, it has been used for several other diseases before. We are conducting a trial for the effectiveness of this treatment in Covid-19 cases.“The trial will include 10 patients who receive the therapy and should be completed within the next 10 or 15 days.”The institute chooses donors and conducts plasmapheresis to derive blood plasma for the treatment.The first patient to receive plasma therapy was a 60-year-old man admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital. He was not on ventilator but had a low oxygen saturation of 85%, a condition that indicates his organs weren’t receiving adequate oxygen. Normal oxygen saturation for healthy individuals is between 95% and 100%.The man’s respiratory rate was high at 30 per minute – meaning he was breathing rapidly. The normal respiratory rate is 12 to 20 breaths a minute in adults.The man was administered plasma therapy on Tuesday. “His respiratory rate has come down to 20 per minute and the oxygen saturation has improved to 98%. The patient is likely to be moved out of the ICU today. And there have been similar improvements in the condition of the other patients who received the therapy. This is promising,” said Kejriwal.Kejriwal said Delhi will apply for wider use of the therapy for all severe patients admitted in the city’s hospitals.“For now, we have permission from the Central government to perform a limited trial only for serious patients in Lok Nayak Hospital. They had asked us for the results of the limited trial to grant permission for the use of the therapy on others. Next week, we will apply for plasma therapy for all serious patients in Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kejriwal-says-initial-plasma-therapy-results-promising/story-hp9KWFSK6egblF0B3Ynh6O.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Gautam Gambhir performs last rites of domestic help, body couldn’t be sent home||India’s World Cup-winning former opener Gautam Gambhir performed the last rites of his deceased domestic help after her mortal remains could not be sent to her home in Odisha due to the coronavirus-forced national lockdown. Gambhir, also a Lok Sabha from the BJP, posted a tribute on his Twitter page for his employee Saraswati Patra, who was working at his residence for the past six years. “Taking care of my little one can never be domestic help. She was family. Performing her last rites was my duty,” he tweeted. “Always believed in dignity irrespective of caste, creed, religion or social status. Only way to create a better society. That’s my idea of India! Om Shanti,” said the 38-year-old Gambhir, who played 58 Tests for India between 2004 and 2016.  Taking care of my little one can never be domestic help. She was family. Performing her last rites was my duty. Always believed in dignity irrespective of caste, creed, religion or social status. Only way to create a better society. That’s my idea of India! Om Shanti pic.twitter.com/ZRVCO6jJMd Media reports in Odisha said the 49-year-old Patra hailed from a village in Jajpur district.She was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital a few days ago and was battling diabetes and high blood pressure for a long period. She breathed her last while undergoing treatment on April 21. Union Minister of Petroleum and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan appreciated Gambhir. “Taking care of Saraswati throughout the course of her illness, he also ensured her dignity in death by performing her last rites himself since her mortal remains could not be sent to her family back home in Odisha,” Pradhan, who also belongs to Odisha, tweeted. “His act of compassion will enliven the faith in humanity for millions of poor, who are working far from their home for livelihood and will garner respect from all folds of the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-gautam-gambhir-performs-last-rites-of-domestic-help-body-couldn-t-be-sent-home/story-i2rh3ngwA3NwEHOY1YZ1QP.html
24-04-2020||India||After 45 days in hospital and 19 tests, Kerala woman finally free of Covid-19||A woman who tested positive for Covid-19 for 19 successive times in Pathnamthitta in central Kerala has finally tested negative. The 62-year-old will be discharged from the hospital after the state medical board gives its permission, said said Pathanamthitta district medical officer (DMO) Dr N Sheeja.“She was tested negative twice. We will discharge her soon,” said the DMO. Doctors treating her heaved a sigh of relief because she was admitted to the hospital 45 days ago. She contracted the disease after she came in contact with a family who returned from Italy.She was admitted to the hospital on March 10 after she came in contact with Italy-returned family which later turned to be super spreaders infecting eight others. Three-member family came to their home in Kerala’s Ranni on February 29 on a three-week leave and attended many functions before testing positive a week later and transmitted the disease to many others.All others, including the 94-year-old grandfather and 88-year-old grandmother of returnees, had left the hospital two weeks back but she remained in the hospital after she testing positive repeatedly.Late onset of the disease like in this case is another worry for overworked health officials. In north Kerala’s Kozhikode a person returned from Dubai on March 18 and turned positive at least 29 days after he was exposed to the virus.The World Health Organization (WHO) had prescribed a 14-day incubation period but Kerala had extended it to 28 days to make it ensure that an asymptomatic person or a concerned patient is disinfected completely. At least eight such cases were reported from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-45-days-in-hospital-and-19-tests-kerala-woman-finally-free-of-covid-19/story-pBdnpiWbWJFaZZEk2U0ucO.html
24-04-2020||India||9 RPF personnel aboard special parcel train test positive for Covid-19||At least nine out of 28 personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) aboard a special parcel train to West Bengal from New Delhi have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to officials. The group took the train from the national capital to Kolkata on April 13 and reached its destination the next day. Upon arrival, the RPF personnel took a bus to West Bengal’s Kharagpur around 8am. “It is also clarified that these RPF personnel, while undertaking the journey, did not come in contact with any public. There has not been any violation of the guidelines issued for management of Covid-19 by the central government or any state government.“Nonetheless, a fact-finding committee has been constituted to ascertain the circumstances under which some of RPF personnel of the contingent got infected,” the railways ministry said.Derek O’ Brien, a senior leader of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and a Rajya Sabha member, tweeted: “Getting disturbing news. 9 #RPF personnel test + for #Covid19 in Bengal. 6 in Kharagpur, 1 each Mecheda/Uluberia. They all came to Kolkata from Delhi on 14 April by train. Why were positive patients traveling during #lockdown? WHO SENT THEM ?Screening?How many people did they meet.”The RPF contingent of the South Eastern Railway (SER) first left Kharagpur for Anand Vihar in Delhi on March 19 by train number 12443 with a purpose to collect ammunition, the railways ministry said in a statement on Friday.The contingent arrived at Anand Vihar on March 20.The members stayed at the barracks in Dayabasti, New Delhi, till April 12.“It was decided to run parcel special trains for transportation of essential goods during lockdown. Subsequently, the parcel special trains started from March 31. Since there was scarcity of ammunition with RPF in SER, the ammunition collecting contingent was advised to move by suitable parcel train from Delhi. It is pertinent to note that the on-duty movement of armed forces was exempted from the restrictions imposed during the lockdown,” the railways ministry said. The RPF contingent collected its arms and stock of ammunition on April 12 and proceeded to Howrah Junction from the New Delhi Railway Station on April 13.“Staff posted at en-route stations deboarded from the bus during the road journey. They were quarantined in respective barracks. Rest of the staff with ammunition were taken to Kharagpur. The bus arrived at Kharagpur at 13.30 hrs of 14th April. One constable boarded another parcel train from Kharagpur and reached Balasore on 14th (April) night. He was also quarantined like other staff. He developed slight fever on 15th and was taken to Government Hospital Balasore on April 16 where he was tested positive,” the ministry said. Subsequently, he was kept in quarantine in a separate room at an RPF barrack in Balasore, Odisha. He tested positive on April 20, following which the rest of the personnel too were tested, the railways ministry said. Officials aware of the matter said the result of four personnel is still awaited. Railway passenger services have been suspended since March 22 due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Subsequently, a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25.The national carrier has also begun special military trains for the armed forces. Hindustan Times on April 16 reported that the Centre has given its nod for the running of two special trains for Indian Army personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-rpf-personnel-aboard-special-parcel-train-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-dp8jFiQkhiFGUUaWWvVUNM.html
24-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 36 new Covid-19 cases take Rajasthan tally to 2000||Rajasthan on Friday morning reported 2000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 36 new infections, including 13 from Jaipur, even as experts said the doubling rate had slowed down in the state. However, the desert state is on the fourth spot in terms of the number of coronavirus disease cases in the country after Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi.Six districts with more than 100 Covid-19 cases continue to concern and challenge officials of the state health department as they have been classified as hotspots. These are Jaipur with 753 cases, Jodhpur with 310, Kota with 140, Tonk with 115, Bharatpur with 107 and Ajmer with 106 cases. Rajasthan had reported 1000 cases on April 14, taking the Covid-19 tally to 1005, after seeing 520 infections on April 10. It breached the 2000-mark in 10 days but experts say the doubling rate is slowing down, which indicates a flattening of the curve.Out of the 36 new cases, 18 came from Kota, 13 from Jaipur, four from Jhalawar and one from Bharatpur. A person died in the state capital of Jaipur taking the number of fatalities due to Covid-19 to 29 in the state, according to the morning bulletin by the health department.Also read: 2,000 students stranded in Rajasthan amid lockdown plead to Maharashtra govt for helpRohit Kumar Singh, the additional chief secretary with the state’s health department, said the rate of increase in the number of infected has slowed in the state after April 14.Singh said if the Covid-19 cases had increased according to the infection rate in the first phase of the lockdown period then the number of cases would have been 2834. But due to stringent measures taken by the state government, the number of coronavirus disease cases is 2000, he said.The health department and health minister Raghu Sharma have insisted that testing in Rajasthan is being done aggressively and that is the reason the high numbers are being reported. Singh said Rajasthan is among the top states as far as testing is concerned. He said the state is second after Maharashtra in terms of the number of tests done. As of April 24, the state has carried out 69,764 tests.Also read: Rajasthan spends Rs 2,440 on each person in quarantine centresSimultaneously, Singh said, Rajasthan also has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country. The state has a mortality rate of 1.43% with 29 deaths reported so far. Dr Virendra Singh, a member of the Covid-19 advisory board formed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, said this is a good sign.“If the doubling time is more than seven days then we can say it is an initiation of flattening of the curve. So, we can hope that this trend will continue,” said Dr Singh.However, the pulmonologist and former medical superintendent of SMS Hospital emphasised that people should try to avoid going out and follow social distancing and cover their mouth and nose with masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-36-new-covid-19-cases-take-rajasthan-tally-to-2000/story-Q17bhXtUOY2Kzf1YonGH4M.html
24-04-2020||India||World busy with Covid-19, Beijing pushes South China Sea agenda||A US warship sailed through the sensitive Taiwan Strait on a “routine” transit for the second time in a month, the US military said on Friday, hours after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo accused China of taking advantage of the world’s focus on the Covid-19 pandemic to push its territorial ambitions in the South China Sea.Pompeo’s statement spotlights Beijing’s effort to push the envelope in the South China Sea where its territorial claims conflict with those of Vietnam, the Philippines, Taiwan, Malaysia and Brunei.At a video interaction with ministers of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations grouping to discuss the coronavirus pandemic, Pompeo pointed to China’s announcement of administrative districts over disputed islands and maritime areas in the South China Sea and sinking of a Vietnamese fishing vessel earlier this month.“Beijing has moved to take advantage of the (Covid-19) distraction,” Pompeo said, accusing China of deploying militarised ships to intimidate others from developing offshore gas and oil projects.Also Read: Explained: What the South China Sea dispute is all aboutChina claims almost the entire South China Sea and the islands and reefs that dot it. Earlier this month, Beijing announced setting up two districts to administer islands and reefs of Paracel Islands and the Spratly Islands to strengthen its claim to sovereignty over the area.India tracks South China Sea developmentsThere has been no statement from India on recent developments in the South China Sea. Or Pompeo’s latest statement.But New Delhi has an abiding interest in developments in the region.For one, because about 55 percent of India’s trade passes through the Strait of Malacca, part of the South China Sea.India has, on several occasions, called upon all parties to avoid unilateral action that lead to tensions in the region and called for peaceful resolution of disputes without threat of use of force.Besides, state-run ONGC Videsh is also engaged in oil and gas production in cooperation with Vietnam and is directly impacted by China’s efforts to militarise the South China Sea.Not just PompeoChinese ships have also been accused of intruding in waters near the Japanese-controlled islets last week when four coast guard vessels sailed through the area for about 90 minutes before leaving. China claims the islets and calls them Diaoyu.Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi picked up the phone this Tuesday to lodge a protest for sending government ships into Japanese territorial waters near the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea.The Philippines also has filed two diplomatic protests with the Chinese Embassy in Manila over violations of international law and Philippine sovereignty in the West Philippine Sea.Stand-off with MalaysiaThere has been a standoff between Chinese and Malaysian vessels over Kuala Lumpur’s effort to explore energy blocks in its extended continental shelf. Those waters are also claimed by Vietnam and China, which immediately sent ships to shadow the boat.According to news agency Bloomberg, the situation took a turn for the worse on April 16 with the arrival of a Chinese surveyor known as the Haiyang Dizhi 8, which last year was engaged in a standoff with Vietnam over offshore energy blocks.This week, the dispute turned into a five-nation face off involving US and Chinese warships, raising the risk of a direct confrontation as broader tensions grow between the world’s biggest economies, Bloomberg reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-busy-with-covid-19-beijing-pushes-south-china-sea-agenda/story-55XoBGOgPfPHbL6thAmWKM.html
24-04-2020||India||6-year-old raped in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh, eyes damaged in attack||A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping, raping and damaging the eyes of a six-year-old girl in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district, police have said.The girl was kidnapped on Wednesday evening from outside her house in the village under Jabera police station in Damoh district, 264 kilometres northeast of state capital of Bhopal, in Bundelkhand region.“During the interrogation by police, the youth confessed to having committed the crime. He has been booked under 363, 366, 376, 307 (sections of the Indian Penal Code) and certain sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” Anil Sharma, the inspector general of police of Sagar zone, said on Thursday evening.Hemant Chauhan, Damoh’s superintendent of police, said, the girl went to a shop in the village to buy some eatables when she was reported missing. Her parents and other family members made a frantic search for the girl whole night and lodged a missing report with Jabera police station on Thursday morning when they could not find her.“The girl was later found in a field outside the village with both her hands tied on her back. There was bleeding from both her eyes…The girl was referred to Bundelkhand Medical College where her condition was stated to be serious,” Chauhan said.“A special investigation team (SIT) has been lodged and an announcement of Rs 10000 made on the arrest of the criminal,” he added.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the rape of the “innocent girl is shameful and unfortunate.”“I have issued instructions for the arrest of the criminal at the earliest. All possible treatment will be provided to the girl,” he said.Also read: Spike in domestic violence cases in Punjab amid curfewKamal Nath, the president of the Congress state unit, attacked the government over the rape of the girl.“People are not able to move out of home for even essential items due to lockdown restrictions but criminals are moving freely and with impunity in the state. There are rapes, murders, stabbing and firing going on across the state. This is in just one month of the BJP government,” Kamal Nath said.The senior Congress leader demanded immediate arrest of the criminals involved in the crime and free and best treatment to the girl. This is the latest in the crime against women in the state during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections in the country.A 53-year-old blind bank manager was raped in her apartment by an unidentified man in Bhopal’s Shahpura area on April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-year-old-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-s-damoh-eyes-damaged-in-attack/story-ovyjZJ7WpvMqJoE201GblI.html
24-04-2020||India||19 truck drivers escape coronavirus quarantine facility in Odisha||The Odisha government has reported that 19 truck drivers, who were staying in a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) quarantine centre in Rayagada district, escaped through a window on April 22 late night.The drivers belong to Uttar Pradesh and Punjab and were housed in a quarantine centre at a school in Kereda gram panchayat on Andhra Pradesh -Odisha border since March 30. They were staying at the quarantine centre after the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions were initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The drivers’ quarantine period got over on April 14, but they were asked to stay put there, as inter-state transport had stopped because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions.“They were being given food and accommodation. The room had an uninterrupted power supply. However, they escaped late on April 22 night through one of the windows. We came to know the following morning that they broke open a window and beat a hasty retreat,” said Vivek Saravana, superintendent of police (SP), Rayagada district. A case has been filed against the absconding drivers at the district’s Sheskhal police station.The quarantine centre is located close to the railway track on the east coast that goes up to Visakhapatnam in AP. The police suspect that the drivers may have escaped along the railway track.Around 30 migrant labourers, including 15 women and five children, were also found walking along a railway track in Telangana two days ago in a bid to avoid police patrol at an interdistrict check post.The drivers’ escape has come as a fresh headache for the state government, which is planning to quarantine about 7.5 lakh migrant workers who are slated to return home after the lockdown restrictions are lifted on May 3.The government has started a web-based registration facility in which each of the migrants or someone on their behalf would have to register with the necessary details, which will enable them to stay at official quarantine centres that are being set up across over 100 urban local bodies and 7,000 gram panchayats. The government also plans to stamp each of the quarantined people with a spot of indelible ink that is used during elections. Preparations are on to provide adequate food, water, and sanitation facilities at these quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-truck-drivers-escape-quarantine-facility-in-odisha/story-iSBHGuYdtj1svzW6iX2xHK.html
24-04-2020||India||‘Encouraging results’: Delhi CM on plasma therapy trials for coronavirus||The initial results of plasma therapy conducted on four Covid-19 patients in the city have given satisfactory results, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday, adding that more such trials will be conducted in the next few days.  Delhi began plasma therapy trials for coronavirus disease patients on Tuesday. A treatment that uses antibody-rich plasma (a blood component) taken from those who have recovered from the infection to treat critical patients.“In the last few days, we have tried plasma therapy on four patients at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. Till now the results are encouraging,” said CM Kejriwal.The CM added that the Centre has given permission for limited trials. He said his government will seek permission next week to use the therapy on all serious Covid-19 patients across the city.Watch l ‘Plasma therapy trial on COVID-19 patients showing positive result’: Kejriwal Kejriwal also appealed to those who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate plasma for serious patients.The trials are being conducted in collaboration with the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which will be processing the blood to derive plasma and store it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-trials-on-covid-19-patients-give-hope-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-Y30UnpayFAlXkfri0T2wUK.html
24-04-2020||India||No coercive action against Arnab Goswami for 3 weeks, orders Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday granted journalist Arnab Goswami protection from coercive action for three weeks in various cases filed against him over remarks made during a television discussion on lynching in Maharashtra’s Palghar.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah also issued notices to the Centre, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana and union territory of Jammu and Kashmir where cases have been registered against Goswami.The court also stayed all FIRs against him except the one registered at Sadar Police Station in Nagpur. It transferred the FIR in Nagpur to Mumbai where it will be investigated.Watch | Supreme Court grants Arnab Goswami 3-week protection from arrest The bench also ordered Mumbai Police Commissioner to provide security to Goswami and Republic TV office.The FIRs were filed for hate speeches and for defamation of Congress president Sonia Gandhi for remarks made by Goswami during his primetime show on the Hindi language channel of his Republic TV which aired on April 21.Goswami had moved the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking a stay on the FIRs.Goswami hosted a discussion on the Palghar lynching case on his TV channel which, he said in his plea before the Supreme Court, questioned the tardy investigation, inconsistent versions of the authorities and the administration and the state government’s silence on the incident.Three people - two seers and their driver - were killed by mob in Palghar district of Maharashtra on April 16. reportedly in the presence of 10 policemen and forest guards.Goswami accused the Congress, which is part of the government in Maharashtra, of leading a well-coordinated, widespread, vindictive and malicious campaign against him.Goswami claimed that the FIRs registered against him are false and vindictive and have been done by the Congress activists to harass and intimidate him and dissuade him from conducting investigative journalism and bringing the truth before the public“The complaints and FIRs are a part of well-coordinated and malicious campaign by the Congress and its members of instituting false and baseless complaints against the Petitioner before different police stations simultaneously in various parts of the country,” Goswami said in his petition.The complaints and FIRs, Goswami alleged, have been registered with the intention to muzzle free speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.The petition, however, does not mention anything about Congress president Sonia Gandhi though some of the FIRs against Goswami are for criminal defamation of Gandhi.Goswami submitted that he has time and again encouraged and used his Republic TV to foster communal harmony, especially in the present critical time of the Covid-19 pandemic.Goswami was attacked on Thursday while he was coming back to his home from office with his wife. The Republic TV chief has filed a police complaint in which he said that the attack took place around 12:15 am.Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-action-against-arnab-goswami-for-3-weeks-orders-supreme-court/story-OSWwbhPjnllRTvpz0twT8N.html
24-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand police faces DM’s ire for booking toddlers||The Revenue Police in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand has registered a case against 51 people, including a 6-month-old and a 2-year-old, for violation of home quarantine rules during the lockdown.“FIR under Juveline Justice Act cannot be registered against those under 8 years of age. A probe will be conducted in the case,” informed District Magistrate (DM) of Uttarkashi.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe DM also said that disciplinary and suspension action will be taken against Covid-19 magistrate of the district for registration of a case against the kids under Juvenile Justice Act. He also has sought a report in the case.The country is under lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. The sectors providing essentials services have only been allowed to operate during the period.And people can venture out of their houses only when it is extremely necessary and to buy essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cops-register-cases-against-6-month-old-2-year-old-for-violating-quarantine/story-c3F9Nu1VKOJkfmKct5m3oN.html
24-04-2020||India||Here are Arnab Goswami’s arguments before the Supreme Court||Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, moved the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday seeking quashing of the first information reports (FIRs) registered against him in various Congress-ruled states across the country for the offences of hate speech and criminal defamation of party president Sonia Gandhi.Goswami submitted that the FIRs against him are politically motivated and should be quashed. He also prayed that no action should be taken against him on such complaints and FIRs until the case before the SC is decided.He also sought central government security for himself, his family members and his offices in Delhi and Mumbai.A two-member bench of justices, DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, will hear his plea on Friday at 10.30 am.The following are some of the main arguments raised by Goswami in his plea.Republic TV highlighted tardy probe into Palghar lynchingGoswami submitted that the FIRs were filed in connection with a debate aired on R. Bharat -- the Hindi news channel run by Goswami -- highlighting the tardy investigation into the Palghar lynching incident.The lynching occurred on April 16 in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, where three persons, including two Hindu seers, aged 70 and 35 years, were killed by a mob in the presence of 10 policemen and forest guards. Goswami hosted a debate on R. Bharat on the Palghar incident in a news show called ‘Poochta hai Bharat’ on April 21.The thrust of the news show, Goswami submitted, was to question the tardy investigation, inconsistent versions of the authorities and the administration and Maharashtra government’s silence on the incident.Concerted social media campaign and FIRsGoswami claimed that since Maharashtra is ruled by a coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, there was a well-coordinated, widespread, vindictive and malicious campaign launched by the Congress and its activists against him for telecasting the show on Palghar lynching.“This campaign was carried out online through news reports and tweets. Various members of the Indian National Congress demanded the immediate arrest of the petitioner by using the hashtag trend #ArrestAntiIndiaArnab,” Goswami said.The FIRs were registered against him in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh for offences of hate speech, hurting religious sentiments, promoting enmity between religious groups and criminal defamation. The petition also claimed that Congress members in other states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Telangana, have filed complaints against him.FIRs registered at the behest of Congress partyGoswami claimed that the FIRs registered against him are false and vindictive and have been done by the Congress activists to harass and intimidate him and dissuade him from conducting investigative journalism and bringing the truth before the public.“The complaints and FIRs are a part of a well-coordinated and malicious campaign by the Congress and its members of instituting false and baseless complaints against the petitioner before different police stations simultaneously in various parts of the country,” the petition said.However, the petition does not mention anything about Congress president Sonia Gandhi though some of the FIRs against Goswami are for criminal defamation of her.Goswami and wife attackedGoswami claimed that two individuals on a motorcycle waylaid him and his wife on April 23 late evening when they returning home from their office. The attackers claimed to be Congress members when confronted by Goswami’s security officials, the petition said.Goswami filed a complaint at NM Joshi police station in Mumbai shortly after the incident, requesting the authorities to take appropriate action against the attackers.“While the police initially refused to take the petitioner’s complaint, after some persistence, an FIR was registered by the police on April 23 April against unknown persons,” the petition said.Republic TV fosters communal harmonyGoswami submitted that he has time and again encouraged and used Republic TV to foster communal harmony, especially in this critical time of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“In fact, the petitioner has been strongly opposed to any propagation of any communalisation by various other political parties for their own vested interests. It is inconceivable that the broadcast aired on April 21 in relation to the Palghar incident could have incited any communal tension and it is apparent that only one political party is taking offence on the broadcast,” the petition said.Violation of freedom of speech under Article 19The complaints and FIRs, Goswami alleged, have been registered with the intention to muzzle free speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.“FIRs ought not to lodged to gag the media and prevent freedom of the press, which is a fundamental right under the Constitution of India,” the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-are-arnab-goswami-s-arguments-before-the-supreme-court/story-0D1fuMDfURqtACdX7PANXI.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 taught us we need to be self-reliant, says PM Modi in interaction with sarpanches||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that the coronavirus pandemic has taught the country to become self-reliant.“The coronavirus pandemic taught us the biggest lesson: That we have to become self-dependent. The villages became self-reliant, and it’s very important that districts, states and the entire country should become self-reliant,” he said during an interaction with sarpanches from across the country through video conferencing.The Prime Minister held the interaction on the Panhayati Raj Day today. He also inaugurated e-Gram Swaraj portal and a mobile application on the occasion.“It is because of efforts of our people that entire world today is talking about how India has responded to Covid-19 crisis. Despite limited resources amid coronavirus crisis, citizens are taking on this challenge instead of succumbing to difficulties,” said PM Modi.“There are hurdles, but with resolve we are moving forward, and the work for saving country is on,” he added.The Prime Minister had said on Thursday that the commitment of the Panchayati Raj system in warding off the coronavirus challenge is an inspiration for everyone in the fight against this crisis.“We are facing an unprecedented crisis in terms of the coronavirus, which is a threat to the entire humanity. All the countrymen are facing this crisis in a united manner,” Prime Minister Modi wrote in a letter to Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday.He also said that the government believes that a strong rural economy is a key to the country’s development and his government moves forward with Mahatma Gandhi’s thought that India’s soul lives in its villages.Prime Minister Modi enumerated the measures that the government took to strengthen the rural sector like bringing the villages under the power network and boosting digital connectivity to the last mile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-taught-us-we-need-to-be-self-reliant-says-pm-modi-in-interaction-with-sarpanches/story-sNi5goYkExt41mFH2uCMGK.html
24-04-2020||India||Centre must step out of lakshman rekha, announce big-bang stimulus: Amit Mitra||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra is an economist by both training and practice. A PhD scholar from the Duke University, USA, Mitra is an ardent advocate of developmental economics. In a telephonic interview with Rajeev Jayaswal of Hindustan Times, he says the role of the Centre is to live up to the true spirit of co-operative federalism and take all measures to boost the sagging economy without worrying about breaching the laid-down fiscal deficit glide path in this difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic. Edited excerpts: The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has slashed India’s economic growth to 1.9% in the current year when the global economy would contract by 3%. What do you suggest to boost the growth?This is an unprecedented situation and the central government should come up with a comprehensive plan to boost the economy — which is a must to check rising unemployment, poverty and hunger. The Centre must announce a package of 6% of GDP as suggested by CM [Mamata Banerjee] to the PM [Narendra Modi]. This is around Rs 10 lakh crore.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Union government and the Reserve Bank of India must come out of their “lakshman rekha” and take bold decisions, not incremental measures. There must be a big-bang announcement. A substantial stimulus is a must, and also possible, because India has headroom to borrow. Compared to many developed countries, India’s debt-to-GDP ratio is less than 70%, while it is 106% for the USA and 240% for Japan. Besides, international oil prices are subdued, which is in favour of a country like India that imports more than 80% of its crude oil requirements. Another source of headroom is India’s large foreign exchange reserves. Also Read: Covid spread, restrictions hit NREGS work allotmentThe Centre must leverage these incidental advantages now and stop worrying about the fiscal deficit at a time when the question is of survival. The government must provide money in the hands of the poor, who are fighting to survive. About Rs 4 lakh crore could be transferred to the states who have the capacity to digitally transfer the requisite money into the bank accounts of the poor. In West Bengal, all disbursements are done digitally, no cheques or cash is used in our treasury. The poor must be provided free ration, as we have done in West Bengal, providing rice and wheat at zero price from ration shops. What about the formal sector?Industry is facing both demand and supply challenges as supply channels have broken down. The stimulus will help in creating demand and provide liquidity in the system. It can even be considered to provide what is internationally done (during such times) — 80% salary of the workers paid (for) by the corporate sector during the lockdown is borne by the government. This will allow the retention of the worker and this human capital can be quickly put on use when the Covid-19 pandemic is over.Also Read: Covid-19 update: BJP calls for new manufacturing policy to revive economyLiquidity crunch is acute, particularly for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). It calls for soft loans for a period of four years with a moratorium on repayments and interest for at least the first year. This will give them the breathing space. Similarly, other formal sectors need calibrated support. Sectors such as aviation, hospitality, tourism, and non-essential retail have been almost crippled due to the lockdown.What is your assessment of the economic growth post Covid-19?It is difficult to predict at this juncture when even developed countries are unable to give any precise answer on when this [Covid-19 pandemic] will end. If the pandemic ends by October...with adequate policy and fiscal stimulations, India could see at best 1% GDP growth (in financial year 2020-21). But if the pandemic continued for longer, it will have a direct impact on GDP, which may even contract, posting a negative growth.Is Centre providing enough financial support to the states, particularly to West Bengal?The Centre is not as responsive as it should have been in an ideal co-operative federalism and at a time when states are fighting against a pandemic. Finance minister [Nirmala Sitharaman] has not replied to any of my letters, though I had one conversation with her. I have written eight letters, highlighting some genuine concerns of states and precarious financial positions they are suffering from. Of course, one or two suggestions have been accepted partially. An ideal co-operative federalism must encourage a culture of dialogue. States are the real implementers of policies and welfare programmes. They must be considered as part and parcel of a united India.Are you referring to the controversy regarding Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) being sent to West Bengal?The Centre’s decision to send two Inter-Ministerial Central Teams to West Bengal was done without consulting the state government. This is a breach of federalist protocol. The Centre’s move was not in the right spirit of co-operative federalism. We are also unable to understand, why particular districts had been chosen. In terms of both number of [Covid-19] cases and the rate of increase, Ahmedabad in Gujarat had far larger numbers of cases and faster rate of increase. But it was not in the Centre’s radar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-step-out-of-lakshman-rekha-announce-big-bang-stimulus-amit-mitra/story-3ieJT9nEzGHosJXlF2VGnO.html
24-04-2020||India||4-month-old baby is Kerala’s fourth Covid-19 victim||A four-month-old baby, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) two days ago, died in a hospital in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday morning, officials said.State health minister KK Shailaja confirmed her death, the fourth in the state due to Covid-19, saying the baby had congenital heart disease and stunted growth problems.Also Read: Kerala CM says more tests needed after 10 more new cases of Covid-19Doctors at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital, where the baby was admitted on April 21 with a heart problem, said she died of a heart attack after getting infected with the virus. They also said they don’t know how she contracted the disease. Also Read: Kerala weighs reverse quarantine option to protect vulnerable from Covid-19Both her parents and five doctors, who treated the baby, have been quarantined, officials said. They also said that the swabs of her parents have been sent for tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-month-old-kerala-infant-with-heart-problem-gets-infected-dies-of-covid-19/story-eKCg2nQ6fBbRQbhBshNPSJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Both Covid-19 patients test negative, Tripura free from coronavirus, says CM Biplab Deb||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Thursday said the state has become free from coronavirus disease Covid-19 after its second patient tested negative.“ ...The second corona patient of Tripura has been found NEGATIVE after consecutive tests. Hence, our State has become Corona free. I request everyone to maintain Social distancing and follow Government guidelines. Stay Home Stay Safe,” Deb tweeted.  📌UPDATE!The Second corona patient of Tripura has been found NEGATIVE after consecutive tests. Hence our State has become Corona free.I request everyone to maintain Social distancing and follow Government guidelines.Stay Home Stay Safe.Update at 08:20 PM, 23th AprilOut of the two Covid-19 patients, the first one - a woman - was released from the isolation ward of a hospital in Agartala on April 16 after she was found negative following consecutive tests. The woman was shifted to a quarantine centre in Gomati district, nearly 50 kilometres away from state capital Agartala.The woman had tested positive on April 6 after her visit from Assam. Few days later, one Tripura State Rifles (TSR) jawan was also found Covid-19 positive. “The second coronavirus positive patient tested negative on Thursday. He will be again tested on Friday. If reports come negative, we will release him from the hospital,” said Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath.Following the Centre’s directives, the state government decided to impose penalties for spitting and urinating in public places.According to a notification served by Urban Development Department, the Municipal Corporation, municipal councils and Nagar Panchayats would impose penalty of Rs 100 for spitting and Rs 200 for urinating in public places. Tripura now has 111 coronavirus suspects under surveillance and 227 others have been placed under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-covid-19-patients-test-negative-tripura-free-from-coronavirus-says-cm-biplab-deb/story-4TUygO3D6deKby7izpiyXJ.html
24-04-2020||India||No shortage of Hydroxychloroquine in India: IDMA Gujarat Chairman||The Chairman of Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association, Gujarat chapter has asserted that there is no shortage of Hydroxychloroquine in India and the country’s current production of HCQ is 35 to 40 crore tablets a month. Speaking to ANI, Viranchi Shah, Chairman, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association, Gujarat chapter said, “Our current production capacity of Hydroxychloroquine is 35 to 40 crore tablets a month. This is 10 times more than our requirement. There is no shortage of HCQ in India.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe continued saying that India holds almost 70 per cent global capacity of manufacturing HCQ.“Before this COVID-19 situation came into the picture, HCQ was traditionally used for treating Malaria and certain arthritis conditions. If we see the last year’s consumption, the total consumption of HCQ in India was about 2.4 crore tablets. Compared to that our current production capacity is almost 34-40 cr tablets a month,” said Shah. “India is one of the leading manufacturers in pharmaceuticals. We export medicines to almost every country globally. Even during the lockdown with support of the Modi-government, we have been able to maintain the manufacturing and supply of the medicines. We are also in the position to cater to the international demands of medicines,” he added.Shah said that initially, that they were facing problems regarding the travel of their company employees. However, the government addressed this promptly.“We have a limitation of workers but this is not a major crisis, the industry understands how to focus on essential medicines first,” said Shah. The government has already made a pool of almost 10 crore tablets with them so that in the eventuality of a spike we have a pool of 10 crore HCQ tablets available within India which is sufficient to treat 20 lakh COVID patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortage-of-hydroxychloroquine-in-india-idma-gujarat-chairman/story-ysu5M7bPgXUmXywd0S5N5H.html
24-04-2020||India||On Panchayati Raj Day, PM Modi to interact with sarpanches through video-conferencing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday interact with Sarpanches from across the country via video conferencing. I a tweet, the Prime Minister’s office said the interaction will take place at 11 am.“At 11 AM today, PM @narendramodi would be interacting with Sarpanchs from across the nation via video conferencing. All Sarpanchs will be able to join this interaction through Doordarshan, from their respective homes adhering to social distancing norms,” the PMO tweet said. April 24 is observed as the Panchayati Raj Day .“Those Sarpanchs who will be sharing their views with PM @narendramodi will be doing so by joining the interaction at a Common Service Centre close to them,” the second tweet from PMO said. Those Sarpanchs who will be sharing their views with PM @narendramodi will be doing so by joining the interaction at a Common Service Centre close to them.The Prime Minister had said on Thursday that the commitment of the Panchayati Raj system in warding off the coronavirus challenge is an inspiration for everyone in the fight against this crisis.“We are facing an unprecedented crisis in terms of the coronavirus, which is a threat to the entire humanity. All the countrymen are facing this crisis in a united manner,” Prime Minister Modi wrote in a letter to Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday.He also said that the government believes that a strong rural economy is a key to the country’s development and his government moves forward with Mahatma Gandhi’s thought that India’s soul lives in its villages.Prime Minister Modi enumerated the measures that the government took to strengthen the rural sector like bringing the villages under the power network and boosting digital connectivity to the last mile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-sarpanches-day-after-hailing-panchayati-raj-system-in-covid-19-fight/story-2w3cQAz9Ka5qzaPlmYUeEL.html
24-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt considers wage stimulus for MSMEs amid survival battle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown: Govt considers wage stimulus for MSMEs amid survival battleThe Union government is weighing options for a stimulus to protect wages of workers employed in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) as the sector fights a survival battle.Ramadan 2020: Unique and bizarre Ramzan practices around the worldRamadan is the holiest time for Muslims all around the world, and followers devote all their time this month to fasting from sunrise to sunset, praying, self-reformation and self-reflection, charity and community. New smaller Honda Monkey bike in the making? Patents say soHonda may be developing a smaller version of the Monkey 125 bike which was announced back in 2018. Varun Dhawan celebrates 33rd birthday at home amid lockdown, Nora Fatehi, Karan Johar shower him with love. See picsVarun Dhawan turned 33 on Friday and enjoyed his midnight birthday celebrations with a cake-cutting ceremony at home. The actor cut a heart-shaped birthday cake as he blew out the candles in the presence of his family.Covid-19 | ‘Love India...’: New Zealanders evacuated from Delhi amid pandemicNew Zealand residents were evacuated from India amid Covid pandemic. Residents from Auckland and Tauranga expressed relief at the airport. The airport premises was stocked with bottles of water and sanitiser.Vicky Kaushal slams ‘baseless rumours’ that he violated lockdown, got reprimanded by policeVicky Kaushal was recently made the subject of rumours that he violated the lockdown and stepped out of his house. He clarified on Twitter that the news of him getting reprimanded by the Mumbai Police for breaking the rules of the lockdown is completely false||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-considers-wage-stimulus-for-msmes-amid-survival-battle-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wDOptAniXDLueQZ66XfwUI.html
24-04-2020||India||Over 23,000 Covid-19 cases recorded in India, death toll at 718||More than 23,000 people have been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and 718 have died in India, according to the Union health ministry data on Friday morning.With 17,610 active cases, 4749 people cured or migrated and 718 deaths, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the grim 23,000 mark at 23,077, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The figures have come on the 31st day of a national lockdown to halt the spread of the disease, which has infected 2,708,470 people and killed 190,788 across the world.Officials and medical experts have said India the country’s preventive measures have helped in reducing in the disease’s doubling rate and also allowed the ramping up of testing and bolstering health care preparedness. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with the state chief ministers through video conferencing on Monday to discuss the upcoming strategy to deal with coronavirus pandemic in the country and talk about lockdown relaxations and restrictions to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-more-than-23-000-covid-19-cases-718-deaths/story-iMYIU6jbbDC65yt2dKsIoO.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases in Rajasthan near 2,000; 37 deaths in 24 hours||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 23,000-mark on Friday. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country has jumped to 21,077. The figure includes 17,610 active cases, 4,748 patients who have been cured or discharged and 718 fatalities. Gujarat has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases which how now crossed the 2,500-mark. In Maharashtra, Covid-19 cases are now more than 6,000. Four Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 6,430 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 283 deaths so far while 840 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 2,624 coronavirus cases and 258 recoveries so far. One hundred twelve people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2,376 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Fifty people have died from the infection while 808 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1964 on Friday. The state has reported 27 fatalities, and 230 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1,683 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 752 recoveries and 20 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1,699 positive cases of coronavirus. Eighty three people have died from Covid-19 here while 203 have recovered.Uttar PradeshWith further increase in numbers, Uttar Pradesh has 1,510 Covid-19 positive cases. While 206 people have recovered from the disease in Uttar Pradesh, 24 have died from the infection here.TelanganaThe Covid-19 positive cases have reached 960 in Telangana. Nearly 200 (197 to be exact) have made a recovery from the virus while 24 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 895 positive Covid-19 patients and 141 cases of recovery. Twenty seven people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 447 coronavirus cases on Friday. The state has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 324 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 445 Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths. One hundred forty five people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 427. Five people have died from the infection while 92 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab have 272 and 277 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. One hundred fifty six people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 65 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 514 people have been infected by coronavirus disease Covid-19. There have been 15 deaths and 103 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 90 Covid-19 positive patients, 33 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 153 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 47 Covid-19 patients, 24 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 27 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 14 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 22 Covid-19 cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 28 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 18 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, three have recovered. Jharkhand has 53 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 8 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two Covid-19 cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-in-rajasthan-near-2-000-37-deaths-in-24-hours/story-WieLkXXXHn4fxP2trZHq8H.html
24-04-2020||India||Hyderabad cop pays man’s hospital bill, gets thank you letter from Himachal CM||It was a pleasant surprise for BL Laxminarayana Reddy, inspector of police at Kukatpally in Hyderabad, when he received a letter from Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur thanking him for his timely help to a resident of the hill state.Thakur lauded Reddy for saving the life of Lalit Kumar, 30, from Lalyar village in Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh, by not only admitting him in the hospital after a medical emergency last week but also footing the entire bill.“In this difficult situation, you not only helped in admitting him to the hospital but also paid an amount of Rs 20,000 for surgery from your own pocket. This act was a great gesture on your part and I appreciate your exemplary effort,” Thakur said in his appreciation letter.“Your deed is an inspiration to all persons involved in the fight against Covid-19,” the chief minister said.Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who hails from Hyderabad, also called Reddy and complimented him for his generosity. He appreciated the inspector for the timely gesture and immediate action and said he stood as an inspiration to all.Kumar, who has been working as a crane operator with Hyderabad Metro Rail Ltd for the last four years, lives in Balajinagar in Kukatpally. On April 16, he developed severe pain in his abdomen due to appendicitis.Since there was no one to take care of him, he sent an SOS to the Kukatpally Police. After receiving the message, Reddy alerted a police patrolling party which went to Kumar’s house and rushed him to a private hospital in Kukatpally.Doctors told the police that Kumar will have to undergo a surgery immediately, so Reddy paid Rs 20,000 towards the hospital bill and the operation was conducted the next day. Kumar was discharged a day later.Kumar and his family also thanked the inspector for his timely action during a difficult situation.“We won’t forget the help of the inspector in our life. God should give him more strength to help people,” Kumar said.He said he had also received several calls from officials in Himachal Pradesh enquiring about his health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-cop-pays-man-s-hospital-bill-gets-thank-you-letter-from-himachal-cm/story-wJNmPE5Y92MijqjjjIdsjL.html
24-04-2020||India||India lockdown slows virus spread, Trump says US attacked: Covid-19 news today||Government officials say that the nationwide lockdown has led to reduced rates of Covid-19. The lockdown, according to health officials, has also helped ramp up medical facilities and testing. US president feels that the pandemic was not ‘just a flu’ but an ‘attack on the United States’. Cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar feels that cricket will return with few changes in once the pandemic recedes. Virus spread slowed by a month of lockdown: GovtMedical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness. Read more here. DA revision on hold to save Rs. 1.2 L croreThe department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, on Thursday issued an order freezing dearness allowance (DA) payments to central government employees and dearness relief (DR) to pensioners until July 2021, citing the “ crisis arising out of Covid-19”. Read more here. India to take a 23% hit on remittances: World BankRemittance flows into India may decline by 23% in 2020 to $64 billion, the sharpest fall in recent history, due to declining oil prices and the Covid-19-led global recession, said a World Bank report. Read more here. Covid-19: What you need to know todayLow and middle income countries (LMICs) receive most of the remittances. In 2019, these stood at around $554 billion of a total of around $710 billion (78%). This year that number will fall to $445 billion (out of a total of $568). Read more here. India to get lead role at WHO next month amid global Covid-19 crisisThe appointment of India’s nominee as chairperson of the WHO’s executive board will come at a time the world and the United Nations agency is struggling to stop the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen from spreading. Read more here. Delhi Police team conducts raids at Tablighi Jamaat chief’s farmhouse in ShamliA six-member team of Delhi’s crime branch raided the farm house of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad on the outskirts of Kandhla town in Shamli district on Thursday. Read more here. ICMR will continue restricted Hydroxychloroquine use despite critical US study: OfficialThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will continue with the restricted use of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to treat critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients even though a US study has found it did not benefit a group of patients admitted in health centres, according to an official. Read more here. House panel backs 30-day salary for retrenched staffThe proposed law is one of the four labour reforms aimed at simplifying myriad and archaic labour laws and to make the sector more attractive for investors. Read more here. BJP continues to spread virus of communal prejudice, hatred: Sonia GandhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the Centre doesn’t appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to end. Read more here. Covid-19 update: US was ‘attacked’, Donald Trump says as layoffs and fatalities mountThe United States was “attacked”, President Donald Trump has said of the novel coronavirus epidemic has rendered 26.4 million Americans jobless since mid-March with 4.4 million more filing for unemployment benefits last week, according to new data released Thursday; and killed more than 46,000. Read more here. Cricket will emerge a different sport in post-Covid world: Sachin TendulkarIn a chat with Hindustan Times, a day before Sachin Tendulkar’s birthday, he speaks about routines athletes need to follow during the lockdown to keep themselves fit and motivated, and how cricket will emerge as a different sport post this pandemic. Read more here. Time will reveal value of India’s lockdownIn early March, my research group projected that by early August, at least 300 million Indians would be infected by the novel coronavirus. That was before there were any lockdowns or domestic travel restrictions. Read more here.Spike in demand for NREGS jobs, PDS ration hints at rural distress Demand for work under the Centre’s rural job guarantee scheme and food from the public distribution system (PDS) has spiked in a signal of economic distress in the Hindi-speaking heartland, where hundreds of thousands of migrant workers have returned since the coronavirus disease lockdown went underway on March 25. Read more here. China Covid-19 toll could have been four times more, says new study in LancetChina might have had more than 232000 people infected with Covid-19 by February 20, nearly four times the official figure on that date, new research by Hong Kong experts have found. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lockdown-slows-virus-spread-trump-says-us-attacked-covid-19-news-today/story-s3n267prLPZ5WOFjtFZOKN.html
24-04-2020||India||How Odisha Police is helping people during Covid-19 lockdown||She is eight months into her pregnancy and should have been on maternity leave. Yet, Mamata Mishra, working as assistant sub-inspector in Betnoti police station of Mayurbhanj district of Osidha, has been manning the police station and managing the difficult days alone while her husband, also a sub-inspector, is busy in his duties at a nearby police station.Constable Manorama Satpathy in Sambalpur traffic police station met with an accident two months ago. Despite advised sedentary duty, she has been doing traffic duty on road to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 lockdown.Often vilified for their alleged excesses, policemen in Odisha have turned a new leaf in times of coronavirus pandemic as they go extra mile to help people in the times of their need.Soon after his salary for the month of March was credited, Narendra Kumar Singh, a commandant of the 8th battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at Maoist-affected Rayagada district called 200 poor villagers living around the camp and gave Rs 500 each. With lockdown stopping all rural livelihood activities in the tribal-dominated district, the people of Kudulima, Jhiliguda, Kukurlima and Sunabandha villages were wondering about their next meal when Singh turned saviour for them.Apart from the cash assistance of Rs 1 lakh, Singh spent another Rs 1 lakh on providing around 6,000 food packets for the villagers in the area. He even got the jawans under him to crowdfund for providing sanitisers, masks and soaps for the tribals.“Since the day lockdown was announced, we have been giving something to the tribal people living in the villages around our camps apart from holding awareness camps on how to remain safe. In the times like these, it is our duty to give back to the society,” said Singh, a native of Palamau district of Jharkhand.In Maoist-affected Bolangir district, the policemen engaged in anti-Maoist activity have taken it upon themselves to feed the poor. Under the supervision of Satyajit Khandelkal, in-charge of the anti-Maoist unit called District Voluntary Force, destitutes, daily wagers and people with disability are being fed in Tureikela block. With contributions by him and other policemen in his team, Khandelkal and other policemen have been giving cooked food to around 400-500 people everyday.“Since last 13 days, we are reaching villages that are normally inaccessible. As we know the areas like back of our hands, it has been relatively easy for us to reach destitutes and old people left alone,” said Khandelkal. Similarly, traffic constable Manjari Biswal in Bolangir town too has been feeding destitutes out of her salary.“I have told my staff that no one should go hungry. These are extraordinary times and the police should do everything that is possible and even spend from their own pocket to help people,” said Bolangir SP Madkar Sandeep Sampad.In Cuttack, police have distributed around 90,000 packets of cooked food and 9,000 packets of dry ration to destitutes, stranded migrant labourers and disabled people through different police stations since the day lockdown was announced. “Our special squad are feeding people without a break for about a month,” said Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Akhileswar Singh.Five days ago, the photo of sub-inspector Barsha Mohanty of Mahila police station in Cuttack feeding a woman on the road had gone viral on social media. In Bhubaneshwar, police allowed a man to transport a dialysis kit to Rourkela relaxing the lockdown norms. Similarly, at Puri railway station, the local unit of Railway Protection Force is giving cooked meals to hundreds of rickshaw pullers, destitutes as well as those who had got stranded due to lockdown since last three week.Though sometimes slammed for their overzealousness in enforcing lockdown, they may have been instrumental in stopping the spread of the Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), in a letter to Odisha DGP Abhay last week, said the act of police stopped the spread of the disease. Odisha has one of the lowest ratio of positive cases to samples tested. With 89 positive cases from 15,984 samples, Odisha has a ratio of 0.5, the lowest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-odisha-police-is-helping-people-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-eQteDvAaA2ZBNnHRAUikjL.html
24-04-2020||India||Rain, hailstorm leave over 4000 people homeless in Tripura||More than 4000 people were affected and thousands of houses and crops were damaged due to rain and hailstorm at different paces of Tripura on Wednesday night. Takarjala and Golaghati of Sepahijala district and Kalyanpur of Khowai district have suffered the most due to rain and hailstorm.Officials said 22 relief camps were set up including 17 at Sepahijala district and five at Khowai district to shelter the storm-affected people. According to a press release from the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Thursday, 4200 people were shifted to camps in Sepahijala district and 25 families were sent to camps in Khowai district. The homeless persons have to be given shelter at the camps while maintaining social distance.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb visited some of the areas affected due to the hailstorm on Thursday and announced every affected household will be given financial assistance of Rs 5000. Every family whose houses were severely damaged would be given Rs 95,000 and the families who suffered minor damages would be given Rs 3,200, Deb said.The chief minister also assured the registration of the damaged houses was done and relief would be distributed among them soon.“Property loss due to the rain and hailstorm has been estimated to be over Rs 1 crore,” Deb said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-hailstorm-leave-over-4000-people-homeless-in-tripura/story-6MuqeOf47w5l1fGrzULonJ.html
24-04-2020||India||39 Brus booked for entering Tripura from Mizoram amidst Covid-19 lockdown||The Tripura Police on Thursday filed a case against as many as 39 Bru migrants for entering the state from Mizoram during Covid-19 lockdown.Currently, they are under institutional quarantine. All of them were at Naisingpara camp located at Kanchanpur in North District of Tripura, more than 180 kilometres from Agartala. Naisingpara is one of the six Bru camps. Currently, around 4,000 Bru families are settled in six camps - three each at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub-divisions of the district.All these Brus entered the state on April 15 and 16 through a jungle from Mizoram, according to police.A police official on the condition of anonymity said that they have registered cases against them under Sections 188 and 269 of Indian Penal Code and 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005. “We took the case on April 19 as they have violated the government rule by entering the state amidst lockdown. The matter is under investigation,” the official said. In the preliminary investigation, the police found that they got permission from Mizoram’s local council to leave the state.Meanwhile, Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Thursday said the state has become free from coronavirus after its second Covid-19 patient tested negative.Tripura now has 111 coronavirus suspects under surveillance and 227 others have been placed under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-brus-booked-for-entering-tripura-from-mizoram-amidst-covid-19-lockdown/story-GkTrWOvwfZhkAHoYMdtWOL.html
24-04-2020||India||19 vultures die in a day in Assam’s Sibsagar; poisoning suspected||Nineteen vultures, belonging to two species, have died after eating meat from a poisoned calf’s carcass in Assam’s Sibsagar district, officials have said.The vultures died on April 21 at Lepaigaon Pathar of the district. Thirteen other vultures have been rescued and sent to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) near Kaziranga National Park.“Seventeen of the dead vultures were Slender Billed while two others were White Backed. Preliminary investigation suggests it could be a case of secondary poisoning,” Jayasharee Naiding, Sibsagar’s divisional forest officer, said. “The primary target of the poisoning could be some other species, maybe stray dogs or wolves. But the vultures fed on the poisoned carcass and it resulted in the deaths,” she added.It is suspected that nearby villagers could have poisoned the carcass.The forest department has registered a case under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act against unknown persons and investigation initiated.“The condition of the 13 vultures sent to CWRC is stable and they are recovering well,” Naiding said.Last year in March, 39 vultures died after consuming poisoned meat at Panidihing in Sibsagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-vultures-die-in-a-day-in-assam-s-sibsagar-poisoning-suspected/story-mEr7EjPrsNjfEgc4hoMUiP.html
24-04-2020||India||2 prisoners in Karnataka jail test Covid-19 positive, JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy wants entire prison quarantined||Janata Dal(Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy has claimed two people among the 119 arrested for the violence against health workers in Padrayanpura area of Karnataka’s Bengaluru and currently lodged in Ramanagara jail have tested positive for Covid-19 and wants them to be shifted out of the district. Kumaraswamy represents the Ramanagara constituency in the assembly.“I had warned the government in the past too regarding this but my words went unheeded. Because of this Ramanagara has got coronavirus. Along with the two who have tested positive, seven or eight others were also transported,” the former chief minister said in one of his tweets.Also read: Padarayanapura incident an act of ‘goondaism’, says Karnataka CMHe asked the government to immediately shift the prisoners as the people of Ramanagara are terrified that the coronavirus infections would spread. He also threatened that an intense protest would be launched if immediate action is not taken. He also said that Ramanagara jail should be quarantined along with the police, security and administrative personnel in the jail.Government officials were not available for comment on Kumaraswamy’s accusations.The death toll due to Covid-19 in Karnataka increased to 18 as a 75-year-old woman, who had tested positive and was suffering from co-morbidity issues, died at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru where she was being treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-prisoners-in-karnataka-jail-test-covid-19-positive-jd-s-leader-kumaraswamy-wants-entire-prison-quarantined/story-2OMlbimVeHQgrf5a2QIbwN.html
24-04-2020||India||Odisha enforces 60-hour shutdown in 3 Covid-19 hotspots as cases surge||The Odisha government on Thursday announced a 60-hour shutdown in three of its districts where around 3000 people moved in from neighbouring West Bengal, now emerging a Covid-19 hotspot, defying lockdown measures.Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the shutdown in coastal Balasore and Bhadrak districts and Jajpur district would begin from 10pm on Thursday with state health officials increasing testing of all primary and secondary contacts of the 33 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. Till Thursday, Odisha recorded 89 cases of the infection. No vehicles or people would be allowed on the roads during the 60 hours except ambulances and inter-state goods vehicles.Also read: Odisha preps for deluge of home bound workers as lockdown nears endTripathy said 28 of the 29 cases were reported from Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur in the past five days forcing the government to move to a higher level of preparedness in these districts. Though Bhubaneswar has recorded 46, the highest number of cases in the state, it has not reported a single one since April 14 after the government contained several areas and did aggressive testing. “We hope to do a similar kind of exercise in these districts with aggressive tracing and testing,” he said. The state government also deployed three senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in these districts to augment testing and tracing. Since Wednesday, the government has sealed the Odisha borders connecting West Bengal at Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts barricading about 57 roads. It also deployed 27 platoons of the police force on these routes and turned back several ambulances at an inter-state check gate that were on their way to Odisha. Also read: Popular Odia comedian takes to selling vegetables to support kin amid lockdownThe travel history of the Covid-19 patients in Bhadrak and Jajpur showed they travelled from West Bengal in fishing trucks, small vans and other such vehicles evading the lockdown measures. In Jajpur district alone, 700 people had walked their way from the neighbouring state in the last one month.On Thursday morning too, a container truck illegally carrying 11 people from West Bengal to Bhubaneswar was intercepted at Ranital area of Bhadrak on NH-16. However, the vehicle managed to slip through before police could reach the spot.Meanwhile, the state government’s high-level inter-ministerial committee on the coronavirus pandemic decided to increase testing to 3000 samples per day by the end of this month. So far, 15,984 samples had been tested.Currently, the state is conducting more than 2000 Covid-19 tests per day. Also read: What you need to know todayAfter the inter-ministerial meeting, panchayati raj and housing and urban and rural development minister Pratap Jena said the state will conduct the tests once laboratories at the four medical college and hospitals in Balangir, Balasore, Baripada and Koraput and at Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology become functional.Health minister Naba Kishore Das said the Odisha government will suggest the Centre for conducting Covid-19 test of migrant labourers of the state who are stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-enforce-60-hour-shutdown-in-3-covid-19-hotspots-as-cases-surge/story-IhhkUqgYxXS0FQGe3czRWN.html
24-04-2020||India||Drone hovering over security installation in Rajouri seized, two held: Police||The Jammu and Kashmir police has seized a videography-capable drone, hovering over a security installation in Rajauri city, officials said on Thursday.Two youths have been picked in this case and are being questioned, they said.Police said a night patrolling team of police deployed in Gujjar Mandi - DC office road noticed blinking of light in air after which an alert was sounded and more police teams were deployed in the area.It eventually transpired that the flying object was a videographic quadcopter, which, however, went missing, they added.Sensing the gravity of the situation as quad copter with camera was flying near some security establishments, investigation was intensified and strong efforts were made to identify the operators of the devise and also to find the location from where it was being operated, the police said.They said a team headed by Rajouri’s Station House Officer Sameer Jillani succeeded in identifying two boys who were flying the device and seized the quad-copter alongwith all other allied material.The two boys operating the quad copter stand identified and are being questioned.Rajouri ‘s Senior Superintendent of Police Chandan Kohli said the quadcopter has been seized and questioning from the duo is going on.He said such a use of quadcopter or any other videographic or photography device is prohibited especially near vital and security establishments. “ People should refrain from such acts else as it will entail action as per law.” The SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-hovering-over-security-installation-in-rajouri-seized-two-held-police/story-SQOGhdMwu1DASi5AJlBnFL.html
24-04-2020||India||Tripura becomes coronavirus-free state after 2nd case tests negative: CM||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Thursday said the state has become coronavirus- free after its second COVID-19 patient tested negative.“UPDATE! The Second corona patient of Tripura has been found NEGATIVE after consecutive tests. Hence our State has become Corona free. I request everyone to maintain Social distancing and follow Government guidelines. Stay Home Stay Safe,” the chief minister tweeted.Tripura’s first Covid-19 patient, a woman from Udaipur town in Gomati district, who returned from Guwahati right before lockdown, had tested positive for the coronavirus infection on April 6.She recovered and was released from isolation on April 16. She was later shifted to a quarantine centre at Gomati district, approximately 50 km from here.A Tripura State Rifles (TSR) jawan had also tested positive for Covid-19 at Damcherra in North Tripura on April 16. He was later admitted at GB Pant Hospital here, where he tested negative for the virus on Thursday.State Education Minister and Cabinet Spokesperson, Ratan Lal Nath told a press conference that the patient would undergo another test and he will be released if the report turns out to be negative.Tripura now has 111 coronavirus suspects under surveillance and 227 others have been placed under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-becomes-coronavirus-free-state-after-2nd-case-tests-negative-cm/story-QVp6NbM4wgxhO6dmGOfwWI.html
24-04-2020||India||Chronic illnesses may put young Indians at higher risk of Covid-19: Study||One in five people globally has a health condition that heightens the risk of severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new working paper has estimated. In India, around 30% of the working age population between 15 and 64 years of age have at least one condition that makes them vulnerable to Covid-19 complications, the paper indicates.In the absence of a vaccine, an option is to shield high-risk people by more intensive physical distancing measures than the rest. “This may be especially important at times and places where health systems risk being overwhelmed by cases,” said the study, which was led by researchers at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and published in Medrxiv, a website for pre-print health research.An estimated 1.7 billion people (22% of the global population) have at least one and 0.4 million have at least two underlying conditions that could increase their risk of severe Covid-19 infections. The prevalence of one or more condition was 10% by age 25 years, 33% by 50 years, and 66% by 70 years, indicating even a large share of younger persons are at risk of co-morbidities. The most prevalent conditions in those more than 50 years old were chronic kidney disease (CKD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and chronic respiratory disease (CRD).Populations in high income countries are at a greater risk compared to Africa and some other parts of the world, the paper said, with the vulnerable population ranging from 16% in Africa to 28% in North America and 31% in Europe. The highest estimates were in European and other high-income countries with chronic illnesses, according to researchers who used the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study and other global studies to arrive at the estimates.Prevalence estimates were extracted by age, sex and country for CVD, CKD, CRD, chronic liver disease, diabetes, cancers, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, chronic neurological disorders, sickle cell disorders, among others.African countries with a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and Island countries Fiji, Guam, Kiribati etc with a high prevalence of diabetes, had a high share (24% with at least one comorbidity that can make Covid-19 severe in Oceania) of the population at increased risk.“Wherever people live longer, the burden of non-communicable disease is higher, which makes them vulnerable to viral infections. In India, there is premature onset of non-communicable diseases, with one in three adults developing hypertension in most cases early and one in 10 have diabetes. So, we have a large number of people who could have severe Covid-19 disease, but what we have seen is 70% to 80% of those who are Covid-19 positive in India have very mild symptoms or are asymptomatic,” said Dr Giridhar R Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.The data in the paper should help create a plan for the elderly and those with early onset comorbidities for the post lockdown period when infections are expected to peak. “They have to be protected, by limiting their movement outdoors, the use of mask, physical distancing etc. They can also get specialised care in hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chronic-illnesses-may-put-young-indians-at-higher-risk-of-covid-19-study/story-3OMRxHwDlDpPfRTGM2bUsJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Delhiwale: The portrait of a successful man||Like most of us, he is staying at home — but he’s away from home at the same time.And this is because he has two homes.“Dilli and Majhiaon are both alike for me,” explains Daya Shankar Singh. In his early 40s, Mr Singh is referring to the city where he came into his own and to the village in Bihar where he was born. And by “Dilli”, he doesn’t mean Delhi but Gurugram, in the National Capital Region, where he has been working as a bookstore assistant since 2005.At the moment, Mr Singh is in his village house, where his family lives. He boarded a train from New Delhi railway station just before the announcement of the nationwide lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. “Nobody has the virus in the village,” he says, talking on WhatsApp video. The gentleman’s voice is balmy and hearing him speak plunges one into soothing illusions, as if all wars had ended and the world was at peace. He shows his home through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. There is his mother, Sukwaro Devi, wife, Lalita Devi, and five children—Anju, Sanju, Raj, Kajal and Usha. Playful Usha is constantly crashing into the screen by rushing behind her father’s back. The walls are decked with posters of gods and goddesses. How can Mr Singh spend most of his time so far from his small children, one might wonder.There is the matter of earning money, of course. “But I have a family in Dilli too.” He is talking of four friends with whom he shares a one-room dwelling in Gurugram’s Chakkarpur village. In fact, Mr Singh says that, to him, the whole of Gurugram looks like his village. “In Gurgaon, I keep bumping into people from my Bihar village or from the neighbouring villages.” Most of these acquaintances, he says, happen to work in the city as security guards, car park attendants and food delivery men. Two of Mr Singh’s roomies also work as guards. He is the only bookstore assistant he knows. “But I also started as a guard”, he says.Years ago, a bookstore owner asked a security guard at duty in the Galleria Market if he could help her find some educated person for her shop. That night, the guard thought for a long time about his own potential. Next morning he went to her shop, still holding on to his lathi (wooden baton), and offered the shop owner his own services. The woman might have been surprised — and unsure. The man was a school drop-out. She took out a book from a shelf and asked him to read the title written in English. “It was Two Lives, by Vikram Seth... I read it immediately,” recalls Mr Singh. He was hired.Now, holed up in his village, Mr Singh feels contended with his life, despite early adversities—“Father died, I couldn’t study beyond class 10th.”He was 26 when he decided to move to Delhi. His wife pleaded him not to leave the village and to stay with her. “I said we have nothing... I have to go.”He took the bus to the nearest railway station in Ara and from there he boarded the Delhi-bound Jan Sadharan Express, a train “that only has general compartment coaches, which are cheap and for which you don’t need previous booking.” It took him 16 hours to reach the Capital. On the way, the only thing he ate was the home-cooked litti that his wife had packed for him in a plastic bag.Over the years, Mr Singh would regularly return home to visit the family “but Delhi too became home.”These days, as the pandemic rages across the world, and as the bookstore in which he works stays closed, Mr Singh is busy growing channa and masoor dal on his little piece of land, which he would rent to other farmers while in Delhi. He has no plans to be a farmer though, he quickly clarifies. “I’m missing the bookshop, missing meeting the customers, talking to them, seeing new things...”He is hopeful that the lockdown will soon be history so that he can return to Delhi. Now he gathers his family to pose for a formal portrait, and he stands among them with the quiet confidence of a successful man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-portrait-of-a-successful-man/story-mOct6DN2toSJ1AHAGWIYQO.html
24-04-2020||India||IGIA designated hub to distribute Covid essentials||More than 20 lakh face masks, at least two lakh bottles of sanitizers, 70,000 bodysuits, 1.5 lakh Personal Protective Equipment kits and over 50,000 pieces of other medical equipment required to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, have so far been channelised across India through the Delhi airport. The airport operator on Thursday said that the ministry of civil aviation has designated Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport as a major hub for the import and distribution of Covid-19 medical essentials. Even as flight operations were suspended in the country March 25 onwards, relief flights, cargo flights and Air Force flights are operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/igia-designated-hub-to-distribute-covid-essentials/story-MTfwtpToZXyMWkdAupDQDP.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Remittances to India will fall by 23% to $64 billion, the World Bank said on Wednesday, calculating the impact of the coronavirus disease on a vital source of inflow into India and other countries. They grew by 5.5% to $83 billion in 2019. Globally, remittances are expected to decrease 20% in 2020. In low (per capita income less than $1,025) and middle income countries (including both lower middle income countries with per capita incomes between $1,026 and $3,995, and upper middle income countries with per capita incomes between $3,996 and $12,375) they are expected to decline by almost the same proportion, 19.7%.Low and middle income countries (LMICs) receive most of the remittances. In 2019, these stood at around $554 billion of a total of around $710 billion (78%). This year that number will fall to $445 billion (out of a total of $568). The World Bank expects remittances to LMICs to grow 5.6% to around $470 in 2021, but with the trajectory of Covid-19 still unclear, all estimates are just that — estimates. Many countries will tighten their immigration laws in the wake of the pandemic — the US already has — and even those that don’t are unlikely to welcome foreign workers, at least, not until a vaccine is discovered and becomes easily available.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAt 15.16% of all remittances into low and middle income countries (India is a lower middle income country), and almost 12% of all global remittances, India is on top of the list of countries that receive money from workers abroad. At 3.36% of GDP, it’s not as high as it is in some countries, but the $83 billion it received in remittances last year was still higher than the $49 it is estimated to have attracted in foreign direct investment (according to an investment tracker by UNCTAD). According to the World Bank, in 2019, remittances became higher than FDI at an aggregate level for LMICs — highlighting just how important these inflows are.Also Read: US nears 50,000 virus fatalities after 3,176 deaths in 24 hours: Johns HopkinsThe fall in remittances by almost a fourth is more bad news for India, whose economy, like that of most other countries, has been ravaged by the virus as well as by what is universally accepted as the only way to flatten the curve of infections (a lockdown, which significantly impacts economic activity).Is the curve flattening? An optimistic reading of the number of daily cases recorded globally and in the US and the UK (among the worst-affected countries) would seem to suggest so. The number of daily cases in the US on April 22 was 29,973 according to worldometers.info. In the UK, it was 4,451. And across the world, there were 79,956 new cases on April 22. That number is still high, but it is definitely off the peaks seen in the past fortnight. The reason it doesn’t make sense to be optimistic about anything concerning Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is simply this — every time the curve seems to be flattening, the virus finds a new hot spot, or several, which it then proceeds to overrun.Also Read: Chronic illnesses may put young Indians at higher risk of Covid-19: StudyStill, it makes sense to look closely at the numbers. By April 22, the number of Covid-19 infections were 2,639,025. Of this number, 184,263 people have died (which is a lot), and 722,150 have recovered. There are 1,732,612 active cases, but 97% of these (1,674,355) are mild. All data (and the prognosis) are from worldometers.info.Also Read: SVAMITVA, powered by drones in sky, can change lives in rural India | OpinionIn India, the number of cases were 21,367 on April 22. Of this number, 683 people have died and 4,373 have recovered. The number of new cases in the seven days to April 22 (including April 22) were: 1067, 953, 1304, 1598, 1248, 1504, and 1363. All Indian data is from HT’s dashboard. Anecdotally (based on what health ministry officials tell us), very few of the infected people in India are on ventilator support. Most, they add, are asymptomatic, which, along with quarantine, lockdown and pandemic, is an early candidate for 2020’s word of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-4zUYDAt1nBFGo92pCFJEiJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid spread, restrictions hit NREGS work allotment||As the Centre prepares to expand the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to offer a financial cushion to rural India in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic, it turns out that the virus is reshaping the distribution of jobs under the flagship jobs programme..Three large states -- Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharasthra -- that account for a large number of Covid-19 patients haven’t yet been able to distribute allot much work under the programme this summer. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Karnataka that have reported a relatively fewer number of coronavirus cases and have fewer red zones are, meanwhile, off to a roaring start MGNREGS, which offers 100 days of work every year to at least one member of every rural household, is seen as an ideal tool to ease rural distress caused by the coronavirus disease that has forced an exodus of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers from the cities back home to the hinterland. Job creation under the programme has been skewed by the burden of disease each state is bearing.Andhra Pradesh alone, according to data updated until Thursday, has accounted for 5.4 million out of 15.6 million persondays of work generated under the programme since April 1. Chhattisgarh has provided 3.3 million  persondays of work and Bihar 1.7 million this month.Karnataka, West Bengal and Odisha have generated 1.4 million, 1.1 million and 800,000 persondays of work, respectively.According to the data, the pandemic has spread to 58.3% of the country’s 731 districts. There are 222 districts with up to 10 cases, 66 with 11-20 cases, 42 with 21-30 cases, and 96 districts with more than 30 cases each.Tougher restrictions and a higher number of containment zones in the three big states -- Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan -- possibly didn’t allow their governments to maximize the MGNREGS opportunities in their states, a government official said on condition of anonymity Rajasthan has generated 480,000 persondays of work while Maharashtra and Gujarat have allocated 260,000 And Gujarat Just 16,859 till date in April, the first month of the financial year.The Centre is confident that once the Covid spread is arrested and the pandemic subsides, these states too will maximise their potential for job creation under the MGNREGS. “We are keeping a daily tab on the work creation and spending of fund in all states. As soon as we see surge in jobs in these three states, we will allot more work,” said a senior official of the rural development ministry.Government data reveals that the average expenditure on an MGNREGS worker has significantly increased in many states in April over last year’s average, indicating that workers are earning more than what they did in the previous year.Experts attributed this to two reasons: higher wages and fewer workers coming to work during the lockdown.Andhra Pradesh has been allotted 10 million additional persondays of work this year than in FY 2019-20. Similarly, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh—home to a large number of migrant workers who have returned—have been given an additional 20 million and 10 million persondays of work, respectively.Kerala, Jharkhand and Telangana have also been allotted an additional 10 million persondays of work each this year, which may be increased depending on demand..Assam has been sanctioned 4.5 million more persondays of work, Odisha 30 million and Tamil Nadu 20 million jobs during FY 2020-21.At the same time, the Centre has possibly factored in the Covid-19 spread in the districts to allot work because tthe three big states—Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat—have not been sanctioned any increase in work allocation under the MGNREGS.Former rural development minister Jugal Kishore Mohapatra maintained that a surge in MGNREGS jobs in the bigger states is just a matter of time. “Gujarat traditionally doesn’t see very high demand for MGNREGS. But in both Rajasthan and Maharashtra, things will pick up. Rajasthan also has very well-laid out work processes and labour standards. The demand will also pick when the harvest season gets over and labourers return to their states,” he said.A rural development ministry official, who requested anonymity, said the situation was still very fluid.“We will allot more money and work as soon as we see states picking up the allocated funds and are able to give more work,” this person said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spread-restrictionshit-nregs-work-allotment/story-uETvjobPNNbyMle7S5ZKyK.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: BJP calls for new manufacturing policy to revive economy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has submitted a report based on consultations with stakeholders and industry leaders to the Centre and suggested a new manufacturing policy to help India revive its economy as well cut its dependence on imports particularly from China, people aware of the matter said.It held consultations with four groups of stakeholders between April 3 and 10 to suggest the way out of the current economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The report collating the feedback was submitted on April 10.Gopal Agarwal, the BJP’s spokesman on economic issues who was part of the discussions, said India is poised to take advantage of the global scenario if it works out a new policy to give its manufacturing sector a fillip.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Many countries across the world are looking for a risk drive divergent strategy. They consider India a good place for their manufacturing companies to shift. What we need now is a new manufacturing policy, because we have already lost some ground to countries such as Bangladesh and Vietnam,” he said.Agarwal cited discussions with stakeholders and industry leaders and said the two issues that come up were the need for an immediate fiscal stimulus package and for reviving the manufacturing sector so that global companies find India a ready market.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “There are many bottlenecks that we need to remove. The cost of acquiring land and the legal and procedural delays that come with it is an issue that needs to be resolved. Similarly, we need reforms in the labour sector. The cost of business is high; we need to rationalise expenses incurred on power and infrastructure costs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-calls-for-new-manufacturing-policyto-revive-economy/story-kbrLHpJXhjV9c1rlDQDjSJ.html
24-04-2020||India||Time will reveal value of India’s lockdown||In early March, my research group projected that by early August, at least 300 million Indians would be infected by the novel coronavirus. That was before there were any lockdowns or domestic travel restrictions. Viruses spread rather predictably – and the scenario we were modeling was rather straightforward, yet terrifying – the spread of a new coronavirus through a completely susceptible population.During the past two decades, our group has published dozens of infectious disease modeling papers in well regarded scientific journals. That did not stop ad hominem attacks by some who did not believe that the infection could spread so widely. What they did not realize was that Covid-19 is unlike influenza, to which there is vaccination available or some degree of population immunity because of past exposure, or HIV/AIDS where it is possible to not get infected by taking personal protection. There was really no easy way to prevent its spread without extreme measures such as lockdowns.We were not alone in projecting a large number of infections. A model published by researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research predicted that in the absence of a lockdown, 25% of Delhi would be infected. Models from other groups, including Imperial College and the University of Cambridge arrived at similar or even higher estimates. All of these groups were using methods that date back to the earliest compartment models introduced by Daniel Bernoulli in 1776 and that have been remarkably useful at informing public health response, except for diseases like HIV/AIDS where individuals are able to change behaviour and alter the course of a disease in response to its spread.All of these groups were clear that the bulk of infections would be mild or without symptoms. Although the proportion of severe cases would be small, the numbers would be large in India given its large population. The purpose of these projections was to communicate the seriousness of the epidemic both to policymakers and the public and to debunk theories about how Indians were somehow immune to Covid-19.So where are those cases? The hospitals still seem to be relatively empty. Were the projections wrong? This is similar to going to a doctor who tells you that if you keep smoking and don’t exercise you have a high risk of dying young. If you then quit smoking and started going the gym, does that mean that your doctor was wrong?. The lockdown changed the shape of the epidemic significantly not just in India but in every other country. Without enforced distancing measures, Paris, Milan and New York would still be reporting thousands of deaths a day. India was fortunate to have a lockdown early in the epidemic curve so that we never had to witness the kind of trauma that people in these cities had to go through. A recent French study showed that 6% of the population (about 4 million people) had already experienced Covid-19, even though there are only about 120,000 reported cases in that country. In India, unless we are able to test every single patient with Covid-19, a physical impossibility, modelling studies are the only way to study the progress of an epidemic.Fortunately, India has among the lowest reported cases and deaths per capita in the world – the result of early measures to stop flights to China, close borders and impose a lockdown. The lockdown is projected to have pushed the epidemic peak out at least about eight weeks and possibly longer. The peak will also come down by as much as 50% if we diligently practice hand washing, physical distancing, and expanded testing and containment, with periodic restrictive containment measures.Some don’t want lockdowns because of the economic and human costs. But they also don’t want there to be a flood of cases into hospitals. Perhaps they are counting on chloroquine or BCG vaccination to save the day. Unfortunately, Covid-19 cannot be dealt with through wishful thinking.The work of disease modelers, who are generally data scientists and not medical doctors, and generally work far away from the media glare is poorly understood. Models are useful in understanding what would happen without any intervention, but also in anticipating what would happen under various intervention scenarios. They are a validated and systematic way of understanding disease spread using the best of what we know about viruses. Without the benefit of these models, we would not be able to respond effectively. We would not know when to impose restrictions, or how many cases, Intensive Care Unit beds and oxygen cylinders to plan for. Time will reveal the value of India’s lockdown, which was made on the basis of epidemiological projections and science.Ultimately, as Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust recently said – science is the only exit strategy from the Covid-19 pandemic. Now is not the time to replace respect and understanding of scientific expertise with gut feeling, and lessons from WhatsApp University.(Ramanan Laxminarayan is director at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, and a senior research scholar at Princeton University. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-will-reveal-value-of-india-s-lockdown/story-IPIEceh3byv2lHnB6kZp3H.html
24-04-2020||India||SC makes anti-drug law more stringent||A recent Supreme Court ruling has strengthened the ability of the police to tackle the menace of drug peddling across the country.The Court held that henceforth punishment for possession of drugs will not depend on the exact quantity of drug present in a consignment. Rather, traces of an offending drug in the seized mixture will be sufficient to declare the entire quantity to be an offending drug under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985, the Court said.By this pronouncement, the Court has changed its own ruling delivered 12 years ago. In 2008, a two-judge bench ruled the opposite in the E Michael Raj v Intelligence Bureau, Narcotics Control Bureau case. It said that punishment under NDPS Act will depend on the quantity of offending drug present in a consignment seized by the police. Five grams of heroin would classify as a small quantity while 250 grams of the same contraband would be considered a commercial quantity attracting punishment of up to 20 years in jai. Drug peddlers would sell heroin mixed with caffeine, chalk powder, zinc oxide, to get around the law and escape with minor sentences.Reversing the 2008 decision, the three-judge bench of justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee and MR Shah said, “The problem of drug addicts is international and the [drug] mafia is working throughout the world. It is a crime against society and it has to be dealt with [with] an iron hand. The use of drugs by young people in India has increased. The drugs are being used for weakening the nation.”The Court noted that the NDPS Act was introduced by Parliament with a laudable objective of tackling the drug menace. “The punishment part in drug trafficking is an important one but its preventive part is more important,” ruled the bench. From the Statement of Objects and Reasons and the Preamble of the NDPS, the Court was convinced that the legislature never intended to exclude the quantity of neutral substance.The Court observed that illicit drugs are mostly sold in adulterated form. For instance, caffeine mixed with heroin allows users to take the drug faster. Brown sugar contains 20% heroin, is cheaper but more dangerous. “Therefore, what is harmful or injurious is the entire mixture/tablets with neutral substance and narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. Therefore, if it is accepted that it is only the actual content by weight of offending drug which is relevant for the purpose of determining whether it is small quantity or commercial quantity, in that case, the object and purpose of enactment of NDPS Act would be frustrated,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-makes-anti-drug-law-more-stringent/story-URSO4t4hMdwSvPtYndCTXM.html
24-04-2020||India||Spike in demand for NREGS jobs, PDS ration hints at rural distress||Demand for work under the Centre’s rural job guarantee scheme and food from the public distribution system (PDS) has spiked in a signal of economic distress in the Hindi-speaking heartland, where hundreds of thousands of migrant workers have returned since the coronavirus disease lockdown went underway on March 25.In the absence of any real-time data, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and the PDS act as pointers to the state of the rural economy and the living conditions of the marginalised sections. And close to a month after the lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19, they present a depressing picture. A grim picture Enrolment for manual work under the MGNREGS, which provides at least 100 days of employment a year to at least one member of every rural household, has risen 10-fold in Rajasthan and Maharashtra, officials said. It has increased up to threefold in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The number of families buying subsidised household rations under the PDS has increased by about 40% in Maharashtra and 20% in Madhya Pradesh, officials in these states said. A clear sign of rural anxiety about what the future holds is the rush of villagers to local panchayat offices for enrolment under the MGNREGS, billed as the world’s biggest job security scheme. “We have not been able to enrol all because there is shortage of staff in panchayat offices,” said a Madhya Pradesh government official, requesting anonymity. In Bihar, an official said the demand for MGNREGS enrolment was not unexpected, given that a large number of migrant workers who have returned from the cities have no money left. “Our government has provided immediate financial relief to all migrant workers as providing work under MGNREGS may not be possible immediately,” said an Odisha government official who requested anonymityThe number of people who have lined up for work across the nation under the job guarantee scheme has increased threefold since April 20, compared to a month ago,said Nikhel Dey, a civil society activist who has been monitoring MGNREGS for more than a decade.Growing enrolments On April 23, MGNREGS had 110.6 million active workers enrolled, compared with 82.3 million a month ago, according to the website of the welfare programme. MGNREGS works resumed only on Monday, and just 1.58 million people have received work under it, or10% of the total people employed in April 2019.Enrolment has surged since migrant workers returning home emerged from a mandatory 14-day quarantine. In Bihar, around 90% of the workers were released over the past one week and in Uttar Pradesh the proportion was about 80%, officials said. Demand for work is set to increase once the harvest is completed by April-end in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Considering that there would be huge demand for work, the governments need to enhance capacity fast under MGNREGS to manage demand distress,” Dey said. Rural distressThe higher sales of subsidized foodgrains at rural fair price shops in the states is another proxy for rural distress. In Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, the number of households buying PDS rations has risen to 86% and 90%, an increase of 10 to 15 percentage points from March. In poorer states like Jharkhand, governments should ensure that every poor person gets ration irrespective of whether they have a ration card or not, said development economist Jean Dreeze. “Food shortages faced by people, especially families without PDS ration cards, are being reported from across the state. Despite mounting food stocks that are thrice the required amount [77 million tonnes], the central government is yet to universalise the PDS, which is the need of the hour,” he said. Sachin Jain, a member of Right to Food campaign, said: “As the migrant labourers have returned, per-family consumption of food grains has also increased in villages.”A helping handAs many poor have been left out of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have decided to extend PDS benefits to those who were not enrolled under the PDS. The PDS enrolment was done on the basis of the 2011 socio-economic census and many who became eligible for it after 2011 have not been included, said Dreeze. There are five million such people in Rajasthan and 6.5 million in Madhya Pradesh who have been provided access to rations only now, said Dey.A Central government statement on Thursday said 390.2 million people have received free foodgrains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana announced last month at a cost of Rs 1.7 trillion.The Centre and state governments have maintained that there is enough food stocks for three months.The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said on Thursday that the unemployment rate in India had increased to 26.2 % and consumer sentiment had fallen to its lowest level since 2015. A report by the International Labour Organisation said that around 90% or 400 million people working in the informal economy were at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the Covid-19 crisis in India.According to the information provided by the state governments, the problem appears to be more acute in states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand. In Madhya Pradesh, around 375,000 people have been provided work under MNREGS although over 10 million have enrolled. Additional chief secretary (rural development and panchayati raj) Manoj Shrivastava said, “All panchayats have been asked to immediately start MGNREGS works related to water harvesting and agriculture.” The state has also distributed rations to 11.6 million beneficiaries, including 3.2 million not covered under the PDS.Uttar Pradesh commissioner (rural development) K Ravindra Naik said all districts had been told to provide work under MGNREGS to migrants who had retuned home. “A total 570,000 migrant workers have returned to their homes from various other states following the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown,” he said. Uttar Pradesh has 8.8 million people enrolled under MGNREGS and eight million under PDS. “Our PDS offtake remains equal to the distribution. But in April, it was double since we distributed foodgrains twice and to 323,00 additional beneficiaries that included the MGNREGS job card holders,” commissioner (food and civil supplies) Manish Chauhan said. Chhattisgarh’s panchayat raj minister TS Singhdeo said there has been a sudden rise in enrolment under MGNREGS in last 10 days. “Last year, till April, a similar number of people were enrolled for MGNREGS but this year we expect to provide work to 1.5 million more people under the scheme,” Singhdeo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-demand-for-nregs-jobs-pds-ration-hints-at-rural-distress/story-kPbdo5FBq64XOSkf4m0Y9L.html
24-04-2020||India||No let-up in ceasefire violations along LoC amid pandemic||Amid the swift spread of the coronavirus disease across the globe, the Pakistan army continues to violate the ceasefire on the Line of Control in an effort to help terrorists sneak into Jammu and Kashmir, two senior officials said on condition of anonymity.Government data reviewed by Hindustan Times shows that the Pakistan army has violated the ceasefire 247 times this month (up to April 22), taking the count of border violations to 1,391 this year so far. Pakistan violated the ceasefire 234 times in April 2019 and 176 times in April 2018.The total number of ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.During a visit to Kashmir last week, Army chief General MM Naravane condemned the relentless ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the LoC, saying the whole world is battling the coronavirus pandemic but the neighbouring country has not stopped stirring trouble at the border.The Indian Army on Monday came out with a fresh set of instructions for soldiers who have completed their leave and temporary duties, and are required to rejoin their units on priority. According to the instructions, soldiers who have been accorded top priority for rejoining duty include all ranks of the operationally-critical Northern Command. The Udhampur-based Northern command is the nerve-centre for counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir and is also responsible for guarding the LoC.Pakistan has also violated the ceasefire more times in January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years.Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1,144 times between January and March, with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally.Figures show that the Pakistan army violated the cease-fire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 in the same period. The army has been dealing with an increase in infiltration attempts by Pakistan-backed terrorists looking to stir trouble in J&K since the Centre’s move revoking the special status of the region on August 5, 2019. Experts said Pakistan was trying its best to reinvigorate the terror machinery in J&K to destabilise the border region.The army on April 10 targeted Pakistani positions across the LoC in Kashmir’s Keran sector with artillery guns and caused severe damage to posts, terror launch pads and an ammunition dump in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The assault was launched in response to an unprovoked ceasefire violation by the Pakistani army days after five commandos belonging to an elite army Special Forces (SF) unit were killed in action along the LoC in the same sector on April 5 during an intense close-quarters battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all killed.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 10, Pakistan-based groups have activated their launch pads along the LoC in Kashmir and the International Border (IB) in Jammu in an attempt to send across more than 200 terrorists at a time when the Indian security forces are busy helping the region’s civil administration fight the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-let-up-in-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-amid-pandemic/story-2OiXQwCTxyIzG8t9ItPPkK.html
24-04-2020||India||No meat, no staff: Lucknow’s Tunday Kababi shut in Ramzan||Lucknow’s iconic Tunday Kababi, famous across the world for its melt-in-the-mouth galaouti kababs, will be shut during the holy month of Ramzan starting this week -- perhaps for the first time in the establishment’s 115-year-old history.The non-availability of meat because of the national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has hit several popular restaurants in the old city; but Tunday Kababi is the most renowned of them all.Click here for live updates on Ramzan“It’s painful for me that I won’t be able to serve the rozedaars (those fasting from sunrise to sunset) and others who are fond of our cuisine during Ramzan. It is for the first time that such a thing has happened in the history of our restaurant,” said Mohammed Usman, the owner of the restaurant that was established in old Lucknow by his grandfather in 1905.The rozedaars have to break their fast at around 7pm, depending on the setting sun, and resume it early the next morning.Usman said that the restaurant has been unable to procure meat because the supply is yet to be restored in the city. “The local sellers are unable to supply us. On regular days, we sell kebabs prepared from around 60kg raw meat, which increases to 100kg during Ramzan. However, there is no availability at the moment,” said Usman.There are two main branches of Tunday. The original one is in Chowk, the second main branch which is own by Mohammed Usman is in Aminabad or Nazirabad, which is the most accessible one in central Lucknow. He own one more branch in Aliganj area. Other than these, the other family members too own branches at Saharaganj Mall, Airport, Gomti Nagar and other areas. Altogether there are around 8 branches in Lucknow. Also Read| Covid-19: Hyderabadis to miss haleem this Ramzan due to ban on iftar partiesOn the secret recipe, Mohammed Usman said it’s a family recipe that has around 116 spices in kababs, which results in its succulent taste. Since the business is divided, so is the recipe.Another problem that Tunday Kababi is facing is the lack of staff, with most going back to their towns and villages in different parts of the state. “The lockdown is concluding on May 3, whereas Ramzan will last till May end. But I don’t think that the meat supply or labour issues will be resolved. So we have just decided to remain shut throughout,” Usman said.District officials were uncertain when the sale of meat sale would be restored, and when restaurants would be allowed to operate. “We haven’t initiated any closures. The meat shops are shut since none of them procured mandatory licenses from FSDA (Food Safety and Drug Administration),” said Mukesh Meshram, Lucknow’s divisional commissioner.Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) is the body that functions under FSSAI to keep checks over the sale of spurious or sub-standard food items. Until 2018, the licensing authority for the meat shops in Lucknow was Municipal Corporation. But in 2018, the power of issuing license was given to FSDA. District officials, however said, none of the shops so far has procured meat selling license from FSDA. “If things improve in the future, restaurants will be allowed to open,” Meshram said.The holy month of Ramzan, which will begin on April 25 or 26 depending on the sighting of the moon, will end on EId-ul-Fitr, which is expected to fall at the end of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meat-no-staff-tunday-kababi-shut-in-ramzan/story-zuXMW62mpUC7MwLEn1XRuM.html
24-04-2020||India||Arnab Goswami moves Supreme Court, seeks stay on FIRs against him in 5 states||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami moved the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking a stay on the FIRs registered against him in various states for hate speeches and for defamation of Congress president Sonia Gandhi.A bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah will hear the case on Friday.Goswami has prayed that no coercive measures should be taken on FIRs registered against him in the states of Maharashtra, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Read More: No coercive action against Arnab Goswami for 3 weeks, orders Supreme CourtHe has submitted that action against him is an attempt to curb free speech and the Freedom of the Press under Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution.Earlier on Thursday, Maharashtra Police arrested two people for allegedly attacking Goswami, a day after Congress leaders filed FIRs against the journalist in several states for his comments against party chief Sonia Gandhi on his primetime show. In his complaint, Goswami said his wife and he were attacked by two men on a motorcycle around 12.15 am on Thursday and blamed the Congress. The party, however, has denied all charges.Abhinash Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, said, “Both the accused were arrested immediately with the help of security personnel with Goswami.” In a video, Goswami said he was told by his security guards the attackers were allegedly Youth Congress workers. “Not a single Congressman is involved… this is not our tradition, not our culture,” said party general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal in response to the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-moves-supreme-court-seeks-stay-on-firs-against-him-in-5-states/story-kRM7LRh6ObWYlTpa4EjG0I.html
24-04-2020||India||Centre, states plan to ban pan masala, spitting at workplaces||In the run up to the partial relaxation of the lockdown enforced to combat Covid-19, so as to allow some key economic activities, especially in non-Covid affected areas, the central and state governments, and various government departments started cracking down on the habit of chewing pan masala and gutka, in public places, but also in the workplace. The focus on this insidious activity -- around 70 million Indians use chewing tobacco , usually mixed with betel nut and other spices, masticating it for hours and spitting out the excess saliva-laden mixture from time to time -- is clearly driven by health concerns. Spit can carry the SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. In directives to the states or during video conferences, the government has repeatedly advised that a blanket ban be enforced on the use of gutka and pan masala in workplaces. The home ministry went a step further on April 15 when it issued guidelines that said ‘ “spitting in public places shall be punishable with fine” and “there shall be strict ban on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco, etc and spitting should be strictly prohibited.”Two days later, gutka and pan masala again found a special mention at a video conference with the states to review rural schemes. Chaired by the union rural development secretary, the meeting discussed developing a standard template for each work site that included “no smoking, no tobacco chewing, no spitting” and maintenance of personal hygiene.The repeated mention also drives home the point on the ineffectiveness of state-wide bans on chewing tobacco, announced by some states amost a decade ago (after the Supreme Court issued a directive). Chewable tobacco products, some masquerading as digestive aids or mouth fresheners are available widely, usually in low-priced plastic satchets -- which the users typically discard on the roads. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh last month banned the production and sale of pan masala and all forms of gutka in India’s most populous state. It also stopped the display and transport of such items.Expertshave hailed the Centre’s directives against gutka and pan masala, and spitting. Dental Council of India president Dr. Dibyendu Mazumdar said, “If swabs are taken from a person’s mouth to test Covid, it gives a clear indication about the presence of virus in one’s mouth and saliva. It is absolutely essential to ensure that people don’t chew pan masala and then spit recklessly making others vulnerable to the virus.”Several papers including a study by the US National Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine on April 1 have shown that Covid19 is likely to spread through aerosols.The Parliament secretariat has also emphazised on a no-gutka, no-pan masala policy. An internal circular dated April 17 stated that no officer or employee would be allowed to bring such substances inside the Parliament complex. Officials said that violations could attract severe penalties.According to the National Family Health Survey-2 21% of people over 15 years of age in India consume pan masala or tobacco in any form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-plan-to-ban-pan-masala-spitting-at-workplaces/story-QZ9dAiEHYMxnzqRLOGyHqO.html
24-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Govt considers wage stimulus for MSMEs amid survival battle||The Union government is weighing options for a stimulus to protect wages of workers employed in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) as the sector fights a survival battle.As an extended lockdown until May 3 bites industry, smaller businesses are facing an acute shortage of cash. Unsold goods and delayed payments have turned off liquidity taps for the sector, leading to a “complete breakdown”, according to the business lobby Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, or FICCI, which has mooted proposals for support.Labour secretary Heeralal Samariya interacted with business leaders via video-conferencing on Wednesday organized by FICCI, in which he discussed the possibility of a payroll-focused stimulus so that small businesses could retain workers and pay wages. The MSME sector accounts for 28% of India’s gross domestic product and employs 30% of the country’s labour force, making it a significant employer to over 100 million workers.Business leaders told the bureaucrat that the lockdown could deal a crushing blow to a majority of small businesses. According to the All-India Manufacturers’ Association, another business lobby, nearly 70% of small businesses failed to pay wages to workers in March. The government last month allowed small businesses to defer paying Goods and Services Tax from February onwards till June to help improve their cash flows.Disrupted supplies of raw materials, shuttered transport and labour shortages have brought the sector to a standstill and unless the government provided quick relief, many will have to lay off workers, the FICCI said in its proposals for relief measures. Samariya told participants at the videoconference his ministry was looking to also support out-of-work migrant labourers. The labour ministry is collecting data of migrant workers through 20 regional call centres established in coordination with states. Following Wednesday’s consultation, FICCI on Thursday came out with its proposals to support MSMEs. “MSMEs operate on cash and are in need of immediate liquidity to cope in the current circumstances as a majority of these enterprises are micro/small household-run businesses,” the organisation said.“Non-availability of workers, restrictions in the availability of raw materials and transport infrastructure is making matters worse,” it said.FICCI has sought interest- and collateral-free loans for MSME companies with a turnover of less than Rs 500 crore for up to 12 months to enable them to cover fixed costs, salaries and other operational expenses. For non-Good and Services Tax paying companies, an alternate mechanism could be worked out based on income tax filings. Even in usual times, the MSME sector has to negotiate hard business decisions. According to the UK Sinha Expert Committee formed to look into MSMEs, which submitted its report to the Reserve Bank in June last year, unsold inventory and delays in payments were the biggest reason for small businesses defaulting on loans. Small businesses typically take more than 220 days to realise payments, while India’s 30 largest companies take a just a month, according to the committee.MSMEs also have limited access to credit, their share in overall bank credit being just 6.3% compared to 28% of large industries. Softer loans could be given with “pre-conditions that businesses will continue to run and there would be no layoffs of workers and after one year it will be converted into a grant if all conditions are met”, the FICCI said in its proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-considers-wage-stimulus-for-msmes/story-Qd7fq2WaA48FLpUSFMauTO.html
24-04-2020||India||House panel backs 30-day salary for retrenched staff||A worker should be entitled to compensation equal to 30-day wages and a reskilling fund if he or she is retrenched but employers should not be liable to pay in case of the closure of an industrial unit, a parliamentary panel has suggested for inclusion in the Industrial Relations Code.The proposed law is one of the four labour reforms aimed at simplifying myriad and archaic labour laws and to make the sector more attractive for investors. Biju Janata Dal lawmaker Bhartruhari Mahtab heads the panel, which has backed the government’s proposal to widen the scope of industrial strikes. The proposal seeks to consider mass casual leaves, which workers worldwide resort to as a form of protest, to be considered as a strike if a majority of the workers take leave on a particular day.“The Committee finds that the words ‘concerted casual leave on a given day be fifty percent or more workers’ have been inserted in the definition of ‘strike’ on the rationale that it not only hampers production but also deteriorates the employer-employee relations. It is a fact that to opt for mass casual leave by the workers is akin to work stoppage and the results are similar to that of a strike,” the panel said in its report. “The definition [of strike] be revisited and suitably reworded so as to give a clear impression that the provision does not intend to infringe the rights of the workers as guaranteed under the Constitution of India.”The panel has circulated its draft report online among its members and sent it to Lok Sabha Speaker’s office via email. It has rejected the demand of the trade unions to insulate general strikes from the mass casual leaves.The panel has supported the plan for a reskilling fund which will be used to train retrenched workers for other disciplines. But it has said that the money for reskilling should not be given directly to workers as it “may defeat the very purpose”.The panel has suggested that instead of the compensation equivalent to 15-day wages, it should be that of a month.“The Committee, however, desires that, as also concurred by the Ministry, the fifteen days wage should be made applicable only in case of retrenchment, as its applicability to closure too would be an unwarranted additional burden on the employer and unfair to him. The Committee further desire that the stipulation of fifteen days wage for retrenchment be enhanced to at least thirty days for the benefit of workers/employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-backs-30-day-salary-for-retrenched-staff/story-V5cMskPwKYdvduP5GxjKRI.html
24-04-2020||India||Don’t use Covid-19 lockdown rules to harass industry: Centre tells states, UTs||The Union home ministry on Thursday told all states and Union Territories that the revised guidelines related to the extended lockdown period over coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should not be misused to harass the management of any manufacturing or commercial establishment. The government also said that the enforcement of the second phase of the lockdown was “satisfactory” across the country except for a few sporadic incidents and “economic activity had picked up the pace, especially in rural areas”.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in the letter that there was no clause in April 15’s revised guidelines under which states could take legal action, including the imprisonment of the CEO of a company, or the sealing or closure of a factory for two days in case a Covid-19-positive employee was found. The letter said that these apprehensions were “based on wrong interpretation of the guidelines”.“I would like to clarify that there is no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines and therefore there is no basis for such misplaced apprehensions,” Bhalla’s letter read.Several companies had raised concerns regarding penal action they were likely to face over restarting activities. They also asked the government if they had to take fresh permissions or licences to begin work.Bhalla clarified that “the consolidated revised guidelines do not curtail the exemptions already provided earlier, unless the exempted activity falls within a containment zone. Therefore no fresh/separate permissions are required from authorities for industries already permitted to operate prior to April 15, 2020, in areas falling outside containment zones”.“Finally, it is emphasized that subject to compliance of standard operating procedure (SOP) on social distancing, no fresh license or statutory approval is required for resumption of permitted activities during the lockdown period. For example, an industry activity, allowed to operate prior to lockdown, needs no fresh approval, once it has been included as a permitted activity under the consolidated revised guidelines, and has complied with the SOP on social distancing,” he added.The home secretary asked states to inform their industrial field establishments and field offices, and that guidelines should not be misused to harass the management of any industry.Earlier in the day, Bhalla and secretary of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Guruprasad Mohapatra, reviewed the measures to “speed up” economic and industrial activities via a video-conference with the industry associations.During the daily news briefing, home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said that the video-conference was held between representatives of the associations and the two secretaries about industrial activities since April 20, when the government announced conditional easing of lockdown restrictions to revive economy activity. Feedback has been sought from industrial units and problems, if any, will be resolved soon, she added.Road construction, brick kilns and cement manufacturing-related works have started in rural areas, Srivastava said. “Till April 22, over 1.5 crore workdays have been achieved under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act),” she added. The state governments are working to operationalise industrial units in non-hot spot zones as the central government has given permission for exempting many essential services from April 20, the joint secretary said. Food processing units, milk and bread processing factories, flour, and pulses mills have been exempted, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-use-lockdown-rules-to-harass-industry-centre-tells-states-uts/story-2sVrDbD2lwhv5IR9K3CNKO.html
24-04-2020||India||ICMR to continue restricted use of HCQ amid doubts||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will continue restricted use of the anti-malarial drug, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), to treat ICU patients as part of its demonstration study even after a US study found it brought no benefit to 368 people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “We are generating our own data, and will take a decision, according to our own results. The study to check its therapeutic use will take about 2-2.5 months to complete which should provide us the evidence against or for it. It will be too premature to say anything at this stage even though we are closely looking at all the data coming from other countries,” said an official in the ICMR, who did not wish to be identified.In the US study that came on April 16, the researchers analysed medical records of 368 hospitalised patients with confirmed coronavirus infection at Veterans Health Administration medical centres. About 28%, who were given HCQ in addition to the usual care died, versus 11% of those getting routine care alone. The drug made no difference in the need for a breathing machine, either, according to the study.However, Switzerland-based drug maker Novartis announced a few days ago that it had reached an agreement with the US Food and Drug Administration to carry out a Phase III trial assessing HCQ as a treatment for hospitalised Covid-19 patients, for which it will be recruiting about 440 patients in at least a dozen sites in the US.In India, the central drugs controller towards the end of March had approved the use of HCQ under the “restricted use” category, primarily for the studies that ICMR wanted to carry out.The ICMR has said that it is conducting a two-arm study on the prophylactic (prevention) and therapeutic (treatment) effects of HCQ against covid-19.As prophylactic, the drug has been recommended for asymptomatic health care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19, and, as therapeutic medicine, it is being given to critically ill Covid-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) to see if their dependency on oxygen support is reduced.The therapeutic study is being done in a cohort of 480 Covid-19 patients.In India, around 2% of Covid-19 cases need critical care in ICUs, according to the health ministry.In prophylactic cases, the drug is recommended to be taken under strict medical supervision, considering all contraindications.The dosage given to people in India is 400mg, twice a day, for one day, and subsequently 400mg once a week. The course is recommended for seven weeks for prophylactics. In case of treatment it, is being given in combination with the antibiotic, azithromycin.“In positive patients, the medicine has shown to reduce the viral load, and our aim is to see whether it will prevent infection or not,” Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar had said earlier.While results from the treatment cohort will take time, the initial data collected from reactions found in health care workers showed two primary complains: abdominal pain in about 10% of those who took the medicine; and nausea in about 6% of them. “If the results aren’t satisfactory, the drug will be withdrawn, like it was previously done with HIV/AIDS antiviral drugs, such as lopinavir and ritonavir, which did not show much benefit,” the ICMR official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-to-continue-restricted-use-of-hcq-amid-doubts/story-6MsYgm3wA2n9MygkjuWpGJ.html
24-04-2020||India||India staring at ‘sombre economic situation’, needs major stimulus: Finance panel||India is staring at a “sombre economic situation”; it needs to lift the lockdown to kick-start economic activities, and it needs a major stimulus, several members of the economic advisory council of the finance commission (FC) argued at a two-day virtual conference on Thursday, according to two officials familiar with the proceedings of the meeting. The meeting, chaired by the head of the 15th FC, NK Singh, was attended by several prominent economists, including Sajid Chinoy, Prachi Mishra, Omkar Goswami and Neelkanth Mishra. The meeting of the FC came in the backdrop of a series of consultations the government is having to assess the economic fallout of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown to contain its spread, and the measures that can be adopted to tackle the distress. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a long brainstorming session with economists, where Niti Ayog’s vice-chairman, Rajiv Kumar, and chief executive officer, Amitabh Kant, made presentations. In the FC meeting on Thursday, experts first pointed to the deep structural crisis confronting the economy. According to the first official present in the meeting, economist Omkar Goswami said that the current crisis was worse than the Great Depression. Goswami, however, refused to officially comment on the closed-door meeting. Two other economists termed the situation “sombre”. A second official said that the economists painted a bleak picture of the impact of the lockdown, and said that it would not only impact the growth trajectory in this financial year (2020-21), but the next one — and a turnaround was only possible by the end of next year partially, and in 2022, more substantially. The crisis facing the medium, micro and small enterprises figured as a key concern in the meeting. Among specific suggestions, Goswami said that small industries with an investment of less than ₹50 lakh must be provided assistance. While this was supported by others, chairman Singh asked what would be the vehicle of this financial assistance, according to the first official quoted above.Singh did not comment on the meeting and his office said that he would be addressing a press conference after the conclusion of the two-day consultation on Friday. The meeting also considered the appropriate size of the stimulus. Critics have pointed out what while countries such as the United States have announced stimulus packages of up to 10% of their GDP, India’s relief package so far — of ₹1.7 lakh crore — is less than a percentage of its GDP. Industry bodies have demanded a stimulus package ranging between ₹14-16 lakh crore, while some economists have even called for a ₹20 lakh crore package. “There are all these figures that industry is suggesting as a stimulus package. Someone says 5% of the GDP and someone says 7%. But the key question is the composition of this package and how you are going to spend that money,’’ said the first official. Deliberations on matters such as these have, according to him, led to a possible delay in the government’s announcement. The timing of the package was also discussed in the meeting. Economist Neelkanth Mishra said that the stimulus package should be given once the lockdown is lifted, since this was when businesses would need it the most to resume activities, according to the second official quoted above. Economists emphasised that the government had to play a major role in jump-starting the economy, with more investment in programmes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. On Friday, economists Arvind Virmani, Indira Rajaraman, M Govinda Rao, Sudipto Mundle, DK Shrivastava and chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian are expected to attend the meeting and present their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-needs-a-major-stimulus-finance-panel/story-khSCPZRiAEdtiV3cQyUXMP.html
