25-04-2020||India||Mumbai cop succumbs to coronavirus, 95 other cops infected in Maharashtra||A head constable with Mumbai police, Chandrakant Ganapat Pendurkar, succumbed to coronavirus on Saturday, said Mumbai police.57-year-old Pendurkar had been battling the disease for the past few days after testing positive. Pendurkar, is the first cop in Mumbai to die due to Covid-19. He was posted with Vakola Police Station in Santacruz East.“Mumbai Police regrets to inform about the untimely demise of Head Constable Chandrakant Ganapat Pendurkar (57) from Vakola PStn, who was battling Coronavirus for the past few days. May the departed soul rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family,” a tweet from Mumbai Police said.As many as 96 policemen including officers are infected with coronavirus in Maharashtra. 15 of these are officers. A total of 6 policemen have recovered so far.The unfortunate development comes on a day when the state recorded the highest single-day increase in the number of coronavirus infections with 811 new cases. However, a dip in mortality rate is giving the administration some hope.Maharashtra as of Saturday has a total of 7,628 Covid-19 cases including over 300 casualties. Nearly two-thirds of these positive cases are in Mumbai, which now has over 5,000 cases after 602 new infections were registered in the city on Saturday. Over 190 people have died in Maharashtra’s capital.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMaharashtra health minister has told HT’s business publication Mint that the state may extend the lockdown beyond May 3 for identified containment zones if the disease is not contained effectively. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cop-succumbs-to-coronavirus-95-other-cops-infected-in-maharashtra/story-wVjQKbMX15rU8Rn92Pa1iL.html
25-04-2020||India||Sonia writes to Modi, seeks ₹1L-cr for helping MSMEs||New DelhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package for the revival of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), warning that if problems of the sector are not addressed, it could have a devastating effect on the country’s economy.In her letter to the Prime Minister, she also enumerated suggestions for the revival of the MSME sector, which is reeling under the onslaught of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the nationwide lockdown that ensued to contain it.“The last five weeks have brought our nation face to face with several challenges. As we continue our fight against Covid-19, I felt it essential to highlight an economic concern that needs immediate attention and intervention,” Gandhi said.She said MSMEs contributed close to one third of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), accounted for almost 50% of exports, and employed more than 11 crore people.“At this moment, without appropriate support, more than 6.3 crore (63 million) MSMEs stand on the verge of economic ruin,” Gandhi said.She demanded an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “MSME Wage Protection” package as also a credit guarantee fund of an equivalent amount, besides a 24X7 helpline for helping them out of this crisis.The Congress chief said MSMEs are suffering losses of around Rs 30,000 crore every day due to the nationwide lockdown and efforts should be made to revive these as they are the backbone of the economy.“Nearly all MSMEs lost sales orders, seen complete cessation of work, and had revenue negatively impacted. If ignored, this issue has the potential of having a devastating and expansive ripple effect on our economy,” the letter read.“Most worrying of all, 11 crore (110 million) employees are at the risk of losing jobs as MSMEs struggle to pay wages and salaries. The government needs to introduce a series of measures to meet this crisis head-on or risk a much large economic crisis down the road,” she said.She said the actions taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) must be reflected in banks’ measures to ensure adequate, easy and timely credit supply to MSMEs.“These measures need to be supported by an expansion and extension of the RBI’s moratorium on payment of loans for the MSMEs beyond the stipulated three months,” added Gandhi.This is Gandhi’s seventh letter to the Prime Minister since March 23. In previous letters she has asked for a focus on migrant workers and people in rural areas, suspending the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project and transferring all money under the ‘PM Cares’ fund to the ‘Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PM-NRF)’, to fight the pandemic.Reacting to the letter, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said: “At a time when everyone is fighting a severe crisis, and the people are joining bands with the PM, the Congress party is writing letters. They are busy in negative politics. They don’t work on the ground. The whole world appreciates how India took timely steps to announce the lockdown. But while the whole world appreciates something, the Congress criticises it.”He addded: “This government has taken care of the MSME sector; 14 crore (140 million) people have been given loans without any collateral. But that issue is not raised by the Congress. When PM Modi and Nitin Gadkari began to speak about the efforts being made, the Congress jumped in too. This government has ensured 20 crore (200 million) women are getting Rs 500 per month,80 crore (800 million) people are getting ration and 8 crore (80 million) farmers are getting money, but the Congress is raising only negative issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-writes-to-modi-seeks-1l-cr-for-helping-msmes/story-dpqEaYLWjyZWNZbEkQD8cP.html
25-04-2020||India||4 of family, relative found dead in UP’s Etah; no leads yet||AGRA Five members of a family were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Shringarpur locality of Etah, early on Saturday. The deceased were a retired clerk of the health department in Etah (70), his daughter-in-law (35), her two sons aged 10 and two and her sister (25).“We are working on the case and the bodies have been sent for post mortem. The cause of deaths is unknown and we are waiting for the post mortem report before reaching a conclusion,” said Etah senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Singh.“There was no forced entry into the house and we had to use gas cutters to get in. The doors were closed from the inside,” he said.“Investigations are on. We have found a bottle of sulphas, a poisonous substance and bathroom cleaner. There is a cut mark on the right wrist of the daughter-in-law. A blade was also found near the body of the deceased,” Singh said.“We have taken a sample of milk in the kitchen and a forensic team was also called in to collect other evidence. We have collected CCTV footage from the nearby areas and have also asked for the call details to reach some conclusion,” added Singh.“Some relatives of the family reside in a lane nearby but they did could not give us any leads. The 41-year-old son of the retired health official works in Uttrakhand for a pharma company and was informed about the incident. He has arrived but even he is clueless,” he said.Locals said the bodies were recovered when the milkman arrived in the morning but no one answered the door bell. He informed the neighbours who called the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-relative-found-dead-in-up-s-etah-no-leads-yet/story-BPEMsvLEDBuExkfomJvi2H.html
25-04-2020||India||State nod not needed for CBI probe: SC||The Supreme Court ruled on Friday that the Central Bureau of Investigation need not take a state government’s consent for investigating offences committed within union territories by state government employees acting in their official capacity, giving federal authorities more power to investigate state officials.The requirement under section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946 (DSPE Act), which mandates the CBI should obtain consent of the state before exercising its jurisdiction over any area which is not a union territory, will not apply in such a case, the top court held.“The consent of the State under Section 6 cannot come in the way or constrict the jurisdiction of the special police force to investigate specified offences under Section 3 of the 1946 Act committed within the Union Territories”, the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari ruled.The CBI can investigate such cases even though the accused is residing in a state, is in employment and committed the offence in his or her capacity as a state government employee, the court made it clear.The petitioner in the case, Kanwal Tanuj, was an IAS officer employed in connection with the affairs of the Bihar government as District Magistrate at Aurangabad District in Bihar.He was accused of large scale corruption and siphoning of government funds during the construction of an electric plant by Bhartiya Rail Bijli Company Limited (BRBCL) at Nabinagar in Aurangabad district of Bihar.It was alleged that there was corruption and siphoning of government funds during land acquisition for the plant by BRBCL officials in connivance with local district administration including the petitioner.FIR was registered against him by the CBI for the offences of cheating and forgery under the Indian Penal Code and for offence of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act.It was petitioner’s case that the offence alleged against him was committed in his capacity as employee of state of Bihar and therefore, would require the consent of Bihar government as per section 6 of the DSPE Act before the CBI can proceed against him.The Supreme Court, however, turned down the argument noting that the registered office of BRBCL is within the jurisdiction of Union Territory of Delhi and the offence was committed at Delhi, and therefore, courts in Delhi will have jurisdiction to try the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-nod-not-needed-for-cbi-probe-sc/story-h7Idv58JTUBL6zUm2nmMLJ.html
25-04-2020||India||UP doctor celebrates son’s birthday over video||Lucknow: Amita Srivastava, a senior nursing officer at Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU), has not met her family for days. She has been under passive quarantine after taking care of Covid-19 patients for seven days at a KGMU isolation ward. Srivastava is now undergoing a mandatory rest at a hotel since April 17 along with 22 members of her team and has missed some important events in between.Srivastava joined her husband for their son Akshat’s 13th birthday celebration via a video call. “Never before have I been away from my family on my birthday [April 14] or that of my son [April 17]. But this year I was required by my patients because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Srivastava, who has been staying at the hotel since April 17.Srivastava’s colleague, Lydia Saha, too, celebrated her 10th wedding anniversary on April 21 via video call. “I am away from my family since April 8 as we started our continuous active quarantine duty in the hospital. This is the longest I have stayed away from my daughter Aaradhya, who turned 8 in March,” said Saha. “All are home except me.”She said they spend time at the hotel watching TV, reading books, making video calls to families and friends as well as chatting with other team members while maintaining distance, and doing yoga.Srivastava said she loves plants and prefers yoga. “So I see the place of my worship and check my plants via video calls every morning when I wake up and that is followed by an online yoga session.”Anoop Kumar, who worked in the ventilator unit of the isolation facility, said he has been going for morning and evening walks while staying with 14 team members at another hotel.“Walks are between 6 am and 7 am and then 6 pm and 7 pm. The remaining time is spent inside the [hotel] room. But it is okay as we are inside the room for a big cause,” said Kumar, who is from Ayodhya.Dr Uttam Kumar of the Balrampur Hospital, too, has to stay in a hotel room till May 3. “TV is the biggest medium for passing the time while other options to go out and engage in some other activity remain closed. Calling someone from home is not justified in this period. So I watch television programmes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-doctor-celebrates-son-s-birthday-over-video/story-lTdCLtVtkPXSm0f3JEX3qN.html
25-04-2020||India||Lockdown period will not count in insolvency proceedings: Govt||The government has issued two orders that exclude the lockdown period because of the Covid-19 outbreak from any corporate insolvency resolution or liquidation processes, the notifications issued on Friday said. The first notification said “the period of lockdown imposed by the Central Government in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak shall not be counted for the purposes of the timeline for any activity that could not be completed due to such lockdown, in relation to a corporate insolvency resolution process”.The second order also excluded the lockdown period “for the purposes of computation of the timeline for any task that could not be completed due to such lockdown, in relation to any liquidation process”. The law provides for completion of the liquidation process in relation to any corporate person in a limited timeframe, unless extended by the adjudicating authority. Similarly, a model timeline is given within which various IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code) processes should be completed, Gaurav Gupte, partner at law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, said.The orders will, however, be applicable retrospectively, one government official with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity. Although the governing board of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) had taken a decision on these matters on March 27, it could not be immediately notified due to the nationwide lockdown from March 25, the official said. While the orders mention March 25 as the date from which the lockdown began, they do not mention an end date. As per the home ministry order, the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to last till May 3.Misha, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, “It is relevant to clarify that this does not extend the mandatory timelines within the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, such as total time period of insolvency resolution process to be limited to 180 days extendable up to 270 days and only grants relaxations for timelines under the two regulations.”Experts called it a pragmatic move in line with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement on March 24, but they also expect a 6-12 months moratorium.Day before the lockdown, Sitharaman had made a series of announcements to provide relief to the common man and the industry from various compliance provisions that included matters pertaining to IBC. “Due to the emerging financial distress faced by most companies on account of the large-scale economic distress caused by Covid-19, it has been decided to raise the threshold of default under section 4 of the IBC, 2016, to Rs 1 crore (from the existing threshold of Rs 1 lakh). This will by and large prevent triggering of insolvency proceedings against MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises],” she had said in a statement. “If the current situation continues beyond 30th of April 2020, we may consider suspending section 7, 9 and 10 of the IBC, 2016, for a period of 6 months so as to stop companies at large from being forced into insolvency proceedings in such force majeure causes of default,” the statement said. While sections 7 and 9 pertain to initiation of corporate insolvency proceedings by a financial creditor and an operational creditor, respectively, section 10 relates to filing an application for insolvency resolution by a company.PTI on Wednesday reported that the Cabinet had decided to amend the insolvency law through an ordinance to suspend these sections provisions that trigger insolvency proceedings against defaulters from six months to one year and allow banks to restructure loans. The ordinance is awaited.Uday Bhansali, partner at global consultancy firm, Deloitte India, said, “At a time when the focus of the government is to revive economic activity post a future lifting of the lockdown, suspension of IBC for 6 to 12 months removes an element of risk for a company while it is trying to secure necessary financing, renegotiating loans, and attempting to secure other reliefs from banks, especially given the impact of Covid-19.” “Equally, this needs to also be supplemented by proactive measures to provide MSMEs with additional liquidity, moratorium on past borrowing etc so that they may recover from the enormous dislocation in business,” he added.The proposed relief from initiating insolvency proceedings for the next six months is expected to provide relief to not only MSMEs, but also big and small firms that may have defaulted on their obligations in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, and would ordinarily fall within the crosshairs of the insolvency regime, Atul Pandey partner at law firm Khaitan & Co, said.According to Misha, the two notifications issued on Friday have nothing to do with the announcement made by the finance minister on March 24, 2020. “The proposed suspension of Sections 7, 9 and 10 of the Code will have to take effect by passing of an Ordinance by the central government cabinet, followed by Presidential asset in absence of the Parliament being in session,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-period-will-not-count-in-insolvency-proceedings-govt/story-CYGA4OdjyEJSxXFp0zBflO.html
25-04-2020||India||2 terrorists, their aide killed in J&K||SRINAGAR/Jammu: Two terrorists and their associate were killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipore on Saturday. The terrorists were reportedly inside an underground hideout in the forest area.Police said security forces launched a joint operation in the Goripora forests in Awantipore early morning after they got an input about the presence of terrorists in the area. The ensuing gunfight led to the killing of two terrorists and their associate; all three of them inside a hideout.Inspector general of police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar confirmed that two unidentified terrorists and an associate of theirs died in the gunfight. “Further searches are still underway,” he added.Late Friday night, two terrorists who were responsible for the abduction of a policeman in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district were shot dead. This week, as many as ten terrorists were killed in south Kashmir in different encounters.“Two unidentified terrorists abducted a policeman from his house at Shirpora, Yaripora ( Kulgam) in a car. Kulgam police shared information with Army and CRPF and formed several joint nakas. The car was intercepted at Herpora Yaripora,’’ a police spokesman said. “Two policemen got injured in the encounter,’’ he added.Elsewhere, in Doda district, security forces on Saturday smashed a terrorist hideout and recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition in Ghoriyan area.“We recovered two AK rifles, two AK magazines, one Chinese pistol with one magazine and large quantity of ammunition. This is a serious blow to the terrorists operating in the region,” said a defence spokesman.In Udhampur, panic gripped the people earlier as security forces laid a cordon and launched a search operation following inputs of some suspicious movement. Udhampur houses the Indian Army’s Northern Command. District police chief Rajeev Pandey said, “It was just a search operation. No shots were fired and no encounter took place...don’t believe in rumours.”A senior official said an intelligence input about suspicious movement was received around 3.45 pm. “Police, army and the CRPF launched a search operation on specific input s. The operation was launched in “Gaide Da Talab” in the heart of Udhampur city. Drones were also used to locate the suspicious movement,” he said.The operation was called off after a thorough search of the lanes and bylanes in the targeted area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-their-aide-killed-in-j-k/story-5ZJ3C3u3QiNmtWW4m3V5AK.html
25-04-2020||India||Govt planning special flights for Indians stranded abroad||New Delhi The Centre has started making preparations to run scores of special flights early next month to bring thousands of Indians stranded abroad due to the cancellation of international flights from March 22.For nearly a week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding discussions with senior ministers and officials on the modalities of bringing the stranded Indians back home, people familiar with the developments said.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba took the first step as part of this exercise on Friday, telling state governments to earmark hospital beds and quarantine zones for the Indian nationals stuck abroad who will be brought back in special flights after the national lockdown ends. Gauba, the country’s senior-most bureaucrat, issued the instruction at his video conference with chief secretaries and police chiefs on Friday.To be sure, there has been no formal decision to lift the lockdown on May 3. But the government’s midnight decision allowing shops to open in residential areas signalled that the government was heading in this direction.Irrespective of the decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- he is interacting with the chief ministers on Monday to ascertain their views -- officials say it is clear that many of the restrictions in place during the lockdown would be eased only gradually.“This is the right time to start firming up the exercise to evacuate Indians abroad... It will be a gigantic exercise,” a top government official said.The external affairs ministry is starting the process to make an assessment of the people who want to return to India. Officials estimate that it won’t just be Indians who have been stranded abroad who want to come back but others too.For example, according to one estimate in the government, Kerala alone expects 100,000 expats to come back, for a visit to meet their family if not for a longer duration, when the flights start operating.The other states that expect a huge inflow of citizens abroad are Delhi, Maharashtra Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.A separate control room is being set up within the ministry for the same purpose.When the first few cases of the coronavirus disease started getting reported in the country in February, many state governments weren’t prepared and had indicated doubts about their ability to have the infrastructure in place to accommodate their citizens abroad. There was hardly any medical or quarantine facility ready for them.That was one reason why the government had roped in the army and the paramilitary forces to accommodate the 600-plus Indians flown back from China’s Wuhan.At his meeting with the top civil servants of the states, Gauba told them to go into an overdrive to create the facilities necessary for the Indians coming back after May 3. He also indicated the basic ground rules how the mammoth exercise would be carried out.The state governments have been told that the Indian citizens evacuated from abroad will be brought to the international airport nearest to their state so that the requirement for internal travel is minimised. The states have also been told that arriving passengers would be straightaway taken to the quarantine centres where they will have to spend a minimum of 14 days.Since March 22 - when the ban on international commercial flights was imposed - stranded Indians have been mounting pressure on the government to be allowed back into the country. It is for this reason that External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has been constantly in touch with his Gulf and Saudi Arabia counterparts to ask them to take care of the Indians stranded there and reassure them that they would be evacuated as soon as possible. These countries are home to over 9 million Indian diaspora in the region. With the Gulf region more than accommodative to Indian requests, the government had also put medical supplies and assistance on highest priority to these nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-planning-special-flights-for-indians-stranded-abroad/story-xpJeKGxT7b93X97JYVU1dN.html
25-04-2020||India||Teen girl raped by three youths in Haryana’s Jind, main accused arrested||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three youths, including a 16-year-old boy, who lured and took her to a school building in a village near her home in Haryana’s Jind district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday evening, a police official of women police station in Jind said, adding that the boy knew the girl and lured her on some pretext. When she came out of the house, where only her maternal grandmother was present at the time, the boy took her to a nearby school building where two of his accomplices were already present. The girl was held hostage for a while and allegedly raped by the boy and his two accomplices. The three accused threatened her with dire consequences if she gave out that incident too place to anyone, the police official said. However, the girl narrated the ordeal she faced to her family after which police was informed. A rape case was lodged under relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused. The main accused boy has been arrested and further investigation is under progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-girl-raped-by-three-youths-in-haryana-s-jind-main-accused-arrested/story-xTy08uib1PKxKsn5uADYKK.html
25-04-2020||India||Central inspection team visits Telangana||Hyderabad: A five-member interministerial central team arrived in Hyderabad on Saturday to access the Covid-19 situation in the city, which accounts for nearly half, or 485, of the total 983 cases of the disease in Telangana.Telangana is among the states where the Centre has deputed the interministerial teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations.Additional secretary Arun Baroka-led central team met Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar and discussed the steps being taken to contain the spread of the virus.A state government statement said Kumar made a detailed presentation about the efforts taken to contain the disease and said all departments have been working as a team for a uniform Covid-19 management. Kumar briefed the team about the treatment of patients, enforcement of lockdown in containment zones, maintenance of quarantine centres, hospital preparedness, surveillance and testing. He referred to a helpline, procurement of medical equipment, the supply of rice to ration cardholders as well as relief measures for migrant workers.Kumar said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered an extension of lockdown until May 7 to ensure there is no laxity in preventing the spread of the disease and that no relaxations had been given in any part of the state.“The central team appreciated the initiatives taken by the state government to contain the spread of the virus in the state,” the statement said.The central team earlier inspected the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and inquired about the availability of doctors, support staff, testing kits, personal protection equipment and masks.It is expected to meet police chief M Mahender Reddy and police commissioners of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda apart from officials of the health department to understand how Covid-19 spread so rapidly in Hyderabad over the last three weeks.“The number of cases has been alarmingly rising in the densely populated areas of GHMC [Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation] where the chances of virus spread to others is high. However, the numbers have been coming down in the last two days. Only 12 cases have been reported since Thursday,” a GHMC official said on condition of anonymity.Health minister Etala Rajender told reporters that a massive contact tracing exercise has led to the identification of 268 positive cases in the GHMC limits involving 44 families.The Telangana government has declared Hyderabad a red zone and enforced a strict lockdown. The GHMC has been directed to concentrate more on Hyderabad by dividing the city into zones and appointing officers for each of them.Till the third week of April, there were 139 containment clusters in Hyderabad out of the 221 in Telangana. Public movement is totally prohibited in these areas and barricades have been put up there along with deployment of a heavy police force. The government has been supplying essential commodities to people in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-inspection-team-visits-telangana/story-TAI02YsC5OpzVZXANkZoKI.html
25-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Delhi Covid-19 data confirms two global trends||Delhi recorded 111 new cases of coronavirus on Saturday taking the total number of positive Covid-19 cases to 2625 including 869 people who had recovered from the disease and 54 who died due to it. Saturday also saw 12 recoveries and one death, as per the health bulletin released by the state government.In a significant analysis, the health bulletin data indicates that while 67% of all positive patients numbering 1,730 were under the age group of 50 years, followed by 18% of patients aged 60 and above and 16% of patients between 50 and 59 years of age, the mortality rate was highest for persons aged 60 and above at 6.16%, followed by 3.54% for people in the age bracket of 50 to 59 years and 0.58% for persons under the age group of 50.The factor of co-morbidity for casualties reported so far was high for all age groups at roughly 90% for those under 50 and over 60 years of age, followed by 73.34% for persons aged between 50 and 59 years.Co-morbidity is defined as the presence of one or more additional medical conditions with a primary condition (coronavirus in these cases). It has been seen that people with renal, heart, sugar, respiratory diseases are more prone to succumbing to coronavirus. The data confirms the worldwide trend of senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions being at a greater risk of losing life to the virus.According to the health bulletin, 111 samples have reported positive against a total of nearly 2252 samples tested during the last 24 hrs in the national capital. A total of 35519 tests had been conducted so far with close to 3700 results still being pending.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA total of 481 positive cases are admitted to various dedicated Covid hospitals in the city-state as on Saturday and 910 positive patients are admitted to seven dedicated Covid care centres and 90 were admitted in dedicated Covid health centres in the capital. 41 coronavirus patients are in ICU while eight are on ventilator support, the bulletin said. The total number of containment zones had risen to 95 by Saturday covering a population of 302,184.The Delhi government also issued instructions to non-Covid hospitals in both private and public sectors to not deny treatment or admission to any non-coronavirus patient if approached.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-delhi-covid-19-data-confirms-two-international-trends/story-svPHgS5vMvpSqcc3aBijeP.html
25-04-2020||India||200 shanties gutted in major fire in Nashik slum; no casualty||Over 200 shanties were gutted in a major fire that broke out at a slum in Bhadrakali area of Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday, police said.The fire erupted around 9.30 am in Bheemwadi slum area. There was no report of any loss of life in the incident, police said.However, some fire bridge personnel suffered minor injuries during the firefighting operation, a police official said.“Over 200 shanties were gutted in the blaze. The fire spread quickly after some LPG cylinders exploded. The entire area was enveloped in thick black smoke for some time,” the official said.“Around 20 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. As several roads in city are barricaded due to the coronavirus lockdown, the vehicles took some time to reach the spot. The fire was brought under control within three hours,” he said.Local residents helped the police and the fire brigade personnel in the rescue operation.“Although no loss of life was reported in the mishap, some fire brigade personnel suffered minor injuries,” the official said.Police said that the affected families from the slum have been shifted to a civic-run school.The reason behind the blaze is being ascertained, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-shanties-gutted-in-major-fire-in-nashik-slum-no-casualty/story-RrIRY7Hi4TyadIhNfuh9bI.html
25-04-2020||India||Plasma therapy trials for corona patients begin in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Saturday commenced convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials for ‘severe’ coronavirus patients in the state.In a tweet, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said, “Happy to announce the commencement of Clinical Trials for Plasma Therapy that holds great promise to treat severely infected #Covid19 patients.Health Min @sriramulubjp & I initiated this significant step at Victoria Hospital today morning.” The Minister, who is also leading government efforts against Covid-19 in Bengaluru and is in charge of the state war room had said Convalescent Plasma Therapy was only for patients who are critical, in intensive care units or on ventilator.Donors have also come forward for this, he had said.According to officials, patients who have recovered from Covid-19 have been appealed to come forward as donors, as anti-bodies of cured patients will be used to treat critically ill under this therapy.According to last update, five Covid-19 patients are in ICU in the state.Health Minister Sriramulu expressed hope that Convalescent Plasma Therapy will be a torchbearer in our fight against the virus.“Karnataka has taken a lead role as we initiate Phase I clinical trials to use Convalescent Plasma Therapy for severe Covid 19 infected patients.BMC Victoria hospital took the first step today. We are determined to vanquish this enemy of mankind,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-trials-for-corona-patients-begin-in-karnataka/story-QDgJbjZXWwZaodXBqoGwTO.html
25-04-2020||India||29 insurance, 9 stock firms allowed to perform Aadhaar authentication services||The finance ministry has allowed 29 insurance companies and nine securities entities, including the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Securities Depository Limited to undertake Aadhaar authentication services, the department of revenue said on Saturday.The department has issued two separate notifications to allow these entities to use Aadhaar authentication services with necessary standard security and privacy measures. This would help these entities to perform in real time and make e-KYC (know your customer) that would reduce cost of transaction, an official statement said. “This would also be beneficial to the customers or the investors, especially the small and retail investors, as they need not submit physical papers or documents for KYC,” a statement quoting finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. Earlier, he held the position of CEO of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI).The ministry has allowed these insurance and securities entities to use Aadhaar authentication services subject to the satisfaction of their regulatory authorities -- the Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (IRDA) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-aadhaar-authentication-services-to-insurance-and-securities-entities/story-QbGoMntxYKDEMNRZ1W1dMI.html
25-04-2020||India||Odisha coin collector to auction 2 lakh coins to donate money for Covid-19 fight||A 27-year-old numismatist in Bhubaneswar with over 8 lakh old coins dating back to the time of emperors Ashoka and Chandragupta Maurya and Maratha king Shivaji is planning to auction at least 2 lakh of them., the proceeds of which he plans to donate to the state and central funds in their fight against coronavirus.Debiprasad Mangaraj is quite well-known in Odisha for his massive collection of coins and had started collecting them for over 20 years now. He said the contribution to PMCares fund as well as CM Relief Fund of Odisha government was his attempt to help the governments in mounting a fight against the pandemic. “Everyday I see in newspapers and TV channels the surging deaths in India and countries outside due to Covid-19. This is the biggest crisis that humanity is encountering right now. So I decided to do something on my own,” said Mangaraj, who recently completed his B. Tech degree.Mangaraj said some people in Mumbai, where he is now staying with his filmmaker sister, had approached him for selling his coins and offered him several crore for his collection. “The thought of selling the coins never occurred to me. Rather I was collecting and buying coins all these years. But now I want to auction it for helping people,” he said. The auction, to be held offline in Bhubaneswar, is scheduled sometime next month.The numismatist’s collection is indeed a treasure- starting from coins from the period of emperors Ashoka and Chandragupta Maurya, the Gupta dynasty and the Maratha king Shivaji. Among British coins, he has several coins issued during the reigns of King George V, King George VI and Queen Victoria. Some of the coins are not even metals as they are made of baked earth. The youth has collected metal and paper currencies of US, the UK, Hong Kong, Belgium, France, Australia, Italy and Nepal.“I even have some coins that date back to the time when the barter system was used. There are also coins from around 20 different countries and coins made of plastic, gold and other precious metals,” he said.The decision of the numismatist to hold auction to help the government fight the pandemic has come at a time when everyone is coming forward to donate money to the relief funds of Centre and the state.Earlier this month, a 9-year-old boy of Bhubaneswar broke his piggybank and donated the entire amount of Rs 2020 to the PM CARES Fund and Odisha CM’s Relief Fund. A 10-year-old boy in Soro block of Balasore district donated his entire pocket money to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund putting his plans of buying a bicycle on hold....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-coin-collector-to-auction-2-lakh-coins-to-donate-money-for-covid-19-fight/story-N1aN3xdNMnvDHimbqYnCzH.html
25-04-2020||India||Bengal addresses issues raised by Central teams in 11-point instruction to major state hospitals||The West Bengal government on Friday night issued an 11-point instruction to all medical colleges and hospitals dealing with Covid-19 cases, hours after the Inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) visiting the state raised some serious issues involving tests and treatment of patients and sought the state’s explanation.Till Saturday evening, the number of Covid-19 in the state cases rose to 571, which included 38 new cases, while the death toll stood at 18. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and health department officials met principals and senior doctors of medical colleges and hospitals on Friday evening and issued a series of instructions that said no patient shall be refused treatment and collection of swab samples and test results should be done in around 12 hours. With more and more samples piling up, the process now takes more than two days.The government also instructed that ambulance must be provided to patients being referred to other hospitals and dead bodies are shifted from wards without delay. The latter was one of the major issues raised by the IMCT which visited Bangur Hospital in Kolkata where a patient had earlier recorded a video of a body lying on a bed. The video went viral on social media. Following this, the government banned the use of mobile phones inside Covid-19 wards in hospitals.The government also instructed medical colleges and hospitals to ensure that doctors working in emergency and outpatient departments wear protective gear and areas where they work and change clothes are sanitized on a regular basis. The government empowered the heads of the hospitals to temporarily deploy human resource managers.The state government did not hold a media conference on Saturday and officials were not ready to comment on the new instructions.Sinha said on Friday that the health department’s audit committee formed on April 3 had reviewed the deaths of 57 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 and concluded that only 18 were caused by the virus while the remaining 39 were “due to severe co-morbidial (sic) conditions” and Covid-19 was not the immediate cause of their death. The 39 deaths, Sinha said quoting the report, were caused by several conditions such as renal failure, kidney disease etc.“We have been asking the audit committee to submit a consolidated report as a lot of questions have been raised from different quarters. The report could have come three days ago. We got it today… We are not in a game of proving anything,” said Sinha, when asked whether the report was a quick response to the queries posed by the Centre’s inter-ministerial teams visiting Bengal.Criticising the issues raised by the IMCT, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP and president of the West Bengal chapter of Indian Medical Association, Dr Santanu Sen said, “The team is spreading wrong information. This is an insult to doctors and health workers who are working so hard. They must apologise to the people of Bengal.” Also Read: ‘Political virus’: Mamata’s TMC’s latest attack on Central teams visiting BengalDr Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, which has raised several issues with the government said, “The tussle between the state and the centre is uncalled for because the interest of the patients should be the only priority. However, we strongly feel that the audit committee in its present form should be scrapped and its terms of reference changed.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-addresses-issues-raised-by-central-teams-in-11-point-order-to-major-state-hospitals/story-gLMGKIY8P1KszXVPnpfhkK.html
25-04-2020||India||Cramped in small boat, 38 fishermen reach Odisha after escaping from Chennai||Four days after 27 migrant fishermen from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh arrived on a fishing dinghy on the border between the two states after traversing over 1000 km on sea from Chennai, another group of 38 fishermen who took a similar route to reach Odisha’s in coastal district of Ganjam Saturday evening after spending 6 days on sea.With inter-state transport stopped in the wake of national lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic and borders sealed, the group of 38 fishermen comprising 27 from Odisha and 11 from Andhra Pradesh decided to buy a fishing boat for Rs 2 lakh after fishing operations were stopped. Packing in some rice and other eatables, the fishermen hopped onto the boat on April 20 and started their journey back to Odisha.On Saturday evening, when the fishermen reached the Patisonapur beach of Ganjam district after covering over 1000 km on sea, they looked dehydrated and famished. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“We need water. We shared one bottle of drinking water among us in the last 24 hours,” one of the fishermen told the waiting team of policemen and officials of Ganjam district administration who took them to a quarantine facility at a cyclone shelter after initial medical screening. The district administration also collected the Aadhar card details and mobile numbers.Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrit Kulange said the administration had prior information about the journey of the fishermen by sea. “They were under stress due to the rising number of Corona cases and had run out of food. Now that they have reached Odisha coast after a long journey, we will put them in quarantine for next 14 days,” said Kulange.Narrating their experience, the fishermen said they were apprehensive of rising Covid cases in Tamil Nadu. “After fishing operations were stopped on March 15 due to Corona scare, the fishing merchant we worked for said he would not be able to pay us till the lockdown was over. Initially we thought we could ride out the lockdown with whatever money we had. But when Modi(Prime Minister) announced extension of the lockdown till May 3 we were apprehensive of going hungry. We were also scared of rise in coronavirus cases in Chennai. But there was no transport available. So we pooled in around Rs 2 lakh and bought a mechanised boat,” said Nagaraj Shetty, a 24-year-old fisherman of Odisha.Though the boat wasn’t big enough for the group, the fishermen decided that it was their best possible vehicle for escape. “We had packed rice and some dal for cooking on the way. We had brought some biscuits also, but all that was hardly enough as we did not want to overload the boat. We were also scared of being caught by the Coast Guard and the marine police,” said Shetty. The fishermen used the GPS in their mobile phones to keep track of the route and also watched the stars. The fishermen had also Indian tricolour flying from a pole on their boat in case they ran into a Coast Guard ship.Sub-divisional police officer of Berhampur, Jayant Mohapatra said hundreds of fishermen from Ganjam work in the fishing sector of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa. “Though we are keeping an eye on the coast, we apprehend some more fishermen from the State may take the sea route to come back to Odisha,” he said.On April 20, a group of 27 fishermen comprising 10 from Odisha had arrived at a beach of Srikulam district in Andhra Pradesh. Though the fishermen initially wanted to anchor at Patisonapur in Ganjam district, they were stopped by police in Andhra Pradesh. The 27 are now housed in a quarantine facility of Srikakulam district where they will stay till May 3.The arrival of the 38 fishermen by sea came a couple of days after the State government started an online portal for over 7.5 lakh migrant workers of the State wishing to return home after lifting of lockdown on May 3. The government said those migrant workers stranded in other State and wishing to return to their homes in Odisha have to provide their Aadhaar number and mobile number while registering on the (https://covid19.odisha.gov.in) portal.The person after arriving in Odisha will be inked with indelible stamp on their hands and sent to 14-day official quarantine being set up in around 7000 gram panchayats and urban local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cramped-in-small-boat-38-fishermen-reach-odisha-after-escaping-from-chennai/story-5jG1v3ZzFSURyqc0TEU9vI.html
25-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi jump to 95, five short of 100||The total number of the coronavirus containment zones in Delhi is heading towards the 100 -mark with three new additions on Saturday taking the tally to 95, just five short of 100.News Agency ANI reported that gali number 3 and 9 of Shalimar village and Block X, gali number 1-3 of Yadav villa have been identified as new containment zones by the Delhi GovernmentOn Friday, one East Delhi residential complex--Mansara apartments in Vasundhra Enclave had been removed from the list of capital’s containment zone after no new cases were reported in 24 days from the housing society.A locality in Maujpur- Gali no18 of Vijay Park was added to the list on Friday.Here is the full list of Delhi’s 95 containment Zones as of Saturday:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur23. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009224. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension25. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj26. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension27. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar29. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave30. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri31. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony32. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony33. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh34. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi35. Sadar Bazaar, Central District36. Chandni Mahal, Central District37. Nabi Karim, Central District38. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008439. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001540. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar41. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar42. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden43. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006344. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur45. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000846. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi47. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi48. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11949. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi50. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi51. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi52. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi53. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi54. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi55. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town56. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave57. Shaheen Bagh58. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar59. Shahdara60. In and around area of C-105, Hari NagarFor Coronavirus Live Updates61. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar62. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi88. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi89. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi90. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9291. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi92. Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi93. Gali number 3 Shalimar village94. Gali number 9, Shalimar village95. Block X, gali number 1-3 of Yadav villaThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-covid-19-containment-zones-in-delhi-jump-to-95-five-short-of-100/story-eGaQFfewKcbDr3GuGMT7xI.html
25-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm|‘Strategy must’: Ashok Gehlot to Centre on getting migrant workers home and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Strategy must’: Ashok Gehlot to Centre on getting migrant workers homeChief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday reiterated and pushed for a “strategy” for smooth movement of migrant workers stranded across the country due to nationwide lockdown. Read moreChina checks on Kim Jong-un’s ill health, sends a team to North KoreaChief ally China has sent a team including doctors to North Korea to check on its leader Kim Jong-un following reports last week that said the 36-year-old was critically ill. Read moreBad Education movie review: Hugh Jackman delivers acting masterclass in superb HBO satireBad Education makes you wonder what sort of career Hugh Jackman would’ve had if he hadn’t been cast as Wolverine — almost by chance — 20 years ago. Read moreLockdown brings back 90s ki #GarmiKiChutti, and how!The lockdown has got everyone reminiscing about the 90s. Adults are waking up to the theme song of Doordarshan’s famous Mahabharat, and siblings — who are now working professionals — are back to playing chess, carrom and snakes and ladders, like they use to in their childhood. Read moreDad pranks kids with fake letter saying school will reopen to 7 days a week. Reactions are awesomeKids may be missing going to school these days but telling them they may have classes on Saturday and Sunday once schools reopen won’t make them happy either. Read moreOdisha matric results to be declared within 45 days of commencement of evaluation of paperThe result of the annual matric examination of Odisha board would be announced within 45 days of the evaluation of the answer sheets of the students. Read moreHow to use Instagram’s new Challenges stickers in your storiesInstagram has launched a new ‘Challenges’ sticker in the Stories gallery. Starting this Saturday, Instagram is testing this feature that makes it easy to join challenges through a sticker, via the stories text tool, or from nominations from friends. Read moreSachin Tendulkar reveals his list of top five-allroundersIndia cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar, who celebrated his 47th birthday, on Saturday gave a list of his top five-allrounders. While Tendulkar mentioned India’s World Cup-winning captain Kapil Dev in the list, he also included Pakistan’s 1992 World Cup-winning captain Imran Khan in the list as well. Read moreCovid-19: Why a vaccine is likely by end of 2020Human safety trials of a coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University began on Thursday even as Indian company Serum Institute of India started work on making the vaccine locally so as to be ready in case the trial succeeds. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-strategy-must-ashok-gehlot-to-centre-on-getting-migrant-workers-home-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nU1kezptTUFgEC6pKr3tRN.html
25-04-2020||India||96 police personnel in Maharashtra found coronavirus positive so far||A total of 96 police personnel, including 15 officers, have been infected by coronavirus during the lockdown period so far as on Saturday, an official said.“96 police personnel including 15 officers have tested positive for coronavirus infection in Maharashtra till now,” he said.Of them, three police officers and four policemen recovered from infection and discharged from hospitals, he added.The official said 69,374 offences have been registered under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for lockdown violations and 14,955 people have been arrested in this connection.“We have registered 147 offences for assault on police personnel and arrested 477 people. A total of 602 people who violated quarantine norms were traced during this period and have been re-isolated,” the official said.He said 1,084 cases of illegal transportation were registered and 47,168 vehicles were seized, and fines to the tune of Rs 2.63 crore were imposed, he informed.A total of 77,670 calls related to coronavirus queries were handled at the district and city control rooms, he said.The three-week-long nationwide lockdown was first imposed on March 24 night. It was later extended till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-police-personnel-in-maharashtra-found-coronavirus-positive-so-far/story-4pbMOSvvWLNIqm5K6PiRYJ.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Aim to spread political virus’: TMC on Covid-19 team in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress party has accused the two Central teams visiting the state of West Bengal of spreading a “political virus” in the name of assessing the coronavirus containment efforts on the ground. This is the latest in the continuing war of words between the two sides.“Inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) visiting Bengal to assess COVID19 situation served no purpose. Their real aim is to spread a political virus. They are doing it shamelessly,” PTI quoted a statement attributed to the TMC.Earlier on Saturday, the central teams had alleged that they were not given access to facilities or officials in the state for the purpose of assessment and accused the state government of not supporting their endeavours despite an obligation to do so. Also Watch: War of words between Mamata govt & Centre over COVID-19 crisis Team leader of Kolkata IMCT, Apurva Chandra, wrote to home secretary and the chief secretary of Bengal listing instances of non-cooperation which he said were proving to be an impediment in Covid containment efforts.Chandra alleged that the state government was not providing them with the schedule of visits to hospitals, quarantine centres and containment zones despite repeated requests. He also said that the Bengal government was yet to provide essential information sought by the team that was important for assessing state’s response to the contagion.“IMCT has been in Kolkata since 10 am on April 20. Four letters have been written by IMCT to the state government till today. No response has been received to any of the letters till date,” Chandra said in his letter on Saturday.The central team has also taken an exception to alleged public statements given by West Bengal chief secretary suggesting cooperation with IMCT amounted to a “waste of time” for the state officials.The central team visiting states is supposed to be provided with logistics support and facilitate field visits, as per a home ministry directive.The central team has also expressed concern over the absence of police escorts while they are on the field.According to an official, who didn’t wish to be named, the “North Bengal IMCT had gone to Kalimpong on Saturday morning on their own after informing the chief secretary by message. They returned without visiting the hospital or meeting the district magistrate or chief medical officer as they refused to meet the team”.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe confrontation between the two sides escalated after the IMCT pointed out several gaps in covid management protocols observed during the visits to a couple of state-run designated hospitals.Five days waiting time for test results for patients in isolation wards; bodies kept lying on hospital beds for hours before they are moved to mortuaries and lack of social distancing at the hospitals were some of the issues raised.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-virus-mamata-s-tmc-s-latest-attack-on-central-teams-visiting-bengal/story-WEH2x39rX7MFX4e9zTTmIK.html
25-04-2020||India||Man, 75, cycles 320 km to reach home. Seeks quarantine after villagers object||A 75-year-old Bengal resident cycled for 320 km over three days to return home. Surya Kanta Chowdhury, who used to sell fish at a market in Bihar’s Supaul, took this drastic step after he ran out of money during the lockdown. However, when he reached Mothabari in Bengal’s Malda district last Wednesday, the septuagenarian did not go home. Instead, he headed straight to the Block Development Office (BDO), informed the authorities that he had come from Bihar and requested them to get him tested for quacoronavirus.During the journey, Chowdhury had no mask but kept his face covered with a gamchcha and was allowed by policemen at the Bihar Bengal border at Kishanganj to pass through. “He underwent thermal screening and showed no symptoms, so was asked to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. However, his neighbours in Alpara village didn’t allow him to enter it. So, Chowdhury returned to the BDO Mothabari and was put in a government quarantine center,” said Sahanara Khatun, Rathbari panchayat pradhan.The journey was anything but easy. Chowdhury started cycling on April 20. By night, he would get tired and look for a place to rest.“But in the hamlets that I passed, no villager would agree to allow an outsider to stay. Ultimately, I found one village where I was allowed to sleep in the courtyard of a house,” Chowdhury said.Chowdhury is a fish seller at a market in Bihar’s Simrahi town. He also delivers his wares to villages on his bicycle. His cycling habit, he says, is what helped him on this long and arduous journey.Chowdhury’s three sons are masons who migrated to other states, but have been at their family home in Bengal during the lockdown.“We were worried about him staying on alone in Simrahi, especially since we heard that he was running out of all his resources. We were even more worried when we heard he was cycling back home. This long journey could have taken a toll even on young men. But at last, we are happy and relieved. He is back and alright,” said Bachin, Surya Kanta’s son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-75-cycles-320-km-to-reach-home-seeks-quarantine-after-villagers-object/story-NxWuYVhuhPcewXpIA8VKeJ.html
25-04-2020||India||As Hyderabad emerges Covid-19 hotspot, Central team inspects city, holds talks with Telangana govt||With Hyderabad emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot accounting for nearly half of the total number of positive cases in Telangana, a five-member Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) made an extensive study of the ground situation in the city and interacted with various officials.The team led by Arun Baroka, additional secretary in the Union ministry of Jal Sakthi and comprising senior public health specialist Dr Chandrashekhar Gedam, National Institute of Nutrition director Dr Hemlatha, director of ministry of consumer affairs S S Thakur and associate professor in National Institute of Disaster Management Shekhar Chaturvedi met Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar in the evening to discuss the steps being taken to contain the spread of the virus.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.An official release said the chief secretary made a detailed presentation on the efforts made by the state government to contain the disease. He told the central team members that all the departments had been working as a team with a uniform Covid-19 management.He explained in detail the various steps being taken such as treatment being given to the positive patients in Gandhi Hospital, enforcement of lockdown in containment zones, maintenance of quarantine centres, hospital preparedness, surveillance and testing etc,He also told the members about operation of helpline, procurement of medical equipment, supply of rice to white ration card holders, relief measures to migrant workers and running of Annapurna canteens and shelter homes.He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had ordered extension of lockdown till May 7 so that there was no laxity on the part of the government in preventing the spread of the disease. No relaxations had been given whatsoever in any part of the state, particularly in Hyderabad.“The central team appreciated the initiatives taken by the state government to contain the spread of the virus in the state,” the official note said.In the morning, the central team inspected the 1,500-bed Covid-19 hospital – Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli. The team members made a thorough enquiry of the availability of doctors, supporting staff, testing kits, PPEs and masks.The team members also inspected Annapurna free meals distribution centre at Gachhibowli circle and interacted with the beneficiaries. They also visited the kitchens of Akshaya Pathra foundation at Kokapet and Narsingi.On Sunday, the team members are expected to meet Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy and other top police officials including commissioners of police of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda, apart from senior officials of the health department to understand how Covid-19 had spread so rapidly in Hyderabad in the last three weeks.According to the official statistics, out of 983 Corona virus positive cases registered in Telangana till Friday night, as many as 485 cases were reported within the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits that encompass three districts – Hyderabad, RangaReddy and Medchal (Malkajgiri).“The number of cases has been alarmingly rising in the densely populated areas of GHMC where the chances of virus spread to others is high. However, the numbers have been coming down in the last two days – only 12 cases have been reported since Thursday,” a GHMC official said on condition of anonymity.Health minister Etala Rajender told reporters that a massive contact tracing exercise by the state government had revealed that as many as 268 positive cases in the GHMC limits were related to only 44 families.“For example, six people from the Talab Katta region in the old city were responsible for the spread of the disease in as many as 61 others,” he pointed out.The Telangana government has declared entire Hyderabad as a Red Zone and enforcing lockdown very strictly. The chief minister directed that the GHMC officials concentrate more on Hyderabad by segregating the city into several zones and to appoint Special Officers to each zone considering each zone as a unit.Till the third week of April, as many as 139 containment clusters had been identified in Hyderabad out of the 221 clusters in Telangana where entry and exit are totally prohibited with high barricades and heavy police deployment. The government machinery has been supplying essential commodities to people inside.On Friday, as many as 45 containment zones in the GHMC were brought into safe zone, as no fresh cases were reported from these areas. “If this trend continues, we will be able to control the spread of the coronavirus,” the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-hyderabad-emerges-covid-19-hotspot-central-team-inspects-city-holds-talks-with-telangana-govt/story-e4pOXOg5EyOSC0BCpIr25J.html
25-04-2020||India||Rohtang pass opened for traffic three weeks in advance||The Border Roads Organization (BRO) opened the 13,500-feet high Rohtang pass for traffic on Saturday.A gateway to Lahaul-Spiti district, the pass remains shut for six months every year due to heavy snowfall. Usually cordoned off in mid-November, traffic movement was allowed till December 12 last year.Due to the lockdown, the Himachal government had approached the BRO director general for opening the stretch as around 5,000 farmers, who migrate to lower regions in the winter months, were keen to return home to resume agricultural activities.BRO then procured more snow-cutting and excavation machines from Manali and Koksar to clear the roads.During the 10-day snow clearance operation, BRO faced many challenges. The Army’s elite road construction wing worked relentlessly amid the snow blizzards at Rohnga pass that even triggered avalanches at Rahala Nullah, Beas Nullah and Rani Nullah.“We ensured that all the officials supervising the operations took all the necessary protection against Covid-19,” said a BRO official requesting anonymity.Lahaul-Spiti MLA Ram Lala Markanda led the first batch of farmers across Rohtang pass from Manali on Saturday. “With vehicles carrying the first batch of farmers to Lahual-Spiti, Rohtang pass has been declared officially open for traffic,” he said.The opening of the pass brought cheer among the local population of Lahaul and Spiti.It will facilitate the Centre and state government to bring much needed relief material and medical supplies to the valley’s residents amid the ongoing pandemic. Moreover, the agricultural activities, which are the backbone of the district, can be started now.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur applauded the efforts of BRO in opening Rohtang pass three weeks in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rohtang-pass-opened-for-traffic-three-weeks-in-advance/story-XMpkxBszQ44MaFKGllTUDN.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Special flights, hospital beds’: Centre preps to fly back Indians stranded abroad||The Centre on Friday started making preparations to run scores of special flights early next month to bring thousands of Indians stranded abroad due to the cancellation of international flights from 22 March.For nearly a week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding discussions with senior ministers and officials on the modalities of bringing the stranded Indians back home, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba took the first step as part of this exercise on Friday, telling state governments to earmark hospital beds and quarantine zones for the Indian nationals stuck abroad who will be brought back in special flights after the national lockdown ends. Gauba, the country’s senior-most bureaucrat, issued the instruction at his video conference with chief secretaries and police chiefs on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAlso Watch | ‘Surviving on cold food’: Stranded Indian students in US seek govt’s help for evacuation To be sure, there has been no formal decision to lift the lockdown on May 3. But the government’s midnight decision allowing shops to open in residential areas signalled that the government was heading in this direction.Irrespective of the decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi - he is interacting with the chief ministers on Monday to ascertain their views - officials say it is clear that many of the restrictions in place during the lockdown would be eased only gradually.“This is the right time to start firming up the exercise to evacuate Indians abroad…. It will be a gigantic exercise,” a top government official said.The External Affairs Ministry is starting the process to make an assessment of the people who want to return to India. Officials estimate that it won’t just be the Indians who have been stranded abroad who want to come back but others too.For example, according to one estimate in the government, Kerala alone expects 1,00,000 expats to come back, for a visit to meet their family if not for a longer duration, when the flights start operating. The other states that expect a huge inflow of citizens abroad are Delhi, Maharashtra Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.A separate control room is being set up within MEA for the same purpose.When the first few cases of the coronavirus disease started getting reported in the country in February, many state governments weren’t prepared and had indicated doubts about their ability to have the infrastructure in place to accommodate their citizens abroad. There was hardly any medical or quarantine facility ready for them.That was one reason why the government had roped in the army and the paramilitary forces to accommodate the 600-plus Indians flown back from China’s Wuhan.At his meeting with the top civil servants of the states, Gauba told them to go into an overdrive to create the facilities necessary for the Indians coming back after May 3. He also indicated the basic ground rules how the mammoth exercise would be carried out.The state governments have been told that the Indian citizens evacuated from abroad will be brought to the international airport nearest to their state so that the requirement for internal travel is minimised. The states have also been told that arriving passengers would be straightaway taken to the quarantine centres where they will have to spend a minimum of 14 days.Since March 22 - when the ban on international commercial flights was imposed - stranded Indians have been mounting pressure on the government to be allowed back into the country. It is for this reason that External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has been constantly in touch with his Gulf and Saudi Arabia counterparts to ask them to take care of the Indians stranded there and reassure them that they would be evacuated as soon as possible. These countries are home to over 9 million Indian diaspora in the region. With the Gulf region more than accommodative to Indian requests, the government had also put medical supplies and assistance on highest priority to these nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-flights-hospital-beds-centre-preps-to-fly-back-indians-stranded-abroad/story-G4r4rZGNGgT4RyN3GqOA4K.html
25-04-2020||India||Delhi agrees to MHA’s order on opening shops in non-containment zones||The Delhi government said on Saturday evening decided to implement the Centre’s order on allowing standalone shops outside containment zones. The announcement came after a meeting at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. However, other relaxations such as opening industries and allowing self-employed persons to work will not be permitted.Malls, theatres, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, bars, restaurants, auditoriums and liquor stores shall remain shut amid the lockdown. Public transport will also remain closedAlso Watch | Covid-19: MHA clarifies on shops that can be opened amid lockdown in India Earlier today, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, when queried on the MHA order, said: “There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi. The entire district or the entire city is not (a hotspot).”The number of hotspots have since gone up to 95. In a midnight order on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had allowed neighbourhood shops, standalone shops and shops in residential complexes to open on the condition that they operate with half the strength and enforce social distancing norms.CM Kejriwal had earlier this week said the lockdown will continue as usual in the national capital and no relaxation of prohibitions will be allowed before a review meeting of experts on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-agrees-to-mha-s-order-on-opening-shops-in-non-containment-zones/story-FtOcXqUHerUqTQbJi07TgJ.html
25-04-2020||India||Confusion in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazar over MHA’s order allowing opening of shops||The shop owners in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazar on Saturday seemed confused even after the Union Ministry of Home Affairs issued a clarification on its order allowing the opening of shops amid the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19.Ajit Jain, a toy shop owner at Sadar Bazar said, “We got to know that shops in the city had opened. We came to open the shops but the police administration said that the shops cannot be opened.”A cosmetics shop owner, Yashpal Chauhan said, “Four-five police personnel came to my shop and asked why I had opened the shop. They also asked me to come to the police station, and took things from my shop.”Another toy shop owner Rohit Aggarwal said, “We had come to open the shop early in the morning after we got to know about the order. But the police personnel did not let us open the shop saying that it is fake news and that there is no such order.”According to the Home Ministry, “In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open.”And in rural areas, all shops except those in shopping malls are allowed to open.“The shops in areas which have been declared as containment zones by respective States/ UTs, will not be permitted to open in rural or urban areas,” added the ministry.The Ministry has also clarified that sale of liquor and other items continue to be prohibited as specified in the national directives for Covid-19 management.The order further states, “It is clarified by the ministry that sale by e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted only for essential goods.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-in-gurugram-s-sadar-bazar-over-mha-s-order-allowing-opening-of-shops/story-CG3SlQcEYmCSxh9mIqF3VP.html
25-04-2020||India||Centre has promised to bring back stranded expatriates in West Asia: Kerala CM||The Union government has promised to take immediate measures to bring back stranded expatriates in West Asia because of the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday. The Centre would also bring in necessary changes in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) directives to bring back bodies of those from Kerala, who died due to Covid-19 in Persian Gulf countries, he added.“The state is ready to take back its people. The evacuees will have to spend at least 14 days in quarantine on their arrival. We’ve made adequate arrangements for their stay and healthcare needs,” the CM said. Around 18 lakh people from Kerala are working in the Gulf nations. But, there are reports that at least two lakh of them, primarily blue-collar migrant workers, pregnant women, senior citizens, and students, are ready to come back home.Remittances from the Gulf nations are Kerala’s mainstay. Many expatriates from the state, who are working in the Gulf countries, are reportedly peeved with the government citing poorer nations such as Pakistan and the Philippines that had evacuated their nationals, but Keralites were left in the lurch amid the pandemic.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageVijayan said that seven new Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total count to 457. So far, 342 have recovered and discharged from hospitals and another 116 are still undergoing treatment. The total number of people under observation has come down to 21,044 from over 2 lakh. Kerala has conducted 22,360 Covid-19 tests to date, the CM added.Vijayan also welcomed the MHA’s latest directives allowing the opening of small and neighbourhood shops. “It’ll ease some pressure. We’ll allow these shops to open only after disinfecting them. Similarly, they’ve to clean their neighbourhoods. We won’t allow any overcrowding at these shops and the police will keep a strict vigil on them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-promised-to-bring-back-stranded-expatriates-in-west-asia-kerala-cm/story-xp3HVzjTFTOR1fOHnsbVqO.html
25-04-2020||India||Amarnath Yatra: Will explore feasibility of shrine’s live telecast, says J&K L-G||Two days after flip-flopping on Amarnath pilgrimage decision, Jammu & Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu on Saturday said that appropriate decision on organising the Yatra can only be taken after periodic reviews of the situation in the wake of Covid-19.He was talking to a delegation that met him at the Raj Bhavan here to discuss various issues concerning the conduct of yatras for the holy shrines of Baba Amarnath in Kashmir and Buddha Amarnath in Poonch.Murmu observed that due to the pandemic, decision on organising the yatras can only be taken after periodic reviews of the situation, as comprehensive planning and execution are involved in their conduct.The delegation made several suggestions like curtailment of yatra duration, allowing specific age group devotees, preference for online yatra registration, commencement of Heli-yatra earlier, delay in on-foot yatra as per the prevailing situation, operationalisation of single route (Pahalgam route) etc.They also suggested live telecast of pooja, upon which Murmu said a discussion had already been held on exploring this possibility. “The government will explore all possible means required for the conduct of the yatras. However, all these developments are subject to review,” he maintained.The delegation comprised Pawan Kumar Kohli, Brig (retd) Suchet Singh, Leela Karan Sharma, Sudarshan Khajuria, Dr Goutam Mengi, Karan Singh Charak, Rajesh Gupta, Shakti Dutt Sharma and Abhishek Gupta.On April 22 evening, Murmu had announced cancellation of the annual Amarnath yatra due to Covid-19 pandemic, but moments later recanted his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarnath-yatra-will-explore-feasibility-of-shrine-s-live-telecast-says-j-k-l-g/story-RBFqCM7hRSHt0TR5eLJCGN.html
25-04-2020||India||Bihar Covid-19 survivor’s family speak of undeclared, unspoken social boycott||A coronavirus survivor and his family in Bihar’s Siwan district is facing social boycott days after the patient was cured and his family completed 14-days of quarantine apart from testing negative for the disease, not once but thrice. The ostracized family says they do not venture out of the home to avoid questioning glaze and said something must be done to prevent social distancing from turning into social discrimination.“Only a coronavirus survivor and his/her family members can understand the kind of social stigma we face these days. It’s painful and depressing,” a cousin of the coronavirus survivor said.The coronavirus survivor had returned from Dubai just before the lockdown was announced. He was screened and stamped at the Lucknow airport before being quarantined at his village home under Angauta Panchayat in Nautan block of Siwan district. After he tested positive, he was taken to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and 13 of his family members were sent to a quarantine centre in Patna.It has been 39 days since his test results came. The patient is completely fit now and back home. The family members were also found negative in all the three test reports, the cousin quoted above added.“However, back home, our neighbours failed to maintain common courtesy. People are not ready to even look at us. Their kindness will boost our morale and will help us get over the physical pain and the mental trauma,” he said.People in other areas (Tola) of the village, he said, consider the entire area as a prohibited zone.“There’s a rumour in the village that our family got into trouble because of black magic and some unseen forces,” he said.“It’s the hostile response which has forced my cousin to remain under home quarantine despite being declared fit by the doctors. Even the members of the family avoid going out,” he added.The family was hurt so much that it rarely stepped out of their home even for necessary errands, the cousin said.“I do not go out to buy grocery or vegetables to avoid the questioning gaze of people. Even the store owner does not want me to come there. It’s time some eminent village residents send a message that the disease is not a stigma, but only an infection and that social distancing should not be turned into social discrimination,” he said.Shastri Ram, the husband of the Panchayat mukhiya, said there were reports of social discrimination from the coronavirus survivor’s area. “It’s mainly because of fear and lack of knowledge about the disease among the residents. We are trying to stop it,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe said the family was provided food grains and other essential items.Sohila Gupta, zila parshad and a member of the All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA) from Nautan block, Siwan, said there was a need to raise awareness among people, especially in rural areas, about the disease.“They need to be explained the difference between social distancing and discrimination,” she said.Sunil Kumar, DDC, Siwan, said that people often fail to understand that after a patient is declared negative for coronavirus, there is no need to fear or avoid him/her.“To clear this confusion, once a patient recovers, he or she is declared a coronavirus survivor and is given a grand welcome by the Panchayat Mukhia and others,” he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-covid-19-survivor-s-family-speak-of-undeclared-unspoken-social-boycott/story-K8KYDkzm8wqmSB9zkRKoIJ.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Strategy must’: Ashok Gehlot to Centre on getting migrant workers home||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday reiterated and pushed for a “strategy” for smooth movement of migrant workers stranded across the country due to nationwide lockdown. The lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease is in place till May 3.“In fight against Covid-19, whole nation stands united. The government of India should show the same unity when it comes to issuing guidelines for the states irrespective of the party the party lineage of ruling parties in the states,” he tweeted ahead of the scheduled video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.“Since day-one, I have been saying a strategy must be devised for smooth movement of migrant workers stranded across the country, but unfortunately there is no clarity on the same,” said Gehlot. The CM pushed for a common policy for all states on the issue.“Planned strategy with unified command structure of communication to the states can be more fruitful instead of un-officially communicating to different states by different officers such as Ministry of Home Affairs and Cabinet secretariat to facilitate movement of students and migrant workers - this is not a comprehensive solution for the migrant problem we are facing,” Gehlot tweeted.The Rajasthan CM said only meticulously planned strategy with proper mode of commuting such as special trains to be run by the Centre will solve the problem.On Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave officials 14 days to bring the migrant workers back home. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government sent buses to bring back students stuck in the coaching hub of Rajasthan’s Kota.The Maharashtra deputy chief minster Ajit Pawar too wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal this week, seeking special trains to help migrant workers return home. The Rajasthan chief minister, speaking to Hindustan Times earlier, said the Centre should have given at least five days to the migrant workers and others to go back to their homes like it had allowed the flights before enforcing the restrictions.He said home minister Amit Shah has assured him that the Centre will soon take a call on the issue. The Opposition parties, led by the Congress, had expressed concerns over the plight of migrant workers who were forced to take a long walk back to their villages due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strategy-must-ashok-gehlot-to-centre-on-getting-migrants-workers-home/story-hlvoyQ73AqhYV5o0iJWxXP.html
25-04-2020||India||Tripura’s second Covid-19 patient recovers, released from hospital||Tripura’s second Covid-19 patient was released from the hospital on Saturday after consecutive tests reports produced negative results. The patient, a Tripura State Rifles (TSR) personnel from No 13 Battalion, was moved to institutional quarantine for 14 days, said a senior health official. He had tested positive on April 10. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAfter being released from hospital, the patient told reporters, “I am very thankful to the doctors and other health staff for the kind of treatment I received. I advise all people to stay indoors. One should not take the Coronavirus lightly.”The state’s first Covid-19 patient was released from hospital on April 16 after consecutive tests produced negative results. Two days ago, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb contended that Tripura had become “corona free” as the second Covid-19 patient had also tested negative. After the patient’s release on Saturday, Deb tweeted: “Happy Moments. The 2nd and last COVID19 patient of Tripura got released from Hospital, where all the Healthcare staffs gave him a round of applause while he was leaving. He shared his satisfaction with the treatment received here and thanked the Doctors and Medical staffs.” He added, “I thank all the frontline Warriors for making our State Corona free. The fight is not over yet. I urge everyone to follow the Government guidelines. Stay Home Stay Safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-s-second-covid-19-patient-recovers-released-from-hospital/story-bgct9sdfukAoT0PBxbPmYI.html
25-04-2020||India||UP freezes DA, defers 6 allowances to raise Rs 12,000 crore for covid containtment||The Uttar Pradesh government has put on hold as many as six allowances payable to officers and employees in the current financial year and also frozen the dearness allowance (DA) up to June 30, 2021. The measures will lead to a saving of about Rs 12,000 crore till June-end next year, officials said.These steps were prompted by a decline in the state government’s revenue following the Covid-19 lockdown and the need for funds to fight the pandemic.The six categories of allowances that have been deferred from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 include city compensatory allowance, secretariat allowance, special allowance given to CB-CID, anti-corruption department, economic offences wing, vigilance establishment, security and special investigation wing, the special allowance paid to junior engineers, research allowance, orderly allowance and design allowance paid in the public works department, along with investigation and planning and orderly allowance paid to officers and employees working with the irrigation department.None of these allowances are paid to central government employees.“A sum of about Rs 1500 crore will be saved in 2020-2021 by the decision to defer payment of six categories of allowances. A sum of about Rs 7500 crore is likely to be saved in 2020-2021 on payment of DA (if calculated on the basis of 4% increase). If the same rate of DA increase is calculated for the remaining months of 2021-2022 (up to June 30, 2021), the total saving is likely to cross the Rs 12,000 crore mark following the decision to freeze DA,” said a senior officer.In an order dated April 24, 2020, additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal, said that the Uttar Pradesh government’s revenue has come down following the Covid-19 lockdown and deferment of allowances was being done to ensure the availability of funds for the containment efforts to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.In another order with regard to payment of DA to state government employees and dearness relief to pensioners, Mittal said no additional installment of DA and dearness relief will be paid from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe added that no arrear of DA or dearness relief will be paid from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021.Meanwhile, UP State Employees’ Joint Council has opposed the state government’s move. Council chairman JN Tiwari said the decision would affect about 20 lakh state government employees.He urged the chief minister to cut a day’s salary of government staff every month as a contribution to the UP Covid Care Fund, instead of deferring the payment of allowances.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-freezes-da-defers-6-allowances-to-raise-rs-12-000-crore-for-covid-containtment/story-uy2HwCfgHEgyJqg7CzTiHN.html
25-04-2020||India||WB govt not providing logistical support, relevant info on Covid-19: Central team||The Centre and West Bengal government continue to lock horns over the visit of two inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) to the state to assess the on-ground response regarding coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The members of IMCTs have complained that they were not getting any support from the Bengal government, including access to the hospitals that are treating Covid-19 patients and state authorities’ refusal to even accompany them.Apurva Chandra, who heads the IMCT to Kolkata, wrote to Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Saturday, listing the grievances against the state government officials. Chandra has alleged that the state government officials refused to cooperate with the Central team regarding drawing up itineraries to visit the hospitals, quarantine centres and containment centres and only got a 30-minute notice in advance to perform their assigned tasks.Chandra also cited Sinha’s statements in the press that the IMCT teams were free to visit anywhere in the state and that “senior officers of the state government cannot waste their time accompanying them”. This, Chandra pointed out, was a violation of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) order, as the Bengal government is expected to provide logistical support and also facilitate the field visits of IMCTs. Besides seeking escorted visits to Covid-19 hospitals, the Central teams also asked for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits from the state government, which were reportedly denied.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageBengal is also yet to provide any further details on other critical aspects such as the supply of essential commodities, the condition of relief camps, the enforcement of ongoing nationwide lockdown restriction, which was initially enforced on March 25 for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, measures.“The IMCT has been in Kolkata since 10 am on April 20. Four letters have been written by the IMCT to the state government till Saturday. No response has been received to any of the letters to date,” Chandra said in his letter to Bhalla.Chandra asked the Bengal government if the state took responsibility for their safety and security in the absence of police escort and if Border Security Force personnel were permitted to take any action to ensure their safety in case of any untoward incident.The other IMCT, which headed to north Bengal, also allegedly faced similar challenges.“The IMCT members visited Kalimpong on Saturday morning on their own after informing the chief secretary. Unfortunately, they returned from Kalimpong without visiting the Covid-19 hospital there. Neither did they meet the Kalimpong district magistrate nor the district chief medical officer, as they were refused permission,” said a Central government official, requesting anonymity.Earlier, during a visit to two hospitals in Kolkata, the IMCT members had found several anomalies such as waiting time of five days or more for test results of suspected Covid-19 patients who were undergoing treatment in isolation wards; bodies of patients lying on beds in a ward for four hours as the death certificates were not yet ready and disregard to social distancing norms.The central team also asked the Bengal government to furnish the details of all those Tablighi Jamaat returnees, who are either in quarantine or underwent tests for Covid-19 so far. The Jamaat members proved to be a Covid-19 superspreader across the country after attending the Islamic sect’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi between March 13 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wb-govt-not-providing-logistical-support-relevant-info-on-covid-19-central-team/story-5Lu5Q1xDoTzi2bHwdUefzM.html
25-04-2020||India||50,000 free food kits for Srinagar families, focus on people associated with handicrafts, labourers||On the first day of Ramadan on Saturday, the administration in Kashmir’s Srinagar started distribution of over 50,000 foot kits for the needy families amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The district administration has prepared some 53,000 food kits containing rice, wheat, oil and spices to help the poor families as most of the commercial activities are closed in the district with 79 positive Covid cases so far. “This Ramazan is not the same anywhere in the world, but we are trying to make it less difficult in Srinagar,” said deputy commissioner Srinagar Shahid Choudhary.He said that they have prepared a list of deserving families across the district to be given the free kits. “We dispatched the first lot to tehsils for distribution today,” he said.The kit comprises of 5 kg ri“It will be mostly delivered to people’s addresses. In some cases people collect from nearby locations,” he said.The list of people was prepared as per the requests they received on the district call centre as well as information from local residents. “Our field staff assessed people on the ground,” he said.The initiative has triggered demands among people that it should be started in other districts of the Kashmir valley as well.“We have deserving people in every district of the valley who have not been able to earn anything for the past one month and have been struggling to feed their families. Kashmir was shut for months since August 5, 2019 which had already deteriorated the economic conditions of the people here and now this pandemic has led to a double whammy,” said Mohammad Azfal, a resident of Baramulla in north Kashmir.Divisional commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole said that Srinagar was valley’s most populous district.“We have a large number of people associated with handicrafts and handlooms and a number of migrant labourers are also there. These people have more problems during the lock-down. That is why we have special focus on Srinagar,” he said.The official said that they were also assessing requirements in other districts. “Already in some more districts these things are going on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-000-free-food-kits-for-srinagar-families-focus-on-people-associated-with-handicrafts-labourers/story-a8AEFa0lCdUfSNKqCIpFDL.html
25-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi with 5-point plan to bail out MSME sector||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday suggested that the government implement a five-point programme to rescue micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSEME) from collapse.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said the government should announce “a Rs 1 lakh crore MSME Wage protection package. This would go a long way in shoring up these jobs, boosting morale as well as greatly alleviating the predicted economic spiral.”She also suggested that the government “establish and deploy a credit guarantee fund of Rs 1 lakh crore to provide immediate liquidity to the sector and ensure adequate capital is available to MSMEs at a time when they need it most.”Gandhi also said that “actions taken by RBI must get reflected in actions by commercial banks to ensure adequate, easy and timely credit to MSMEs.” Any monetary action at the RBI’ send must be backed by sound fiscal support from the government, she added.She also suggested extending the RBI’s moratorium on loan payments by MSMEs.“These measures need to be supported by an expansion and extension of the RBI’s moratorium on payment of loans for MSME beyond the stipulated period of three months. The government should also explore a waiver/reduction of taxes for MSMEs and other sector specific measures.”Gandhi also suggested that the government address the issue of high collateral security leading to denial of credit.She claimed that the MSME sector was taking a hit of Rs 30,000 crore per day during the lockdown and 11 crore employees faced the risk of losing their jobs.“Government has acknowledged MSMEs to be the backbone of our economy. It is time it takes measures to ensure the revival and strengthening of that backbone. This is a case where timely and decisive action can make all the difference,” the Congress chief wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-with-5-point-plan-to-bail-out-msme-sector/story-6urvIGnE81xORf2n6w28zI.html
25-04-2020||India||Himachal relaxes curfew for morning walkers||The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday decided to relax curfew from 5.30 am to 7 am from Sunday to help people take a morning walk.The decision was taken at a meeting, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, held to review the coronavirus pandemic situation in the state.It also decided to ease curfew for four hours instead of the existing three hours from Monday. In the state capital, the relaxation will be from 10 am to 2 pm.This would help reduce crowds at shops and help maintain social distancing norms, he said.CM said the curfew has adversely affected the state’s economy and an action plan is required to revive the economic activities post-lockdown from May 3.Thakur said help would be provided to the people stranded outside the state. The people willing to return to the state must be allowed after following the medical protocol that included thorough examination and institutional or home quarantine, he said.He said that all panchayat heads must be provided information on people who had returned to their areas for implementation of the quarantine norms.CM said that all deputy commissioners must ensure that all the private hospitals and clinics in their jurisdictions function smoothly.Chief secretary Anil Khachi said that people arriving anywhere in the state from other states must be sensitised regarding the preventive measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-relaxes-curfew-for-morning-walkers/story-Dw0q1wIr5Pj9CAL8NgsccO.html
25-04-2020||India||At 31, Andhra Pradesh reports most Covid-19 deaths in southern India||The number of coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh crossed 1,000 mark on Saturday. The state also reported 31 deaths, making it the only state in south Indian with such numbers.According to an official bulletin released by the state medical and health department, as many as 6,928 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours of which 61 samples tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 1,016.At 25, Krishna district reported the maximum number of cases, Kurnool closely followed it with 14 cases, Anantapur with 5 cases, Kadapa and Nellore with four cases each. East Godavari and Guntur reported three cases each.North-coastal district of Srikakulam, which had not recorded even a single case since the beginning of the epidemic in the country, reported three cases on Saturday for the first time. However, another north-coastal Andhra district of Vizianagaram continues to be safe from the coronavirus attack.The two deaths due to Covid-19 were from Krishna and Kurnool, taking the toll to 31. The neighbouring Telangana state has so far reported 25 cases.The bulletin said 26 persons were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recovered patients to 171 and another 814 are still in hospital undergoing treatment.Kurnool leads the tally with 275 cases followed by Guntur (209), Krishna (127), Chittoor (73), Nellore (72), Kadapa (55), Prakasam (53), Anantapur (51), West Godavari (39), East Godavari (31) and Visakhapatnam (22).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-31-andhra-pradesh-reports-most-covid-19-deaths-in-southern-india/story-PUnwPEg9ptYRFkO04QU3PJ.html
25-04-2020||India||Jai Ram thanks Telangana admn for Himachal resident’s treatment||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday expressed gratitude towards the Telangana administration for the treatment of a Himachal resident, who underwent surgery for appendicitis at Omini Hospital in Kukatpalli.Lalit Kumar, a resident of Lalyar village in Tauni Devi area of Hamirpur district, who works as a crane operator, was stuck in the southern state due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The CM also lauded the efforts of Telangana police inspector B Lakshmi Narayan Reddy who paid ₹20,000 to the hospital authorities from his own pocket for Lalit’s surgery.The inspector was deputed by Telangana administration to help Lalit.Thakur has sent a letter of appreciation to Reddy, recognising his exemplary efforts in helping Lalit Kumar in an hour of distress.An HP government spokesperson said that Kumar had called on Telangana Covid-19 helpline on April 16 for medical assistance.He was taken to the hospital where doctors operated upon him. The surgery cost a total of ₹60,000, but keeping Kumar’s economic condition in view, the hospital authorities reduced the bill amount to ₹35,000 after a request from the state government.“The Himachal government has decided to bear Kumar’s hospital expenses from the CM’s Relief Fund,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-ram-thanks-telangana-admn-for-himachal-resident-s-treatment/story-1rd21YB6MkoxKB1ZKR3E5O.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Coronavirus cases rise to 24,942 in India, 779 deaths recorded||The Ministry of Health on Saturday evening updated the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 24,942. The figure includes 18,953 active cases, 5,209 patients who have been cured or discharged and 779 fatalities. With this, the country’s coronavirus tally nears 25,000 cases. Maharashtra continues to be the state with the maximum number of coronavirus cases. As per the ministry of health, the state accounts for 6,817 Covid-19 cases. 957 people in Maharashtra have recovered from Covid-19 while 301 patients have succumbed to death. With 2,815 coronavirus cases, Gujarat stands second on the national Covid-19 tally followed by the national capital which has 2,514 coronavirus cases. After Maharashtra, the highest number of recovered or discharged coronavirus patients come from Tamil Nadu. 866 patients have defeated the deadly contagion in the southern state. Delhi has the third-highest number of recovered coronavirus patients in the country with 857 people either cured or discharged. In a late-night order on Friday, the government said that all neighbourhood shops and those in the residential areas have been allowed to reopen from today, except those in malls, amid the Covid-19 lockdown. “All registered shops regd (registered) under Shops & Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood & standalone shops exempted from #lockdown restrictions,” the order read.The government clarified that only standalone shops - those not a part of any market complex, a cluster of shops, or those inside malls - shall be allowed to open with only 50% of the staff. The staff at these shops must observe social distancing norms and wear masks. The MHA stated that the directive does not exempt hair salons, barbershops and restaurants. “In view of queries coming from various sections of society, it is clarified that ALL RESTAURANTS, SALONS & BARBER SHOPS would remain CLOSED. They render services & the relaxations given under #lockdown restrictions yesterday pertain only to shops selling items,” a tweet posted by Spokesperson, Ministry of Home Affairs stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-24-942-in-india-779-deaths-recorded/story-5zEiGEQ7mclOzQajybfPKN.html
25-04-2020||India||Elghar Parishad case: NIA dismisses Anand Teltumbde’s interim bail plea||NIA special court on Saturday remanded activist Dr Anand Teltumbde to judicial custody till May 8 and rejected his plea for interim bail .Teltumbde was arrested by NIA on April 14 after he surrendered before the agency in Mumbai. Soon after he was remanded judicial custody, Teltumbde’s lawyers moved an application for interim bail on the ground that he was suffering from respiratory problems and was at the risk of getting infected with coronavirus in jail.The NIA has contended that the Kabir Kala Manch activist gave ‘provocative presentation and speeches on December 31, 2017 during an event at Shaniwarwada, Pune, which led to violence resulting in loss of life and state wide agitation.’Further, the agency has claimed that Teltumbde was the convener of the program and his call data record establishes that he was in touch with the arrested accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elghar-parishad-case-nia-court-denies-interim-bail-to-anand-teltumbde/story-g9JDsXRmqs9egBJn3miClL.html
25-04-2020||India||Bottle of Sulphas, slashed wrist offer clues to mysterious deaths of five family members in UP||Five members of an Uttar Pradesh family were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Shringarpur locality of Etah on Saturday morning. The deceased included a retired clerk of the health department in Etah (70), his daughter-in-law (35), her two sons aged 10 and two years and her sister (25).“We are working on the case and bodies have been sent for post mortem. The reason behind the deaths is unknown and we are waiting for the post mortem report and other pieces of evidence before reaching a conclusion,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Etah.“There was no forced entry into the house and we had to use gas cutters to enter. The doors were closed from inside,” stated the SSP.“Investigations are on to work out the exact reason. We have found a bottle of sulphas, a poisonous substance and a bathroom cleaner. There is a cut mark on the right wrist of the daughter-in-law. A blade was also found near the body of the deceased,” informed Sunil Kumar Singh.“We have taken a sample of milk placed in the kitchen and a forensic team was called to collect other evidence. We have collected CCTV footages from the nearby areas and have also asked for call details to reach some conclusion,” added Singh.The police official added that the son of the retired health official, who works for a Uttarakhand firm, was informed about the incident.“Relatives of the family reside in a lane near the house but they have no information about any enmity of the family which lost five of its members. Forty-year-old son of the retired health official works in Uttarakhand for a pharma company and was informed about the incident. He has reached home but is clueless about the incident,” he said.Locals informed that a milkman first reached the house on Saturday morning. When no one opened the gate despite repeated call, he informed the neighbours, who called the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bottle-of-sulphas-slashed-wrist-offer-clues-to-mysterious-deaths-of-five-family-members-in-up/story-LqbWk0z7iAYl1XaSeQqjTK.html
25-04-2020||India||On first day of Ramzan, 50,000 food kits distributed to poor families in Srinagar||On the first day of Ramzan on Saturday, the administration in Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar distributed over 50,000 food kits to the needy.The district administration has prepared 53,000 food kits containing rice, wheat, oil and spices to help in the district amid the lockdown imposed to contain coronavirus. Seventy-nine Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from the district so far. Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said the district administration has identified deserving families from across the district and that distribution of these kits amongst them has already started.Each kit contains 5kg of rice and 2kg of wheat and a packet each of edible oil, tea and spices. “It will mostly be delivered to their doorstep. In some cases people collect from nearby locations,” he said.The list of families was prepared on the appeal of the district call centre as well as local residents. “Our field staff assessed people on the ground,” he said.The initiative has triggered demands among people that it should be started in other districts of the valley as well.“We have deserving people in every district of the valley who have been struggling to feed their families. Kashmir was shut for months since August 5 last year which had already deteriorated the economic conditions of the people here and now this pandemic that has led to a double whammy,” said Mohammad Azfal, a resident of Baramulla in north Kashmir.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said, “We have a large number of people associated with handicrafts and handlooms and a number of migrant labourers residing here. So we are especially focusing on Srinagar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-first-day-of-ramzan-50-000-food-kits-distributed-to-poor-families-in-srinagar/story-rOxqfY8Ie3PBVgPM497TgM.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Can’t move out without permission’: Central team pans Bengal on Covid-19 response||A central team sent to West Bengal to help the Mamata Banerjee government contain the spread of Covid-19 has told the Union Home Ministry that it wasn’t getting the basic logistics support or information from the state government but had still found gaping holes in its handling of the pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Inter-Ministerial Central Team led by a senior IAS officer Apurva Chandra also pointed out that the BSF personnel accompanying the team for its security had been told right at the start of their visit that the central team should not venture out of the guest house without the state police’s permission.The team had landed in Kolkata on March 20 (Monday).“It seems they have been mostly stuck in the BSF guest house and been able to spend barely 6 hours in the field,” a senior home ministry official told Hindustan times. Home Minister Amit Shah has been briefed and is reported to be upset at how the central effort to help the states has escalated.Also Watch: War of words between Mamata govt & Centre over COVID-19 crisis In the five days that the group of civil servants and health experts have spent in Bengal, Apurva Chandra told the Union home ministry that they had been able to make only two field visits to three hospitals and one quarantine centre. On their way back from their second field visit in Uluberia subdivision of Howrah district, they drove to a containment zone at Salkia.The central team-led by Apurva Chandra is one of the many groups formed to help seven states fight the Covid-19 battle.On the day the Centre had tasked Apurva Chandra’s team to visit Bengal, it had also formed teams to visit Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. On Friday, it formed more teams to travel to Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had viewed the decision with suspicion soon after the first announcement came, first demanding to know the law under the teams were sent and later questioning the criteria for selecting the states.Bengal has reported only 571 Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths till Saturday afternoon. But there have been several reports that the state government had been suppressing data about cases by restricting the number of people tested for the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen. Till just about five days ago, the state was testing only 400 people in a day. This figure, according to the central team, has gone up to 900.But this, a central government official said, wasn’t as shocking.Apurva Chandra told the home ministry that they had not been given a firm number of containment zones that had been formed in the state and there were huge gaps in the only one that they were allowed to visit.The main task of the local administration in a containment zone where a hard lockdown has been ordered is to carry out surveys and surveillance activity through multidisciplinary teams in containment zones.“Unless this is carried out simultaneously during the period of containment, no effective purpose would be served,” Chandra wrote in a letter to the state government on Saturday. This is his fourth letter to the Bengal government, the only mode of communication with the state.But in Bengal, Chandra wrote, the IMCT had been informed that health professionals are not part of the surveillance team that is looking for possible Covid-19 patients. Chandra’s team was told that they are likely to join only on Monday.In his previous letters to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the team had pointed to anomalies including a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards; the possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for four hours; and the lack of social distancing at hospitals.The Bengal government had responded at a media conference, insisting that the team was free to travel and health officials would look into the points made by them.Chandra’s latest letter alluded to this response. “The stand of the state government on facilitating the visits of the IMCT and ensuring the safety and security of the team members as also providing information and records may be made clear through a written communication rather than through media so that further steps can be taken by the IMCT,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-stuck-in-guest-house-hammers-bengal-on-covid-19-response/story-xBFQ1v0lNrgF5SCKXDcplO.html
25-04-2020||India||In Kerala, temples take a hit as devotees shy away from online donations||The lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has put a squeeze on the donations for two of Kerala’s most famous temples with devotees yet to warm up to online contributions.After the lockdown prevented people from travelling to the holy places resulting in severely dented coffers, major temples in the state including Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple and hill shrine Sabarimala had taken the e-route to ensure cash flow. But statistics show virtual offerings are yet to catch up with devotees.Electronic offerings began with much fanfare at the Guruvayur temple on April 14 on the day of the Vishu festival. But in ten days e-collection was a paltry Rs 22,840, temple statistics show. An average monthly hundi (donation box) collection in Guruvayur is anywhere between Rs 4 crore and five crore. Besides currency it often gets gold, silver and at times diamonds too. The daily poojas (called sevas) also bring in steady money.“It seems devotees are yet to catch up with the virtual offering. We have to popularize it more. Many feel direct offerings after praying at the temple will do good. In changing times we have to do away with winding queues and crowding. In the given scenario virtual offering is the best alternative and it will pick up,” said a senior official of the temple board. The temple was closed on March 21, three days before the countrywide lockdown began.“We used to visit Guruvayur temple every first day of the Malayalam calendar. In the changed scenario usual darshan is impossible. Since we are old fashioned people, virtual donation or online offering has failed to enthuse us. So we are waiting for these dark clouds to disappear for a real darshan,” said Sulochana Nair, a retired teacher.Though temple officials are in favour of altering traditional offerings, devotees like her aren’t amused and prefer ‘real offering.’ Interestingly, the most sought after offering at Guruvayur ‘Udayasthmana pooja (which literally means worship from sunrise to sunset), has been booked next 30 years, till 2050 and fresh bookings were closed for the time being.In 2008, the temple discontinued the tradition of an elephant being offered to the presiding deity after the number of elephants’ numbers rose -- now the temple has 56 elephants, the largest collection of captive elephants. In the hill temple of Sabarimala also virtual offerings have failed to pick up. The Travancore Devasom Board (TDB), which runs the temple, had tried to encourage online offerings from the first week of this month said skeleton employees will be deployed at the hilltop to perform these rituals. The temple’s collection has remained below Rs one lakh in the last ten days.Sabarimala’s revenue is usually used to fund smaller temples in south Kerala and for salaries of 3,500-odd employees of the TDB. “True, online offerings are yet to pick up. It is just the beginning. We have to popularise it. We are planning a (advertising) campaign towards this,” said TDB president N Vasu. For now though, the TDB has asked its employees to forgo one month’s salary. The TDB had made an announcement on its website and is planning to launch advertisements in four southern states -- Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana from where devotees throng the temple in large numbers. The temple was closed after monthly pooja on March 18.Despite the government warning not to crowd the temple, at least 14,000 devotees trekked to the shrine after thermal screening and other formalities in March first week. This forced the TDB to do away with the ten-day temple festival in March end and Vishu festival on April 14. For now, with thronging crowds only a memory, temples authorities want to encourage devotees to make their offerings online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-temples-take-a-hit-as-devotees-shy-away-from-online-donations/story-g3IuPsIBT01GMaTKGiUSQL.html
25-04-2020||India||CBI need not take state consent to probe offences within UTs by state employees||The Supreme Court on Friday bolstered the CBI’s powers by holding that the central government’s premier investigating agency need not take a state government’s consent for investigating offences committed within union territories by state government employees acting in their official capacity.The requirement under section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946 (DSPE Act), which mandates that the CBI should obtain the consent of the state before exercising its jurisdiction over any area which is not a union territory, will not apply in such a case, the top court held.“The consent of the State under Section 6 cannot come in the way or constrict the jurisdiction of the special police force to investigate specified offences under Section 3 of the 1946 Act committed within the Union Territories”, the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari ruled.The CBI can investigate such cases even if the accused person is residing in a state, is in its employment and committed the offence in his or her capacity as a state government employee, the court made it clear.The petitioner in the case, Kanwal Tanuj was an IAS officer employed in connection with the affairs of the Bihar government as District Magistrate at Aurangabad District in Bihar.He was accused of large scale corruption and siphoning of government funds during the construction of an electric plant by Bhartiya Rail Bijli Company Limited (BRBCL) at Nabinagar in Aurangabad district of Bihar.It was alleged that there was corruption and siphoning of government funds during land acquisition for the plant by the BRBCL officials in criminal connivance with local district administration including the petitioner.FIR was registered against him by the CBI for the offences of cheating and forgery under the Indian Penal Code and for the offence of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act.It was the petitioner’s case that the offence alleged against him was committed in his capacity as an employee of the state of Bihar and therefore, would require the consent of Bihar government as per section 6 of the DSPE Act before the CBI can proceed against him.The Supreme Court, however, turned down the argument noting that the registered office of BRBCL is within the jurisdiction of Union Territory of Delhi and the offence was committed at Delhi, and therefore, courts in Delhi will have jurisdiction to try the offence. The investigation of the offence, the court said, may incidentally transcend to the territory of Bihar because of the acts of commission and omission of the petitioner who is a resident of that state and employed in connection with the affairs of Bihar. That, however, cannot come in the way of CBI from investigating the offence committed at Delhi, the court made it clear.In this regard, the court upheld the findings of the Delhi high court.The high court had noted that the registered office of BRBCL was in Delhi and the allegation regarding defrauding BRBCL and siphoning of funds had occurred in Delhi. Funds for implementation of the project through BRBCL were provided by the Central Government in the 2005-06 Union Budget.The high court had, therefore, concluded that criminal conspiracy for committing the offence was hatched at Delhi and the CBI was competent to register FIR in Delhi without the consent of the state government.Affirming the high court’s view, the Supreme Court said that consent will not be necessary regarding the investigation by the CBI in respect of specified offences committed within Union Territory and other offences associated with it.“Had it been an offence limited to the manipulation of the official record of the State and involvement of officials of the State of Bihar, it would have been a different matter. If the State police have no jurisdiction to investigate the offence in question, as registered, then, seeking consent of the State in respect of such offence does not arise”, the judgment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-need-not-take-state-consent-to-probe-offences-within-uts-by-state-employees/story-j0yqmD5lg6uo83XdF76p0O.html
25-04-2020||India||‘No support, no security given’: Covid-19 team in Bengal spotlights struggle||Lack of support, information about a field visit just half an hour before it, no response to its letters were some of the complaints of the Centre’s Covid-19 inspection team visiting West Bengal.In a letter to Bengal chief secretary and the union home secretary, the Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), led by Aruva Chandra, bemoaned that there was lack of cooperation from the state government.The team said that it has been in Kolkata since April 20 and has written four letter but none have been answered.“The north Bengal team had gone to Kalimpong this morning on their own after informing the state secretary. They are returning now without visiting hospital or meeting DM/CMO as they refused to meet the team,” said Chandra.The team alleged that the state government is violating the order of the Centre by not assisting them.“The chief secretary of West Bengal has been widely reported in media of having said in the daily press conference that the IMCT is free to visit anywhere and senior officers of the government cannot waste time accompanying the IMCT. It above stand is in violation of the order of the ministry of home affairs,” said Chandra in his letter.The team reminded the state government that the state government is expected to provide “accommodation, transportation, PPE and extend all cooperation for their visits to local areas, production of records as requested”, according to the MHA order. It also sought to know from the state government if it will take responsibility for safety and security of the IMCT if it ventures out on its own.“Whether the BSF accompanying the IMCT on behalf of the government free to take action to ensure safety and security of the IMCT in absence of police support,” the letter asked.It further alleged that no senior state official accompanies them on visits and their only expectation is that doctors and officers at the venue should meet and provide information to the team.“Whether it is a fact that a DCP of Bengal police informed Bengal officers at BSF guest house on April 21 that the IMCT cannot leave the campus without permission of the state government as lockdown is in force and if it leaves it is only permitted to go to the airport,” the team wanted to know if there is truth to this statement.It also sought to know if a PPP will be provided to the IMCT if it decided to visit a hospital on its own.“The stand of the state in facilitating the visits of the IMCT and ensuring the safety of members as also providing information and records may be made clear through a written communication rather than through media so that further steps can be taken,” said the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-support-no-security-given-covid-19-team-in-bengal-spotlights-problems/story-60IUwg99qKR1SIqLqZARXN.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown may get extended in Mumbai, Pune: Maharashtra health minister||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government may extend the Covid-19 lockdown in Mumbai and Pune beyond May 3. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told HT’s business publication Mint that the lockdown will need to be extended if the spread of coronavirus is not contained.  “The main objective of implementing the lockdown was to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and if the spread is not getting contained, we will have to extend the lockdown,” Tope told Mint.“If required, we will extend the lockdown for 15 more days after 3 May only for the containment zones, if not for the entire Mumbai and Pune,” the minister added.Mumbai and Pune are Maharashtra’s two biggest coronavirus hotspots. Covid-19 cases here continue to rise unabated. Of Maharashtra’s total 6,817 coronavirus cases, 4,447 come from Mumbai while 961 cases are from Pune, Maharashtra health department’s Covid-19 dashboard stated. Telangana is the only state which has decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till May 7. On Friday, Tope said that the Maharashtra government will push for aggressive testing to detect coronavirus and also increase facilities for institutional quarantine, news agency PTI reported. “The home quarantine facility was not working. So we have to expand institutional quarantine facilities outside containment zones,” he said.The minister said the spread of the virus in dense slum pockets was a challenge and emphasised the significance of early detection of the disease. “The number of cases is more because of early detection. We also want to increase the span in which cases double,” Tope stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-may-get-extended-in-mumbai-pune-maharashtra-health-minister/story-R3gCkHJ3COsfcSuuDviMKI.html
25-04-2020||India||Gyms, theatres, casinos, pools to remain shut in Goa: Official||The Goa government on Saturday issued an order extending the closure of establishments like casinos, gymnasiums, night clubs among others in the coastal state till further orders.The order comes a day after the Centre allowed neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas to open during the ongoing lockdown.As per the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, shops in markets will continue to remain shut, while in rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open.Goa Health Director Jose D’Sa ordered that gymnasiums, cinema theatres, public swimming pools including those in hotels, casinos, spa and massage parlours, salons, river cruises, nightclubs and multiplexes will remain closed till further orders.Several shop owners in the coastal state said they were unaware of the MHA order, while some said they would not be able to open their establishments immediately due to lack of supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyms-theatres-casinos-pools-to-remain-shut-in-goa-official/story-NbRrdxBxtgzZayhpltMSUL.html
25-04-2020||India||Tripura govt orders inquiry into fund misappropriation to buy Covid-19 material||Tripura government on Friday ordered a probe into allegations of embezzlement of state funds to purchase kits to prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, as alleged by former health minister and sitting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Sudip Roy Barman, and urged a two-member panel to submit its report at the earliest. Barman’s allegations have also led to the removal of Dr. Debasish Basu, secretary, state health department, and Aditi Majumdar, director, National Health Mission, Tripura, from their current positions. Two state government secretaries --- Tanushree Debbarma and Kiran Gitte --- have been entrusted with the responsibility to conduct the investigation into the alleged embezzlement estimated to be around Rs 39.28 lakh.“We’ve heard of the allegations about the misappropriation of funds. Our government has formed a two-member inquiry committee to investigate the matter and it’ll submit the report soon,” state law minister Ratan Lal Nath told media persons. Earlier, Roy Barman had alleged that a section of government officials are taking advantage of Covid-19 pandemic to line their pockets with ill-gotten wealth. He also alleged that the state health department authorities failed to make necessary data entry related to the stock of Covid-19 kits that have been received from government and private entities and also public sector undertakings.Such items have been misplaced and also sold in the open market by a few health professionals in connivance with others, Roy Barman, who was stripped off the health portfolio in 2019 for his alleged involvement in anti-party activities, alleged. State chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb is holding the additional charge of the health portfolio. Roy Barman has written a letter to the CM, drawing his attention to the alleged embezzlement. “When the entire world has come together to fight Covid-19 -- the invisible and vicious enemy – when the Centre and other state governments have pledged to fight this common enemy together when our countrymen are generously donating in Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund and CM relief funds during the topsy-turvy situation, it’s frustrating to see a section of officials are hand-in-glove with some nefarious traders to take advantage of this precarious situation in making money,” he wrote in his letter to the CM. Roy Barman has alleged that an additional Rs 5.45 lakh was paid for the supply of 5,000 hand sanitiser bottles amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed from March 25 to May 3, to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The former health minister pointed out in the letter that the Central government has assigned a fixed rate for hand sanitisers “... not more than Rs 100 per bottle of 200 milliliters (ml) and the prices of other quantities shall be fixed in the proportion of these prices.”The state NHM director placed an order of hand sanitisers, priced at Rs 359 each for a 500-ml bottle, inclusive of Goods and Service Tax (GST), despite the Centre’s stipulated guidelines, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-orders-inquiry-into-fund-misappropriation-to-buy-covid-19-material/story-ZPMVZ5PjBTT0pOffZ5nxJM.html
25-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Formulate national plan to deal with Covid-19 crisis, Congress tells Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Formulate national plan to deal with Covid-19 crisis: Congress to CentreThe Congress on Saturday said the government should frame a national plan for handling the Covid-19 crisis as required under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act of 2005. Read more.After Franklin Templeton shuts debt schemes, Chidambaram asks govt to step inFormer finance minister P Chidambaram said on Saturday the government must act promptly and resolve the situation after Franklin Templeton closed six of its debt schemes in India, citing severe market dislocation and illiquidity caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Read more.‘Entire city not a hotspot’: Delhi minister on easing lockdown rulesThere are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi, but the entire city is not a hotspot, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain underlined on Saturday as the Centre relaxed lockdown rules. Read more.HRD Minister to address parents’ concern regarding kid’s education through webinar, invites questionsUnion Minister of Human Resource Development Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal on Friday called out parents to talk about their kids’ education, mental health, etc which has been a major concern for them during the lockdown. The minister said that he will be hosting a webinar soon to address the concerns of parents. Read more.Happy birthday Arijit Singh: Fame Gurukul to rejected song in Saawariya, how he climbed the Bollywood ladder to successWith his smooth-as-butter voice and romantic ballads, Arijit Singh has been ruling Bollywood for a while now. Last year, the singer saw a high-point in his career, when he won the National Award for Best Male Playback Singer for the Padmaavat song Binte Dil. Read more.‘Felt that I’m not good enough’: Sachin Tendulkar reveals Ravi Shastri’s advice that changed his careerSachin Tendulkar is usually refered to as ‘god of cricket’ by the fans (specially Indian) due to his achievements in the sport. He has broken and made numerous cricketing records during his illustrious career. Read more.More than 2.5 cr users without functional devices right now: ICEA pushes to make phones essentialsThe India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) said yesterday that an estimated four crore mobile phone users in India will be without handsets by May-end if the restrictions on sale of handsets and spare parts continue. Add to this around 2.5 crore people who are without functional devices right now. Read more.Sara Ali Khan, Priyanka Chopra, Isha Ambani: Top 7 muses to designer duo Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla and an ode to monumental dressingDesigner duo Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla, the masters of couture and one of the significant Indian design houses have played an important role in highlighting the glory of Indian embroidery art and techniques on a global scale. Read more.Not a single car sold? Auto makers in India may be bowled out for duck in AprilFalling sales graph can be a major source of concern for car makers but April might well see the graph line down right at the bottom in a flat lifeless depiction of how hard Covid-19 has hit the Indian automotive industry. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-formulate-national-plan-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-congress-tells-centre-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cf7TSq14RBABjmFyHbvbbM.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Centre’s do’s and don’ts on maintaining AC temperature, ventilation||Amid public concerns associated with air conditioning, ventilation and the spread of coronavirus, the government has issued guidelines compiled by the Indian Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioner Engineers (ISHRAE).The ISHRAE guidelines on the use of air conditioners at homes and workplaces were shared by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD). As per the guidelines, it is ideal to operate the air-conditioner between 24-30 degree centigrade at home amid the coronavirus pandemic. The humidity levels must be maintained between 40-70% and rooms must be well-ventilated. “The best action to limit risk of COVID-19 infection by air is to ventilate indoor environments with outdoor air as much as possible. Mechanical ventilation systems and air conditioning systems, which provide ventilation, can perform this function more effectively than simply opening the windows, because they improve the quality of the outdoor air with filtration,” ISHRAE guidelines read. Here’s what the guidelines suggest:For homesIt is suggested to keep rooms ventilated when the AC is not running, too much humidity should be avoided. “Too much humidity leads to higher levels of dust mites and fungi, two of the worst culprits for indoor allergy sufferers. Mold and fungi are known to exacerbate respiratory conditions such as asthma,” the statement read. In the case of ceiling fans, they should be operated with windows kept partly open. “If an exhaust fan is located at a nearby location then it must be kept running to exhaust air for better ventilation.”“Evaporative coolers must draw air from outside to ensure good ventilation,” the document read.For commercial, industrial facilitiesVentilation with outdoor air is suggested as much as possible. “The mechanical exhaust air shall be 70-80 percent of the fresh air quantity to maintain necessary positive pressure in the space,” the document read.Amid the lockdown, most commercial establishments have remained shut and will require maintenance. In such a scenario, the air-conditioned spaces of locked down establishments will pose health hazards.It states that fungus and molds could develop in the “ducts and open spaces depending on the humidity and temperature prevailing within”. “Further there may be bird droppings, and excreta of rodents as well increased level of insects. The system not be designed for sufficient fresh air intake and ventilation.,” the release stated. The document was prepared by a Covid-19 taskforce set up by ISHRAE comprising experts, academics, manufacturers and people related to sciences such as filtration, healthcare facility design, and indoor air quality safety.The guidelines were formed after examining and analysing information pertaining to the climatic regions of the Indian Subcontinent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-centre-s-do-s-and-don-ts-on-maintaining-ac-temperature-ventilation/story-XgfKRZ4u6KSUKzVnKAQ3CO.html
25-04-2020||India||Formulate national plan to deal with Covid-19 crisis: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Saturday said the government should frame a national plan for handling the Covid-19 crisis as required under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act of 2005.Addressing a news briefing through video conference, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said it is also time the government did a rethink on lockdown measures as the country cannot have the “lockdown of people and lockout of the economy”.“As per the act, the government is duty bound to formulate a national plan to deal with Covid-19 but strangely it has maintained a conspicuous silence. The Centre seems to have delegated its responsibilities to state governments,” he said.The state governments aren’t in a position to effectively deal with this pandemic as they don’t have the required human and physical infrastructure and adequate financial resources, Sibal said.Calling on the judiciary to evolve a policy to ensure that the justice delivery system is considered an essential service during such a crisis, Sibal alleged that bureaucrats, who do not have any idea about ground realities, are formulating policies during the lockdown.“Apart from a few exceptions with available yet depleting resources, states are doing a commendable job. However, our prime minister’s limited role is addressing the nation from time to time,” he said.Sibal said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had made no preparations to put in place a plan despite the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring the Coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency by January-end.“Why were detailed plans not made within seven weeks of the WHO declaration? We are in the fourth week of April. There is no plan in place even now,” he said.Sibal said the Union home secretary, presumably presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the act, is issuing directions to state governments to deal with the situation.“Going by the advisories issued so far, it is clear that neither has NEC prepared a plan which is to be submitted to the NDMA for approval, nor have various ministries prepared disaster management plans,” he said.“The NDMA, chaired by the prime minister, has distanced itself from the responsibilities of the Union government and in gross violation of the provisions of the act, authorised the home ministry to issue such directions as it chooses. This too was de-hors the law,” Sibal added.The former law minister said government advisories pay scant regard to the responsibilities of the NDMA.“We would like the prime minister to inform the nation about minimum standards of relief that are required to be provided to persons affected by the disaster,” he said.Instead of discharging its responsibilities to provide relief to the poor and helpless stranded migrants, Sibal said the Centre was shifting the onus to state governments to do what they can without a plan and without guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief.“It is unfortunate that even till date, there is no plan. We are all aware that the provisions in shelters are pathetic without adequate sanitation, medical cover, food and clean drinking water. States are not able to make available adequate food supplies to those affected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/formulate-national-plan-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-congress-to-centre/story-XiACbky8S1XqAsuPQqjBSN.html
25-04-2020||India||UP cop dies after hit by bullet fired from colleague’s pistol||A Sub-Inspector (SI) died here after he was allegedly hit by a bullet fired from his colleague’s pistol, police said.SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said that Sub-Inspector Bijendra Singh, who was deployed at BB Nagar police station, was hit by the bullet in his stomach and later succumbed to his injuries.“Sub-Inspector Bijendra Singh was living in the police quarter. Sub-Inspector Narendra Singh went to his room. A bullet was fired from Narendra’s pistol. Bijendra got bullet injuries in his stomach,” Singh told ANI. “Narendra along with another cop took Bijendra to a hospital. Later, he told his colleagues that he is going to take some money from the police station. Later, Bijendra passed away at a hospital. We traced Narendra Singh from on Hapur-Ghaziabad route,” he said.Police said that Sub-Inspector Narendra has been arrested. Further action will be taken based on the evidence.“Narendra has been arrested. Action will be taken based on the evidence. Narendra Singh has said the bullet was fired accidentally,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cop-dies-after-hit-by-bullet-fired-from-colleague-s-pistol/story-p3s3IYIkZnc3XxcSmvSo8J.html
25-04-2020||India||Five members of family found dead in a house in UP||Bodies of five members of a family were found in a house in Singar Nagar locality here on Saturday, police said.On receiving information that the body of a woman, Divya (37) was lying in the house of her in-law, police rushed to the spot to find four more bodies.The other deceased are Divya’s sister Bulbul (27), son Aarush (8), another child. Their bodies were found in one room. The body of the woman’s father-in-law 75-year-old Rajeshwar Pachauri was found in the second floor of the house, a police official said.He said there were injury marks on the neck of the woman while sulphas tablets and a bottle of disinfectant were found near other bodies. Further investigation is on, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-members-of-family-found-dead-in-a-house-in-up/story-7azulWaIT68FygAWyAygUM.html
25-04-2020||India||Kerala govt hospital deploys robot to serve Covid-19 patients||A government hospital in Ernakulam here has deployed a robot to serve food and medicines to coronavirus patients with an aim to reduce risk of infections for doctors and health workers. Malayalam star Mohanlal’s Viswasanthi Foundation donated the autonomous robot to the COVID-19 ward of the Ernakulam government medical college hospital. The robot named ‘KARMI-Bot’ will be used to assist patients at the medical college’s COVID-19 isolation ward from Saturday onwards,the Ernakulam district public relations department said in a release. The robot is developed by ASIMOV robotics, a company working under maker village of Kerala start-up mission. “Dispensing food, medicine, collecting the trash used by the patients, performing disinfection, enable video call between the doctor and patients etc are the main responsibilities of the robot”, the release said. The purpose of this project is to limit the interaction between COVID-19 patients and health workers as well as to address the shortage of PPE kits by minimizing its use, it said. Once configured, the robot will be able to perform its duties fully autonomously. Carrying a payload of up to 25 kgs, the robot is capable of achieving a maximum speed of 1m per sec. UV based disinfection and targeted detergent spray are the additional capabilities of KARMI-Bot, which featured in the latest cover story of Forbes magazine. ASIMOV Robotics aims to incorporate contactless routine temperature checking and automated charger docking to KARMI- Bot, once the spare parts are available after lock down. The robot was handed over to District Collector S Suhas by the directors of Viswasanthi foundation Major Ravi and Vinu Krishnan along with Jayakrishnan, CEO of ASIMOV robotics in a function at Start-Up Village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-hospital-deploys-robot-to-serve-covid-19-patients/story-FbvpZnZMdhQvpnTZFNGLHO.html
25-04-2020||India||Maharashtra teen invents wristband from scrap to keep coronavirus at bay; proposal sent to PM Modi, ICMR||14-year-old Harsh Chaudhari, a resident of Virar, Maharashtra, has invented a unique wristband which can keep a person from frequently touching his/her face. Thereby, the device can prevent the spread of coronavirus. By wearing the band, the urge to shake hands with other people can also be avoided. Harsh has already sent the proposal of his device to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He is awaiting a response on his request to demonstrate the wristband.Harsh studies in Xth standard at National English High School, Virar. His father, Kunjan (50), deals in used cars while mother, Shraddha, is a BMC teacher at an Andheri school. His sister Krisha, 7, studies in the 2nd grade.A person touches his/her face 10 times in an hour on an average and by doing so, he/she could spread Covid-19 and many other infections. “By wearing the wristband, the urge to touch the face can be stopped,” Harsh said, adding that, “my device can also kill coronavirus by electronegative ionisation of hydroxide ions”.“The electronegative ionised solution will already be inserted in the band with a pallet on it,” Harsh said. The device is waterproof so a person does not need to remove it while washing their hands.The device can detect a person shaking hands with another. A buzzer will go off when the device detects the activity, thereby preventing a person from shaking hands and from touching the face. The band also works in silent mode, if the person does not want to hear the buzzer, the band can work on a vibrator mode as well.The wristband was made out of scrap collected from his house. Harsh put together a buzzer, switch, button cell, tilt sensor, aluminium foil, plastic tubing and other materials to create the device. “Due to the lockdown, I could not procure the materials so I sourced them from what was available at my house,” he said. Harsh’s father has also set up a small laboratory for him in his house so that he can conduct his experiments. “School students could visit the laboratory but due to the lockdown, the activity is stopped,” said Harsh.Production planThe cost of one wristband comes to around Rs 90. Harsh plans to mass-produce the bands and sell them for around Rs 40 each. “I am waiting for the patent to be registered after the lockdown is lifted so that the production can be started and I can source raw materials from shops. I have received a huge response from locals for the wristband,” Harsh said. Ventilated mask Harsh has also invented a ventilated mask which has an inbuilt fan that can keep a person cool. “Police personnel and medical staff have to wear the PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) while dealing with coronavirus patients. While wearing the PPE, the plastic screen gets foggy due to lack of ventilation and the exhalation of carbon dioxide. My ventilated mask will circulate air and also prevent fogginess of the plastic screen. Thus, a person can get fresh air and the longevity of the PPE is also extended,” he stated. Proposal to ICMR and PM ModiIn late March, Harsh had sent his proposals to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the ICMR. He is awaiting a response. Harsh expects PM Modi and the ICMR to show interest in his innovation. After the lockdown is lifted, his father will apply for the patent on Harsh’s two inventions.Pride of schoolDeepak Kulkarni, Principal at National English High School, said the school is proud of Harsh. “Right from the beginning, he has shown sparks of a scientist and is academically very bright. He actively participates in our school’s scientific workshop along with his classmates,” Kulkarni said. “I am sure he will make our school proud,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-teen-invents-wristband-from-scrap-to-keep-coronavirus-at-bay-proposal-sent-to-pm-modi-icmr/story-wHSRBbHMVZI8McZNSWVioL.html
25-04-2020||India||How 28-year-old French ‘Baba’ spent time in Rishikesh cave near Ganga during lockdown||Ladislas Lucas (28), a French national, who styled himself as Muni Om Baba and was living like an ascetic in Rishikesh for the past one year, spent his time in a cave near the Ganges meditating, cooking and mingling with other foreigners during the nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.His serene existence in a cave came to an abrupt end when Laksman Jhula police found him on April 18 along with five other foreigners. Lucas, who was earlier living in an adjoining forest, shifted to the cave a day before the lockdown came into effect on March 25, the police said. Lucas and the other five foreigners, including a couple from Ukraine, an American, a Turkish and a Nepalese national, have been shifted to a quarantine facility after undergoing a medical examination as a precautionary measure against Covid-19, the police added.Lucas has been at peace in Rishikesh and considers the Hindu sage Ramana Maharshi as his guru. “I’m familiar with the surroundings, as I have been living here for the past one year. I’ve adopted the life of an ascetic in my quest for serenity and soul-searching,” Lucas told HT over the phone. “When the police found us, I was living with a Nepali baba in the cave, who had returned from Kedarnath a few days ago. The other foreigners were living in the vicinity. We used to spend our time together,” he said. Lucas said even during the lockdown, he used to visit Lakshman Jhula daily along with the other foreigners to buy groceries, as most of the shops have been open. “We used firewood to cook our meals in between doing meditation, yoga, and occasional writing,” he added.The French national claimed he did little work back home and has been on the move for the past five years. He visited several countries, including New Zealand, Spain, Portugal, Armenia, Georgia, Turkey, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Romania, Bulgaria, and Morocco before coming to India.“In India, I made Rishikesh my base. I have also visited Almora, Jammu & Kashmir, and Dharamshala. I would’ve visited other parts of the country, had it not been for Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.He is open about his future plans. “Now, I’ve chosen to live like an ascetic. It all depends on God and what he wants me to do. I’m yet to make any plans for myself,” he added.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesUttarakhand authorities said that around 600 foreigners were stranded in Rishikesh because of the lockdown. The state health department officials are regularly screening the foreigners for SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, they added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-year-old-french-baba-found-in-a-rishikesh-cave-near-ganga-during-lockdown/story-57KB1iBqMwi2SyTqHbqt6K.html
25-04-2020||India||UP seer demands opening of Badrinath shrine on April 30||A seer in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura city on Saturday demanded that the Uttarakhand government revoke its decision of postponing the opening of the Badrinath shrine and said “changing the auspicious date means inviting wrath of the deity”.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe portals of the Badrinath temple in the Garhwal Himalayas were scheduled to open on April 30, but the date has been postponed to May 15 due the coronavirus pandemic.“At a time when the country is facing Covid-19 crisis, every effort should be made to please the deity,” Dwarka Sharda Peethadheeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swaroopanand Saraswati said.“Change in opening date of Badrinath shrine virtually means inviting wrath of the deity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-seer-demands-opening-of-badrinath-shrine-on-april-30/story-esZlxKHfY56stSTwEUFUEM.html
25-04-2020||India||Rajasthan HC objects to lawyer appearing in vest through video conferencing||Lawyers must be dressed in proper uniform when they appear before the court via video-conferencing, the Rajasthan high court (HC) observed on Friday taking exception to an advocate, who was found wearing a banian (vest) during a hearing of a bail plea.The HC said that the Advocates Act stipulates lawyers to appear before the court in the prescribed dress code and the decorum should be maintained even when it is functioning through a virtual medium. The video-conferencing facility has been enforced because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which was initially imposed for 21 days on March 25 and then further extended by another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. “The counsel for the petitioner was contacted through video-conferencing. He was found to be wearing a banian (vest). The court’s decorum required to be maintained even through video-conferencing,” Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma stated in his order.The HC adjourned the case while referring to an earlier instance when it had to similarly caution lawyers to appear in proper uniform after a lawyer appeared in a vest to argue a case on April 7 amid the lockdown restrictions.“The court has already observed that during this pandemic where it is functioning through video conferencing, lawyers must appear in proper uniform. Keeping in view that the petitioner’s counsel was not in proper uniform, the matter is adjourned,” the court said.Justice Sharma was also on the bench on April 7 when a lawyer’s inappropriate attire had forced a similar adjournment. The judge had asked the Rajasthan High Court Bar Association to urge lawyers to be dressed appropriately while appearing via video- conferencing. The Bar Association officials had assured compliance with the court’s directions.Section 49(1)(gg) of the Advocates Act empowers the Bar Council of India (BCI) to frame rules prescribing the dress to be worn by advocates after taking into account the climatic conditions.The BCI has framed rules, which stipulate an advocate to wear a white shirt and long trousers that are black striped, white, or grey teamed up with black open breast coat and gown. They are also required to wear a white band. They can also wear black, white or grey dhoti instead of trousers. Various high courts and the Supreme Court have issued orders, asking lawyers to be dressed in the prescribed uniform while appearing via video-conferencing in view of the ongoing lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-objects-to-lawyer-appearing-in-vest-through-video-conferencing/story-jMCkE0PBdCNsavVCPYORlL.html
25-04-2020||India||Kolkata NGO writes to health ministry, ICMR after FDA warning against HCQ||Hours after the US Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) warning on Friday against rampant use of hydroxychloroquine outside hospitals to treat coronavirus, a Kolkata-based NGO wrote to the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asking them to alert doctors and citizens about the side effects of the anti-malarial drug.Earlier this month the same NGO, People for Better Treatment (PBT), had moved the Supreme Court and had filed PIL against the centre for using hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZM) on critically ill Covid-19 patients.“In view of the serious warnings issued by the FDA, I request you to take imminent steps to alert all doctors and healthcare workers as well as ordinary citizens of India about the lack of effectiveness and threat to life associated with the use of HCQ and AZM in Covid-19 patients,” Dr Kunal Saha, a US-based doctor and president of PBT wrote in a letter to the Union health minister and director of ICMR.US President Donald Trump has been saying that HCQ could be a game-changer in the fight against coronavirus, even though the drug’s efficacy remained scientifically unproven.The NGO said that it had submitted several urgent appeals to the Union health ministry earlier but the latter had remained silent. It also warned to bring the issue to the notice of the apex court. “The ministry must share responsibility for causing harm or death of any Covid-19 patient due to the ‘off-label’ use of HCQ and AZM despite the FDA warnings. Unless you take immediate and meaningful measures for protection of hapless Covid-19 patients, we will be compelled to bring this burning issue to the notice of the apex court when the pending PIL comes up for hearing,” the letter to the Union health ministry and ICMR said.The ICMR had said that abdominal pain and nausea have been observed as some side effects in healthcare workers. HT had reported that a study was conducted in India to look at the prophylactic (preventive) effects of HCQ against the viral disease.“Rampant use of the drug or using them in terminally ill and critically ill patients should not be done. HCQ should only be given to moderately ill patients as a therapeutic drug and to health care workers as a prophylactic drug,” said Dr Sukumar Mukherjee, a medical expert in the advisory body set up by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-ngo-writes-to-health-ministry-icmr-after-fda-warning-against-hcq/story-O4paWk5TusGym8xVaUjPwO.html
25-04-2020||India||Bats cannot directly infect humans with Covid-19: Scientists||Sixty-four scientists have said bats do not spread Covid-19 after reports of people requesting local authorities to clear trees over a fear of the colonies the winged mammals host.The chiropterologists issuing the statement said they came together after reports of public requesting removal of bats, destroying bat roosts, bursting crackers or smoking them out and sealing crevices where bats and their pups roost came to them from various parts in India.They argued in their statement on Friday that Sars-Cov-2 may have diverged from the closest coronavirus found in bats called RaTG13, about 40 to 70 years ago indicating that the bat virus cannot directly infect humans.“The coronavirus found in one species of bat was found to be the closest match to the novel Sars-Cov-2. However, studies show that it cannot bind efficiently to receptors in the human lungs. This suggests that the virus may have evolved in an intermediate host. At the moment, a lot of evidence points towards pangolins as being the intermediate host. However, there is, as yet, no scientific consensus,” Rohit Chakravarty, a research scholar at Berlin’s Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, said.Also read: Covid-19 not the last pandemic, world has to build resilience“This should not become a reason to demonise pangolins which are currently the world’s most trafficked animals. Instead, we must push for the increased protection of these rare and elusive animals,” Chakravarty said.A recent study by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had found coronaviruses in two bat species in Indian but they are not the same as Sars-Cov-2 and cannot cause Covid-19, the scientists said.The driving factor behind viruses jumping over from animals to humans is encroachment and destruction of wildlife habitats.Also read: Maybe once in 1000 years, says ICMR on Covid-19 transmission from bats to humans“Human activities and encroaching upon wildlife habitats puts us at risk of encountering new viruses. These viruses may come from any wildlife species and not necessarily just bats. Thus, we need to modify human practices to prevent the emergence of new pathogens,” Arinjay Banerjee, a postdoctoral researcher at McMaster University, Canada, who studies bat viruses.Banerjee was a part of the team that isolated the Covid-19 virus.Changing human-wildlife interface, global wildlife trade and industrial livestock farming are all suspects in causing zoonotic disease outbreaks  like Covid-19, they underlined.Six myth busters from the team of bat experts:• The exact origin of Sars-Cov-2 or its precursor is not known yet• Scientists strongly suggest that it is highly unlikely for Sars-like viruses to jump directly from bats to humans. Also, there is no evidence of humans contracting coronavirus or any such viruses through the excreta of bats.• ICMR report on the discovery of bat coronaviruses (BtCoV) in two species of South Asian bats poses no known health hazard.• Information on the current, and past zoonotic disease outbreaks suggest that global wildlife trade and/or large-scale industrial livestock farming play an important role in such events.• Killing bats and other wild animals, or evicting them from their roosts in retaliation is counterproductive and will not solve any problems.• Bats pollinate the flowers of some mangroves, and many other commercially and culturally important plants.• Insect-eating bats are voracious eaters of pest insects in rice, corn, cotton and potentially, tea farms. Therefore, bats benefit ecological and human health and provide intangible economic benefits.• South Asian countries should strengthen the legal framework to protect bats in view of their ecosystem services and their slow breeding capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bats-cannot-directly-infect-humans-with-covid-19-scientists/story-uuEwHKcI0x266H1fxawFbN.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Will restaurants, salons open as per MHA’s latest order?||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday issued a clarification over its latest, conditional, directive on opening up of shops amid the Covid-19 lockdown. It said that the guidelines apply to shops that deal in “sale of items” and are not applicable to salons and barbershops that “render services”.“Hair salons and barbershops render services. Our order is applicable to shops which deal in sale of items. There is no order to open barbershops and hair salons,” Joint Secretary, Home Affairs, Punya Salila Srivastava stated.Salila also clarified that sale of liquor will remain prohibited during the lockdown and restaurants will remain shut. “As per the new orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) there is no order to open restaurants, no order to open any kind of restaurant,” she said. As per the new orders of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) there is no order to open restaurants, no order to open any kind of restaurant: Joint Secretary (Home Affairs) Punya Salila Srivastava https://t.co/ZZ8YQkGCHZ“In view of queries coming from various sections of society, it is clarified that ALL RESTAURANTS, SALONS & BARBER SHOPS would remain CLOSED. They render services & the relaxations given under #lockdown restrictions yesterday pertain only to shops selling items,” a tweet posted by Spokesperson, Ministry of Home Affairs stated. In a late-night order on Friday, the government had said that all neighbourhood shops and those in the residential areas have been allowed to reopen from today, except those in malls.  #COVID19 UpdateIn view of queries coming from various sections of society, it is clarified that ALL RESTAURANTS, SALONS & BARBER SHOPS would remain CLOSED. They render services & the relaxations given under #lockdown restrictions yesterday pertain only to shops selling items.“All registered shops regd (registered) under Shops & Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood & standalone shops exempted from #lockdown restrictions,” the order read.Later in the day, the government clarified that only standalone shops - those not a part of any market complex, a cluster of shops, or those inside malls - shall be allowed to open. Only 50% of the staff at these shops will be allowed to work. The staff at these shops must observe social distancing norms and wear masks. Delhi said it will not implement easing of restrictions on the opening of shops in the national capital while Assam said a decision in this regard would be taken on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-will-restaurants-salons-open-as-per-mha-s-latest-directive/story-AjeLpUhN8MtsnSiGMyoRpL.html
25-04-2020||India||Bihar: Two Covid-19 positive cases detected in door-to-door screening, more results pending||Bihar government has exuded confidence that the door-to-door screening surveillance, which has led to the detection of two new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in Bhagalpur, and around 1,900 swab samples that are pending results would help reduce the number of cases of the pandemic in the state.Bihar has reported a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases over the past week from 86 on April 18 to 225 on Saturday amid growing concerns that the worst is yet to come. Though 20 districts in the state have reported the viral outbreak from 12 till 10 days, only five districts account for 70% of Covid-19 positive cases, the state authorities said. The state has reported two deaths to date, they added.Follow latest update on coronavirus here Chief minister Nitish Kumar himself allayed the apprehensions, as he underlined that the recent Covid-19 positive cases trace their origin to superspreaders and that have led to the deployment of door-to-door surveillance across the state.Lokesh Kumar Singh, health secretary, Bihar, corroborated the CM’s assessment. “One patient in Munger district transmitted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, to 29 others, while one each in Siwan and Nalanda districts infected 22 and 19 people, respectively,” Singh said.“Most cases have shown a similar pattern, leading to five districts accounting for 70% of the cases. Even in the state capital, Patna, 17 Covid-19 positive cases have one common source. While in Rohtas district, one patient infected 14 others. Similarly in Buxar district, another patient transmitted to seven others. In several cases, a single Covid-19 positive case either had recent travel history or showed tell-tale symptoms of the viral infection,” he added. The state health authorities said that door-to-door surveillance would help track the symptomatic patients and also instill confidence among the general public to volunteer for checks. Click here for complete coronavirus crisis“Early detection and treatment of Covid-19 hold the key to faster recovery like any other disease. Bihar has shown a remarkable recovery rate. We’re urging people to come forward and report if they’re showing any signs of symptoms or had recent travel history for the benefit of their loved ones,” said a health official. “The CM himself is constantly monitoring the situation with health officials and experts,” he added.AIIMS Patna for plasma therapySanjay Kumar, principal secretary, health, Bihar, tweeted on Saturday morning that the state now has the facility for a plasma therapy for critical Covid-19 patients at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, on the lines of a similar line of treatment being adopted across the country. Bihar has received the “deemed approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research for AIIMS, Patna,” Kumar tweeted. PK Singh, director, AIIMS, Patna, said that the hospital is prepared to administer convalescent plasma therapy to critical Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-two-covid-19-positive-cases-detected-in-door-to-door-screening-more-results-pending/story-h7i2bKL35kce9aBgQbO3NM.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Depends on chief minister,’ says Punjab Health Minister on extending Covid-19 lockdown||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday said that Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will decide whether or not the coronavirus lockdown in the state will be extended.Sidhu said that the chief minister will consult all the departments and there could be a state cabinet meeting over the same.The 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown was extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The lockdown will now come to an end on May 3.Telangana was the first state that decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown beyond May 3.It depends on the Chief Minister, he will consult all the departments. There could be a state cabinet meeting over it: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Punjab Health Minister on if lockdown will be extended in Punjab #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/N9AA3I7Snd“The cabinet has decided to extend the lockdown in the state till May 7. The cabinet will take stock of the situation on May 5,” Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao said last week.This comes when the Union Home Ministry, in its order issued late Friday night, allowed some shops to open as part of easing of lockdown restrictions.“All registered shops regd (registered) under Shops & Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood & standalone shops exempted from #lockdown restrictions,” the order read.Later in the day, the government clarified that only standalone shops - those not a part of any market complex, a cluster of shops, or those inside malls - shall be allowed to open.Delhi said it will not implement easing of restrictions on the opening of shops in the national capital while Assam said a decision in this regard would be taken on April 27.In Uttar Pradesh, the administration has decided not to allow any public gatherings till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depends-on-chief-minister-says-punjab-health-minister-on-extending-covid-19-lockdown/story-6KXjwWBsnwCTDqnVb1xhDI.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Can’t have lockdown of people, lockout of economy’: Kapil Sibal to govt||The Centre should have a rethink on its lockdown decision and come up with national plan for coronavirus under the disaster management act, said Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Saturday. The nationwide lockdown is in force will May 3 to halt the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus disease.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold another meeting with chief ministers on Monday as the country enters into the last week of lockdown.“You can’t have a lockdown of people and a lockout of the economy That’s not the way to formulate a policy. We are not criticising. We are only saying it is time to rethink. We are with the government. This is constructive criticism,” said Kapil Sibal.The Congress leader asked why the states were not consulted before the lockdown was imposed. “You never held discussions with the state government before announcing the lockdown, just like you did while announcing the decision on demonetisation,” Sibal added. Sibal brought to attention the plight of the migrant workers stuck in various states. He said their situation reminded him of an old Hindi song “jaaye toh jaaye kahan (where to now)”.“There should have been a national plan. The people are on streets. But they have not been provided with anything,” said Sibal.The veteran leader, who also is a lawyer, questioned the government’s decision to freeze the dearness allowance till 2021. “The dearness allowance must not be held back till 2021. It was for the common man. We must give it to the people. In this economic crisis they need this money very much,” said Sibal.The Centre on Thursday held back a revision of the dearness allowance paid to all Union government employees for 18 months and proposed a similar move by state governments to collectively save about Rs 1.20 lakh crore to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief will be restored prospectively after June 30, 2021, but no arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 shall be paid,the government order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-have-lockdown-of-people-economy-kapil-sibal/story-DkmU2bHvVERO336trNTXjO.html
25-04-2020||India||The state of States: What numbers show a month after Covid-19 lockdown||With over 500 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 11 deaths, the country was put under a complete lockdown on March 25, starting the country’s full-blown battle against the pandemic. At the end of the first month of the lockdown, we take a look at the numbers that the outbreak has resulted in.Test vs Cases vs DeathWith over 6,400 cases and 283 deaths as of April 23, Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state in the country by a large margin. But, with over 96,000 samples tested, it is also leading in terms of the number of people being tested there. Gujarat and Delhi have 2,624 and 2,376 cases as of April 23 and have both conducted more than 30,000 tests. Rajasthan, meanwhile, has the second highest number of tests in the country with over 69,000 samples tested. Test per million vs Cases per MillionOnce the population is factored in, the chart presents a new picture. Punjab, with the highest cases-per-million population (226) and tests-per-million (7,017) stands out from the rest of the country. With the third highest testing rate per resident and the second highest case rate in India, Delhi also stands out. States that have a high death rate such as MP and Gujarat have relatively low testing figures when population is taken into account.(Regions compared by tests per million and cases reported per million residents; size of circle denotes total number of deaths reported in the state) Top 10 states: Last 10 daysIf we look at the data from the last 10 days, the spike of cases in Gujarat has been alarming. On April 14, the western state had only reported 650 cases. In the 10 days since, it has seen more than a 300% increase in number of cases. With a nearly 140% increase in total cases in the last 10 days, however, Maharashtra remains the state with the highest number of cases in the country. The national tally, in this period, has more than doubled in the past 10 days. The 4 weeks of lockdownA day after the lockdown was clamped across the country, India reported 722 total cases. In the next 7 days, nearly 1,800 new cases were reported. Nearly 46% cases reported between March 27 and April 2 came from one of three regions – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. A total of 4,181 cases was reported in the week between April 3 and April 9. The same three states remained the biggest contributors to the national tally next week, accounting for 45% of all cases in the country. In the last two weeks, Tamil Nadu and Delhi dropped out of the top 5 regions that reported new cases. In the week between April 17 and April 23, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan have together reported more than 60% of all new cases in India. A month later, on April 25, India’s tally of the coronavirus disease stands at 24,506—including 18,668 active cases, 5063 cured, discharged or migrated and 775 deaths, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-state-of-states-what-numbers-show-a-month-after-covid-19-lockdown/story-g17EDRD1rClF6a4wWw9S3N.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Positive step’: Priyanka Gandhi on CM Yogi’s plan to get migrant workers home||Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to bring back its workers stuck in various states due to coronavirus lockdown got a thumbs up from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. On Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave officials 14 days to bring the migrant workers back home. Upon return, the workers will be quarantined for 14 days in government shelter homes and subsequently sent home along with food grain and cash. “The initiative taken by the Uttar Pradesh government of bringing back stranded migrant workers is laudable. We have been stressing on this issue and this is a positive step in this direction.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government sent buses to bring back students stuck in the coaching hub of Rajasthan’s Kota. “To ensure that this initiative succeeds fully, the state government must evolve a scheme for the return of rest of the labour force. If we continue with this positive cooperation in national good, we will gain a lot strength in our fight against coronavirus,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.  अन्य राज्यों में फँसे यूपी के कुछ मजदूरों को वापस लाने की पहल पर उप्र सरकार को साधुवाद। हम लगातार इस मुद्दे पर ज़ोर दे रहे हैं और यह उस दिशा में एक सार्थक कदम है। इसे पूरी तरह से सफल होने के लिए बाकी मजदूरों के लौटने के लिए भी योजना बनानी जरूरी है। अगर इसी तरह सकारात्मक.. 1/2 https://t.co/k2skJaUbLROn April 23, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as he feared a law and border problem.In the letter, the deputy CM said that the migrant workers who have been staying at shelter camps will likely take to streets on May 3 on completion of the second phase of the lockdown.The Opposition parties, led by the Congress, had expressed concerns over the plight of migrant workers who were forced to take a long walk back to their villages due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the coronavirus pandemic.The political parties had urged the Centre to allow a one-time state transport services be made available to the migrant workers to enable them to go back to their homes.Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren told Hindustan Times that he would request a special train from the Centre to transport migrant workers and others from different states back to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positive-step-priyanka-gandhi-on-cm-yogi-s-plan-to-get-migrant-workers-home/story-dNA4lHISgrrLCJVusCH4ZO.html
25-04-2020||India||Former IAS officer Sanjay Kothari takes oath as CVC||Retired IAS officer Sanjay Kothari, who was secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind, took oath as the new Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) on Saturday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a communication. The post of CVC, autonomous anti-corruption watchdog, was lying vacant since June last year and Vigilance Commissioner Sharad Kumar was holding the interim charge of the top post since then. Kothari, an officer from the 1978 batch from Haryana, was named as new CVC by a high powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February this year. In the same meeting, ex-Broadcasting Secretary Bimal Julka was appointed as the next Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). “At a ceremony held today at 1030 hrs at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Sanjay Kothari was sworn in as the Central Vigilance Commissioner,” the Rashtrapati Bhawan communication said. At the time of his appointment, Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabh, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who was in the selection panel along with Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah had opposed the decision. The Congress had then termed the process of appointing the CVC as “illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional” and demanded immediate scrapping of decision. The CVC is a statutory body and derives its powers from Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2013. It is free of control from any executive authority and has the responsibility of monitoring all vigilance activities in the Central government besides advising various authorities in planning, executing, reviewing and reforming their vigilance work. A major part of its work is to refer important corruption activities to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The CVC was instrumental in removing former CBI Director Alok Verma from the post in January 2019 after allegations of corruption were levelled against him in 2018. All the Central Vigilance Officers (CVOs) in government departments submit reports to the CVC and operate on the basis of guidelines/circulars issued by the CVC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ias-officer-sanjay-kothari-takes-oath-as-cvc/story-85yYizvRzYaN5PtMHQroIM.html
25-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi urges govt to help Andhra fishermen stranded in Gujarat due to lockdown||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday urged the government to help some fishermen from Andhra Pradesh who are stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown, and sought their transfer to relief camps. He said due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, around 6,000 fishermen from the southern state were stranded in Gujarat and were living in unhygienic conditions without water and food. “Over 6,000 fishermen from AP, stranded in Gujarat, have been confined to their tiny fishing trawlers for over a month, in unhygienic conditions with limited food and water. I appeal to the government to move my brothers to relief camps and ensure their well-being,” Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter.Also Read: To reach home amid lockdown, 27 migrants from Odisha, Andhra escape in a boat He highlighted a news report in this regard claiming that the fishermen are forced to stay on their trawlers and are without food and water and may die otherwise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-urges-govt-to-help-andhra-fishermen-stranded-in-gujarat-due-to-lockdown/story-UDXZBHI3wyorFL8JpTYo1K.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: After MHA’s shop order, Gujarat says decision on easing restrictions after CM’s meeting||Gujarat is yet to decide on the easing of restrictions on shops after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed some of them to open as part of easing of lockdown restrictions, state deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said according to reports.MHA had, in a late-night order on Friday, allowed neighbourhood shops and others, except those in malls, to open with 50% strength of workers among other conditions. Nitin Patel said on Saturday a decision will be taken by the Gujarat government shortly to grant permission for this relaxation to be effective in the state. The deputy chief minister said a meeting will be held during the day to issue further orders.Also read: MHA allows shops to reopen. Here’s what will open and what won’t“A decision regarding this will be taken in a meeting shortly today at the CM residence. We will study the notification, the pros and cons of the relaxation, as the lockdown is still in effect till the May 3 and we will decide on further issuance of orders accordingly,” Patel said while speaking to reporters.Also read: What you need to know today“The central government’s notification issued last night has allowed for small shops in the state to be opened in rural areas. Even in the municipal corporation as well as municipalities, small shops and commercial activities can be opened while maintaining a distance, which shall be decided by the local authorities. This is a good decision as small trades and commercial activities were hugely affected since more than a month of nationwide lockdown,” he added.Also read: Delhi wants to hit pause on MHA order to reopen shops, caught in a bindMore than 24,500 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 across the country so far. According to the Union health ministry, there are 8,668 active cases, 5063 people who have been cured, discharged or have migrated and 775 deaths as of Saturday.It has been a month since the nationwide lockdown was put in place following the coronavirus pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-after-mha-s-shop-order-gujarat-says-decision-on-easing-restrictions-after-cm-s-meeting/story-kVG8SqL4GGZX2buprjN2OP.html
25-04-2020||India||Not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on govt servants: Manmohan Singh on dearness allowance freeze||Former Prime Minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh on Saturday criticised the government’s move of freezing dearness allowance and said that it wasn’t necessary to impose hardships on government servants and armed forces personnel at this stage. “We should be on the side of people whose dearness allowance is being cut. I sincerely believe it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and also on the armed forces people,” Singh said.As #COVID spreads, Modi Govt hurts 1.1cr Central Govt employees instead of providing relief. Withdrawing DA instead of cutting wasteful expenditure like Central Vista project is insensitive & inhumane. Former PM Dr. Manmohan Singh, Shri @RahulGandhi & others express deep concern. pic.twitter.com/M6WQ0tojxGHis comments came during the Congress party’s consultative group meeting on Saturday. The video of the meet was later released by the party on its social handles.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also reacted over the matter during the meeting and said that the government’s move takes away the money from the middle class and isn’t even being given to the poor. “You are taking away money from the middle class, you are not giving money to the poor people and you are spending it on your central vista,” Gandhi said.  I sincerely believe it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and also on the armed forces people: Former PM Dr Manmohan Singh on Centre freezing Dearness Allowance & Dearness Relief hike till July 2021 (Source - AICC) pic.twitter.com/JK2MmF5Nj4In its release, the Ministry of Finance on Thursday froze inflation-linked allowance till June 2021 due to the coronavirus crisis. The move will affect nearly 50 lakh central government employees and 61 lakh pensioners. However, the ministry said the Dearness Allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) at current rates will continue to be paid.The Centre held back an expected increase in DA by 4 percentage points to 21% of basic pay until July 2021 and asked the states to emulate it. The Centre alone stands to save $37,300 crore by freezing the DA, HT reported on Friday; together, the Centre and the states would save Rs.1.2 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-necessary-at-this-stage-to-impose-hardships-on-govt-servants-manmohan-singh-on-dearness-allowance-freeze/story-ER2HDHMYyT41hHzEjgoAGJ.html
25-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: RSS affiliate urges govt to make rural economy the focus in coronavirus aftermath and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Make rural economy the focus’: Bharatiya Kisan SanghThe Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has urged the centre to focus on rural economy as it draws up the plans for reviving economy and job sectors in the aftermath of the corona pandemic.Read MoreBDelhi wants to hit pause on MHA order to reopen shops, caught in a bindThe Delhi government has decided to ask the Centre to clarify the kind of shops that can be allowed to open amid the ongoing national lockdown. Left to itself, the city government was reluctant to allow shops apart from those selling essential commodities to reopen at this point given the high number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Read MoreCovid-19 lockdown: MHA allows shops to reopen. Here’s what will open and what won’tAll neighbourhood shops in residential areas, except those inside malls, have now been allowed to open during the lockdown but with certain conditions by the government. The decision will come as a relief to people who have been under lockdown since March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The home ministry order also comes ahead of the beginning of the Muslim holy month Ramzan.Read MoreSussanne Khan shares a family pic with Hrithik Roshan and sonsActor Hrithik Roshan’s ex-wife Sussanne Khan has moved in with the actor through the coronavirus pandemic to co-parent their sons, Hrehaan and Hridhaan together. On Saturday, she posted a relaxed family picture of the three of them.Read MoreThis is God here: Brett Lee on if Kohli can break Sachin’s 100 centuries recordFormer Australia fast bowler Brett Lee said that current India captain Virat Kohli can surpass Sachin Tendulkar’s massive cricketing feat. Tendulkar scored 49 ODI tons and 51 Test hundreds, and to this day, is the only player to have scored 100 international hundreds. Kohli has scored 44 ODI hundreds and 27 Test tons so far in his career, and is just 29 centuries away from equalling Tendulkar’s feat.Read MoreRomancing Delhi: The city that can never be monotonousA lawyer shares his relationship with the Capital, from the time he read about it in Ghalib’s poetry, to the time he discovered it in his own verses, and got mesmerised by its glory, pace and energy.Read MoreMan investigates strange noises coming from attic during Zoom call with friends. WatchLondon based horror film director, Rob Savage had been tweeting about hearing strange noises coming from the attic of his house. Months later, the filmmaker got a bunch of his mates together on a Zoom call and embarked on the brave adventure of figuring out who the culprit was.Read MoreCAIT Gen Secy thanks PM Modi after MHA allows shops to open with conditionsCentre has allowed shops to open with conditions to maintain social distancing and work with half of the employees. National General Secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allowing shops to open with conditions. Watch video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rss-affiliate-urges-govt-to-make-rural-economy-the-focus-in-coronavirus-aftermath-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UZydNysVMuf2B7dFIfdbfL.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Rajasthan readies for plasma therapy, seeks permission from ICMR||Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital is following the footsteps of Delhi, Kerala, and Karnataka and gearing up to administer convalescent plasma therapy to critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. Rajasthan government has sought the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) permission to begin trials.Clinical trials of convalescent plasma therapy are underway in several countries and states across the country and have shown encouraging results so far, the state government officials said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Plasma therapy could prove beneficial for critical Covid-19 patients and reduce the mortality rate, as no vaccine or anti-viral agents are available yet to treat the viral outbreak,” Dr Sunita Bundas, in-charge of SMS Hospital’s blood bank.“SMS Hospital doctors, who have recovered from Covid-19, can become donors for patients suffering from the viral infection,” she added. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal of SMS Medical College, however, said that it is premature to comment on the plasma therapy trials.“The process hasn’t yet begun. We’re hopeful of getting the ICMR’s approval. We’ll start the therapy with critical patients,” he said.The state government has formed a team of doctors from the SMS Hospital to do a feasibility study on plasma therapy on critical patients. The team, comprising Dr Bhandari, Dr Bundas, professor of medicine Dr Raman Sharma and senior physician Dr Ajeet Singh, has agreed to conduct the plasma therapy after conducting research and tests for a week.“An antibody is a passive vaccine that helps to bring down the viral load in a patient. It’s given via blood transfusion and it fights and neutralises the virus,” Dr Sharma said.“The concept of plasma therapy is to inject antibodies taken from the plasma of a recovered Covid-19 patient into a positive patient to fight the disease,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Dr Sharma pointed out that the convalescent plasma therapy was tried during the Spanish Flu, which ravaged the globe in 1918, and it helped lower the mortality rate by 20%, as per the available data.“At that time the entire blood from a donor was given to a patient. Now we only take the plasma, anywhere between 300 and 500 milliliters, from the blood and administer it to a patient,” he added.“The therapy is still at a trial stage. It’s too early to say if it’ll cure Covid-19 patients, but it has shown encouraging results so far,” Dr Bundas said.In Rajasthan, Covid-19 positive cases continue to rise, as 2,059 positive cases and 32 deaths have been reported to date. Rajasthan ranks fourth in the country after Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Delhi, as far as Covid-19 positive cases are concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-readies-for-plasma-therapy-seeks-permission-from-icmr/story-55LoAWjefp4GgD3vF0jKON.html
25-04-2020||India||No public gatherings allowed in Uttar Pradesh till June 30, says CM Yogi Adityanath||No public gatherings will be allowed in Uttar Pradesh till June 30, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office quoted him as saying on Friday. The countrywide lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus disease is in place till May 3.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding another meeting with chief minsters on Monday. The issue of lockdown will be likely discussed. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 25 on Saturday morning. “The chief minister has directed officers that no public gathering be allowed till June 30. Further decision will be taken depending on the situation,” tweeted the office of CM Yogi Adityanath. The CM’s office also directed people to perform prayers at home as the holy month of Ramzan begins.“The month of Ramzan has started. In view of the corona infection, all the religious leaders have appealed to stay at home and offer namaz. It should be ensured that there is no program anywhere as it is likely to spread corona infection,” said the CM’s office.Yogi Adityanath’s office also quoted the CM as saying that most number of positive cases have been traced to Tablighi Jamat. He said that their members should be identified, tested and quarantined. The CM said cases were low in districts that implemented the lockdown properly.On Wednesday, Yogi Adityanath said the state government was working on a coordinated joint strategy to control coronavirus under guidance of PM Modi.The chief minister laid emphasis on social distancing and said besides strengthening medical and health system, the state government was strictly enforcing the lockdown and relief work was being carried out to help the poor. He said industrial activities have been started in districts not affected by coronavirus.Yesterday, nationwide cases of confirmed coronavirus infections rose by over 1,750 — the maximum for a day — even as the government said the outbreak is under control and the tally could have reached one lakh by now without a nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-public-gatherings-allowed-in-uttar-pradesh-till-june-30-says-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-NFGFo6WQ9RI0OZ7UNj70eK.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India cases set to cross 25,000 mark||Eighty-six days after India first reported a positive case, the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases is likely to cross the 25,000 mark in the country on Saturday. About 800 people have succumbed to the viral infection so far.However, the government says that with linear growth in the number of cases, India has, to quite an extent, managed to flatten the curve, with respect to other countries where cases have been reported exponentially and many more people died during the past three months.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is hard to say whether peak will arrive in May or later, but if you look at the graph it is quite linear. The case positivity rate has been about 4.5% throughout, so we can safely say that we have managed to flatten the curve,” says Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research.The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, on Friday also said that India has been saved from getting into the stage three of transmission, which is community transmission stage where getting to the source of infection is near impossible.He also said that India has improved testing capacity over the past one month, with at least half a million tests already done so far, but the case positivity rate remaining around 4% bears witness to the fact that India is doing enough testing and the numbers are not alarmingly high.India has been constantly ramping up testing; on March 23, 14914 tests were done, and by April 22 at least half a million tests were done, which is about an increase of 33% in 30 days.There are about 325 laboratories in India, both government and private, currently testing for Covid-19, with a testing capacity of around 50,000 tests per day.Click here for Covid-19 updates“This is the capacity if we work in a single shift, but it can be scaled up to do almost double the number of tests. We have enough testing kits to perform tests for at least 8 weeks and ICMR is in the process of procuring more. There is absolutely no shortage of kits or any other material in the country that would hamper the testing. Everyone who needs testing is being tested,” says Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR.To date, 5,062 Covid-19 cases have recovered taking the recovery percentage to over 20%. There are 17610 patients currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the country. Close to 9.45 lakh people are under community surveillance either in home quarantine or housed in various quarantine facilities, shows government data.“The government is keeping a close watch and it is not like our intensive care units (ICUs) are overflowing, or there has been an increase in the sale of medicines for cough, cold or fever that would have been an indication that the disease is not under control; it is limited,” says Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Paul is also chairman of the empowered committee 1 that takes care of availability of doctors and medical staff to manage Covid-19 in the country. Experts also say that lockdown measures, even though an extreme step, were implemented at the right time, and have helped in keeping the numbers in check.“It is not possible to stop an infectious disease but what lockdown has done is delay the spread, and successfully so,” says Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine specialist, Safadrjung Hospital, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-cases-set-to-cross-25-000-mark/story-5ju9NfqcuLgKJS3pQwRcoJ.html
25-04-2020||India||19 people including 18 of same family test positive for coronavirus in UP district||Nineteen people including 18 members of an extended family have tested positive for coronavirus in UP’s Santkabirnagar district and have been admitted to hospital, a senior administrative officer said on Saturday.A student of the Darul Uloom Deoband seminary who had come to the district last month had tested positive for coronavirus earlier this week. His family members and close relatives were subsequently kept in quarantine and their samples were sent for testing, of which 18 have been found to be positive, District Magistrate Ravish Kumar Gupta said.One person from Tilathi village in Bakhira police station area has also tested positive for the virus, Gupta said.This patient had recently returned from Mumbai. His sample was sent to Gorakhpur medical college and the report was received Saturday, the DM said, adding that his family members have been quarantine and their samples sent for testing.The District Magistrate said with these new cases, the number of coronavirus positive patients in the district was now 21.The areas from where these cases have been reported have been sealed off, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-people-including-18-of-same-family-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-up-district/story-eALtzUuGgnbnlbdCoLCPwN.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Assam govt to take decision on opening of shops on April 27||Assam Chief Secretary, Kumar Sanjay Krishna on Saturday informed that no decision has been taken by the government pertaining to relaxation of ongoing lockdown such as opening of salons, shops, etc.A decision in this regard would taken on April 27, Monday.This comes just a day after the Spokesperson of the Home Affairs tweeted stating that “All registered shops registered under Shops and Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood and standalone shops exempted from lockdown restrictions.”Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown: Govt allows shops to reopen. Here’s what will open and what won’t“Market complexes, except those within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, are allowed to open. Mandatory: 50 per cent strength of workers, wearing of masks and observing Social Distancing. Relaxations not applicable in Hotspots/containment zones.” The entire country is under lockdown till May 3 as the number of cases of coronavirus are growing each day. With 1,429 more COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s count of coronavirus cases has reached 24,506, said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday.Out of these, 18,668 patients are active cases and 5063 cases have been cured and discharged, or migrated.The death toll stands at 775, with as many as 57 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-assam-govt-to-take-decision-on-opening-of-shops-on-april-27/story-fm0ob5m0t5qwhNnz44E5SI.html
25-04-2020||India||28 shops gutted in fire on IIT-Kharagpur campus, none injured||At least 28 shops have been gutted in a blaze on IIT-Kharagpur campus in West Bengal’s West Midnapore district, fire brigade officials said on Saturday.“The fire broke out at Tech Market on the campus at 7.50 pm on Friday. Two fire tenders doused the blaze after two hours of firefight. There have been no reports of any casualty,” a fire brigade official said.Due to the lockdown, all the shops in the market were closed when the blaze erupted. Prima facie, short circuit seems to be the reason behind the fire but further investigation is on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-shops-gutted-in-fire-on-iit-kharagpur-campus-none-injured/story-eI1E7JRtifERUtCGGZosgK.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Make rural economy the focus in coronavirus aftermath’: Bharatiya Kisan Sangh||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has urged the centre to focus on rural economy as it draws up the plans for reviving economy and job sectors in the aftermath of the corona pandemic.“It is a good time for the government to ensure that while they offer stimulus packages to the medium and large enterprises, the cottage industry and the small scale sectors that keep the rural economy going are not neglected. That is where the revival will be and where the jobs will be,” said Badri Narayan Chaudhary, the national general secretary of the BKS.Large scale movement of workers back to their native states has led to concerns that many sectors including manufacturing, construction and even agriculture will face labour shortage. Even as the government claims the movement of migrant workers will be reversed after the lockdown is eased; the BKS functionary claimed otherwise.“A majority of the workers who have moved back to their native places from urban centres are unlikely to move back. The government will have to find them jobs or ensure they have entrepreneurial skills to sustain their livelihood,” he said.Chaudhary said, small sectors such as flour grinding mills, packaging etc. can be encouraged at the rural level.Emphasis on rural economy has been underlined by the RSS and its affiliates even during consultation that take place before the annual budget is prepared.“We have also suggested to Prasar Bharati (public broadcaster) that instead of focusing on old forms of agriculture on their DD Kisan channel, they should invite experts who can given demonstrations to the rural youth on how to become entrepreneurs and on the latest techniques that can be used to employ more people,” he said.The BKS has also urged the centres to ensure its advisories on transportation of agriculture produce and purchase at minimum costs are followed on the ground.Concerned by the losses faced by farmers on account of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the corona virus, which has hampered the transportation and sale of farm produce, the BKS has urged the government to ensure that farmers are paid the minimum prices.“Our suggestion to the government is to ensure that administration at the local level follows the guidelines that have been issued. When trucks carrying goods are stopped for days at police check points, it affects the farmers because their produce is perishable and cannot be stocked for long. This problem is being faced by farmers growing fruits, vegetables and other produce,” said Chaudhary said.Prabhakar Kelkar, the all India vice-president of the BKS said there should be monitoring in the mandis to ensure that farmers are paid the minimum prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-rural-economy-the-focus-bharatiya-kisan-sangh/story-P8xffDC58nZELWTTbUfcrI.html
25-04-2020||India||Don’t allow entry into Delhi without Aarogya Setu App, Lt Guv Anil Baijal told||The Delhi government is taking a hard look at a “strong recommendation” to require people to install the Aarogya Setu app launched by the central government before they enter the national capital.The recommendation was made at Lt Governor Anil Baijal’s review meeting on the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic on Friday.National Centre for Disease Control director Surjit Kumar Singh, who had been asked to advise the city government, strongly recommended that the government allow people to enter the capital only after they have installed the Aarogya Setu app.Dr Singh also pushed for raising the number of people who were being tested in the capital and supported repeated rapid testing - on the 3rd, 5th and 14th day - so that a Covid-19 positive individual does not get left out due to a false report.It was at this meeting that Lt Governor Baijal decided to rationalise and carve out safe zones within large containment zones to prevent micro-transmission.A senior official told Hindustan Times that the government hadn’t taken a decision on the Aarogya Setu recommendation yet. But it hasn’t knocked it off the table either.The big hurdle to mandating the mobile application would be that there could be lakhs of people who may not have a smartphone. It has been downloaded on 75 million phones by Friday evening.India has 1.2 billion mobile phones; only 350 million have smartphones.‘In Delhi, we are told 80 percent of the mobiles are smartphones,” an official said.“Let us weigh the pros and cons,” he said.Dr Singh isn’t the first person to push the mobile application. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been nudging people to download the application launched on April 2. He made the same request when he spoke to a group of village heads via video conference on Friday.Already, the Central Industrial Security Force - which is responsible for security at key airports and Delhi metro - has made a similar recommendation.Why the app? First, the diseaseThe problem stems from the insidious nature of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19: it can be spread by a person who does not show symptoms, and is thus probably unaware of the illness, and merely breathing, coughing and sneezing could pass it on to anyone close by.There is also some evidence, according to studies, that the Sars-CoV-2 virus may spread as an aerosol that lets it linger in the air for longer and disperses over longer distances.How do you trace the contacts of such a person? Say two people who come close to each other in a metro, a bus (when the lockdown lifts) or at a grocery shop. Anywhere. One of them is positive, but doesn’t know it yet.Tracing contacts through conventional methods, would therefore be ineffective.Now the appAarogya Setu app could address this critical handicap in contact tracing.“You need to have a way of focusing (contact tracing) as an asymptomatic person travels over various distances, over time. We need to find out who all were close to that person and warn the others after the person is identified as positive. This is what Aarogya Setu also does – it will find the symptomatic person and also identify all asymptomatic people around them in the past few days and advise them too,” said Dr K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of IndiaAlso Read: How to setup the Aarogya Setu appEric Feigl-Ding, an epidemiologist at Harvard University, told Hindustan Times earlier this month that a mobile phone-based tool would take care of an infected person having difficulty to recall who they met. “You don’t need the manpower and it is instantaneous – the speed is the most crucial aspect,” he said.How Aarogya Setu app worksLike similar mobile applications being used elsewhere, the phone exchanges details with phones that are within range of their Bluetooth radios. This information will be shared by the Aarogya Setu app with health authorities once the mobile phone subscriber confirms that he has tested positive, triggering an alert to all other devices that may have been in the proximity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-allow-entry-into-delhi-without-aarogya-setu-app-lt-guv-anil-baijal-told/story-eADHEVyCTs2sYfhKJQIIuO.html
25-04-2020||India||Finding freedom in fashion: A virtual fashion show by the specially-abled!||While the coronavirus pandemic has led to unprecedented restrictions for billions of people, for many with disabilities, the lockdown has paradoxically opened up the world. As society embraces “virtual” living, differently abled people are keeping themselves super busy with online styling and grooming sessions. They recently hosted the very first online fashion show and are in the process of hosting many more such events for their friends.Mohit Agarwal, convenor, says, “The idea is to get everyone busy so that they beat anxiety, depression and loneliness. With two days of rigorous training, these specially abled people performed with alacrity.”With lockdown in place, it is important to be positive and realistic optimism boosts physical and mental health and assists active coping.Mohit adds, “These people have a lot of talent. What they require is just a platform to showcase their talent.” Around 30 models with disabilities walked at a make shift ramp created by them at their homes last week. With confidence and aplomb, these paraplegics and wheelchair bound differently abled persons have been participating in events designed for them including fitness sessions and styling and grooming sessions as well as mental health classes. Gulfam Ahmad, wheelchair artist, says, “With the extended lockdown in place and restrictions on movement, we will keep organising such events to motivate others and encourage them to explore their ability rather than hide their disability.” Gulfam through his social media account has been giving fitness and grooming lessons to all his followers. He says “ Differently abled people who are wheelchair bound are not able to exercise at all due to the shutdown of gyms. Through my social media account, I have been giving them tips on how to exercise at home with limited resources.” Kamlesh Patel, dancer and model, says, “Many modelling agencies contacted me after the fashion show. We all are talented and it is just time that us that skill to our benefit. The lockdown has given us an opportunity to reflect on our skills and hone them.”As the idea of the novel online fashion show was floated to other people of the community, each one of them was more than willing to participate. Gulfam adds, “ We gave them training through videos on WhatsApp and calls. We guided them about the correct lighting and the camera angle and all of them walked with confidence and joy. We look forward to other such events.” He further adds, “For our upcoming events, we are getting visually impaired people and persons suffering from Down’s syndrome .” They understand that sitting at home to flatten the curve is an imperative to fight the virus. But that doesn’t stop them to lead their time productively. Gulfam says, “ We are constantly getting support online and on our virtual fashion show video.” He adds, “ Online auditions for Mr and Miss Wheelchair have begun and the response we are getting is immense.”With the ongoing coronavirus crisis and its impact on our day-to-day lives, there’s never been a better time to shift focus on a positive mindset. Kamlesh adds, “Ghar par reh kar hi hum corona ka vinaash kar sakte hai. So use this time constructively and wisely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finding-freedom-in-fashion-a-virtual-fashion-show-by-the-specially-abled/story-QNRHxY7ybNJpn99LbrGlIM.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Landlords advised to waive rent but NDMC sent us notice to pay license fees, say shopkeepers||The New Delhi Shopkeepers Federation has said they have received notice from the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to pay license fees while underlining that the government had advised landlords to waive off rent amid lockdown due to Covid-19.Markets in NDMC area have been shut since the announcement was made regarding the lockdown last month.“We have got notices and interestingly with 10 per cent proposed increase in the fees. This is uncalled for as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal have said that landlords should give relief to tenants for some time in rent. On the other hand, government agencies are charging fees,” Dinesh Gaur, President of New Delhi Shopkeepers Federation told ANI.“We are obeying lockdown orders. Our shops have been closed for almost a month, we are paying money to our staff also then how will be able to pay the fees when the government is giving advisory then it must be followed by the government first,” he said. According to the Federation, there are 25 markets including Palika Bazar, Palika Palace, Sarojni Nagar Market, Kasturba Nagar Market that come under the jurisdiction of the NDMC and approximately 5,000 shopkeepers are affected due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-landlords-advised-to-waive-rent-but-ndmc-sent-us-notice-to-pay-license-fees-say-shopkeepers/story-W4NJwoojok0IWidYEvHmvM.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Sale of liquor remains prohibited’: Govt clarifies on order allowing reopening of shops amid Covid-19 lockdown||Sale of liquor shall remain prohibited amid the coronavirus lockdown, the Ministry of Home Affairs clarified on Saturday. The ministry issued a clarification on its order on reopening of shops amid the Covid-19 lockdown and said that only standalone shops are allowed to open as per the directive. It said that no relaxation will apply to Covid-19 containment zones.The release also clarified that e-commerce companies will only operate to ensure delivery of essential commodities to consumers. “In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open,” the ministry said its release. The MHA stated that shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open.“Hair salons and barber shops render services. Our order is applicable to shops which deal in the sale of items. There is no order to open barber shops and hair salons. There is no order to open liquor shops too,” Joint Secretary (Home Affairs) Punya Salila Srivastava stated. Only 50% of the staff at these shops will be allowed to work. The staff at these shops must observe social distancing norms and wear masks. “It is clarified that sale by E-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only. It is further clarified that the sale of liquor and other items continues to be prohibited,” the directive read.In a late-night order on Friday, the Union ministry of home affairs issued new guidelines on the opening of shops across the country amid the coronavirus lockdown. The Delhi government has, however, put a hold on the order and will take a call on April 27.The 21-day long nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country was extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. The lockdown will now come to an end on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sale-of-liquor-remains-prohibited-govt-clarifies-on-order-allowing-reopening-of-shops-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-C2V7QW96EFG4M0mNm70fhL.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Shops in markets, complexes, malls not allowed to open amid Covid-19 lockdown’: MHA clarifies||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday issued a clarification on its order on reopening of shops amid the coronavirus lockdown. The ministry stated that only standalone shops are allowed to open as per the directive and that the order does not apply to Covid-19 containment zones.In a late-night order on Friday, the government had said that all neighbourhood shops and those in the residential areas have been allowed to reopen from today, except those in the malls. Only 50% of the staff at these shops will be allowed to work. The staff at these shops must observe social distancing norms and wear masks. Watch | Covid-19: MHA clarifies on shops that can be opened amid lockdown in India “All registered shops regd (registered) under Shops & Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood & standalone shops exempted from #lockdown restrictions,” the order read.Later in the day, the government clarified that only standalone shops - those not a part of any market complex, a cluster of shops, or those inside malls - shall be allowed to open. “In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open,” the ministry said its release. The MHA stated that shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open, adding that e-commerce companies are only allowed to operate for the delivery of essential goods and commodities.  MHA issues clarification on order allowing the opening of shops. MHA release states, "In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls are allowed to open. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops & shops in residential complexes are allowed to open". pic.twitter.com/SnFT7L1k2j“It is clarified that sale by E-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only. It is further clarified that the sale of liquor and other items continues to be prohibited,” the directive read.The MHA stated that those shops and establishments that have been allowed to open as per the guidelines shall remain closed in Covid-19 containment zones.  “Hair salons and barber shops render services. Our order is applicable to shops which deal in the sale of items. There is no order to open barber shops and hair salons. There is no order to open liquor shops too,” Joint Secretary (Home Affairs) Punya Salila Srivastava stated. Malls, theatres, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, bars, restaurants, auditoriums and liquor stores shall remain shut amid the lockdown. Public transport will also remain closed. The order amended the previous one issued by the Centre on April 15, which extended the 21-day nationwide lockdown till May 3.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown till May 3. On April 20, states across the country partially relaxed lockdown curbs to allow some business and construction activities to start amid the lockdown. Delhi is one of the states that decided not to allow any relaxation in lockdown measures until May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-in-markets-complexes-malls-not-allowed-to-open-mha-clarifies/story-o7mtRheQFFMgqL7H7sWBiI.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19: MHA allows standalone, neighbourhood shops to open||The Centre has allowed neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services, including those in residential areas and market complexes outside municipal areas, to open from Saturday but with certain conditions.In a late-night decision on Friday, the Union ministry of home affairs said these shops can operate with 50% strength of their staff strength and will have to strictly maintain social distancing measures including mandatorily wearing masks.The latest order issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, which is an addendum to April 15 guidelines, said, “All shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State/UT, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, except shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, with 50 per cent strength of workers with wearing of masks and social distancing being mandatory” will be allowed to function.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt added that “all shops, including neighbourhood shops and standalone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT” will be allowed to open during the lockdown.MHA later issued a clarification on the order on allowing the opening of shops. “In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls are allowed to open. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open,” it said in a release on Saturday.“Shops in markets/market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open,” it said.It also clarified that sale by e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only.It further clarified sale of liquor and other items continues to be prohibited as specified in the National Directives for Covid-19 management.“As specified in the consolidated revised guidelines, these shops will not be permitted to open in areas, whether rural or urban, which are declared as containment zones by respective States/UTs.”What will open, what won’tThis means standalone shops like a dealer of electronics and electrical items and other shops in residential areas in urban centres can open.E-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to sell essential goods only.All shops in small market complexes or single dealers in rural or semi-rural areas can also sell their items to the public.All these shops have to be registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of respective states and Union territories, which means a roadside barber or mechanic, who is unlikely to have a registration, cannot open their shop.“The latest decision will reopen major economic activity in rural, semi-rural and even urban areas and concerns raised by people on social media about non-availability of certain items will now be addressed,” a senior government official, who did not wish to be named, said.“However, everyone should observe complete safety measures as we are still in a critical phase of Covid-19 spread,” the official said.However, shops in market complexes, single brand or multi-brand malls or those in Covid-19 hotspots or containment zones as well as liquor shops, gyms, bars, sports complexes and theatres, will not be allowed to function.The order will benefit the rural areas the most, opening up the commercial activities further as all non-essential items will now be available to the public through these shops. The order comes as a major relief for people as several non-essential items were unavailable since March 24 and also after a month since India was put under a nationwide lockdown.The concessions have not been extended to shops in hotspots or containment zones and states and Union territories are free to take any decision to close down a particular market or shop if they feel the relaxations could jeopardise their Covid-19 measures.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands at 24,506—including 18,668 active cases, 5063 cured, discharged or migrated and 775 deaths, according to the health ministry’s dashboard on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-allows-standalone-neighbourhood-shops-to-open/story-o11woe2XoPg7TvfBsugkHO.html
25-04-2020||India||Chinese suppliers of Covid-19 rapid test kits ‘ready to cooperate’ with India after ICMR’s advisory to states||Two Chinese pharma companies, which supplied 5.5 lakh rapid testing kits for COVID-19 to India, said they are ready to cooperate with Indian agencies looking into allegations of poor accuracy of their products.In separate statements, Guongzhou Wondfo Biotech and Livzon Diagnostics said they follow strict quality control of their products, asserting that specified guidelines must be followed in storage of the kits as well in their usages to get accurate results.India’s apex medical research body ICMR on Tuesday advised states to stop using the rapid antibody test kits for next two days till it examines their quality following complaints that they are not fully effective in detecting coronavirus infection.Last week, India procured 5.5 lakh rapid antibody test kits from these two Chinese firms and they were distributed to several states reporting rising cases of coronavirus infection. While Guongzhou Wondfo Biotech supplied 3 lakh test kits, Livzon Diagnostics delivered 2.5 lakh.Livzon Diagnostics, in its statement said: “We are shocked to receive negative reports from India related to poor accuracy of COVID 19 rapid testing kits made in China including our brand. We have shown great concern on this issue, and we are willing to coordinate with the related government departments for investigation.”  The company said it fulfilled all required quality control standards prescribed by Chinese government and that the company has been exporting the product to at least 10 countries including Brazil, Peru, Columbia and several European nations.“The test kits should be stored at a temperature between 2 and 30 degree celsius and should not be frozen... If the storage temperature is too high, the accuracy of the test may be influenced,” it said.In its statement, Guongzhou Wondfo Biotech said the company has been exporting the kits to more than 70 countries and that the product was validated and approved by the ICMR through National Institute of Virology in Pune.“In the process of exporting the products to overseas countries, Wondfo fully cooperates with relevant health authorities in each country to carry out various verifications on the sensitivity and specificity of our products,” it said.The statements by the two companies were released to the media by an official of the Chinese embassy here.At present, the government hospitals have been using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests to detect coronavirus from throat or nasal swab samples of people. These take around five to six hours to show the results.In the rapid antibody tests, the blood samples of suspected patients are taken, and it normally takes around 15-30 minutes to give the result. India has been facing severe shortage of testing kits in view of rising cases of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-suppliers-of-covid-19-rapid-test-kits-ready-to-cooperate-with-india-after-icmr-s-advisory-to-states/story-Q9JzNpQO2JBbiLg4UG2ykO.html
25-04-2020||India||Close contact of jamaat attendee tests positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s Bhanbulpura||A 40-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Nainital’s Bhanbulpura area on Friday, taking the tally of total positive cases in Uttarakhand to 48. The man had come into contact with a jamaat attendee, health officials said.JC Pandey, public relations officer, state health department, said the person hails from Bhanbulpura area of Nainital district where many jamaat attendees have already tested positive for coronavirus.Pandey said that the man’s samples were sent for testing after he came in contact with a jamaat attendee. The sample initially came out as negative. “As a precautionary measure, he was quarantined at a facility on April 8. After completing 14 days, his sample was again sent for testing, which came positive on Friday,” he said Pandey said he has been sent to an isolation centre at Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani.Out of 48 positive Covid-19 cases in the state, 30 are jamaat attendees. Maximum cases of coronavirus have been reported from Dehradun with a total of 25 cases, followed by 10 from Nainital district, 7 from Haridwar district, 4 from US Nagar and one each from Pauri Garhwal and Almora districts. Of these 48 positive cases, 25 have recovered and have been discharged.There are 11 containment zones in the state including 7 from Dehradun district, 3 from Haridwar district and one from Nainital district.On Thursday, one more person tested positive for Covid-19 from a containment area in Dehradun. The person hailed from West Bengal and had been staying at Azad Nagar Colony in Dehradun. Two close contacts of jamaat attendees had also tested positive from the area. The Dehradun district administration had sealed parts of Azad Nagar Colony on Monday after the cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-contact-of-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-s-bhanbulpura/story-kpMs7ehIXbXUhKEJpCvLlJ.html
25-04-2020||India||Delhi wants to hit pause on MHA order to reopen shops, caught in a bind||The Delhi government has decided to ask the Centre to clarify the kind of shops that can be allowed to open amid the ongoing national lockdown. The clarification will be raised by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev at a video conference convened by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba that started a short while earlier.“We are going to seek clarifications from the central government on the order,” the person mentioned above said on condition of anonymity. For one, the kind of shops that the Home Ministry wants to reopen.Left to itself, the city government was reluctant to allow shops apart from those selling essential commodities to reopen at this point given the high number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Delhi has reported a total of 2,514 Covid-19 patients till last night, 128 of them within the previous 24 hours. “We need to get a grip on the situation first rather than fritter away the gains made,” the functionary said.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown: Govt allows shops to reopen. Here’s what will open and what won’tBut the home ministry’s midnight order caught them off-guard.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lt Governor Anil Baijal also discussed the government’s next steps on home ministry order.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe consensus was that people have gone ahead to open their shops after accessing the home ministry order on the Internet and it was going to be impossible to get them to go home.One Delhi government official upset at the home ministry’s surprise move summarised the city administration dilemma, saying they couldn’t send the police after shopkeepers shut the shops again.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“I think the Centre should have consulted the states… at least given them a heads-up before putting out the orders,” he said.In a late night order on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had allowed neighbourhood shops, standalone shops and shops in residential complexes to open on the condition that they operate with half the strength and enforce social distancing norms.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakBhalla issued the order in his capacity as chairperson of the National Executive Committee of the National Disaster Management Authority.For the central orders to be implemented, each state authority has to issue a separate set of orders to departments under its charge such as the police and health departments.On 19 April, the Delhi state executive committee led by chief secretary Vijay Dev had frozen the lockdown 2.0 ground rules and “decided against any relaxation for additional activities till another comprehensive assessment on April 27 is carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hits-pause-on-mha-order-to-reopen-shops-will-decide-on-april-27/story-7ivqFo59qTymK7QZKelL5N.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: MHA allows shops to reopen. Here’s what will open and what won’t||All neighbourhood shops in residential areas, except those inside malls, have now been allowed to open during the lockdown but with certain conditions by the government.In a late-night order on Friday, the Union ministry of home affairs said the new instructions will not apply to hotspots or containment zones in the country. The Delhi government, however, wants to put a hold on the order and take a call on April 27. The order issued amends the previous one issued by the Centre on April 15, which extended the 21-day nationwide lockdown further by 19 days till May 3.The decision will come as a relief to people who have been under lockdown since March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The home ministry order also comes ahead of the beginning of the Muslim holy month Ramzan.Here’s what will open from today:* All shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective state and Union territory, including those in residential complexes and market complexes, outside the municipal corporations and municipalities, have been exempted from lockdown restrictions* Only standalone shops and residential shops can open in cities* All shops in residential areas and neighbourhood markets will open* All shops and markets in rural and semi-rural areas that are registered can open* Salons and barbershops can reopen but not if they are inside a market complex* Standalone tailor shops in residential complexes can open* Shops in registered markets outside municipal corporations and municipalities can open only with 50% staff, who will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms* Non-essential goods and services will be allowed to operate in urban areas only if they are in residential areas or is a standalone shop.* Market complexes, except those within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, can openWhat cannot open:* Malls and cinemas will remain shut* Complexes with clusters of shops cannot open* Shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities are not exempted by the new order* Shopping complexes, shops in market complexes, multi-brand and single-brand malls cannot open* Boutiques inside malls cannot open* Liquor shops will remain shut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-shops-to-reopen-here-s-what-will-open-and-what-won-t/story-RhXdZXBVYXLWXz83rdT3hL.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 precautions to continue in government offices: UP Chief secretary||Rules relating to social distancing, gatherings, wearing of face masks, sanitisation etc. will continue in Uttar Pradesh government offices even after relaxation in lockdown measures or lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown, said Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari. The second phase of lockdown will come to an end on May 3.Tiwari on Friday issued directives, through a letter, to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries asking them to ensure compliance of necessary precautions and guidelines, without affecting work, in the event of relaxations in restrictions or lifting of the lockdown.He said every official must keep his mouth and nose covered with a reusable facemask or towel (gamchha) and concerned officials must ensure proper sanitising of workplaces, toilets, surfaces, etc. every day, as per the protocol. He said all employees and officials should use a tissue paper or a handkerchief while coughing and sneezing.The chief secretary said social distancing must continue to be maintained and not more than five people should be allowed to gather at one place. The staff should avoid sitting in groups in canteens or offices during lunch breaks, he said.Tiwari also said guests should be avoided in offices and should only be permitted after proper screening.Tiwari said meetings should be held through video-conferencing and necessary correspondence should be made through e-mails. “As far as possible, files and letters should not be exchanged among offices as a precaution and letters that come from outside should be received at the entry gate only,” he stressed.The chief secretary said government staff should remain alert about their health. He said the staff residing in containment zones should avoid coming to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-precautions-to-continue-in-government-offices-up-chief-secretary/story-GEPtEEugbiWiz3JDrBtSgN.html
25-04-2020||India||US diplomat lauds India’s efforts in protecting health staff on Covid-19 frontline||Senior US diplomat Alice Wells praised India on Friday for its approach in preventing attacks against healthcare workers who are on the front line battling the coronavirus disease. “Pleased to see #India is taking additional steps to protect healthcare workers on the front lines combating #COVID19. These heroes are working tirelessly to protect their communities. AGW,” the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) said in a tweet quoting Wells. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The government on Wednesday approved an ordinance to make attacks on healthcare workers a cognisable and non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. The move came in the backdrop of attacks on health staff and Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) call to observe black day such protest violence. Also read: India records 1,428 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths in last 24 hoursPrime Minister Narendra Modi emphasized that there could be “no compromise” on the health staff’s safety. “The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals,” he tweeted. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier in the day given assurance of safety to representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), following which the medical association called off its protests scheduled on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-diplomat-lauds-india-s-efforts-in-protecting-health-staff-on-covid-19-frontline/story-BhR0DRjnfHRkMeH6rXxo6M.html
25-04-2020||India||866 patients recover in Tamil Nadu, highest in country followed by Delhi: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 24,506 on Saturday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 18,668 active coronavirus cases in the country, 5063 patients have been cured or discharged while 775 people have died from the deadly contagion. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra are inching toward the 7,000-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases has crossed 2,500. Gujarat continues to have the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Tamil Nadu has reported the highest number of patients recovering from the Covid-19, followed by Delhi and Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 6817 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 301 deaths so far while 840 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 2815 coronavirus cases and 265 recoveries so far. 127 people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2514 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 53 people have died from the infection while 857 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2034 on Saturday. The state has reported 27 fatalities, and 230 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1852 positive cases of coronavirus. 92 people have died from Covid-19 here while 210 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1755 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 866 recoveries and 22 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar Pradesh1621 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 247 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 25 have died from the infection here.Telangana984 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 253 people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 955 positive Covid-19 patients and 145 cases of recovery. 29 people have died.West Bengal571 people have been infected by the coronavirus in West Bengal. There have been 18 deaths and 103 recoveries in the state.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 474 Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths. 152 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 454. 5 people have died from the infection while 109 were cured.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 450 coronavirus cases on Saturday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 331 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 272 and 298 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 17 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 156 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 67 in Punjab.In Bihar, 223 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered. Odisha has 94 Covid-19 positive patients, 33 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 57 Covid-19 cases, 3 patients have died and 8 have recovered. Uttarakhand has 48 coronavirus patients, 25 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 18 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 30 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 27 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 14 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 27 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the eleventh day of the extended lockdown phase on Saturday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-cross-2000-in-rajasthan-tamil-nadu-accounts-for-maximum-patient-recovery-covid-19-state-tally/story-4nkhGsQeUDbQTTpNGm0o2O.html
25-04-2020||India||Male nurse tests positive for Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh||A male nursing officer posted in the Covid-19 ward of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Friday, a hospital spokesperson said.SS Sharma, the spokesperson of AIIMS Raipur, said the nursing officer has been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital after his sample tested positive in the evening.“One of AIIMS Raipur nursing officers was found positive in the Covid-19 test today. This brave Corona warrior was posted in the Covid ward. He was in quarantine since April 14 after 10 days of duty. We are committed to taking care of him,” said Sharma.With this, the state has 37 cases of the coronavirus disease. Of them, 30 have been discharged following their recovery from the disease, Sharma said.At present, seven patients are undergoing treatment at AIIMS Raipur, he added.There have been no reports of any Covid-19 related death in the state where 11,386 people have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/male-nurse-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh/story-7G7XxSrvEb4lrjqIQs2qgL.html
25-04-2020||India||7 people arrested for helping Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker||Police in Chhattisgarh said on Friday they have arrested seven people, including three construction contractors, for helping Maoists for the last two years.Inspector general of police (Bastar range ) Sundarraj P said two men, identified as Tapas Palit and Dayashankar Mishra were arrested last month and five others were held recently by Kanker Police.Sundarraj said police had arrested contractor Palit on March 24 while he was allegedly transporting a huge consignment of shoes, fabrics and walkie-talkie sets, meant for Maoists in his SUV from Siksod police station area of Kanker district.“During interrogation, he revealed about the Maoist couriers’ network which was supplying various materials and cash to Maoists from the past two years in the north Bastar,” the senior police official said.Mishra, who was associated with Palit, was later arrested from Rajandgaon district, he said.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Kanker Police led by additional superintendent of police Kirtan Rathore was constituted for an extensive probe into the matter.The SIT recently arrested five more people—Rajnandgaon-based contractors Ajay Jain and Komal Prasad Verma, Rohit Nag of Koyalibeda in Kanker, Sushil Sharma of Uttar Pradesh and Suresh Sharnagat of Madhya Pradesh in this connection.As per the preliminary investigation, two contractors—Nishant Jain of Bilaspur and Varun Jain of Rajnandgaon, who run Landmark Engineer Company and Landmark Royal Engineer Company respectively—were allotted road construction works under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) in Antagarh, Amabeda, Siksod, Koyalibeda and other Maoist-affected areas of Kanker district by the concerned government department, the IG said.The two firms then authorised to carry out the construction works to Ajay Jain, Komal Prasad Verma and Palit, who are said to be partners in a company which deal in construction work, Sundarraj said.The three men allegedly contacted the Maoists and had been supplying shoes, uniforms, walkie-talkie sets and other materials along with cash to the tune of lakhs of rupees to the rebel since the last two years, he said adding that the remaining arrested persons are their accomplices.Two cars and 10 mobile phones were also seized from the possession of the accused, Sundarraj said. The involvement of some other people in the offence is being probed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-people-arrested-for-helping-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-kanker/story-8F6tItL3aqOwX7CQ5ZwAGJ.html
25-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India records 1,428 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths in last 24 hours||There were 1,429 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 57 deaths across the country in the last 24 hours, the Union home ministry said on Saturday, which marks a month since India was put under a nationwide lockdown.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease stands at 24,506—including 18,668 active cases, 5063 cured, discharged or migrated and 775 deaths, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India had 606 cases and 10 fatalities before all transport were banned, offices and schools closed, and people told to stay indoors unless they were out for essential purchases or services on March 25, the first day of the lockdown. Officials have said the lockdown has substantially slowed the growth of the Covid-19 outbreak.“If we go back to March 21, cases were doubling in around three days. An important turn came on March 23, after the Janta Curfew. The direction changed and the doubling rate increased to five (days),” VK Paul, NITI Aayog member said on Friday during the government’s daily briefing.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“By then, we already put in place travel restrictions and had created an environment of social distancing. There were some setbacks in between but from April 6, doubling time started improving,” he said.Paul, who also heads one of the high-level task forces coordinating the Covid-19 outbreak response, said India’s current doubling rate is 8.6 days.According to Paul, cases will decline and more gains will be reflected in the “first, maybe even second week of May”.Experts, however, warned the numbers may not be an accurate representation of the outbreak.The Indian Council of Medical Research data shows the number of daily tests on Wednesday and Thursday were around 40,000 each. This number was 20,864 on March 25.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Testing per million people in India is less than 401—a number that is among the world’s lowest—but it has constantly moved up. On March 31, it was just 27.Experts around the world say test, trace, contain are crucial for countries so that they can look at lifting their lockdowns, a drastic measure that most countries were jolted into adopting in mid-March when infections began ballooning.There were 2,790,986 Covid-19 cases and 195,920 deaths across the world till around 3am India time, the Covid-19 dashboard of Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-saw-1-428-new-covid-19-cases-57-deaths-in-24-hours/story-1HDsY7DdulUnZTwHJ4iY5I.html
25-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi airport to reopen with new rules including mandatory masks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Masks, social distancing, temperature screening: Delhi airport may reopen with new rulesMandatory face masks for all travellers and crew, no queues for security clearance, restricted use of in-flight lavatories and a stop on all in-flight meals --- Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) may soon resume flight operations but with strict restrictions and curbs in place.Read MoreIn midnight order, Home Ministry allows neighbourhood shops to reopenIn a late night move, the government on Friday night permitted opening of neighbourhood and stand alone shops, including those located in residential complexes within municipal areas, but at a 50 per cent strength and after taking necessary precautions in the light of coronavirus pandemic.Read More.‘Knocks the virus out in one minute’: Trump’s disinfectant claims baffle citizensEncouraged by tentative findings that summer weather may dampen the novel coronavirus, US President Trump used his daily live national press briefing to ask whether light could become a medical treatment. His suggestion was quickly savaged in memes and jokes -- as well as by Joe Biden, his presumptive Democratic challenger in November’s election.Read MoreVirat Kohli, AB de Villiers pick combined India-South Africa XI, MS Dhoni named captainVirat Kohli and AB De Villiers picked a combined India-South Africa ODI squad during their latest Instagram Live interaction and they both decided on MS Dhoni as the skipper. Who else made it to the team?Read MoreSobhita Dhulipala issues clarification over photos for magazine shoot Actor Sobhita Dhulipala recently shared pictures from a magazine photoshoot, saying that she had clicked the pictures herself. Later, a picture of her getting clicked by a man on her terrace landed online. Taking to Instagram, Sobhita issued a long clarification that the pictures ultimately used by the magazine were all clicked by her.Read MoreWhatsApp increases group call limit from 4 people to 8: You can start using it next weekWhatsApp is now going to allow eight people to chat on a group call instead of four. The group call limit has been expanded making it easier for you to keep in touch with friends and family over the pandemic.Read MoreMeet the class 10 students who have designed prosthetic limbs for handicapped dogsInstead of just feeling sad for handicapped dogs and hoping one day someone would do something for them, a group of six class 10 students from Shiv Nadar School, Noida, actually went ahead and designed prosthetic limbs for dogs.Read MoreWorld leaders back UN, WHO initiative to speed Covid-19 response; US missingWorld leaders on Friday pledged to work on vaccines and tools to fight against Covid-19. The event was attended by French President Emmanuel Macron and other leaders including WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was part of the event. The US, however, was missing from the virtual event. Show of unity for UN and WHO comes after Trump criticized WHO’s response to Covid-19.Watch the video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-airport-to-reopen-with-new-rules-including-mandatory-masks-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O6eASX1KRVkja0iMYS1PiL.html
25-04-2020||India||Gujarat export units in non-containment zones to start functioning from Saturday||Exports units, which account for 25% of the country’s total exports, in non-containment zones of Gujarat will resume operations from Saturday, an official in the chief minister’s office said on Friday. Almost 90% of the 800 large and 453,000 small and medium factories in Gujarat have pending orders and nearly 70% are not in containment zones, officials said. About 80% of the salt and 70% of jewellery exported from India is from Gujarat.“In the first phase, factories with pending export orders will be allowed to start operations provided they are not in Covid-19 containment zones,” Ashwani Kumar, secretary to chief minister Vijay Rupani, said.Kumar said 98 sub-registrar offices in the state will also start working from Monday where social distancing norms will be strictly enforced.Purvin Mariyankari, director of the Ahmedabad Export Import Development Association (AEIDA), welcomed the order and said the industry is going to suffer as there is not much demand internationally.Mariyankari said the total exports from Gujarat in 2018-19 stood at $67,401 million.“The export industry has already witnessed $846 million fall in exports in February 2020 as compared to the same month in 2019 because of the slowdown,” he said.Shailesh Patwari, former president of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), said it would be difficult to operate the industries in absence of workers.“Mostly, migrant workers from states such as Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh work in the export units and about 70% of them have already gone back,” Patwari said.The state government on Friday decided to lift the curfew from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodra, the three most affected districts of the state, after 191 cases of the coronavirus disease cases were reported from Gujarat, taking the state’s tally to 2815.“But there will still be a tight implementation of the lockdown until May 3,” Shivanand Jha, Gujarat’s director general of police, said.The state has reported 127 Covid-19 related deaths.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said the situation was fast coming under control and decision has been taken to test all pregnant women in the Covid-19 hotspots areas even if they don’t any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-export-units-in-non-containment-zones-to-start-functioning-from-saturday/story-GU1q7qhWnLkb21XVulJY2N.html
25-04-2020||India||Terminally-ill man wants to see family in UP, J-K administration in dilemma amid lockdown||A 50-year-old terminally ill man from Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnore district has put the Jammu and Kashmir administration in a dilemma and his attendants distraught over his request to see his family for the last time during the Covid-19 lockdown.Narinder Singh, a migrant labourer from Mirzapur Bela in Bijnore, was hospitalised at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu on April 18 and discharged on request on April 23. He was diagnosed with last stage cancer.Singh’s attendants alleged that repeated pleas to shift him to his village where he could see his family one last time have so far not evoked any positive response.Arif, one of Singh’s attendants, said doctors at the hospital told them that there was no chance of his survival and he could be taken back home.“I informed his family over the phone, who want to see him one last time. We have completed all the documentation and have arranged an ambulance but none in the administration is granting us the permission to ferry him to his native place,” Rajeev, Singh’s nephew, said.Sanjeev Verma, Jammu’s the divisional commissioner, however, said there were certain rules to be followed in such cases.“First, they need to apply. He is a cancer patient, how can we issue movement pass to him. God forbid if something happens to him during travel then who will be held responsible?” Verma asked.He said it involved a human being and he would help them while adhering to protocols.The attendants have now urged Lieutenant Government Girish Chandra Murmu to help them.The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had worked in close coordination with four states and Jammu and Kashmir to airlift an ailing 50-year-old man from Rajouri to Jammu. They then transferred him to Chandigarh and simultaneously traced his son who was coming from Mumbai on a bicycle to reach his father.Wazir Hussain had suffered a brain stroke and was subsequently operated upon by a team of neurosurgeons at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terminally-ill-man-wants-to-see-family-in-up-j-k-administration-in-dilemma-amid-lockdown/story-ik0nWOqTYgIp1EkPAhrSNP.html
25-04-2020||India||Will quit IAS after lockdown is lifted, says woman officer on Facebook||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 2014 batch of Haryana cadre has said she will resign from her post after the lockdown put in place against the coronavirus pandemic is lifted.Rani Nagar, posted as a director in Haryana’s archives department, made her announcement about her resignation from the prestigious service on social media on Thursday.“I, Rani Nagar, daughter of Ratan Singh Nagar, resident of Ghaziabad village Badalpur, Tehsil Dadri, district Gautam Budh Nagar, hereby want to inform everyone that I have decided to resign from IAS,” the 38-year-old woman officer wrote on Facebook and Twitter in Hindi. “There is a curfew in Chandigarh that is why I and my sister Reema Nagar cannot move out. The roads are closed beyond Chandigarh till Ghaziabad. I will resign after the curfew and lockdown are lifted and will move for my parental home at Ghaziabad after taking permission from the government,” she said.Nagar has also posted a video on Facebook saying she has been living in Chandigarh’s UT guest house since May 2018 with her sister. The officer said she had lodged a complaint against a Haryana government official and some Chandigarh Police officers last year before a Chandigarh court. “There’s a constant threat to our lives so I request to you that if we lose our lives or go untraceable, please report my statement to the Honourable court in Chandigarh in connection with case number 3573/2019. We will always be grateful to you,” she said. Nagar had accused a Haryana additional chief secretary of sexual harassment and threats in a social media post in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-quit-ias-after-lockdown-is-lifted-says-woman-officer-on-facebook/story-l7Nuo6GI1zt3itPbXZtdpL.html
25-04-2020||India||A month in lockdown, vaccines in human trials give hope: Covid-19 news today||India completes a month in lockdown on Saturday. In this period, the country has slowed the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) though many challenges still remain. Meanwhile, human trials of a vaccine developed by Oxford University has begun. An Indian company has started work on its local production so as to be ready in case the trial succeeds.Month of lockdown impedes virus, a long battle lies aheadOn March 25, the first day of the lockdown, India had 606 cases and 10 fatalities before all transport was banned, offices and schools closed, and people told to stay indoors unless they were out for essential purchases or services. On April 24, across the country 1,408 new cases were reported and 57 more died on Friday – taking total infections to 24,404 and fatalities to 778. Read MoreSelf-reliance India’s biggest lesson from Covid, says PMThe coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) has offered India a valuable lesson on the importance of self-reliance and self-sufficiency, and the country, each state within it, each district within every state, and each village within every district must aspire to attain the twin goals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday.Read More6 vaccines in human trials bring hope of early Covid-19 reliefHuman safety trials of a coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University began on Thursday even as Indian company Serum Institute of India started work on making the vaccine locally so as to be ready in case the trial succeeds. This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThere’s long been a theory that the number of people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is actually higher than that reported. What else should you know about Covid-19 today?Read More to find outCentral team finds lapses in Bengal’s Covid-19 responseOne of the two Inter-Ministerial Central Teams sent to West Bengal to assess the on-ground situation there in terms of dealing with Covid-19 has highlighted several anomalies in its letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha: a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards; the possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for four hours; and the lack of social distancing at hospitals.Read MoreInspection teams rushed to Gujarat, TN & Telangana to control Covid-19 spreadThe Centre is deputing interministerial to three more states -- Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu -- to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control the coronavirus disease and violations of lockdown regulations, the home ministry said on Friday, amid a bitter row with West Bengal over the alleged targeting of opposition-ruled states .Read MoreDRDO offers oxygen plants to far-flung hospitalsIn its latest offering to combat the coronavirus disease, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has stepped forward to provide medical oxygen plants to hospitals in far-flung areas to generate their own oxygen supply, two government officials said on Friday.Read MoreCMs’ wishlist: Interstate transport options, fundsChief ministers, especially of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states, are likely to discuss inter-state transport of migrant labourers, an increase in their borrowing capacity and food for work programmes when Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets them through video-conference on Monday.Read MoreUttarkashi official suspended for booking toddlers over quarantine violationA government official on Covid-19 duty decided to investigate over phone a violation of home quarantine by a group of people who returned to their village in the Uttarkashi district from Haryana, and in the process booked a six-month-old and a three-year-old, resulting in widespread outrage -- and his suspension.Read MorePromising antiviral trial hits roadblockRemdesivir, that had been thought to be a promising antiviral drug to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was found to offer no benefits to patients or prevent death, according the draft findings of clinical trials in China that were accidentally published by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on its website on Thursday.Read MoreIndia, Gulf talk essentials’ supply, economic recoverUninterrupted supply of food and essential items from India to West Asian states and the role of energy security in post-Covid-19 economic recovery figured in external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s recent conversations with his counterparts from several Middle East countries.Read MoreKerala shuts its borders with Tamil Nadu Last month when north Kerala district Kasaragod turned into a coronavirus hotspot, Karnataka had closed all its border points with Kerala and the latter took the inter-state issue to the Supreme Court. However, now Kerala has closed its borders with Tamil Nadu after Covid-19 cases shot up in the neighbouring state.Read MoreCovid-19 lockdown: Finance panel calls for extra support to small businessesThe advisory council of the 15th Finance Commission on Friday observed that the government needs to follow a nuanced approach in its fiscal response to fight the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and focus on designing a stimulus package as much as on the size of it.Read MoreTrump’s idea to inject disinfectant stuns worldUS President Donald Trump’s inquiry over injecting people with disinfectants to guard against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) left medical experts and scientists across the world stunned on Friday, with many issuing warnings to not introduce bleach in the body in an attempt to kill SARS-CoV-2, which causes the infectious disease.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-month-in-lockdown-vaccines-in-human-trials-give-hope-covid-19-news-today/story-Y9XTbYJNVJFRhle8ubkTEL.html
25-04-2020||India||2 militants, associate killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Pulwama||Two militants and a “hardcore” militant associate were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said.Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Goripora area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district in the early hours of Saturday after receiving specific information about the presence of some militants there, a police official said.The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the forces, who retaliated, he said.In the ensuing gunfight, two militants and one “hardcore” associate of the militants were killed, the official said.He said searches were going on in the area and further details were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-bK3qY562BpHMuFHqs154SI.html
25-04-2020||India||Cop abducted in J&K rescued; two terrorists killed||Police on Friday claimed to have killed both the terrorists responsible for the abduction of a police personnel in south Kashmir a day ago.On Thursday, the terrorists had abducted Javeed Jabbar from Shirpora village in South Kashmir’s Kulgam distrct. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said that police neutralised both the terrorirts and rescued the constable. “ One police cop was injured in the operation,” he said. This is the second incident in past 24 hours when police rescued a cop after abduction in South Kashmir.Late Thursday night, Jabbar, who is a part of the escort team of a senior police officer, was abducted from his house in Chatwan Vihil village in Shopian district. Elsewhere, a CRPF jawan was injured in a grenade attack by militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam district on Friday, officials said. The militants hurled a grenade at a CRPF camp at Dooniwara in the district’s Chadoora area around 6.30 pm, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-abducted-in-j-k-rescued-two-terrorists-killed/story-8DxmqmuRFnLYByK3danRcN.html
25-04-2020||India||Tripura free from Covid-19 cases, says CM Biplab Deb||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Thursday said the state has become free from coronavirus disease Covid-19 after its second patient tested negative.“ ...The second corona patient of Tripura has been found NEGATIVE after consecutive tests. Hence, our State has become Corona free. I request everyone to maintain Social distancing and follow Government guidelines. Stay Home Stay Safe,” Deb tweeted.Out of the two Covid-19 patients, the first one - a woman - was released from the isolation ward of a hospital in Agartala on April 16 after she was found negative following consecutive tests.A Tripura State Rifles (TSR) soldier was also found posoitive for the Sars-CoV-2 coronavirus.“The second coronavirus positive patient tested negative on Thursday. He will be again tested on Friday. If reports come negative, we will release him from the hospital,” said Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-free-from-covid-19-cases-says-cm-biplab-deb/story-OGiO5w5ydWOG2PxpvuzzTN.html
25-04-2020||India||Lockdown brings back 90s ki #GarmiKiChutti, and how!||The lockdown has got everyone reminiscing about the 90s. Adults are waking up to the theme song of Doordarshan’s famous Mahabharat, and siblings — who are now working professionals — are back to playing chess, carrom and snakes and ladders, like they use to in their childhood. For some, the lockdown has brought back memories of their school summer vacations, thus compelling one to feel nostalgic of the time when garmi ki chuttiyan used to be the highlight of the year. “I live with my parents and grandparents, and this lockdown has brought back memories of my garmiyon ki chuttiyan,” says Meera Malkotia, a fashion designer who is living with her family in Gurugram amid the lockdown. She adds, “I am able to join dadi for the evening aarti at six because we don’t have to physically go to office for now. Dadi is so delighted that she treats us to aam panna, which she use to make for us in our childhood!” READ: This lockdown, Bollywood actors go from bored to boardSome city folks are revelling in all the time they’re able to get away from their hectic schedule, with their parents pampering them like they used to years ago. “It’s a hot summer morning. Mom is serving breakfast. Ramayan on the TV, and glasses of Rasna in our hand. Some ads on TV are also depicting a happy family. We’re having meals together. The blue skies can be seen from the windows like it was in our childhood, when the pollution was less. We also wait to watch Shaktimaan. Lockdown sure seems like a mother’s prayers being heard. It’s a perfect break from the chaos of the world,” says Soumyaa Shrivastava, a resident of Noida.READ: Virat Kohli beats Anushka Sharma in a game of ludo, she announces ‘I am not a loser’Some couples have also celebrated their wedding anniversaries, amid lockdown, in the 90s style! “Now that malls are closed and e-commerce sites are either out of stock or not delivering on time, I went old school to surprise my wife on our anniversary. I wrote a love letter to her in ink, and plucked flowers from our garden because I couldn’t get a bouquet delivered. She loved the gesture; it reminded her of the times when I used to gift her the plastic red rose from the Archies gift shop back in the 90s,” says Anukrit Gupta, a resident of Noida who recently celebrated his marriage anniversary amid the extended lockdown.Mothers are doing all that they can to make their children’s birthday special. Gurugram resident Ruchika Trivedi, mother of a 10-year-old, “Meri beti ka birthday tha and lockdown mein party was not possible. Toh maine, uske birthday ke liye, ghar par chole bhature, rasgulle aur aaloo patties banaye. It took me back to my teenage years, when birthdays weren’t celebrated at Pizza Hut or any other restaurant, but at home where mom used to cook. Lockdown gave me an opportunity to do the same for my daughter. Hope she appreciates it.”90s was a wonderful decade to live in, and while the lockdown might have slowed the paces of our modern lives, it has brought our evergreen memories back.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/lockdown-brings-back-90s-ki-garmikichutti-and-how/story-ghhE147DB6oIdKx5nMRZiP.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||When there is no cure, metrics such as the prevalence of infection and immunity in a population become important.Which is why the results of New York’s study of 3,000 people picked at random for an antibody test that were announced on Thursday are being studied around the world.With the caveat that there are still question marks over the first phase of antibody tests for Covid-19 — it turns out there have been issues with the first phase of antibody tests for pretty much anything, including HIV-AIDS — the study found that around 21.2% of the sample in New York City tested positive.Also read: In midnight order, Home Ministry allows neighbourhood shops to reopenNew York City may be an outlier given its population density (the corresponding proportion for the state, in the same study, was 14%), but the study, which needs to be validated across a larger population is very significant: it means the extent of the infection is much larger than previously measured; it also means the fatality rates are much lower (in fact, much, much lower).There’s long been a theory that the number of people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is actually higher than that reported — one that has gained currency following confirmation that many infected people are asymptomatic and 97% of the cases (according to worldometers.info ) are mild. In New York City, for instance, this would mean that around 1.8 million people have been infected, didn’t know about it, and either didn’t fall ill or fought off an all-too-brief illness.A similar study in France claimed that 6% of the French population was infected.The New York study is important because it shows that antibody tests can be used to gauge prevalence of disease in a population. Some countries also want to use these tests to decide how and when to open up — a person with antibodies should, in principle, be immune to the disease and can safely return to work. Experts aren’t so sure because not enough about Covid-19 is known to assess just how long people with antibodies will remain immune to the disease.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown: Finance panel calls for extra support to small businessesSuch tests, which are being refined and improved continuously, will also help measure if and when countries achieve herd immunity. This is the proportion of population that needs to be infected with the virus (and therefore become immune, at least in theory) to ensure that the virus doesn’t jump easily from person to person. Experts put the number at 60-65%.The studies from France and New York show that it will be a while before that number can be reached.Sars-CoV-2 is clearly a vexing virus — it is highly infectious, hasn’t mutated and weakened and died out like many other viruses before it have, and remains without a cure. Every promising line of prophylaxis and treatment has ended up failing. The latest among these is Gilead’s failed Ebola drug remdesivir. The Guardian reported that the drug didn’t work in its “first full trial”. A previous trial in China, the report added, came up with a similar result.Also read| Mandatory masks, no in-flight meals, restricted lavatory use: Delhi airport to reopen with all new rulesAdding to its vexatious nature is the discovery that while it infects more of a population than initially thought, the virus doesn’t infect enough to cause herd immunity.Now, everyone is pinning their hopes on a vaccine trial that began on Thursday in Oxford. The vaccine, which uses a weak strain of a virus that causes a cold in chimpanzees, has generated excitement after one of the scientists involved in its development, Sarah Gilbert of the Jenner Institute, told media last week that she was 80% confident of the vaccine’s success. Everyone is hoping she is right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Nv96Urk58r4g4vC43WqwZJ.html
25-04-2020||India||In midnight order, Home Ministry allows neighbourhood shops to reopen||In a late night move, the government on Friday night permitted opening of neighbourhood and stand alone shops, including those located in residential complexes within municipal areas, but at a 50 per cent strength and after taking necessary precautions in the light of coronavirus pandemic, which has infected over 23,000 and claimed 723 lives so far in India. The Delhi government, however, wants to put a hold on the order and take a call on April 27.However, shops in market places, multi-brand and single brand malls located in municipality areas shall continue to remain closed till May 3, the order released by Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) stated. The late night order, undersigned by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, will not apply to areas covered under the hotspots or containment zones. Also read: In tests at Delhi’s biggest containment zones, a 6/11 score raises hope#COVID19 updateAll registered shops regd under Shops & Establishment Act of respective States/ UTs, including shops in residential complexes, neighborhood & standalone shops exempted from #lockdown restrictions. Prohibited: Shops in single & multi brand malls pic.twitter.com/NNz9abgWdAThe order states that “all shops, including neighbourhood shops and standalone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT” will be allowed to open during the lockdown.As for shops in registered markets located outside the municipal corporations and municipalities, the order permits resuming operations after following the drill of social distancing and wearing of masks but with 50 per cent of strength.Also read: Month of lockdown impedes virus, a long battle lies aheadThe order issued on Friday amends the previous order issued by the Centre on April 15 which extended the 21-day nationwide lockdown further by 19 days till May 3. According to the latest order, shops will have to follow strict guidelines in order to function such as mandatorily 50 per cent of the workers will have to wear masks and following social distancing.As the move by MHA allows functioning of neighbourhood shops on a smaller scale, it still indicates relief for people who have been under lockdown since March 24 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Also read: Jaishankar dials counterparts in Middle East, assures supply of food, essentialsThe single and muti-brands shops will not be operational in these areas. “All shops registered under the the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State/UT, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, except shops in multi-brand and single brand malls, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, with 50 per cent strength of workers with wearing of masks and social distancing being mandatory” will be allowed to function. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-centre-takes-a-giant-leap-in-midnight-order-lets-local-shops-open-from-today/story-Z5nEdy2NkuyGhFD2MTlqjM.html
25-04-2020||India||6 vaccines in human trials bring hope of early Covid-19 relief||Human safety trials of a coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University began on Thursday even as Indian company Serum Institute of India started work on making the vaccine locally so as to be ready in case the trial succeeds. The trial began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with a new vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 . This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.If the trials are a success, scientists hope to have one million doses ready by September, and to dramatically scale up manufacturing after that.Watch | Covid-19: Why a vaccine is likely by end of 2020 Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with the Oxford University to manufacture the vaccine in India even as the trial starts. “SII plans to begin manufacturing the ChAdOx1 vaccine in anticipation of the clinical trials in the UK succeeding by September/October. SII will initiate the manufacture at its own risk to jump-start manufacturing and have enough doses available, if the clinical trials work,” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla.The trial will study whether the new vaccine is safe and can generate strong immune responses against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and protect healthy people from infection.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans. To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’ surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection.“This type of vaccine uses recombinant technology where you insert a gene for an important protein of the virus you want to build immunity to, into a weak virus that can safely infect human beings. Here it is the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 by which it enters cells, into a weak adenovirus. The expectation is that the weak recombinant adenovirus infection will cause antibody development against Sars-CoV-2 spike protein, thereby creating immunity,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.“The ChAdOx1 vaccine uses a modified adenovirus carrying the coronavirus spike protein like a Trojan horse to enter human cells. The cells start making and releasing spike proteins, and, bingo, the immune system responds,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The vaccine is safe and well tolerated, but some people may report mild and temporary side effects such as a sore arm at the injection site, headaches or fevers in the first couple of days after vaccination, said researchers. In the study, half of the healthy volunteers, between 18 and 55 years old, will receive the Covid-19 vaccine, and half a control vaccine, which protects against meningitis but not Covid-19.“By vaccinating with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, we are hoping to make the body recognise and develop an immune response to the spike protein that will help stop the Sars-CoV-2 virus from entering human cells and, therefore, prevent infection,” said researchers led by Prof Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group.Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Oxford University, told The Times last week that she was “80% confident” that the vaccine being developed by her team would work.“I think there’s a high chance that it will work based on other things that we have done with this type of vaccine. It’s not just a hunch and as every week goes by we have more data to look at,” she said.The ChAdOx1 vaccine platform has been used to produce vaccine candidates against many viruses, including those causing influenza, chikungunya, and zika. The Oxford group has used it to develop a vaccine against Middle-East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) coronavirus, which showed promising results in clinical trials.“Vaccines based on viral vectors offer a high level of protein expression, have long-term stability, and induce strong immune responses in humans, which make them highly effective,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Vaccine development against Covid-19 has progressed at an unprecedented pace and scale, with 78 projects reaching the active stage of development since China shared the genetic sequence of Sars-CoV-2 with the World Health Organization on January 12, 2020, according to the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), one of the world’s biggest public funders of vaccine development.Like the Oxford Vaccine Group, most developers are leveraging existing work on vaccines against Mers and rapid response platforms with 2019-nCoV genetic sequences inserted to speed up vaccine development. The research focus is on platforms based on nucleotides, which are the building blocks of genetic material, DNA and RNA, because of their potential for speed and flexibility for antigen manipulation. “The Oxford vaccine will be the third CEPI-funded vaccine to enter into phase 1 trials, along with Inovio’s INO-4800 DNA vaccine candidate and Moderna’s mRNA-1273 candidate... Producing a safe, effective, and globally accessible vaccine is our best hope in ending this pandemic. We aim to do this at a speed never before seen in vaccine development,” said Dr Richard Hatchett, chief executive officer, Cepi, in a statement.Cepi has initiated eight Covid-19 vaccine development projects with Curevac, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Moderna, Novavax, University of Hong Kong, University of Queensland, and a consortium led by Institut Pasteur, with a goal of having at least three vaccine candidates submitted to regulatory authorities for licensure for general use.“If an international vaccine trial is successful, its emergency use can be sanctioned globally. If a vaccine trial is well designed and successful anywhere in the world, it can be used as the virus is the same. Some other countries are more suitable for efficacy trials, but no regular trial approval is needed in India following emergency use approval,” said Dr Ganguly.Vaccine development, on an average, takes 10.71 years from the preclinical phase, and has a market entry probability of 6%, according to a study in PLOS One, a peer reviewed scientific journal.Adaptive and parallel vaccine development phases, innovative regulatory processes, and advanced scale up manufacturing capacity have helped fast-track development, which traditionally takes an average of a decade. Even accelerated efforts, such as that for the first Ebola vaccine, took five years.“Our goal is a vaccine before 18 months. Normally, it takes about a decade to develop a vaccine, but global partnerships (between health agencies, academics, donors, industries, nations and philanthropies) have helped hasten development of vaccines against emerging public health threats. A vaccine against Ebola took five years, the one against zika took less than two years. The global effort to develop a Covid-19 vaccine in less than 18 months is unprecedented and would be an amazing achievement,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organization, told HT on the phone from Geneva.The Oxford scientists ar hoping to cut even that optimistic estimate by two-thirds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-vaccines-in-human-trials-bring-hope-of-early-covid-19-relief/story-visLZbOv8tSYdAjFJZHGDN.html
25-04-2020||India||Self-reliance India’s biggest lesson from Covid, says PM||The coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) has offered India a valuable lesson on the importance of self-reliance and self-sufficiency, and the country, each state within it, each district within every state, and each village within every district must aspire to attain the twin goals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. The PM also praised rural India for maintaining the norm of social distancing, and offered a simple, yet effective slogan to illustrate the concept -- ‘do gaj deh ki doori’ (a distance of two yards) -- which, he said, attested to the wisdom of the people in the countryside. “This pandemic has thrown at us new challenges and problems which we have never imagined, but it also taught us a very good lesson with a strong message,” Modi said in an address through video conference to India’s 250,000 gram panchayat heads on National Panchayati Raj Day. “It has taught us that we have to be self-reliant and self-sufficient. It has taught us that we should not look for solutions outside the country. This is the biggest lesson we have learnt,” the prime minister said.The address was delivered 10 days before India emerges from an extended 40-day lockdown ordered by PM Modi to stop the spread of Covid-19, which has taken a heavy toll on the economy with residents confined indoors, industrial production coming to a halt, air and rail services suspended and public transport going off the roads.Restrictions have been loosened selectively in some areas from April 20. Global supply chains have been disrupted and all nations have become preoccupied with meeting their own challenges. Restrictions on travel and mobility have meant tight controls over the flow of goods, services and labour across international, state and district borders. Modi emphasised that the development of the nation and democracy hinges on the progress made by the panchayats at the grassroots. “Every village has to be self-sufficient enough to provide for its basic needs. Similarly every district has to be self-sufficient at its level, every state has to be self-reliant at its level and the whole country has to be self-reliant at its level,” he said.“The international economic order is changing; the possibility of greater economic cooperation is diminishing. So the PM is emphasising the need to leverage India’s inner potential. There is also a larger message — wherein the PM is conveying to people they are equal partners in development,” Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies said.Gram Panchayats are local, constitutionally empowered, political and administrative units of grassroots governance across villages in India. Panchayats are playing a key role in supporting the government’s outreach in vast belts of rural India to spread awareness about the coronavirus disease. Panchayats have also undertaken door-to-door campaigns; stitched masks; made hand sanitisers for local populations; and provided support to the local administrative and security machinery in both providing basic services to residents and enforcing the lockdown. With the rural population slowly going back to work — this is a busy time in the agricultural cycle and rural industries have been opened up in non-hot spot districts —securing public health throws up additional challenges. Negligence by even a single individual can endanger whole villages, Modi said, warning against any sense of complacence. He asked panchayat heads to provide accurate information about the disease to each family in the villages, ensure that every individual downloads the Aarogya Setu app that tracks Covid-19 cases and takes care of the elderly, disabled, and the poor while maintaining social distancing. The PM said that his government had worked to make panchayats stronger and villages self-reliant. “In the last five years, nearly 125,000 panchayats have been connected through broadband from a mere 100 before. Similarly, the number of Common Service Centres has crossed 300,000,” he said. On Friday, the Prime Minister launched the e-Gram Swarajya app and the Swamitva Scheme. E-GramSwaraj is aimed at helping prepare and execute gram panchayat development plans; the Swamitva scheme is aimed at mapping inhabited rural lands, using drones and other latest survey methods. “The scheme will ensure streamlined planning, revenue collection and provide clarity over property rights in rural areas. This will open up avenues for applying for loans from financial institutions by the owners. Disputes related to property would also be settled through the title deeds allotted through this scheme,” a government statement said.Minister for rural development Narendra Singh Tomar was also present during the PM’s video conference with gram panchayat representatives on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliance-india-s-biggest-lesson-from-covid-says-pm/story-MRmhLClsDjbkmma9CyFt2O.html
25-04-2020||India||Maharashtra bans roadside fish stalls, wholesale allowed amid Covid-19 crisis||The Maharashtra fisheries department has banned retail sale of fish at roadside markets in a 43-point standard operating procedure (SOP) for the trade on how to operate during the Covid-19 pandemic.Wholesalers can sell their catch while maintaining social distancing norms but retail fish sale by vendors across markets has been banned until further notice, to avoid crowds.“Safety of citizens is of utmost importance. The decision is mainly focused on fisherfolk who set up stalls at sections of the market, landing sites or main roads, to avoid overcrowding and chances of community transmission,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, state fisheries department. “It comes as a difficult decision as lots of fisherwomen are employed in such activities across the Konkan but we were left with no option following overcrowding incidents being brought to our notice by the police.” Fisherfolk have opposed the restrictions. “Fisherwomen across 350 such sites in the Mumbai region will be directly affected due to this decision. No such decision has been taken for vendors selling agricultural produce. We demand that the fisheries department withdraw this SOP,” said Damodar Tandel, president of a fishing group in Mumbai.While the department has banned retail fish vendors, it has approved door-to-door supply of fish while maintaining social distancing norms.Other restrictions include medical screening of fishing boat staff and monitoring of boat movement. A committee, chaired by the district collector and with members from the fisheries department , will issue permits based on valid identity proof, health documents, and information of family members, submitted through the Aarogya Setu mobile app. “This is being done across 91 fish landing sites and three major harbours [two in Mumbai and one in Ratnagiri] functioning currently,” said Jadhav. “A proposal for mandatory thermal testing is in its final stage of approval from the state, and will also commence soon.”Other rules include social distancing during fishing at sea. “Not more than three people as crew will be allowed for smaller boats or vessels. If any crew member has reported sick or developed any flu-like symptoms, fishing activities need to abandoned and the boat will return to the jetty immediately,” said Jadhav, adding that the fish caught should not be consumed or touched. The catch will be disposed of as per bio-medical waste disposal norms. “If any crew member tests positive, the entire crew will undergo mandatory isolation for a minimum of 14 days,” said Jadhav. “Overall sanitation, disinfection of boats, wearing masks and gloves under all four scenarios is mandatory.” According to the National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association (NPSFWA), Maharashtra fishermen have incurred losses over ₹800 crore over a month and had dumped 15,000 tonnes of fresh catch into the sea during the first two weeks of the lockdown. “The present guidelines are confusing and developed haphazardly. The state needs to first support the market by designing a supply-chain of how fish will be sold before drafting guidelines for fishing. By banning retail vendors, a source of income has been destroyed,” said Ganesh Nakhawa, chairman, NPSFWA, who is developing a supply-chain for door-to-door delivery.The Centre has also announced that there will be no relaxation for the annual fishing ban along the west coast from June 1 to July 31 – during the breeding season||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-bans-roadside-fish-stalls-wholesale-allowed/story-bs0EmzGaMNh816MD3Kty5L.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths cross 300 in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s death toll in the coronavirus disease outbreak passed 300 on Friday and the number of patients was within striking distance of 7,000 , but a medical expert said it was premature to judge that the state had entered the stage of community transmission after 32 days under lockdown.Maharashtra detected 394 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total to 6,817, including 5,279 in the . Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Eighteen more deaths -- 11 of them in Mumbai city -- vaulted the state’s death toll to 301. In Mumbai city alone, the case count went up to 4,447 as 242 new cases were registered on the day.The growing number of coronavirus cases despite the lockdown, which was imposed in the state at midnight on March 23, prompted the government of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to cancel all the relaxations that took effect on April 21 within a day.Even so, Friday’s increase in the number of cases was far lower than the 778, a record single-day jump, that had been reported on Thursday in Maharashtra .Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1,000 cases on April 7, and exceeded 2,000 in six days on April 13. From 2,000 to 4,000 cases on April 19, it took six days. But for the number of cases to rise from 4,000 to 6,000 cases, the state took only four days. Although the numbers are high, senior officials said the state was yet to reach the community transmission stage, and there had been no exponential growth in Covid 19 cases. Community transmission is deemed to have started when a person with no recent history of travel and no exposure to a Covid-19 patient tests positive for the disease, and the source of infection cannot be traced. “The two 14-day cycles of incubation of infection were completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22 when international traffic was stopped. We will have to wait for another seven days to see the rising trend,” said Dr T P Lahane, head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).“If the rise continues and if the number of fresh cases is rising more than 50% (over the previous day) on a daily basis then it can be called exponential growth and only then we can say that the stage of community transmission has arrived,” Dr Lahane said, adding that exponential growth too is of two levels -- one entails a 50% rise in daily cases and the other a doubling of cases. “If exponential growth continues, then the state government will also have to extend the lockdown period for another three weeks till May 24 to break the incubation cycle,” Dr Lahane said.One silver lining is that the mortality rate dropped significantly in Maharashtra to 4.40% on Thursday from 7.41% on April 13.To be sure, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.11% until Thursday.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is set to start clinical trials of plasma therapy after receiving approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to do so. In the beginning, the therapy involving use of the antibody-rich plasma -- a blood component -- of recovered coronavirus patients on people with the disease will start at Sassoon Hospital in Pune as permissions for other three hospitals in Mumbai, Nagpur and Solapur are still awaited. The state has also got permission for pool testing for Covid-19.“We have received permission from the Centre for conducting clinical trials of plasma therapy in the state. Once cleared by the ethics committee of the state, it is going to be started in the next 3-4 days at Sassoon Hospital, Pune. It will also be started at JJ Hospital in Mumbai, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Nagpur and Solapur Medical College in Solapur once permissions are in place,” said Dr Lahane.(With inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-cross-300-in-maharashtra/story-Hy48lggL2YIaCdWrp4tlQK.html
25-04-2020||India||Mumbai Covid-19 cases high due to aggressive testing: Govt||Mumbai reported 522 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day jump for any Indian city since the first coronavirus patient was detected in Kerala on January 30. Mumbai is also the Indian city worst hit by Covid-19, with 4,205 cases recorded until Friday morning. Since April 13 (242 cases in 24 hours), Mumbai has consistently recorded the highest one-day increase among Indian cities, with a single exception: April 17, when it reported 12 cases. Even the exception was because of the exclusion of private lab results and not an actual dip.Here are Mumbai’s single-day jumps for the last 10 days: April 14: 216; April 15: 140; April 16: 177; April 17: 12; April 18: 183; April 19: 456; April 20: 308; April 21: 419; April 22: 232; April 23: 522; April 24: 242.What explains the financial capital’s high Covid-19 numbers?Intensive contact tracing, testing and quarantining of high-risk individuals has contributed to the consistently high numbers, according to the health department officials of Maharashtra and Mumbai “Between 40% and 45% of our total cases are [the result of] efforts at contact tracing and fever camps in containment zones,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to BMC data on April 24, at least 400,000 people have been screened across 813 containment zones in the city (the number of containment zones increased to 930 on April 23), and at the airport since the Covid-19 outbreak. Simultaneously, Maharashtra’s health department has screened 2.726 million people across the affected districts. Nearly 2 million of these are in Mumbai.A senior BMC officer who asked not to be named said: “We have to consider the remaining 55% as well. These are coming from the untraced population, but the good thing is that many of them are coming voluntarily [for testing] and it is only later that our health officers realise that they are contacts of existing positive patients.”According to data analysis of positive patients by the Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), 81% of the state’s patients are asymptomatic. Mumbai’s numbers are similar (80%).Notably, although the cases are rising, the mortality rate in Maharashtra is dipping. On April 12, the city’s mortality rate was 7.41%. This reduced to 4.4% on April 23. On April 12, of the 1,996 patients detected, 148 had succumbed to the infection. Until Thursday night, Maharashtra recorded 6,427 cases with 283 deaths. Mumbai’s mortality rate has fallen too. On April 12, it was 7.09% (92 deaths and 1298 positives). This came down to 3.97% on April 23 (167 deaths and 4205 positives). “Identification and quarantining of high-risk contacts has been helpful in keeping Mumbai’s numbers realistic. We will see high figures, but there is no reason to panic because these are expected results of the intensive contact tracing and isolation programme in Maharashtra,” a state government health official said. “Besides, we are aggressively testing a large number of high-risk contacts.”As of April 23, Maharashtra had conducted 96,369 tests, of which 55,000 (or 57.07%) were in Mumbai alone, according to Pardeshi. Maharashtra has recorded 89,561 negative samples. The remainder are repeat tests. According to data available with states on per million tests till April 22, Andhra Pradesh leads Indian states with 830 tests per million (41,512 total tests till that day), followed by Tamil Nadu (781 per million, 53,045 total tests) and Maharashtra (665 per million tests). Gujarat is on the fourth spot with 604 per million tests (36,829 total tests).As of April 23, 11pm, the number of home-quarantined people in the state touched 114,398, while 8,702 were in institutional quarantine, according to data provided by the state health department. In Mumbai, a total of 98,000 people are in government-enforced quarantine — 92,000 at home (in containment zones and hot spots) and 6,000 in institutional quarantine facilities (hospital isolation wards, stadiums, sports complexes and hotels). Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said: “A significant proportion of Mumbai’s cases are of people that have already been quarantined and those that are under observation. The ones that are testing positive, BMC had already anticipated in some measure that they may have the virus.”“On any given day, between 70-80% of the city’s active cases are asymptomatic,” BMC deputy health officer Shah said on Thursday night, soon after the city’s highest one-day jump was announced. “It is a good thing that so many positive patients are asymptomatic, because they don’t easily spread the disease. They don’t cough or sneeze, and transmit it to someone else. In fact, these patients are adding to our collective immunity. It is the symptomatic ones we have to pay attention to. Not only because they spread it, but because they need medical attention, we need to treat their symptoms before they get worse and change into more complex conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cases-high-due-to-aggressive-testing-govt/story-BTsNdQvP2aaORGZV1fJFzO.html
25-04-2020||India||Bihar, J&K students still stranded in Kota||Patna/Kota: Most students, barring those from Bihar and Jammu & Kashmir, are expected to leave for their homes by April 27 from the coaching hub of Kota as their home states were arranging transportation for them, Rajasthan officials said on Friday.Around 35,000 to 40,000 students were stranded in Kota when the national lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 was announced on March 24. About 175,000 students enrol in Kota for coaching for admissions to medical and engineering colleges every year.About 18,000 students from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Daman and Diu have left Kota on buses arranged for them this week.Over 2,000 students from different parts of Rajasthan were also sent home, officials said. Over the next few days, students from Assam, West Bengal, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra were expected to return to their homes on buses arranged by these state governments.Jammu & Kashmir and Bihar are yet to make arrangements for about 11,000 students to return to their homes, officials said.The Bihar government on Thursday said it is sensitive to the plight of the stranded students but bringing them back amid the lockdown was not desirable and as it would amount to a violation of the Centre’s guidelines that bar interstate transport.A group of students from Bihar on Thursday sat on a hunger strike in Kota demanding that they be sent back home.“All state governments are taking back their students from Kota but the Bihar government is not listening to the students,” said Milan Jaiswal,18, a student. She added that her parents were under a lot of stress as she is stranded in Kota. Another student, Noor Shazima, 19, from West Champaran in Bihar, said she was under a lot of stress as no studies were happening and the coaching town looks like a ghost city as most students have returned. “Only a few of us are there. And, we do not know what will happen next.”Adnan Altaf, 19, a student from Jammu & Kashmir, said their families back home were very concerned and in a panic regarding the Covid-19. He said the government should help them return home.Bihar’s Congress leader Premchandra Mishra on Friday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s help in ensuring the return of Bihar’s students. “Leaving our students there when Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh governments are sending buses for students from their states is absurd. Chief minister Nitish Kumar should explain his compulsion in not helping these students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-j-k-students-still-stranded-in-kota/story-W2w6XRSfjCRGKxwO1JfqPP.html
25-04-2020||India||‘Parivarwaad, members are auditors’: Why Centre wants to acquire Delhi Gymkhana Club||The central government has cited “parivarwaad” (nepotism), financial irregularities, misuse of allocated land and issues related to membership as the primary reasons behind its move to acquire the Delhi Gymkhana Club. The ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) filed a petition, seen by the Hindustan Times, with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking to take over the premier club. The NCLT heard the petition through video-conferencing on Friday and set the next date of hearing for May 13, granting time to the Delhi Gymkhana board to file its response. The board sought the time to counter the government’s charges. “Some people who had applied for membership of the club and some member, filed a complaint with the MCA a few years ago,” said President of Delhi Gymkhana Club, Lt. Gen (retd). DR Soni. “We have been undergoing investigations by the MCA over the last three years.We received a petition, filed by UoI (Union of India) vs Delhi Gymkhana Club on 22nd, to appear before the NCLT, over video-conferencing, on 24th. The petition was incomplete in content and thus, our team of lawyers have sought more time to prepare our case, as the Club is currently in complete Corona lockdown.”“We need time to open our offices and prepare our case. The present Club management that has been petitioned by NCLT is barely six months old, while the alleged issues pertain to earlier times, so we have sought time,” he added.The Delhi Gymkhana, which shares a wall with the Prime Minister’s residence, has been under investigation for around three years. The first inspection report of MCA was submitted in March 2019 and a supplementary report in March 2020. According to the petition filed by the Government of India on Thursday, Delhi Gymkhana was registered under sections 25 and 26 of Companies Act in 1913, making it a “limited company” that is formed to promote art, commerce, science, religion, charity or any other useful theme. “The land was allocated to Delhi Gymkhana for sporting activities,” a person familiar with the matter, an official at MCA, said on condition of anonymity. “Instead only 2% of their accounts show expenditure on sporting activities. The club is being used for all purposes other than sporting activities. It has not produced a single international medal-winning athlete. This is misuse of land for purposes other than what it was allocated for.”“The government has alleged a misclassification of features,” said a former Gymkhana official. “It has alleged that money collected was not used for the purposes it was meant for. Hence, the government said the club was violating the terms of the land allotment.”The petition states that 30% of the expenditure of the company is in the form of catering consumables, wines, beverages and cigarettes.Moreover, it adds that Rajiv Jain, a member of the club, informed the President of the club that the “statutory auditors”, SN Dhawan and Company, appointed in 2013, are “ineligible” as they are “permanent members of the club”. “The auditors are members of the club,” confirmed the MCA official. “That is a conflict of interest.” The government’s petition also alleges arbitrary grant of membership. Membership is given after due election with a waiting list that stretches over years. The registration fee for government members is Rs 1.5 lakh and for non-government members, Rs 7.5 lakh. Government members pay Rs 5 lakh for a lifetime membership once elected, and non-government members, Rs 22 lakh.The government has alleged that the club is charging an “exorbitant amount for pending membership application where the moratorium on membership is at least three decades”. No interest is paid on the registration fee. Other than the 5,600 permanent members, and the categories mentioned in the club’s Articles of Association (AoA) , the club has also been granting non-permanent memberships to eminent people, holders of green cards, non-resident Indians, women, and Use of club membership pending elections (UCPs) (those whose membership has lasted 6-7 years and allowed to use the club pending an election other than those mentioned in the AoA), according to the petition. According to the petition filed by the Government of India on Thursday, Delhi Gymkhana was registered under Section 26 of Companies Act in 1913, making it a “limited company”. The petition adds that under section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956, it has to prove to the ‘satisfaction of the central government that it is formed to promote art, commerce, science, religion, charity or any other useful theme’. Moreover, the petition also mentions that under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, ‘sports, education, research and social welfare were added to the above list’. “It is to be noted that these green card holders have been enjoying preference in grant of memberships,” states the petition. “They primarily consist of dependents over 21 years of age of permanent members.”“Added to this is the fact that of the permanent members, 50% would be reserved for children of present members,” said the MCA official. “Others would have to wait 30-40 years to become members, while the children’s membership would be fast-tracked to five years by using a special queue. This is parivarwaad.” The government has also alleged misuse of power by officer holders . “In the interim, it has been proposed appointing an administrator from the government with a team of advisors till the Club is claimed by the government. Then elections can be held and the unauthorised members can be removed,” the MCA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gymkhana-club-to-fight-legal-battle-against-govt-takeover/story-2UxjRHw9BTpKcq4tQIa6ZN.html
25-04-2020||India||Maha coalition awaits guv’s call on CM Uddhav’s MLC nomination||Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition is anxiously waiting for governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s decision on the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as a legislative council member. Thackeray needs to become a member of either houses of the state assembly before May 28, when he completes six months as chief minister, to remain in office.Koshyari is consulting legal experts given the tenure of the nominated seat for which Thackeray’s name has been proposed ends on June 6, which is less than the one-year norm for filling such seats, while all polls have been deferred in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Representation of the People Act (RPA) mandates filling of vacancies in Parliament and state legislatures through bye-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of the vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term in relation to a vacancy is one year or more. The cabinet sent the recommendation to Koshyari on April 11 to nominate Thackeray as a member of the legislation council (MLC) from the governor’s quota after the Election Commission (EC) deferred all polls in view of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a nationwide lockdown since March 25.The governor can nominate anyone with “special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service” as an MLC under Constitution’s Article 171. There are two vacancies under this quota following the resignations of two members last year.The Bombay high court dismissed a petition last week seeking a stay on the state cabinet’s recommendation, saying the governor had the power to take a decision on it.Thackeray was sworn in on November 28 last year as the head of the coalition government of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has maintained that it is not against Thackeray’s nomination but insisted that he should have contested the election earlier. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said it did not look good to “pressurise” the governor amid the coronavirus crisis.The Congress and the NCP have urged the governor to accept the state cabinet’s recommendation and avoid a Constitutional crisis in the state, which is the worst-affected by the pandemic in the country. A Shiv Sena leader said the party is planning to move the Supreme Court if the governor does not take a call till May 15. “Our argument is clear. The country is going through extraordinary times in view of Covid-19 pandemic that has also led to the indefinite postponement of all the polls. While the EC is not holding the polls, the governor is not accepting the state cabinet’s recommendation. This is unfair,” he said on condition of anonymity.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has questioned the delay in the governor’s decision. “Koshyari’s affiliation with the BJP is not a secret, but this is not the time to indulge in politics.” Political analyst Abhay Deshpande said the governor should accept the cabinet’s recommendation because of the extraordinary situation in the country. “There are no hard and fast rules. It is entirely governor’s discretion. If he does not accept the recommendation, there will be political ramifications.”Deshpande said a delay in the decision could backfire on the BJP given that Thackeray has since gained huge popularity and sympathy due to his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. “The situation has changed since the time Uddhav ditched the BJP. There was not much sympathy with him that time. But his handling of the Covid-19 crisis has earned him praises from all quarters.”A BJP functionary said it is too soon to speculate. “Let the governor announce his decision after consulting legal experts,” he said. “There is no question of party politics here. The governor will take a call based on legal advice. But the Sena should have been aware of the provision [Article 164(4)] of the Constitution that allows a non-legislator to occupy a position in the council of ministers only for six months. They should have planned for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-coalition-awaits-guv-s-call-on-cm-uddhav-s-mlc-nomination/story-hxJUB5Q5xNb7LPrx2a6J1L.html
25-04-2020||India||Uttarkashi official suspended for booking toddlers over quarantine violation||A government official on Covid-19 duty decided to investigate over phone a violation of home quarantine by a group of people who returned to their village in the Uttarkashi district from Haryana, and in the process booked a six-month-old and a three-year-old, resulting in widespread outrage -- and his suspension. The suspended official, identified as Girish Singh Rana, an assistant engineer in the irrigation department, was deployed as Covid-19 magistrate by district magistrate (DM) Ashish Chauhan in Chinyalisaur area of the district to ensure home quarantine of people who return to the district, said local government officials. “The children and their parents returned to their village in the area along with 47 others and were asked to remain in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. However, it was found that they didn’t follow this. The Covid-19 magistrate Rana was asked to prepare a report of the violators for necessary action,” said Chauhan.Rana should have visited the village, but, according to Chauhan, conducted his investigation over phone. ” He didn’t get details about the age of the violators due to which the names of the two children were included in the list. Based on the report , a local revenue police officer booked 47 people including the two children for violating home quarantine and endangering lives of others while four others were booked by the regular police for the same.”Villagers came to know about the case registered against the two children and raised strong objection on it. The district administration ordered an inquiry into the incident. “During the inquiry when the revenue police officer asked Rana, he said his report was based on details collected over phone , without any ground visit. Considering it as a serious dereliction of duty, I immediately suspended him on April 2,” said Chauhan.A government official familiar with the matter said since the report is “bogus”, the cses against the adults would be “quashed” too. According to the district administration, about 5,700 people returned to Uttarkashi during the pandemic. Of this, 2,900 are no longer being monitored; 2,400 are still under surveillance after completing their home quarantine; and the rest are still under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarkashi-official-suspended-for-booking-toddlers-over-quarantine-violation/story-CYMZfE5PJEEDoTlTGj7SfM.html
25-04-2020||India||Rural minister Tomar meets with states to scale up flagship projects||With the nationwide lockdown nearing its end on May 3, and the government keen on extending concessions to more sectors of economic activities, the Union rural development ministry is eyeing ways to strengthen the rural sector that provides livelihood to a majority of Indians.Union rural development and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met his state counterparts through video conferencing Friday to discuss ways to scale up key flagship schemes such as the guaranteed employment programme MGNREGS, the rural housing scheme (PMAY-G), rural roads programme (PMGSY) and the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM).Tomar, who heads two crucial sectors that hold the key to rural growth, maintained the challenge presented by Covid-19 must be used as an opportunity to “strengthen rural infrastructure, create employment in rural areas and facilitate diversification of rural livelihoods.”His comments assume significance as tens of thousands of rural labourers have lost jobs and are either at home or in government-aided shelters currently. The supply chains are stretched and production process has been hit badly. Even some big states can’t maximise their opportunities in MGNREGS due to large areas coming under Covid-19 containment zones.Tomar’s comment came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the gram panchayats to become self-sufficient, indicating a major shift in the government’s approach to tap rural potential.The government has already released more than ₹36,000 crore to the states and Union territories this current fiscal, which includes ₹33,300 crore under MGNREGS to quickly pay all dues and help states start new works.Tomar reiterated that MGNREGS should focus on water conservation, water recharge and irrigation work. Under PMAY (G), the government wants to complete 48 lakh houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-minister-tomar-meets-with-states-to-scale-up-flagship-projects/story-zWTGxOUwBfkEgFqyXIoQ5M.html
25-04-2020||India||CMs’ wishlist: Interstate transport options, funds||Chief ministers, especially of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states, are likely to discuss inter-state transport of migrant labourers, an increase in their borrowing capacity and food for work programmes when Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets them through video-conference on Monday.This will be the third such meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers. While the meeting will deal with the Covid-19 pandemic in general, one of the main items on the agenda is likely to be whether the lockdown imposed to check its spread should continue beyond May 3.Most chief ministers want the lockdown to be lifted in districts not affected by the pandemic, even as differences remain on how the curbs should be enforced in the remaining areas.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his Andhra counterpart, YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, want the lockdown to be restricted to the containment areas and their buffer zones and not entire districts. Others like Maharashtra and Delhi chief ministers, Uddhav Thackeray and Arvind Kejriwal, want no relaxation in norms in entire Covid-19 affected districts. Officials in most BJP-ruled states said they will follow the Centre’s directions on the lockdown.Across multiple states, officials said chief ministers would submit detailed proposals on reviving the economy at the meeting and seek economic stimulus for small and medium scale industries. Reopening of industries is seen as an important step in dealing with the growing concern over joblessness among migrant workers. Distress calls from migrant workers have reduced in states where industries have reopened after the Centre’s conditional permission for reopening them in rural areas outside the Covid-19 zones following the extension of the lockdown until May 3. “In Assam, where industrial activities started from April 20, the calls for bringing back migrants have fallen,” a Bihar government official said on condition of anonymity. Chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded migrant labourers to return home. “Whenever the lockdown is lifted, there will have to be a definite plan for the migrants, maybe through special trains so that they can be tracked, screened and quarantined accordingly,” the Bihar official said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also sought special trains for bringing back workers to his state.Officials in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Haryana said they will seek additional relaxations for factories including making in-situ lodging for workers voluntary and allowing them to run in multiple shifts. Reopening of liquor vends is likely to be sought by most states. Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu are likely to demand the reopening of automobile sector supply chains as well as showrooms. Officials in West Bengal and Bihar said they are likely to seek full resumption of work in the tobacco industry as it employs around 15 million women. Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh want the information technology industry to fully function in non-Covid-19 regions with social distancing and hygiene norms in place. The states are expected to raise the issue of their worsening financial condition. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is likely to seek the release of the state’s Goods and Services Tax arrears worth Rs 4,400 crore for the last four months and also an interim compensation of Rs 3,000 crore for April, said a state government official.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has sought implementation of the Finance Commission’s recommendation of giving 42% of the Central taxes to the states as against 41%. The commission reduced the funding to states citing slower than expected for the current fiscal. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Thursday said the Centre needs to help the state financially. “I will request the PM to take states into confidence while making changes in the monetary policy and defer payment of loans taken by the state governments,” Rao said. He insisted the Centre must relax the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management rules to increase the borrowing limits of the states. An Andhra government official said Reddy too will raise the issue of a cut in central tax devolution for April and seek compensation for the same. He added the state has lost revenue of about Rs 15,000 crore in March and April. Officials said Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are likely to demand food for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.Kerala is expected to seek flights to bring back around two million expatriates, mostly from West Asia. The state will also ask for a special financial package, said a Kerala government spokesperson. Several chief ministers are expected to raise the issue of the shortage of personal protective equipment and testing kits. “Our chief minister [Mamta Banerjee] will raise the issue of not enough testing kits and faulty rapid testing kits...,” said a West Bengal official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-wishlist-interstate-transport-options-funds/story-hNV5s7xBXQLbrGtL7TZtlK.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India, Gulf talk essentials’ supply, economic recovery||Uninterrupted supply of food and essential items from India to West Asian states and the role of energy security in post-Covid-19 economic recovery figured in external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s recent conversations with his counterparts from several Middle East countries.Negative social media posts from fake handles that went viral in some West Asian countries also figured in the conversations, where Jaishankar and his counterparts agreed that these efforts were aimed at impacting the special relations between India and countries in the Middle East, people familiar with developments said on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe welfare of some 8 million Indian expatriates in West Asian states – who account for annual remittances of about $40 billion – also figured in Jaishankar’s conversations with his counterparts, including those from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Jaishankar had telephone conversations with the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia and Oman on Thursday and with the foreign ministers of Qatar, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Palestine on Friday. He earlier spoke to his counterparts from Bahrain, Kuwait and Algeria.These conversations were a follow-up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s telephone discussions with leaders of GCC countries such as Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Oman and the leaders of Palestine, Jordan and Egypt. Modi’s conversations emphasised the “strong bilateral relations and the priority attached by India to ‘Think West’ in its foreign policy”, said one of the people cited above.“The Gulf countries import large quantities of food and other essential items from India, and the special efforts made by us to ensure uninterrupted supply of these items was appreciated by the external affairs minister’s counterparts,” the person said.“The post-Covid-19 economic recovery, particularly its energy implications, came up for discussion as India is a key market for crude oil coming from West Asia,” the person added.The people said negative social media posts from fake handles, such as the one impersonating an Omani princess, had “come in for adverse attention” from West Asian governments. “Both sides realise that such attempts are intended to create discord in the special relations between India and countries of the region,” said the person cited above.The West Asian states, the people pointed out, are very sensitive to attempts to create social disharmony and have zero tolerance in such matters.Over the past few days, a handful of Indians were either fired from their jobs or faced legal action in the UAE over their social media posts that were deemed Islamophobic. Princess Hend Faisal al Qassemi, a member of the UAE’s royal family, criticised these social media posts and emphasised India’s secular background. The Omani princess issued a clarification that she had no connection to the fake tweet from an account impersonating her.Jaishankar’s counterparts from GCC countries appreciated the contributions made by Indians to the growth and prosperity of those nations. “These countries have been very supportive and have gone the extra mile in taking care of the welfare of Indians in these trying times and the external affairs minister expressed his deep gratitude for their efforts,” a second person said.Many West Asian countries have sought essential medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol from India to support their efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic. India has already supplied or is in the process of providing these medicines to Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Egypt and Palestine as humanitarian aid and on a commercial basis, the people said.At the request of Kuwait, India deployed a rapid response team comprising doctors, nurses and paramedics to train and exchange best practices with local professionals for the containment and treatment of Covid-19. India has also helped the embassies of West Asian states to evacuate their citizens from different parts of the country.The foreign ministers of some Middle Eastern countries requested that their medical personnel currently in India should be allowed to go back, and Jaishankar has assured them this matter will be given sympathetic consideration, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gulf-talk-essentials-supply-economic-recovery/story-cB6o1yOLjH5g0ujIe952WK.html
25-04-2020||India||Promising antiviral trial hits roadblock||What had been thought to be a promising antiviral drug to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was found to offer no benefits to patients or prevent death, according the draft findings of clinical trials in China that were accidentally published by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on its website on Thursday.“The Chinese study, which will soon be published, was inconclusive. We have to wait for larger studies,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based WHO, told HT.Remdesivir, an experimental drug developed by US-based biopharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences Inc. displayed no positive impact in the clinical trials conducted in China, according to the trial findings that caused shares of the company to drop sharply.“In this study of hospitalised adult patients with severe Covid-19, [which] was terminated prematurely, remdesivir was not associated with clinical or virological benefits,” said the draft result of the first randomised clinical trial of remdesivir, which was posted online by the WHO and first accessed by Stat, a health-oriented news website.The agency quickly took the report off its website, saying it had posted the findings by mistake and that the manuscript was still under peer review. Gilead Sciences told Stat that the document had mischaracterised the study.In a statement, WHO spokesperson Daniela Bagozzi, said: “A draft manuscript was provided by the authors to WHO and inadvertently posted on the website and taken down as soon as the mistake was noticed. The manuscript is now undergoing peer review and we are waiting for a final version before WHO comments on it.”The trial found remdesivir did not improve the condition or prevent death when administered to 237 Covid-19 patients.The drug was given to 158 patients, whose progress was then compared with 79 others given a placebo. A month later, 13.9% of the patients given the drug died, compared to 12.8% of those on the placebo. “Remdesivir was not associated with clinical or virological benefits,” said the trial summary.The trial was stopped early because of side effects, said the study. “Remdesivir was stopped early in 18 (11.6%) patients because of adverse effects, compared with 4 (5.1%) in the control group.” There were no details in the short report on the side effects that caused the trial to be halted.Remdesivir, which inhibits viral RNA polymerases, has shown in-vitro activity against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The drug had failed Ebola trials in Africa, and China had halted two trials for remdesivir, saying that there weren’t enough patients to fully enrol in the studies.“Remdesivir is part of the WHO’s multi-country solidarity trial that is comparing four promising treatment options against standard care to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19. We were following it, but haven’t started use in India,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta-the Medicity, where patients are being treated in Covid-19 isolation ward since March 4.The other drugs being tested are chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir with ritonavir; and lopinavir with ritonavir plus Interferon beta-1a. Until there is sufficient evidence, the WHO cautions against physicians and medical associations recommending or administering these unproven treatments to patients with Covid-19 or people self-medicating with them.India is a part of solidarity trial, but the Indian Council of Medical Research has not approved remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment in India. “A Gilead study found reduced oxygen support in about 68% of the Covid-19 patients, but it was an observational study of patients being treated with it on compassionate grounds, and {NOT} a clinical trial. There is not enough evidence to suggest it works, so when we have clinical evidence that shows it working then we will act accordingly,” said Dr. Raman Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR.A study of remdesivir on a compassionate-use basis to patients hospitalized with Covid-19, who had an oxygen saturation of 94% or less while they were breathing ambient air or who were receiving oxygen support,found clinical improvement in 68% patients, according to a Gilead Sciences-funded study published in The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) on April 10.In India, only the angti-malarial drug hydrocxycloroquine has received the ICMR’s approval for treatment of severely ill Covid-19 patients, but some hospitals have begun giving plasma therapy as part of registered clinical trials.India took the antivirals lopinavir and ritonavir off the Covid-19 treatment list after it was found to offer no benefit compared to standard care, according to a study published in the NEJM on March 18.In the absence of a specific treatment for Covid-19, most clinicians depend on using antimalarial hydrocxycloroquine along with an antibiotic to treat people hospitalised in isolation wards.“It is all we have. All patients in isolation wards are given a combination of hydroxychloroquine twice a day and azithromycin once a day for five days, and it has been tolerated well. No adverse reactions have been reported,” said Dr Mehta.Gilead Sciences shares fell 4.34% to $77.78 on the Nasdaq following the report’s publication. In a statement, Gilead Sciences said the study had been terminated early because of low enrolment Stat news and “underpowered to enable statistically meaningful conclusion.” “There are multiple ongoing Phase 3 studies that are designed to provide the additional data needed to determine the potential for remdesivir as a treatment for COVID-19. These studies will help inform whom to treat, when to treat and how long to treat with remdesivir. The studies are either fully enrolled for the primary analysis or on track to fully enroll in the near future,” the statement said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promising-antiviral-trial-hits-roadblock/story-3otpIB9M1UBK7tjCMwq7NN.html
25-04-2020||India||Govt, RBI must take bold decisions, not incremental measures: Amit Mitra||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra is an economist by both training and practice. A Ph.D scholar from Duke University in the US, Mitra is an ardent advocate of developmental economics. In this difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic, in a telephonic interview with Hindustan Times, he says that the role of the Centre is to live up to the true spirit of cooperative federalism and take all possible measures to boost the sagging economy without worrying about breaching the laid-down fiscal deficit glide path. Edited excerpts: The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has slashed India’s economic growth to 1.9% in the current year when the global economy would contract by 3%. What do you suggest to boost the growth?This is an unprecedented situation and the Central government should come up with a comprehensive plan to boost the economy, which is a must to check rising unemployment, poverty and hunger. The Centre must announce a package of 6% of GDP as suggested by the CM [Mamata Banerjee] to the PM [Narendra Modi]. This is around Rs 10 lakh crore.The Union government and the Reserve bank of India must come out of their ‘Lakshman Rekha’ and take bold decisions, not incremental measures. There must be a big bang announcement. A substantial stimulus is a must, and also possible, because India has headroom to borrow. Compared to many developed countries, India’s debt-to-GDP ratio is less than 70%, while it is 106% for USA and 240% for Japan. Besides, international oil prices are subdued, which is in favour of a country like India that imports more than 80% of its crude oil requirements. Another source of headroom is India’s large foreign exchange reserves. The Centre must leverage these incidental advantages now and stop worrying about the fiscal deficit at a time when the question is of survival. The government must provide money in the hands of the poor, who are fighting to survive. About Rs 4 lakh crore could be transferred to the states which have the capacity to digitally transfer the requisite money into the bank accounts of the poor. In West Bengal, all disbursements are done digitially, no cheques or cash is used in our treasury. The poor must be provided free ration as we have done in West Bengal providing rice and wheat at zero price from ration shops. What about the formal sector?Industry is facing both demand and supply challenges as supply channels have broken down. The stimulus will help in creating demand and provide liquidity in the system. It can even be considered to provide what is internationally {done during such times} -- 80% salary of the works paid {for} by the corporate sector during the lockdown is borne by the government. This will allow the retention of the worker and this human capital can be quickly put on use when the Covid-19 pandemic is over.The liquidly crunch is acute, particularly for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). It calls for soft loans for a period of four years with a moratorium on repayments and interest for at least the first year. This will give them the breathing space. Similarly, other formal sectors need calibrated support. Sectors like aviation, hospitality, tourism, and non-essential retail have been almost crippled due to the lockdown.What is your assessment of economic growth post Covid-19?It is difficult to predict at this juncture when even developed countries are unable to give any precise answer when this [the pandemic] will end. If the pandemic ends by October and with adequate policy and fiscal stimulations, India could see at best 1% GDP growth. But if the pandemic continued for longer, it will have direct impact on GDP, which may even contract, posting negative growth.Is Centre providing enough financial support to the states, particularly to West Bengal?The Centre is not as responsive as it should have been in an ideal cooperative federalism and at a time when states are fighting a pandemic. Finance minister [Nirmala Sitharaman] has not replied to any of my letters, though I had one conversation with her. I have written eight letters, highlighting some genuine concerns of states and precarious financial positions they are suffering from. Of course, one or two suggestions have been accepted partially. An ideal cooperative federalism must encourage a culture of dialogue. States are the real implementers of policies and welfare programmes. They must be considered as part and parcel of a united India.Are you referring to the controversy regarding the interministerial central teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal?The Centre’s decision to send two interministerial central teams to West Bengal was done without consulting the state government. This is a breach of federalist protocol. The Centre’s move was not in the right spirit of cooperative federalism. We are also unable to understand why particular districts had been chosen. In terms of both -- number of [Covid-19] cases, and the rate of increase – Ahmedabad in Gujarat had a far larger numbers of cases and faster rate of increase. But it was not on the Centre’s radar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rbi-must-take-bold-decisions-not-incremental-measures-amit-mitra/story-p7Y0uhyJQJnKbQuwNuyoAP.html
25-04-2020||India||Govt to probe if Prashant Kishor took cargo flight to Kolkata, he denies charge||The Centre is investigating allegations that election strategist Prashant Kishor hopped on to a cargo flight from New Delhi to Kolkata, government officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The enquiry follows news reports that the election strategist was urgently summoned by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for consultations even as the state and the Centre traded charges over the former’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have begun an enquiry and asked the airports to check whether Kishor defied lockdown orders and attempted to take a flight. Information has been sought from the airlines as well,” a senior civil aviation ministry official said on condition of anonymity. Denying the allegation, Kishor said the media reports are false. “I have not been to any airport after March 19. If anyone has any information contrary to this, they must put the details in the public domain.”  Kishor flew out of Kolkata on March 19 after a series of meetings with the state government. The lockdown was announced a few days later. “We have asked airlines who were operating cargo flights to Kolkata and they have denied any involvement,” a senior official at the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on condition of anonymity.Both international and domestic passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 22 and March 25, respectively. Only cargo flights have been allowed to operate. Thus far, 347 cargo flights have operated since the lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has pulled up the West Bengal government over its handling of the lockdown and the Covid-19 crisis in the state in at least three letters written in the past week. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hired the Kishor-led I-PAC in June last year after the the Lok Sabha election. The BJP won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state, only four fewer than the TMC’s 22. In July, I-PAC kicked off an outreach campaign – ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ (Tell Didi) with the aim to reach out to at least 80% of the 16 million crore households in West Bengal over the following 20 months. The assembly elections in the state are scheduled for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-probe-if-kishor-took-cargo-flight-to-kolkata-he-denies-charge/story-CKN5Lzh48SHSPauZ7z4KXN.html
25-04-2020||India||Some export units to resume work in Gujarat amid lockdown 2.0||From Saturday, export units in located in districts of Gujarat not affected by Covid-19, will resume operation, an official from the Gujarat Chief Minister’s Office said. On the day when 191 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Gujarat, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,815, the government decided to lift the curfew from Ahmedbad, Surat and Vadodra, the three most affected districts. “Now the curfew has been lifted from all the three districts of state. But there will still be a tight implementation of the lockdown until May 3,” said Gujarat police director general of police Shivanad Jha.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said the situation was fast coming under control and a decision has been taken to test all pregnant women in Covid-19 hotspots areas even if they don’t any Covid symptoms.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to chief minister Vijay Rupani, said: “In the first phase, factories that have pending export orders will be allowed to start operations provided they are not in Covid containment zones.”Almost 90% of the 800 large and 4.53 lakh small and medium factories in Gujarat have pending orders and close to 70% of them are not in containment zones, government officials said.Purvin Mariyankari, director, Ahmedabad Export Import Development Association (AEIDA), welcomed the order , but said that business would sill be affected as there is not much demand internationally.“Gujarat accounts for 25% of India’s total exports in sectors such as pharmaceuticals, textile, ceramics, chemicals, gems and jewellery, even auto components,” Mariyankari said. About 80% of the salt and 70% of jewellery exported from India is from Gujarat.He said total exports from the Gujarat in 2018-19 stood at US$ 67.4 billion. “The export industry has already witnessed US $ 846 million fall in exports in February 2020 as compared to the same month in 2019 because of the slowdown.” Shailesh Patwari, former president of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said it would be difficult to operate the industries in absence of workers. “Mostly, migrant workers from states such as Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh works in the export units and about 70% of them have already gone back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-export-units-to-resume-work-in-guj/story-j0WqreH3BcrDbYfSzlfcqL.html
25-04-2020||India||At least nine RPF personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Bengal||At least nine Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel out of a group of 28 people who recently travelled on board a special train from New Delhi to West Bengal have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official statement said on Friday.The ministry of railways said that the 28 RPF personnel travelled by the special parcel train and later took a bus to Kharagpur in West Bengal on April 14. Out of these, nine RPF personnel were detected to have contracted Covid-19.“It is also clarified that these RPF personnel, while undertaking journey, did not come in contact with any public. There has not been any violation of the guidelines issued for management of Covid-19 by the central government or any state government. Nonetheless, a fact-finding committee has been constituted to ascertain the circumstances under which some of the RPF personnel of the contingent got infected,” the railway ministry said in a statement.“The RPF contingent of South Eastern Railway (SER) left Kharagpur for Anand Vihar on March 19 by train number 12443 with a purpose to collect ammunition for RPF of the South Eastern Railway zone. The contingent arrived at Anand Vihar on March 20.The ammunition collecting contingent arrived at Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) 6 Battalion (BN) Dayabasti to deposit arms on 20th March 2020,” it added.Passenger rail services have been suspended since March 22 and a national lockdown is in place since March 24 to control Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The government said that the members of the contingent, therefore, stayed from March 19 to April 12 at the RPF’s barracks in Dayabasti, Delhi.“It was decided to run parcel special trains for transportation of essential goods during lockdown. Subsequently, the parcel special trains started from March 31. Since there was scarcity of ammunition with RPF in SER, the ammunition collecting contingent was advised to move by suitable parcel train from Delhi. It is pertinent to note that the on duty movement of armed forces was exempted from the restrictions imposed during the lockdown,” the ministry said.An official said on condition of anonymity that the test results of four others were still awaited.The contingent collected their arms and stock of ammunition on April 12 and proceeded by a parcel special train on April 13 from New Delhi railway station to the Howrah Junction railway station in Kolkata. They reached Howrah on April 14 around 8am and boarded a bus to Kharagpur, officials said. “Staff posted at en-route stations deboarded from the bus during the road journey. They were quarantined in respective barracks. Rest of the staff with ammunition were taken to Kharagpur. The bus arrived at Kharagpur at 13.30 hrs of 14th April. One constable boarded another parcel train from Kharagpur and reached Balasore on 14th night. He was also quarantined like other staff. He developed slight fever on 15th and was taken to Government Hospital Balasore on April 16 where he was tested positive,” the ministry said.Subsequently, he was kept in quarantine in a separate room at the RPF barracks in Balasore, Odisha, and tested positive on April 20. After that, the rest of the staff was tested, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-nine-rpf-personnel-test-positive-in-bengal/story-KAkSkdxbeSYQ985CmIsGdP.html
25-04-2020||India||No shortage of kits in Bengal: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday refuted West Bengal’s claim that the state’s Covid-19 testing process has been hampered because it has not been supplied with any testing kits.“This is not true as the primary Covid-19 testing laboratory, that tests maximum samples, in West Bengal is ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Disease (NICED), and it has been regularly conducting tests. On April 22 alone, the lab tested 634 [552 new and 82 repeat] samples, with 50 confirmed positive among the new samples tested,” said a senior ICMR official who asked not to be namedThe clarification from India’s apex biomedical research organisation came after West Bengal health and family welfare department this week said that as of April 22 ICMR/NICED had supplied it no kits to conduct tests as per the ICMR’s recommendation. “Three types of ICMR-supplied Covid-19 test kits and their present status in Bengal: 1)Rapid Testing kits- they are being held back on account of poor functioning as per ICMR advisory. 2)BGI RT—PCR kits- they are being withdrawn as per communication from National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Disease (NICED) on April 21. 3)Antigen kits- Not supplied to hospitals in Bengal...,” the department tweeted. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Centre of maligning the state and spreading “canards” about its testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state.The state and the Centre clashed this week after central teams were constituted to assess the Covid-19 situation in West Bengal, which has drawn flak for mishandling the situation, not enforcing the lockdown strictly and for low testing.The spokesperson said NICED is also one of ICMR’s regional kits storage depots. “The institute keeps releasing kits to eight other testing labs in the state every two days or as per their requirement.”According to ICMR data, NICED had sent 17,100 screening kits and 2,000 confirmatory kits until April 22 to the eight Covid-19 laboratories in the state apart from the main NICED lab to conduct real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. NICED has an additional supply of 22,300 testing kits in stock that can be distributed even at a short notice, the ICMR official quoted above, said.He added that the states have only been asked to stop rapid testing for the time being as experts were field-testing the kits currently because of the huge variation in results.  ICMR said no RT-PCR kit is faulty, and blamed handling issues for the problems reported from a couple of testing labs in Kolkata. “The RT-PCR kits are from many companies. The problems in one or two Kolkata labs were found to be in the BGI kits but that was not because the kits were faulty; rather they weren’t stored properly. These kits are heat sensitive, and if they are not stored under 20 degrees temperature, then the enzyme it contains degrades and test results won’t be accurate. These are also being replaced,” said the spokesperson. “All other labs are doing fine; none has complained so far. As for antibody-based tests they have been stopped across the country for time being.” ICMR said it has strengthened 16 depots across the country to ensure a smooth supply of kits. “There may be some logistical issues that the depots face in transportation these days because of restricted movement which may delay supplies sometimes, but to say that nothing is being supplied to the labs is wrong. The same kits are being supplied everywhere, why should only a particular state have a problem,” the official said.The Centre on Tuesday put on hold the use of antibody-based rapid testing kits for testing Covid-19 as many states complained that they were faulty and giving inaccurate test results. West Bengal chief secretary Rajiv Sinha on Friday did not comment on the ICMR claims and reiterated that ICMR has failed to provide sufficient RT-PCR kits to the state and the kits provided were faulty. The minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya said: “The state health department will respond. I am not aware.”“It is not true,” was response of a senior scientist at one of the 12 authorized laboratories in West Bengal to ICMR’s claim that the kits were not kept in right temperature. “We maintained the right temperature. I believe the kits supplied by ICMR-NICED were defective and other states have also complained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortage-of-kits-in-bengal-icmr/story-nCkOpL6f78uwUm3cLuzSLI.html
25-04-2020||India||Inspection teams rushed to Guj, TN & Telangana to control Covid-19 spread||The Centre is deputing interministerial to three more states -- Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu -- to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control the coronavirus disease and violations of lockdown regulations, the home ministry said on Friday, amid a bitter row with West Bengal over the alleged targeting of opposition-ruled states . The ministry said the situation was “especially serious” in major hotspot districts or emerging hotspots like Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat, Hyderabad in Telangana and Chennai in Tamil Nadu besides Thane in Maharashtra, where two teams have already been dispatched.The Interministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) will focus on a range of issues, including implementation of and compliance with lockdown measures,the preparedness of health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions in relief camps set up for migrant workers and the poor. The teams will be headed by additional secretary rank officers and comprise public health and disaster management specialists.Earlier this week, the Centre had sent six IMCTs – two each to Maharashtra and West Bengal, and one each to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh -- for a spot assessment of the situation in the hotspots in the four states.The Centre had a run-in with West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress government, which reluctantly agreed to host the teams; it said that while the states were waging a battle against the coronavirus disease, the Centre was fighting the states.“About 70%-80% of the districts chosen for the Central teams’ visits are from states ruled by opposition parties. Why is no district from Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat a part of the list,” the party’s Derek O’Brien, who is a Rajya Sabha member, asked.The central team overseeing Mumbai-Pune has been asked to expand its inspection to Thane district in Maharashtra as well.Sharing the feedback sent by the IMCTs that toured Mumbai and Indore, two cities where the number of Covid-19 cases has spiked, home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said: “The Indore team has reported that there are 171 containment zones in the city, of which 20 are very critical”.The official added that the team visited the hotspots and had a detailed discussion with officials involved in contact tracing and so on. “The team found that there were adequate testing kits, PPE {personel protective equipment}, masks and other safety equipment available. Lockdown is being followed properly and safety of health infrastructure and safety of healthcare workers is being ensured,” Srivastava added.She said that the Indore team also interacted with farmers, the disabled, traders, non-government organisations, medical colleges, and migrant labourers in camps. The Indore team, Srivastava added, found the government had provided a facility whereby farmers could sell their produce at the minimum support price without visiting farm markets, decongesting the usually crowded markets.The Mumbai IMCT visited the slums of Dharavi and suggested the installation of portable toilets in the densely populated area to augment community toilets.Srivastava said the Mumbai team had also suggested arranging institutional quarantine for 2,000 -3,000 people; increased testing capacity and reinforcing the strength of surveillance teams using volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspection-teams-rushed-to-guj-tn-and-telangana/story-SO1OrBoEwj7vDRE7jK9e2I.html
25-04-2020||India||Central team finds lapses in Bengal’s Covid-19 response||One of the two  Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess the on-ground situation there in terms of dealing with Covid-19 has highlighted several anomalies in its letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha: a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards; the possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for four hours; and the lack of social distancing at hospitals. In a separate letter to the chief secretary, the IMCT has also asked for details on a committee of doctors set up to declare cause of death for Covid-19 patients and time taken by the committee in coming to its conclusion. West Bengal has asked the panel to consider co-morbidities (associated health conditions) while deciding the cause of death, unlike most other states which ascribe Covid-19 as the cause of death in the case of patients sufferIng any co-morbidity (such as diabetes or heart disease). Hindustan Times has seen a copy of the letters dated April 23, 2020; the observations by the IMCT are based on an inspection of two hospitals in Kolkata. The IMCT has also sent its observations to the ministry of home affairs. The IMCT letters were written by Apurva Chandra , the team leader. The first letter also sought details of the testing capability of the state , and of people who returned to Kolkata from overseas destinations till March 8. The West Bengal government, in its response, said it is looking into the observations made by the central team. “As some issues were related directly to health department, I have forwarded those queries to the state health secretary. He will respond. We are always ready to answer. They (the Central teams) have not come here as inspector or auditors. We do not have to pass any exam,” Sinha said. He also claimed that the expert committee to audit Covid-19 related death cases was set up as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Till date the committee, which was formed on April 3, has audited 57 cases. Out of this, 18 have died directly because of Covid-19. In 39 cases, severe comorbid conditions were found to be immediate cause of death, while Covid-19 was incidental finding,” Sinha said.The exchange is the latest in the ongoing war of words between West Bengal, whose Trinamool Congress government is headed by Mamata Banerjee, and the Centre. Banerjee has previously accused the Centre of providing it with inadequate and defective kits; the state also initially objected to the creation of the IMCTs by the home ministry pointing out that five of the original six IMCTS created were for regions in states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rivals. “The teams have been created with ulterior motive of doing politics with the opposition ruled states,” the West Bengal chief minister said, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 22, claiming that sending the teams was ‘undesirable’ and a ‘breach of established protocol’.Till Friday, Bengal reported 514 positive cases and 18 deaths. The state has carried out about 7,990 tests. In the past one week, Bengal has tested 800 people per day. Sinha said the testing capacity is being increased to 1,000 tests every day. Till Thursday evening, the state has tested 199 people per million, lagging behind most large states. The India average is 370 per million. The IMCT visited Chitranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) and MR Bangur hospitals in Kolkata, dedicated for Covid-19 patients, on Thursday.In his first letter, Chandra wrote: “There were a large number of patients in isolation wards of CNCI as well as Bangur hospital awaiting Covid test results for five days or longer. Specifically at CNCI, there were four patients, since April 16 awaiting test result, two since April 17 and 3 since April 18. Some of the patients have tested negative. It is not clear why the test results should take such a long time and there is a danger of Covid negative patient acquiring the infection in the hospital while awaiting his test result.”The team further observed: “The patient admission at Bangur hospital appears to be chaotic. There was no social distancing in the waiting area. Two patients appear to be in very poor health but there was no medical support available.” It also said that patients at Bangur are sometimes referred from other medical facilities. “However, it seems the patients are left on their own to report to the hospital and are not escorted. This would always leave the scope for some patients not turning up or delaying reporting to the hospital.”It noted that there were only 12 ventilators at Bangur hospital which caters to 354 serious Covid-19 patients. The team said it was informed by hospital authorities that in case a ventilator is not available and ventilator support is required for a patient, the patient is transferred to some other facility. Sinha said the response of the health department has been sought on all these issues. After social media posts claimed dead bodies were lying on beds in a ward, IMCT asked about the matter on the spot and said in its letter that “it is possible that dead bodies were lying on bed in a ward as it takes at least four hours to issue a death certificate, after which the body is shifted to mortuary”. It has asked the state government for details. Sinha refuted the claims of the dead bodies not being removed from the hospital beds and said the test reports were coming without the time frame mandated by ICMR. Based on a presentation given to the IMCT by the state’s principal secretary (health), Vivek Kumar on Thursday, Chandra asked for the details of people who came to Kolkata from overseas destinations till March 8 and whether all those required to be tested have been tested. Sinha said all suspects with symptoms from airports were sent to government quarantine. “Asymptomatic cases were sent to home quarantine. Later the protocol changed and we followed the protocol without any lapse.” The state government has told IMCT that the number of tests has gone up by around 400 to 900 a day in the past four days; the team has asked the chief secretary for details on how many these are repeat tests. Sinha reiterated that the state’s effort to ramp up testing was hampered by not availability of enough testing kits from the Central government. The state has also informed IMCT that surveillance teams are screening 1.25 lakh to 2 lakh people every day in each district. The central team has sought details of number of screened persons actually tested for Covid-19 and found positive. IMCT also observed that from state government’s presentation before it, “it appeared that the state is reaching its peak capacity for testing”. IMCT has suggested that West Bengal consider conducting 2,500 to 5,000 tests a day.The chief secretary refuted the IMCT’s claim that there was any relaxation in enforcing lockdown saying in all 33,997 people have been arrested and 3749 FIR have been lodged till date during lock down period. “We have extended all cooperation to the IMCT. After we have cleared the position of the state government we have told them that they can visit any pocket,” Sinha said, claiming that he will not accept that the state government did not cooperate with the IMCT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-finds-lapses-in-bengal-s-covid-19-response/story-NVClxzdaULZJS2TfVbQjHJ.html
25-04-2020||India||Vasundhra Enclave out, Maujpur locality in, here’s full list of Delhi’s containment zones||Mansara apartments in Vasundhara Enclave residential colony has been taken out of Delhi’s containment zone after 24 days, while a locality in Maujpur- Gali No 18 of Vijay Park—has been added to the list which has a total of 92 red zones or hotspots on Friday.Two localities in Mehrauli, Shamsi Talab and Lake View Apartments were added to list yesterday. Delhi’s total coronavirus cases on Friday jumped by over 200 to reach 3234, including 48 deaths.Here is the full list of Delhi’s 92 containment Zones as of Thursday:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur23. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009224. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension25. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj26. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension27. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar29. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave30. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri31. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony32. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony33. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh34. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi35. Sadar Bazaar, Central District36. Chandni Mahal, Central District37. Nabi Karim, Central District38. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008439. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001540. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar41. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar42. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden43. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006344. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur45. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000846. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi47. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi48. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11949. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi50. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, DelhiFor Coronavirus Live Updates51. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi52. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi53. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi54. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi55. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town56. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave57. Shaheen Bagh58. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar59. Shahdara60. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar61. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar62. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi88. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi89. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi90. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9291. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi92. Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, DelhiThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vasundhra-out-maujpur-locality-in-here-s-full-list-of-delhi-s-containment-zones/story-BVFHKXj51z7CrxOuLWFkGK.html
25-04-2020||India||Covid-19 warrior: 109-year-old sarpanch is spreading awareness about the outbreak||A 109-year-old man, and perhaps the oldest in the country, has emerged a silent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) warrior in a remote village on the Bihar-West Bengal border.Yogendra Nath Mandal, an elected sarpanch of Gauripur gram panchayat, which falls under Pranpur block and located about 75 kilometres east of Katihar district headquarters, is spreading awareness among his fellow villagers about the viral outbreak in Bengali and Angika, a local dialect.“Gaamchha, saban aar nizer bari ai diye amra corona ke tarhabo” (We’ll defeat corona with a towel, soap and our own house) is the message of the centenarian for his native village, where Bengali is the lingua franca. He explains that gaamchha, which has found resonance in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech as a homegrown personal protective equipment (PPE) kit against Covid-19, can double up as a mask, soap as hand sanitiser and a person’s own house to enforce social distancing norms.Initially, the government announced a nationwide lockdown for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.Mandal, who was born on October 1, 1911, in a family of marginal farmers in Gauripur, which has a population of around 5,000 people, was elected sarpanch at the ripe old age of 104 in 2015. The then Katihar district magistrate, Mithilesh Mishra, had felicitated him for his feat.His daily routine is one of strict discipline, as he gets up early in the morning, maintains a healthy diet, and serves his fellow villagers with love and affection. Mandal holds a rare distinction that none of his judgements -- delivered to resolve petty villages disputes -- have ever been challenged in court by any disgruntled party. “I’m happy that during my four and a half years’ stint as a sarpanch, all my decisions have been acceptable to both the opposing parties. I must have resolved around 350 disputes to date,” he said. Pratap Singh, a local villager, agreed. “No one has ever raised a finger against him.Any appeal made by Mandal ji has a divine ring to it. All of us obey his order,” he said.“His kind words hold the key to strict enforcement of lockdown restrictions in our remote village,” he added.Mandal, a Gandhian at heart, is dreaming of a prosperous future for Gauripur after the battle against the viral outbreak is won. “We’ll develop our village and the nation with renewed vigour after Covid-19 pandemic is defeated,” he said.His wife, Basumati Devi, helps Mandal in his social service. “I feel proud of my husband’s zeal and concern for the betterment of our society. I try to help him whatever way I can,” she said.Mandal was blessed with there sons. However, his youngest son, who worked as a lawyer at Katihar civil court, died a few years ago. The son’s death didn’t deter him from carrying on his selfless social work. His eldest son has retired from the sales tax department, while the middle one is working in the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-warrior-109-year-old-sarpanch-is-spreading-awareness-about-the-outbreak/story-y2lO2hJ5ui6uZhVDCEf5bI.html
25-04-2020||India||India opens bridge in Arunachal Pradesh setting stage for China face-off||India has opened an all-weather access along its border with China to enable faster movement of troops and artillery, another potential irritant in relations between the two nuclear-armed neighbors.The bridge, which can take 40 tons of weight, was built in Arunachal Pradesh in India’s remote northeast, a region that’s claimed by China and near the scene of previous clashes. Border intrusions have risen 50% in 2019 compared to the previous year, people with knowledge of the matter said.”That part of the border has always had a tendency to friction point between India and China. Lack of reliable and all weather connectivity was vulnerability,” said Nitin Gokhale, a New Delhi-based strategic affairs expert. “The new bridge and improved road overcomes that and ensures uninterrupted supply to troops.”The new access along the border with China comes amid heightened tensions between the two nations after Beijing accused India of blocking its companies in the South Asian nation after New Delhi tightened laws for foreign investors from acquiring local firms. China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to a message requesting comment.India claims the Chinese army violated the 3,488 kilometer (2,167 miles) long un-demarcated border over 600 times, the people said, asking not to be identified as the matter is not public.“India and China have different perceptions of the border,” Indian Army spokesman Aman Anand said on Thursday. “Perceived transgressions are result of the perceived boundary.”Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is ramping up its infrastructure along the border, which it says isn’t aimed at any particular country, but rather the development of remote border areas. It has completed 74 strategic roads along the eastern border, with plans afoot to finish 20 more by next year, the people said. It will reduce time taken to move and material by half and help 431 villages that lie across the region during the Covid-19 outbreak.India tweaked its law on foreign investment by making it mandatory for companies from countries that share a land border to acquire local firms only after seeking an approval from the government. The move, which cuts the risk of opportunistic takeovers as the coronavirus outbreak drives down valuations of Indian companies, had so far applied only to FDI from Bangladesh and Pakistan. India shares its land border with seven countries, including China.The bridge opened by India also strides one of the main access routes of the Chinese Army into India from Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opens-bridge-in-arunachal-pradesh-setting-stage-for-china-face-off/story-QBRkW8PKz0fhbT7WNYdUUN.html
25-04-2020||India||More scientists write to FAC about treading carefully on hydropower projects in Dibang Valley||Several scientists have written to the six-member Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) after they came to know that the panel is considering granting forest clearance for the 3,097 mage-watt (MW) Etalin hydroelectric project, which will involve clearing of at least 2.7 lakh trees in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley. The area is rich in subtropical evergreen and rain forests and rare flora and fauna.On Friday, besides Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and Nandini Velho, a wildlife biologist who had written to the FAC on Thursday; Aparajita Datta, a senior scientist at Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF); Anindya Sinha, a professor at National Institute of Advanced Studies; Rohit Naniwadekar, Rohan Menzies and Megha Rao -- all scientists from the NCF -- also wrote to the FAC in two separate letters, seen by HT, citing a number of peer-reviewed studies that highlighted the ecological and biodiversity richness of the Dibang Valley.One of the letters highlighted that community-managed forests or what is termed as unclassed state forests outside the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary, which is rich in biodiversity. Earlier, one of the camera trap-based studies referred by the FAC had found that community-managed forests hosted a much higher diversity of mammals than within the wildlife sanctuary.A 2016 study, titled, “Mitigation of Damage to Wildlife Habitats”, by the Pune-based Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER) found that 24 mammal and 100 bird species recorded during an eight-day survey underestimated the area’s biodiversity. “Actual bird list within a 10 km radius of Etalin-Damro road is more likely to be closer to 300 species, including some rare ones like Blyth’s Tragopan, Rufous-necked Hornbill, Ward’s Trogon, Hodgson’s Frogmouth, Beautiful Nuthatch, Wedge-billed Babbler, Mishmi-Wren-babbler, etc,” the study had said.Scientists sought a cumulative impact assessment of all the hydropower projects in the region, including the 3,097 MW Etalin and 2,880 MW Dibang multipurpose projects --- two of the country’s biggest hydel ventures in the same region. “We respectfully submit that the impacts of multiple projects placed in close proximity on the same river limb must be assessed together because these impacts will be cumulative and not independent,” they wrote.They found high diversity and said critically endangered White-bellied Heron and the White-winged Duck were also spotted there by other researchers.Hydroelectric projects are known to affect the river flow resulting in modifying the habitats of these birds. Dams are known to negatively affect food supply also for riverine birds and alter the sediment dynamics. “We’d like to kindly request you to direct the necessary agencies to conduct systematic studies on assessing the potential cumulative impacts of a run of the river projects on the riverine habitats and riverine birds before these projects are given clearance and before the river systems are permanently and irreversibly altered,” they wrote to the FAC, which is a panel of experts and bureaucrats appointed by the Union Ministry for Environment, Forest, and Climate Change (MoEFCC).The FAC heard the forest clearance proposal for the project on Thursday. A senior FAC member, who didn’t wish to be named, said though a decision on granting forest clearance to the project has not been taken yet, most members had a favourable view of it because it is a large “clean energy project” that could replace dirty energy. “We had a long discussion and all the views of the members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view, and also the sub-committee that had visited the site,” he added.The FAC member also said that the members haven’t received many representations directly but they will check if representations from scientists have been made. HT had reported on April 23 that a FAC sub-committee, which had visited the site in February, has recommended in their report dated April 21 that Etalin project be allowed on condition that the developer deposits money for wildlife conservation in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-scientists-write-to-fac-about-treading-carefully-on-hydropower-projects-in-dibang-valley/story-ikGnHIt843sVrLI1aAtmlJ.html
25-04-2020||India||After success in TN, govt to roll out tele-survey to identify Covid-19 hotspots||After a successful pilot in Tamil Nadu, the government has started a pan-India tele-survey to reach people without smartphones to conduct a Covid-19-related search and trace potential cases of the disease. Calls will be placed from the phone number 1921, asking people questions about symptoms of the disease. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The tele-survey, announced late on Tuesday, will be done by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), and is intended to help the government detect areas where the Coronavirus has spread. An interactive voice response system (IVRS), back-ended by a NIC team, will be rolled out. Analysis of call data will be done by other wings of the government, said officials. A senior official of the IT ministry said the tele-survey is expected to reach out to 900 million feature phone users across the country. Officials said of the 1.2 billion mobile phone users in India, only 350 million have smart phones.“Just as the Aarogya Setu is reaching out to smartphone users, the tele-survey will collect details from feature phone users,” an official said on condition of anonymity. The call will lead to successive prompts for SMSes on the user’s feature phone, and seek answers to a set menu of questions. The systems are being readied and will be rolled out by the weekend, officials said. The service will be available in languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and Hindi. The tele-survey was initially piloted in Tamil Nadu a fortnight ago with the help of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, simultaneously when the IT ministry was rolling out Aarogya Setu. Another ministry official, wishing anonymity, told HT the pilot was successful and helped authorities find the next area of spread. “It helped us find the next red zone or containment zone,” said the official. During the pilot, 15,000 people were screened through the tele-survey, helping authorities finalise a list of people suspected to be infected by the Coronavirus. “State authorities would then reach out to them for necessary action,” said an official. The number 1921 was selected as the number 1922 is a toll-free service for people to listen to the prime minister’s popular radio programme, Mann ki Baat, the first official quoted above said. In a statement, the government said calls placed to mobile phones are aimed to “enable proper feedback of the prevalence and distribution of Covid symptoms”. It added, “Please be aware of any other calls by pranksters or or calls from any other number in the guise of such similar survey.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-success-in-tamil-nadu-government-to-roll-out-telesurvey-to-identify-covid-19-hotspots/story-BPcqjuxBhebLYHPrdRw8jN.html
