26-04-2020||India||Govt promotes Air India chief Rajiv Bansal to secretary-level rank||Air India chief Rajiv Bansal has been promoted to the secretary-level rank, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Sunday. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved in-situ upgradation of a total of 10 officers to the level of special secretary in the rank and pay of secretary by temporarily upgrading the posts held by them.Bansal, a 1988 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Nagaland cadre, has been given the rank and pay of secretary to the government of India, the order said.He was appointed the chairman and managing director of Air India in February this year at the rank of additional secretary.Besides him, Airports Authority of India (AAI) chairman Arvind Singh has also been promoted to the top rank.Praveen Kumar Srivastava will be special secretary, Department of Home. He is at present additional secretary in the same department. Apurva Chandra has been made special secretary and Director General (Acquisition) in the Defence Ministry. He is currently additional secretary and Director General (Acquisition).   Senior bureaucrat Ali Raza Rizvi, additional secretary and financial adviser in the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, has been promoted as special secretary and financial adviser in the same organisation. Gujarat-cadre IAS officer Bidyut Bihari Swain will be special secretary in the Department of Commerce. He is additional secretary in the same department. The government has also approved promotion of Indevar Pandey as special secretary, Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region. He is working as the additional secretary in the same department.  PTI AKV KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-promotes-air-india-chief-rajiv-bansal-to-secretary-level-rank/story-RjcDJ84Ggayg3WE9etTRVL.html
26-04-2020||India||More rain, thunder likely across northern India: IMD||New Delhi: Thunderstorms are brewing over northwest India, east and northeast India, including Gangetic West Bengal, and across peninsular India including coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, suggesting an extension of this week’s spell of rain in an unusually wet April. the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday. A low-pressure area is also forming over the south Andaman Sea, which will result in rough seas and thundershowers around Andaman and Nicobar and the Sumatra coast starting April 30, IMD said. A western disturbance that started affecting parts of north India on Saturday evening and easterly moisture-laden winds are causing overcast skies, some thundershowers and moderate winds in most parts of northwest India including the National Capital Region (NCR) centred on Delhi. “There is intense activity in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Dust storms, hail storms and thundershowers are likely in these places. An orange alert has been issued so that authorities remain alert. In Delhi-NCR, light rain has been recorded in many parts. Similar conditions will continue till Monday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, of the regional weather forecasting centre. April hasn’t been as warm as it typically is in Delhi because of back-to-back westerly disturbances which either led to rain or overcast skies.“Till Saturday, the average maximum temperature in Delhi has been approximately 8 degrees C below normal. But we are still analysing the data to see if it’s a record,” Shrivastava added.IMD’s Sunday bulletin said intense thunderstorm activity accompanied with squally weather and hailstorms with rainfall exceeding 5 cm had been observed on April 25 at many places over coastal Odisha, north-Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and north Tamil Nadu“Due to establishment of an east-west trough and wind convergence along Indo-Gangetic plains and accompanied moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal in lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of east and northeast India during next two days with peak activity over Odisha, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Sunday,” the bulletin said.Heavy rainfall and hailstorms are expected in Odisha, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next couple of days. Heavy rainfall over parts of Kerala and Mahe is likely for the next 4 to 5 days.“In east, northeast and peninsular India we are seeing some severe thunderstorm activity. It is normal during the pre-monsoon season. There is a lot of moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal over the east and northeast. It’s the kalbaisakhi Norwesters] season. Occasionally, some very intense activity can be there like a hailstorm or squall,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. “In northwest India, the reasons are different. There is influence of a westerly disturbance here and moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. In Rajasthan where there is less moisture, there may be dust storms,” she added.According to various numerical weather prediction models of the IMD, a low pressure area is likely to form over the south Andaman Sea around April 30. It is likely to become more marked over the same region. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea along and off the north Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast and east central Bay of Bengal from April 30 to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-rain-thunder-likely-across-northern-india-imd/story-FPD0OoQcNCuFWtargNnVyH.html
26-04-2020||India||Uddhav warns against politics amid crisis as decision on his fate is awaited||Amidst the coronoavirus crisis, a bitter tussle is on between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the BJP over the alleged delay by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in accepting state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the State Legislative council.Thackeray will have to resign if he doesn’t become a member of the state legislature by May 28. MVA leaders suspect a political conspiracy behind the alleged ‘delay’ in clearing the recommendation sent by the cabinet to the Governor more than two weeks ago.While the Shiv Sena is building up pressure on Koshyari, Thackeray on Sunday said nobody should play dirty politics in the current situation. The BJP hit back saying the onus of getting Thackeray elected to the legislature was on the ruling party and not on the opposition and that the Sena should stop blaming the BJP for its problems.“I am keeping politics aside. Power comes and goes. Nobody should resort to dirty politics. This is not the time for politics. There are lives of people at stake,” Thackeray said while addressing people through social media.He also lauded union transport minister Nitin Gadkari for his advice to state’s politicians to stand behind the state government in the time of crisis.“I thank Nitinji Gadkari for appealing to everybody to keep politics aside and support the state government in its battle against coronoavirus,” Thackeray said.Sena MP and executive editor of party mouthpiece Saamana, Sanjay Raut on Sunday wrote that he trusted Governor Koshyari to accept the recommendation but at the same time cautioned that there could be repercussions if the state cabinet’s recommendation was rejected. He also pointed out two instances in the past when chief ministers were initially not a member of the legislature and were later nominated by the state’s governor ---C Rajagopalachari as the chief minister of then Madras province in 1951 and Chandrabhan Gupt of Uttar Pradesh in 1961. In case of Gupt, the decision was challenged before Allahabad High Court but it refused to intervene, he added.Last Sunday, Raut had tweeted: “Raj bhavan , governor’s house shouldn’t become center for political conspiracy. Remember! History doesn’t spare those who behave unconstitutionally.”Leaders of the Shiv Sena as well as other two ruling partners, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, are not sure whether the Governor would nominate Thackeray, failing which he may have to quit by May 28 since the constitution makes it mandatory for a minister or chief minister to get elected to the state legislature within six months of swearing-in.Thackeray was not a member of the state legislature when he took oath as the chief minister on November 28 after breaking up with the BJP and joining forces with the Congress-NCP after last year’s assembly elections.“We suspect the Center wants to impose the President’s Rule in the state. If Thackeray is not nominated by the Governor, he would have to resign. Then the Governor may recommend the President’s Rule if we insist on Thackeray again swearing-in as the chief minister,” said a key MVA leader who did not wish to be named because Koshyari was yet to take a decision.Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the legislative council that was scheduled in April but was postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak. State cabinet on April 9 recommended that he be nominated to the council to occupy one of the two empty seats out of the 12 nominated by the Governor.State cabinet wants Koshyari to consider Thackeray as a special case in view of the emergency situation in the state.State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat who is also the state Congress chief, said, “The confusion should be ended by the Governor. We trust him not to let uncertainty prevail in the middle of an emergency situation.”Senior BJP leader Ashish Shelar said the Sena should stop blaming others for its problems.“Getting Thackeray elected to the legislature is the responsibility of the ruling party and not the opposition. Why didn’t he opt to contest the by-election for Yavatmal council seat held earlier this year? Why did Sena’s partner NCP not include Thackeray’s name when it recommended its two members for the council? Further, why didn’t Sena ask one of its legislators to resign so that Thackeray could contest the by-election,” asked Shelar. He added that the Governor would consider the constitutional provisions and accordingly take a decision.He also remarked that Thackeray should tell people why he is not taking opposition leaders into confidence on measures being adopted to handle Covid-19 outbreak instead of accusing others of playing dirty politics.Political analyst Prarap Asbe said: “Thackeray would have expressed his unhappiness because he is not happy with the way his government is being attacked by the BJP in the state.“As far as Thackeray’s nomination to the legislature is concerned, the decision of the state cabinet is binding on the governor. Still, if he chooses not to accept it, there could be a political crisis in the state. Of course, such decisions are taken by considering how the people will react,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-warns-against-politics-amid-crisis-as-governor-delays-decision-on-his-fate/story-ITI1rboK15MvUpMcJbAknL.html
26-04-2020||India||Migrant workers don’t need to go home, their needs being addressed: Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that migrant workers don’t need to travel to their native places during the lockdown, as the government is taking care of their and their family members’ daily needs wherever they are. Highlighting its response to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country, the government filed a second status report in the apex court in response to a plea by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, seeking relief for migrant workers including payment of wages. The status report filed by Union Home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that to obviate the difficulties faced by low wage-earners in the organized sector, cash transfer under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana has been made. The status report said the government has allowed such workers to withdraw EPFO money advance and as on April 9, 1,49,891 members have availed of the facility.The central government said it is taking care of psycho-social issues in shelter homes where migrant workers are staying and experts and counsellors from Central mental health institutes are visiting there. “In view of the steps taken by the government, it is submitted that there is no necessity for migration of workers to shift from places of their occupation to the place of their residence and rush back to their villages, Their daily needs are being taken care of wherever they are working and the daily needs of their family members were being taken care of at their respective villages,” the status report filed on an affidavit said. It said the movement of migrant workers on their own in large numbers during the lockdown defeats the very objective of the preventive measures taken by the central government. “As per the latest statistics furnished by the state governments and Union territories, 37,978 relief camps have already been set up by state governments and Union Territories and genuine NGOs. Nearly 14.3 lakh persons have been housed in these camps. In addition to the above, 26,225 food camps have also been opened giving food to nearly 1.34 crore persons,” the affidavit said.The Centre said that directions have been issued to district administration and superintendent of police to ensure migrant workers and other poor people who are living in rented accommodation are not compelled to pay rent by their landlords.“If any landlord flouts this direction, they shall be liable for action under the Disaster Management Act,” it said. It said that as per the order of apex court passed on March 31, a fact-check unit has been set up under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to check fake news. The affidavit said, “In view of the on-going efforts by the central government, presently the spread of Covid-19 in India is much slower than as has seen observed in several other countries.” The prompt measures particularly social distancing and lockdown have halted the spread of disease in the country so far, it added. On March 31, the apex court had asked the Centre to prevent migration of people due to coronavirus and set up within 24 hours a portal for disseminating real time information on the pandemic to counter the panic being spread through fake news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-don-t-need-to-go-home-during-lockdown-their-needs-being-addressed-centre-tells-sc/story-0FKT1v8IfRTtu8NsYYGOuN.html
26-04-2020||India||UGC meeting agenda: Exams with social distancing||New Delhi The University Grants Commission (UGC) will on Monday hold a video conference to discuss disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the academic calendar and the way forward, according to an official aware of the matter. High on the agenda could be holding exams in times of social distancing.The commission regulating higher education in India is expected to focus on two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open Univrsity (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“…there are a variety of universities in different regions. Some of them are in hot spots (of Covid-19) and others are not. The universities which can begin their session early should be allowed (to do so). Others can be given a last date (to begin the new session). However, all this will be discussed. Our aim is to merge technology with equity,” a commission member who did not want to be named said.The Kuhad committee has recommended postponing the admission cycle till up to September, according to the commission member.But fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.“There are universities like JNU (Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi) or EFLU (English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad), which have fewer students. And there are others like the BHU (Banaras Hindu University) or AMU (Aligarh Muslim University), where the number of students… is more. We have to allow them different options depending on their location, size and circumstances,” said the commission member cited above.The panels created by UGC earlier this month has suggested options such as assignment-based evaluation, objective type questions in an internet-based evaluation model and even the traditional pen-and-paper exam in front of webcams to wrap up the academic session, said the commission member.“There are areas where even the mobile phone signal is weak, leave aside fast internet facility. The success of the solution hinges on ensuring that students’ concerns are addressed,” this official said, adding that exams for Sanskrit or any regional language could be challenging in an internet-based software. Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-meeting-agenda-exams-with-social-distancing/story-fCuebHHoVRTVLdGN9jyzPM.html
26-04-2020||India||National digital library extends help to students||The National Digital Library of India (NDLI) has opened up its 35 million-strong digital content, making available e-books, past questions papers and solutions, lecture materials and thesis, among others, to help students study at home.The NDLI is the largest online library in the country especially for academic purposes. It has also built a “Covid-19 research resource repository” with latest research from across the world – a kind of a single window access to various material related to Covid-19, be it data, research work, videos, challenges and funds.“NDLI is opening up its contents to students, researchers, teachers and learners of all ages and various languages,” said PP Chakrabarti, principal investigator of the library and a professor of computer science and engineering at IIT Kharagpur.The NDLI was set up by the Union human resource development ministry (MHRD) under its National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT) and is run and managed by IIT Kharagpur.In the content, while 270 million are open access document, another 7.7 million has been made freely accessible to NDLI users through national license by MHRD. “The library content includes a wide range of materials in the form of e-books, audio books, lecture materials, thesis, reports, articles, journal papers, questions papers, solutions, data and simulation tools in addition to otherwise popular formats of video lectures and courses,” he added.The library has also put up a special link called “Corona Outbreak: Study from Home” that contains specially curated materials for school and college students covering Engineering, Science, Management, Humanities and Law.“In the Covid-19 repository, around 40,000 research-related work and documents have been uploaded,” said PP Das, a professor of computer science engineering and the joint principal investigator of NDLI.The repository may be used for literature survey, to access data to carry out experiments, to study reports, to look at videos, to know about journals and conferences for carrying out research on Covid-19 and its induced effects and to design related activities.Innovators, incubators and entrepreneurs may use it for ideation, to identify challenges, to look around funding options and to plan for startup around Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-digital-library-extends-help-to-students/story-XC4IwUTlw5dGsQelN3K1kI.html
26-04-2020||India||Maha cases cross 8k with 440 infections; toll at 342||MumbaiThe number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 8,000 mark on Sunday with 440 new infections even as state government officials expressed confidence in existing containment measures and said they were preparing for the disease to peak by the second week of May. The daily rise was roughly half that of Saturday’s record figure of 811. There are now 8,068 infected people in the state, which also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 342.Mumbai continued to record the majority of the state’s cases with 358 new infections on Sunday. The city now has 5,407 cases, while its surrounding areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts have 936 cases in all. Mumbai reported 12 deaths, while Pune saw three, Jalgaon two and Solapur city and Latur saw one each on Sunday.Top officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has 67.01% of the total Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, said they are preparing for a spike by May 15. The civic body, according to Manisha Mhaiskar, one of the bureaucrats on the Covid-19 task-force in the BMC, is basing is preparedness plan on the projections of the central team, which recently visited the state.“The current doubling rate of coronavirus in Mumbai is seven days. If seven days is taken as the input assumption, the modelling suggests that there would be around 70,000 cases towards second half of May. This has become the basis for preparing for the Ides of May,” Mhaiskar said. According to her post, the “obvious” task before the civic body is to improve the doubling rate. House-to-house surveillance, aggressive contact tracing, and containment strategies have been put in place, an official added.With cases rising in Mumbai and Pune, the state government is yet to take a call on the Centre’s notification allowing all neighbourhood shops to open. State government officials said that the administration is still considering the “pros and cons” of the move.“Allowing shops to reopen in non-containment areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune region could be harmful as hundreds of cases are being recorded daily. The chief minister is taking a review of all areas,” a second official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday indicated that a decision on relaxation of restrictions in the state will be taken after a review of the situation once the national lockdown ends on May 3.“There are questions about what will happen after the lockdown ends on May 3. Since April 20, we have gradually eased restrictions at some places. In Mumbai, this led to crowds that we cannot afford… We are not opening district borders in rural Maharashtra, but gradually easing restrictions within districts to allow economic activity to resume. I am receiving daily reports. I will hold a review today evening and decide on further relaxations from May 3 onwards,” Thackeray said, during his address via Facebook Live.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cases-cross-8k-with-440-infections-toll-at-342/story-1Pn6TLi8aa2868XQc57poM.html
26-04-2020||India||In lockdown, domestic violence threat a worry||In the second week of April, the Delhi Police recorded a “total event count” of 2446 that pertained to the “event type: women”. Put simply, nearly 2500 women in Delhi called emergency helpline numbers which triggers the Emergency Response Support System of the state police. Of these calls over 600 were classified as “women abuse”, 23 calls reported rape, while a majority — 1612 — pertained to domestic violence. One of these calls was about a 28-year-old woman from west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar. The woman’s brother, based in Nepal, first got in touch with a New Delhi-based government licenced shelter home for women and transwomen survivors of abuse and violence. Shakti Shalini, based in Jangpura, rang the police helpline and a policeman was sent to investigate the matter. The 28-year-old mother of two toddlers had allegedly undergone sustained physical abuse by her husband and his family. Initially, the police sought to mediate between the two, following which the woman was asked to stay home for the duration of the lockdown. But the woman said the abuse had worsened after the husband came to know that a police complaint had been filed. On April 14, the police took her for a medical check up, recorded her bruises and transported her and her two children to Shakti Shalini’s shelter home. “I was physically, mentally tortured for four years. Two days before [my brother called the shelter], my husband beat me up to an inch of my life. I begged him to spare me. He told me to get out of the house,” she said. The Uttam Nagar resident is one of the few women who have managed to access police help to reach a safe space. Singh, who has received 25 calls since the beginning of the lockdown said that in the cases where police needed to intervene, they mediated between the women and their abusers, asking them to stay put till the lockdown was over. A Hindustan Times analysis of cases recorded across the country reveals two important aspects of the issue. One, some states have reported a decline in the number of domestic violence complaints, others have reported a spike in the calls being received by helplines. Thus, rather than make claims on absolute decline or increase in the incidence of domestic violence during the lockdown, it is the ability of victims to make complaints while they share domestic spaces with perpetrators of violence that has been clearly affected. In some states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, the number of complaints received by state-run helplines has decreased. In Ghaziabad, which forms part of the National Capital Region, instances of domestic violence during the first phase of lockdown saw a decline of about 50% as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March, according to the data compiled by 18 police stations in urban and rural areas of the city. “There used to be around 400 complaints related to Domestic Violence every day from all parts of the state till last month and now, the number has come down to around 150-200,” Inspector General of Police (Women Safety) Telangana, Swati Lakra said. However, in some other states the number of calls on domestic violence have, in fact, increased. The Punjab State Commission for Women (PSCW) has received at least 30 complaints everyday related to domestic violence since March 22. According to Manisha Gulati, chairperson of PSCW, prior to the lockdown, only a third of the calls they received pertained to domestic violence incidents. Even private helplines, such as that maintained by Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ iCall helpline has seen a spike in calls. “We are getting phone calls from Ghaziabad, Noida, Mumbai, Hyderabad and many other cities Everyday there are at least three calls,” coordinator Ruchi Sinha said.The second aspect to this issue is that while there are several helplines and shelter homes available for women to call or live in — both state-run, and those maintained by non governmental organisations — the help that they can provide has been curtailed due to the lockdown. Women cannot travel to police stations, and social workers cannot reach them or arrange for their travel; the police are overburdened with Covid-19 duties, and visiting homes to investigate domestic disputes is often not considered a priority. What’s more, domestic violence cases are filed in lower courts as these are civil disputes and at present, courts are only open for emergency hearings, such as bail pleas. The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said that the commission received 250 domestic violence complaints between March 25 and April 22. “These were the numbers that could reach us. I am afraid the actual numbers would be higher. We’re trying to follow up on more cases. State bodies have also been asked to stay more alert,” she said. Across India, only the most dire cases seem to be getting addressed.Last week, Kerala State Women Commission member Shahid Kamal got a call from Chennai pleading for help. The caller told her that his sister, a resident of Idukki district in Kerala, and her daughter were hiding in a forest after the woman’s husband ejected them from their home. The caller said that the jungle had several wild animals so his sister’s life was at risk. Kamal immediately alerted the Idukki police, and the matter was investigated. The husband, who was brewing illicit liquor at home was taken into custody. “In some cases a little counselling and advice will do. But cases like this need serious intervention. It is fact during lockdown, domestic violence cases have increased. But if you ask me, data will be [lesser],” she said.Another counsellor said that parole granted to prisoners and undertrials — done in order to ease the pressure on overcrowded jails during the Covid-19 epidemic that requires strict social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus — has meant that several perpetrators of violence have returned home. In Kottayam, a family had approached the prisons department against the release of one of their male members from the jail on this account. The prisoner was released, but warned not to stay with his family. In Malda district of West Bengal last week, 26-year-old Sona Mondol was allegedly strangled by her husband of five years. In another incident in the district, another woman was allegedly killed by her husband for protesting against his extra-marital affair. “There is hardly anything we can do at this moment. We have helped the victims to connect with the local police station, lawyers and local NGOs,” said Debaprasad Roychoudhury, an official of Association of Protection of Democratic Rights, a NGO.Rituparna Borah, co-founder Delhi-based Queer Nazariya, a resource group for lesbian, bisexual women and transmen, said that the number of distress calls that they have received has increased, but unlike before where they could offer assistance in person — whether counselling or arranging for the queer person to leave their home if they needed to — the only help that they can offer at present is counselling over the telephone. The courts have taken cognisance of this issue. On April 18, the Jammu & Kashmir high court passed an order taking suo moto cognizance of domestic violence cases during the lockdown, and offered a slew of directions including creating a special fund and designating informal safe spaces for women like grocery stores and pharmacies, where they could report domestic violence/abuse without alerting the perpetrators. The Karnataka high court too asked the state government about the helplines, and action taken on domestic violence complaints. The state responded to the court on April 25 stating that helplines, counsellors, shelter homes and protection officers were working “round the clock” to help victims of violence. On April 25, the Delhi high court directed the state and Centre to take measures to protect women from domestic violence, following a petition filed by an NGO on April 15.The Centre, Delhi government and the national and state commissions of women had submitted status reports of what action was taken against domestic violence, including spreading awareness about helpline numbers, shelter or one-stop homes as well as appointment of protection officers.The government of Delhi told the court that on April 12, it put in place a protocol to tackle cases of domestic violence during the lockdown: once a survivor reaches out to the helpline (181), the telecaller will take down her complaint and then forward her case to a counsellor who is required to establish a phone communication with her on account of the lockdown. The counsellor is empowered to conduct sessions with the woman and her spouse or family if required. However, in case the woman is a victim of sexual or physical assault, the telecaller is required to inform the police about the case, and assist in filing an First Information Report. The counsellor is further required to inform the protection officer — Delhi has 17 — to allow them to file an incidence report.However, according to advocates Mithu Jain and her colleagues who filed the petition on behalf of All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Justice, the responses of both state and Centre offered no information in their respective status reports about victims who have been saved. “Is it their job to receive complaints alone? Where is the data to show that any action has been taken on these phone calls,” Jain asked.(With inputs from Saurabh Chauhan, Aneesha Sareen, Ramesh Babu, Joydeep Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-domestic-violence-threat-a-worry/story-EZy1svQYDa2xXoDLrnaXzN.html
26-04-2020||India||Health secy given 3-month extension in bureaucratic reshuffle||Deeksha BhardwajNew Delhi:The central government carried out a reshuffle of the top echelons of the bureaucracy on Sunday, giving health and family welfare secretary Preeti Sudan a three-month extension in the key post as it kept the focus of the exercise firmly on the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) . Rajesh Bhushan, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre, has been appointed officer on special duty in the department of health and family welfare. In Bhushan’s place, the secretary of the department of border management in the ministry of home affairs, Nagendra Nath Sinha, will take charge as secretary of rural development, which too is a key post at a busy time in the agricultural cycle and amid efforts to protect the countryside from the coronavirus after an exodus of migrant workers from the cities back to the villages . “A reshuffle was due, but the focus has been on bolstering the departments that are fighting the Covid-19 from the front,” a Department of Personnel and Training official told Hindustan Times.Sudan was set for superannuation on April 30. She has been instrumental in coordinating anti-Covid-19 measures between the Centre and states during the Coronavirus outbreak, in formulating preventive measures and keeping her department abreast of the latest developments on the pandemic. “She has been with the ministry ever since the disease broke out,” a ministry official told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity. “She is familiar with all the facts of the case and it is better for her to continue as new officers would have had to familiarise themselves with the details from scratch. She has played a crucial role in managing the pandemic.” The move will ensure continuity in the ministry, said former secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Shailaja Chandra.“The role of the health secretary spans across a wide canvas. During the Covid-19 pandemic it is essential to maintain continuity and see that the coordination that has been established runs seamlessly. Any sudden changes are avoidable,” Chandra said. “To oversee the containment of a highly contagious pandemic, it is paramount that the drill laid down with the States and expert institutions is implemented while managing the execution of fresh Government policies. It is good there is continuity in the coming 3 more months.”In other changes, Amit Khare, who is presently the secretary,department of higher education in the ministry of human resource development, has been given additional charge of the post of secretary, information and broadcasting (I&B). Khare has earlier served an I&B secretary. The present I&B secretary, Ravi Mittal, has been appointed secretary in the department of sports, ministry of youth affairs and sports.In the department of consumer affairs, ministry of consumer affairs and food and public distribution, Leela Nandan will replace secretary Pawan Kumar. Nandan is a 1987-batch, UP cadre officer who was earlier special secretary in the ministry of road transport and highways. Kumar has been appointed special secretary (logistics) in the department of commerce. Tarun Bajaj, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minsiter’s Office, will take over as the secretary of department of economic affairs, ministry of finance. Anita Karwal, chairperson of the Central Board of Secondary Education, will take charge as secretary, department of school education and literacy, ministry of human resource development. On the superannuation of Arun Kumar Panda, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, the role will pass on to Arvind Kumar Sharma, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. The present secretary of road transport and highways,Sanjeev Ranjan, will take over as the secretary, ministry of shipping. Armane Giridhar, presently an additional secretary in the cabinet secretariat, has been appointed in his place. Special secretary in the ministry of women and child development Ajay Tirkey will take charge as the secretary on the superannuation of the incumbent Rabindra Panwar. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, presently special secretary of NITI Aayog, will take charge as secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer, department of personnel and training, will take over from the incumbent secretary of steel Binoy Kumar on his superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secy-given-3-month-extension-in-bureaucratic-reshuffle/story-tRc5UElCnMDELc1A3SqLzM.html
26-04-2020||India||UP lab staffer says duty above personal life||Ritesh Raj Mishra, a lab technician at a community health centre, could only meet his wife, Neha, on her birthday for all of five minutes. He has been living at a quarantine centre in a city hotel, and she has been at her parents’ house. He met her at their doorstep and left within minutes.“I couldn’t even give her a gift,” Mishra said.For several weeks now, Mishra, has been collecting samples of suspected Covid-19 patients in the lab he works at. He knows the risk associated with his job, and that he may also contract the infection, but has no regrets. He feels it is a part of his duty emerging out of an extraordinary situation.A laboratory technician at the Urban Community Health Centre in Baloo Adda here, Ritesh said it was a manner of national duty. His eating habits too have been impacted by the hectic schedule at the centre.“There is no fixed time for lunch and dinner. I eat lunch as late as 4pm and dinner well past midnight,” he said.On April 13, Ritesh and his team had to go to Kasaibada locality to collect samples of 117 people. “We started working at 4pm and continued till 10.30 pm. Precautions had to be taken so that no one in the team got infected, he said. The area had earlier been declared a containment zone.“When the administration, police, doctors and paramedical staff are working 24x7, you don’t feel hungry or thirsty amid the pressure of work,” he said. Ritesh said he and his team work tirelessly, without fear, day and night. “I draw a lot of inspiration from my team members and seniors and I am confident that we will be able to defeat Covid-19,” he said. “There is always a risk, but we take precautions to ensure we don’t get infected,” the 28-year-old said. Talking about his routine, he said, “The in-charge of the chief medical officer’s control room prepares a list of patients whose samples have to be collected. Accordingly, I ensure that we have personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, gloves, sanitiser, tape, markers, bags to collect bio-waste, swab kits, etc. Collecting samples over the past few weeks has been hectic, because the number of Covid-19 cases has increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-lab-staffer-says-duty-above-personal-life/story-hJntZPVp0COzZVIYpdM1JL.html
26-04-2020||India||Holding exam in time of social distancing on UGC agenda||The University Grants Commission (UGC) will on Monday hold a video conference to discuss disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the academic calendar and the way forward, according to an official aware of the matter. High on the agenda could be holding exams in the time of social distancing.The commission regulating higher education in India is expected to focus on two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“…there are a variety of universities in different regions. Some of them are in hot spots (of Covid-19) and others are not. The universities which can begin their session early should be allowed (to do so). Others can be given a last date (to begin the new session). However, all this will be discussed. Our aim is to merge technology with equity,” a commission member who did not want to be named said.The Kuhad committee has recommended postponing the admission cycle till up to September, according to the commission member.But fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.“There are universities like JNU (Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi) or EFLU (English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad), which have fewer students. And there are others like the BHU (Banaras Hindu University) or AMU (Aligarh Muslim University), where the number of students… is more. We have to allow them different options depending on their location, size and circumstances,” said the commission member cited above.The panels created by UGC earlier this month has suggested options such as assignment-based evaluation, objective type questions in an internet-based evaluation model and even the traditional pen-and-paper exam in front of webcams to wrap up the academic session, said the commission member.“There are areas where even the mobile phone signal is weak, leave aside fast internet facility. The success of the solution hinges on ensuring that students’ concerns are addressed,” this official said, adding that exams for Sanskrit or any regional language could be challenging in an internet-based software. Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-exam-in-time-of-social-distancing-on-ugc-agenda/story-cVEEhjvXxLMjDXjDpSHQxL.html
26-04-2020||India||293 new Covid-19 cases take Delhi’s tally closer to 3,000||Delhi recorded 293 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday to take its tally to 2918, the state health department said in its bulletin.Eight people recovered on Sunday to take the total recoveries to 877. The national capital now has 1,987 active cases while the total number of deaths stood at 54.Out of the 54 casualties, 10 were aged less than 50, 15 were between 50 to 59 years and 29 were in the age group of 60 and above, the bulletin said.The state government carried out 2,094 tests on Sunday. It has so far tested 37,613 people out of which 2,918 have tested positive. The results of 2,533 tests are pending.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has raised the number of containment zones to 97.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made an emotional appeal to people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma for those fighting for their lives.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.The Delhi government which started plasma technique trials a few days ago has said that results have been encouraging so far.Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/293-new-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-s-tally-closer-to-3-000/story-W0juyariDN2PtsNZdvso1H.html
26-04-2020||India||Indian firm to start making Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine in 2-3 weeks||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Sunday it will likely begin the production of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by Oxford University in the next two-three weeks and hopes to bring it to the market by October if human clinical trials of the same are successful. The company has partnered with Oxford University as one of the seven global institutions manufacturing the vaccine.“SII will be manufacturing the vaccine in anticipation of clinical trials succeeding by September-October in the UK… Following that, SII has undertaken the decision to initiate the manufacture at their own risk. The decision has been solely taken to have a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials work,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Indian vaccine major, said in a statement.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe vaccines will be manufactured at the company’s facility in Pune as building a new facility for Covid-19 vaccines would have taken around two-three years, he added.The human safety trial of the vaccine began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of the 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.If the trials are a success, scientists hope to have one million doses ready by September, and to dramatically scale up manufacturing after that.“Our team has been working closely with Dr Hill ( professor Adrian Hill) from Oxford University, and we are expecting to initiate production of the vaccine in two-three weeks and produce five million doses per month for the first 6 months, following which, we hope to scale up production to 10 million doses per month,” Poonawalla said, according to PTI.The company plans to initiate the trials in India for the vaccine with necessary regulatory approvals, which are underway presently, the news agency reported.“Keeping the current situation in mind, we have funded this endeavor at a personal capacity and hopefully will be able to enlist the support of other partners to further scale-up the vaccine production,” Poonawalla said.The trial will study whether the new vaccine is safe and can generate strong immune responses against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and protect healthy people from infection.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans.To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection.Regulatory authorities are working with SII to ensure smooth procedural functioning. “We are in touch with the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research),” Poonawalla said.The company earlier said it will not patent any Covid-19 vaccine which it develops. Asked about that stand, Poonawalla reiterated: “We will not patent Serum’s vaccine for Covid-19 and will make it available for all to produce and sell, not just in India but across the world.”Whosoever makes and develops the vaccine will need multiple partners to manufacture it, he added. “I hope that whichever company develops the vaccine does not get it patented and makes it available based on royalties or a commercial understanding to as many manufacturers across the world to make billions of dosages at a fast pace,” Poonawalla said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-firm-to-start-making-oxford-university-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-2-3-weeks/story-GGIPHyzcbYCozuJfgLqpLJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones near 100-mark. Complete list of 97 zones here||With 97 coronavirus containment zones recorded in the national capital on Sunday, the count neared 100. A month into lockdown, two more zones in Delhi were added to the list - areas from Kotla Mubarakpur and two streets from Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar - indicating slight control over the virus spread by the authorities. The two new zones were added on the day Delhi recorded 293 cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 2918, the state health department said in its bulletin.Eight people recovered on Sunday to take the total recoveries to 877. The national capital now has 1,987 active cases while the total number of deaths stood at 54.Read full list here:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone 10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi 13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi 14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi 16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur23. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009224. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension25. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj26. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension27. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar29. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave30. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri31. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony32. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony33. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh34. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi 35. Sadar Bazaar, Central District36. Chandni Mahal, Central District37. Nabi Karim, Central District38. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008439. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001540. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar41. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar42. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden43. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006344. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur45. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000846. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi 47. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi 48. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11949. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi 50. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi 51. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi 52. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 53. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi 54. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 55. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town56. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave57. Shaheen Bagh58. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar59. Shahdara60. In and around area of C-105, Hari NagarFor Coronavirus Live Updates 61. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar62. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi 63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi 68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi 69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi 82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi 83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi 86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 87. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi 88. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi 89. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi 90. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9291. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 92. Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi 93. Gali number 3 Shalimar village94. Gali number 9, Shalimar village95. Block X, gali number 1-3 of Yadav villa96. New Addition today at S.No. 39 & 47 96. Whole Kumhar Gali (H. No 1751 to 1851) to Chaupal Chowk Kotla Mubarakpur97. Gali no 3,4 and 6 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-containment-zones-near-100-mark-complete-list-of-97-zones-here/story-v0RPKaYGH5abrkUOUj23oO.html
26-04-2020||India||Odisha artist spreads awareness on coronavirus with wall paintings||At a time when there is still not much awareness over coronavirus in Odisha, a 32-year-old youth in Odisha’s Kandhamal district is spreading information about the necessity of social distancing through his wall painting skills in the tribal villages of Kandhamal district.Pramod Dandia, who runs his family by doing wall painting in Baliguda block of Kandhamal district, has been painting the walls of villages with murals on Covid-19 to show the importance of maintaining social distance. Since last 12 days, Dandia, who has not attended any arts school, is painting the walls of government buildings with several messages on coronavirus with his own money.“While people are donating money to CM relief fund, I thought why not do something that would raise awareness among the tribals in Baliguda? There are very few posters about coronavirus in the panchayats of Baliguda. From what I know, it would take quite some time before we win over the virus. Awareness about social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing are going to be the main weapons in the fight. I am depicting that in my paintings,” said Dandia.Of the 30 districts in the state, Covid-19 cases have been reported in 10 districts. Till Sunday, 103 cases were reported with Khurda district topping the list with 46 cases. However, Kandhamal so far has not seen a single positive case. The youth spends around Rs 500 for each painting and has so far done about 60 wall paintings. “I plan to paint more villages in neighbouring Boudh district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-artist-spreads-awareness-on-coronavirus-with-wall-paintings/story-zMoh0EOYcRzfnhXu6NBPnM.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers breach 8,000 mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Don’t blame an entire community for mistakes of a few: RSS chiefAsserting that an entire community cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a few, the Rashtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has said that the pandemic calls for national unity, and asked citizens to be aware of those who want to exploit the opportunity to “break the nation” and create tensions between communities.Read more. Indian diplomat Syed Akbaruddin set to retire, TS Tirumurti expected to take overSyed Akbaruddin, one of the most visible faces of Indian diplomacy in recent years, is expected to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to the UN by TS Tirumurti, a seasoned diplomat with experience of multilateral organisations. Read more. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers continue to head north, breach 8,000 markThe tally of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra has gone up to 8,068 with 440 new cases, a state health official said Sunday. Countrywide, the number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 26,917. Read more. Centre dismisses tax- super-rich proposal by IRS officials, calls it irresponsibleThe income tax officers belonging to the IRS Association on Sunday suggested a slew of taxes for the super-rich including a wealth tax and a 4% Covid relief cess for people in the medium to high salary bracket. Read more. Hit by ‘disinfectant’ blowback, Donald Trump skips daily briefingPresident Donald Trump did not hold a daily news briefing of the coronavirus task force in weeks on Saturday as he sought to stave off continuing blowback to his shocking suggestion to try common disinfectants to kill the deadly pathogen inside infected people’s bodies, as they do externally, on surfaces. Read more. Never seen anything like that: Virat Kohli picks best shot in cricket in Instagram live with AB de VilliersWhen Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers bat together in the IPL, more often than not fireworks follow. The duo over the years has played some memorable innings for the Royal Challengers Bangalore and most of it came when they were batting together. Read more. Android 11 Developer Preview 3: New features spotted in the latest updateGoogle earlier this week rolled out Android 11 Developer Preview 3 ahead of the public beta launch next month. The latest DP3 was initially said to have skipped major features and focus only on improvements and bug fixes. Read more. Hrithik Roshan’s throwback pic from Fiza sets is a treat for his fans, he says ‘overwhelmed looking at this’Actor Hrithik Roshan retweeted a rare picture of himself from the sets of his 2000 film, Fiza. The photo shows him posing for the camera with other crew members. Read more. Lockdown love: Is it really love or just loneliness?Over the past month, I’ve hosted over a dozen events via Zoom for groups of single people. If there was confusion around relationships before Covid-19, multiply it tenfold now. Meeting in real life is out of the question during the lockdown.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-breach-8-000-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cTHcS2dNIdCbuESLga0hqJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers continue to head north, breach 8,000 mark||The tally of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra has gone up to 8,068 with 440 new cases, a state health official said Sunday. Countrywide, the number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 26,917.Nineteen fatalities on Sunday took number of casualties to 342. Out of the 19 deaths, 12 were in Mumbai.So far, 1,188 patients across the state have been discharged after recovery, the official said.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest number of Covid-19 infections.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.In the last 24 hours, Mumbai recorded 358 new cases. The city now has a total of 5,407 cases of Covid-19. It has recorded a total of 204 deaths.Pune recorded 72 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday to take its total to 1,139.Maharashtra has so far carried out 116,345 tests to detect coronavirus. In the last 24 hours, authorities conducted 7.373 tests.The state has been grappling to cap surging numbers of Covid-19 despite a stringent lockdown in place. Mumbai’s sprawling slums where more than half of the city’s 12 million population live, are posing a huge challenge to check the spread of infections.Mumbai is home to as Asia’s largest slum Dharavi which has now emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. Dharavi which measures 2.4 sq km, has more than one million people. Most of them live in cramped dwellings where hardly anybody can practice social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-continue-to-head-north-breach-8-000-mark/story-EDXyERBlT8BE9F5OujQfVI.html
26-04-2020||India||Wuhan’s L-strain may be behind Gujarat’s high death rate: Experts||The high Covid-19 mortality rate in Gujarat could be due to the dominance of the L-type strain of coronavirus, found to have been more prevalent in Wuhan in China, where the outbreak started, experts said.The dominance of the more virulent L-type coronavirus strain as compared to the S-type one could be behind the high mortality rate in the state, which has reported 133 deaths so far. However, no research has been conducted to confirm this, they said.A scientist at the state-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) said that the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing recently conducted by it was found to contain the L-type strain.“Analysis done by scientists abroad has shown that the L-type strain has been dominant where more mortality is reported among coronavirus patients. This strain was found to be more prevalent in Wuhan,” director of GBRC, C G Joshi, said.“The coronavirus sample we collected from a patient for genome sequence contained the L-type strain. This strain has a much higher virulence as compared to the S-strain,” he said.“Variation in coronavirus is in terms of number and percentage of mutations. As per the analysis, the L-type strain is dominant where more mortality is reported.Scientists have earlier found that this strain has caused more deaths,” he said.The GBRC recently succeeded in decoding the entire genome sequence of the novel coronavirus, and identified its three new mutations.Joshi added that the patient from whom the virus sample was collected for sequencing has fully recovered.So far, no study has been conducted here to establish which strain of coronavirus is predominant in patients here.Atul Patel, a specialist in infectious diseases, attributed the presence of the L-type strain more than the S- type one in Gujarat is behind high mortality rate.Patel has said that a little higher presence of the L-type strain, or the original Wuhan strain, could be behind higher death rate in the state.The state government has also attributed the high mortality among coronavirus patients in the state to co- morbidities and high risk factors.Heart and lung diseases, diabetes, and hypertension, are among common diseases that have been found among COVID-19 patients who passed away in Gujarat.The risk factors includes patients in the age group of above over 60 years and under five years of age, and pregnant women, and they account for 90 per cent of patients who passed away, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi had recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wuhan-s-l-strain-may-be-behind-gujarat-s-high-death-rate-experts/story-CW5x4zXDmaFc7Xw9fgIyZO.html
26-04-2020||India||Syed Akbaruddin, India’s face at UN, set to retire; TS Tirumurti likely to take over||Syed Akbaruddin, one of the most visible faces of Indian diplomacy in recent years, is likely to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to United Nations by TS Tirumurti, a seasoned diplomat with experience of multilateral organisations. Akbaruddin, who took Indian diplomacy into the Twitter era during his stint as spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), is set to retire this month along with India’s high commissioner to the UK, Ruchi Ghanshyam, people familiar with the development said.Turmurti, who has been the secretary (economic relations) since early 2018, has earlier had stints at India’s permanent mission in Geneva and as director in the foreign secretary’s office and joint secretary (UN, economic and social).Ghanshyam, who was superseded for the post of foreign secretary earlier this year, is expected to be replaced in London by Gaitri Kumar, currently the envoy to Belgium, Luxembourg and the European Union, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Santosh Jha, currently India’s envoy to Uzbekistan, is tipped to be the new ambassador in Brussels, they said. Rajiv Chander, another IFS officer who was superseded for the post of foreign secretary, is set to retire in August and is expected to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to the UN by Indra Mani Pandey. Pandey is currently the additional secretary (disarmament and international security affairs).Raveesh Kumar, who was, till recently the MEA spokesperson, is set to become the envoy to Finland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-diplomat-syed-akbaruddin-set-to-retire-ts-tirumurti-expected-to-take-over/story-lLzjPMilipwWkJjqQD6nHI.html
26-04-2020||India||Doctor, 2 health staff among 11 found Covid-19 positive in Kerala||A doctor and two health workers were among 11 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Kerala on Sunday, said health minister K K Shailaja, adding that the state will further ramp up testing in the coming days.Among the 11 cases, six were reported in Idukki and five in Kottayam district. In Idukki, a doctor at the primary health centre contracted the disease after she treated a woman who tested positive later. She got the infection from her son who came from Mysuru, said Idukki district collector H Dineshan.In Kottayam, one of those infected is a man who came back to the country from Spain 40 days back. The World Health Organization prescribed a 14-day incubation period, which the state later increased to 28 days. Now there are reports that some are turning positive after 30-40 days. Among 468 positive cases in the state, 342 have been discharged, leaving 126 in hospital, said the minister.The state --- the first in India to report the virus in January --- has also decided to increase the number of tests. It has so far tested 22,954 people. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has given instructions to the health ministry to speed up tests. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-2-health-staff-among-11-found-covid-19-positive-in-kerala/story-OiUZ4wvyvcxrajKXXdim7H.html
26-04-2020||India||Rain, thundershowers to affect many parts of India: IMD||Thunderstorms are brewing over northwest India, east and northeast India, including Gangetic West Bengal, and across peninsular India including coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, suggesting an extension of this week’s spell of rain in an unusually wet April, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday. A low-pressure area is also forming over the south Andaman Sea, which will result in rough seas and thundershowers around Andaman and Nicobar and the Sumatra coast starting April 30, IMD said. A western disturbance that started affecting parts of north India on Saturday evening and easterly moisture-laden winds are causing overcast skies, some thundershowers and moderate winds in most parts of northwest India including the National Capital Region (NCR) centred on Delhi. “There is intense activity in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Dust storms, hail storms and thundershowers are likely in these places. An orange alert has been issued so that authorities remain alert. In Delhi-NCR, light rain has been recorded in many parts. Similar conditions will continue till Monday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, of the regional weather forecasting centre. April hasn’t been as warm as it typically is in Delhi because of back-to-back westerly disturbances which either led to rain or overcast skies.“Till Saturday, the average maximum temperature in Delhi has been approximately 8 degrees C below normal. But we are still analysing the data to see if it’s a record,” Shrivastava added.IMD’s Sunday bulletin said intense thunderstorm activity accompanied with squally weather and hailstorms with rainfall exceeding 5 cm had been observed on April 25 at many places over coastal Odisha, north-Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and north Tamil Nadu“Due to establishment of an east-west trough and wind convergence along Indo-Gangetic plains and accompanied moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal in lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of east and northeast India during next two days with peak activity over Odisha, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Sunday,” the bulletin said.Heavy rainfall and hailstorms are expected in Odisha, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next couple of days. Heavy rainfall over parts of Kerala and Mahe is likely for the next 4 to 5 days.“In east, northeast and peninsular India we are seeing some severe thunderstorm activity. It is normal during the pre-monsoon season. There is a lot of moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal over the east and northeast. It’s the kalbaisakhi Norwesters] season. Occasionally, some very intense activity can be there like a hailstorm or squall,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. “In northwest India, the reasons are different. There is influence of a westerly disturbance here and moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. In Rajasthan where there is less moisture, there may be dust storms,” she added.According to various numerical weather prediction models of the IMD, a low pressure area is likely to form over the south Andaman Sea around April 30. It is likely to become more marked over the same region. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea along and off the north Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast and east central Bay of Bengal from April 30 to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thundershowers-to-affect-most-parts-of-india-imd/story-AfqPoBqLWLhDYaOcaAbEGJ.html
26-04-2020||India||As India fights Covid-19, 3-month extension for health secy Preeti Sudan||The central government carried out a reshuffle of the top echelons of the bureaucracy on Sunday, giving health and family welfare secretary Preeti Sudan a three-month extension in the key post as it kept the focus of the exercise firmly on the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) . Rajesh Bhushan, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre, has been appointed officer on special duty in the department of health and family welfare. In Bhushan’s place, the secretary of the department of border management in the ministry of home affairs, Nagendra Nath Sinha, will take charge as secretary of rural development, which too is a key post at a busy time in the agricultural cycle and amid efforts to protect the countryside from the coronavirus after an exodus of migrant workers from the cities back to the villages . “A reshuffle was due, but the focus has been on bolstering the departments that are fighting the Covid-19 from the front,” a Department of Personnel and Training official told Hindustan Times.Sudan was set for superannuation on April 30. She has been instrumental in coordinating anti-Covid-19 measures between the Centre and states during the Coronavirus outbreak, in formulating preventive measures and keeping her department abreast of the latest developments on the pandemic. “She has been with the ministry ever since the disease broke out,” a ministry official told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity. “She is familiar with all the facts of the case and it is better for her to continue as new officers would have had to familiarise themselves with the details from scratch. She has played a crucial role in managing the pandemic.” The move will ensure continuity in the ministry, said former secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Shailaja Chandra.“The role of the health secretary spans across a wide canvas. During the Covid-19 pandemic it is essential to maintain continuity and see that the coordination that has been established runs seamlessly. Any sudden changes are avoidable,” Chandra said. “To oversee the containment of a highly contagious pandemic, it is paramount that the drill laid down with the States and expert institutions is implemented while managing the execution of fresh Government policies. It is good there is continuity in the coming 3 more months.”In other changes, Amit Khare, who is presently the secretary,department of higher education in the ministry of human resource development, has been given additional charge of the post of secretary, information and broadcasting (I&B). Khare has earlier served an I&B secretary. The present I&B secretary, Ravi Mittal, has been appointed secretary in the department of sports, ministry of youth affairs and sports.In the department of consumer affairs, ministry of consumer affairs and food and public distribution, Leela Nandan will replace secretary Pawan Kumar. Nandan is a 1987-batch, UP cadre officer who was earlier special secretary in the ministry of road transport and highways. Kumar has been appointed special secretary (logistics) in the department of commerce. Tarun Bajaj, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minsiter’s Office, will take over as the secretary of department of economic affairs, ministry of finance. Anita Karwal, chairperson of the Central Board of Secondary Education, will take charge as secretary, department of school education and literacy, ministry of human resource development. On the superannuation of Arun Kumar Panda, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, the role will pass on to Arvind Kumar Sharma, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. The present secretary of road transport and highways,Sanjeev Ranjan, will take over as the secretary, ministry of shipping. Armane Giridhar, presently an additional secretary in the cabinet secretariat, has been appointed in his place. Special secretary in the ministry of women and child development Ajay Tirkey will take charge as the secretary on the superannuation of the incumbent Rabindra Panwar. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, presently special secretary of NITI Aayog, will take charge as secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer, department of personnel and training, will take over from the incumbent secretary of steel Binoy Kumar on his superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-fights-covid-19-3-month-extension-for-health-secy-preeti-sudan/story-UFIJL8VTpseli3izPryd6H.html
26-04-2020||India||Domestic violence during Covid-19 lockdown emerges as serious concern||In the second week of April, the Delhi Police recorded a “total event count” of 2,446 that pertained to the “event type: women”. Put simply, nearly 2,500 women in Delhi called emergency helpline numbers which triggers the Emergency Response Support System of the state police. Of these calls over 600 were classified as “women abuse”, 23 calls reported rape, while a majority — 1612 — pertained to domestic violence. One of these calls was about a 28-year-old woman from west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar. The woman’s brother, based in Nepal, first got in touch with a New Delhi-based government licenced shelter home for women and transwomen survivors of abuse and violence. Shakti Shalini, based in Jangpura, rang the police helpline and a policeman was sent to investigate the matter. The 28-year-old mother of two toddlers had allegedly undergone sustained physical abuse by her husband and his family. Initially, the police sought to mediate between the two, and asked the woman to stay home during the lockdown. But the woman said the abuse had worsened after the husband came to know that a police complaint had been filed. On April 14, the police took her for a medical check up, recorded her bruises and transported her and her two children to Shakti Shalini’s shelter home. “I was physically, mentally tortured for four years. Two days before [my brother called the shelter], my husband beat me up to an inch of my life. I begged him to spare me. He told me to get out of the house,” the survivor told HT. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageDolly Singh, the coordinator and counsellor at Shakti Shalini said the shelter home has received 25 calls since the beginning of the lockdown. In some of these cases, the police mediated between the women and their abusers, and asked them to stay put till the lockdown was over. A Hindustan Times analysis of cases recorded across the country reveals two important aspects of the issue. One, some states have reported a decline in the number of domestic violence complaints, others have reported a spike in the calls being received by helplines. This indicates that the incidence of domestic violence during the lockdown depends upon the ability of victims to make complaints while they share domestic spaces with perpetrators. In some states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, the number of complaints received by state-run helplines has decreased. In Ghaziabad, which forms part of the National Capital Region, instances of domestic violence during the first phase of lockdown saw a decline of about 50% as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March, according to the data compiled by 18 police stations in urban and rural areas of the city. “There used to be around 400 complaints related to Domestic Violence every day from all parts of the state till last month and now, the number has come down to around 150-200,” Inspector General of Police (Women Safety) Telangana, Swati Lakra said. However, in some other states the number of calls on domestic violence have, in fact, increased. The Punjab State Commission for Women (PSCW) has received at least 30 complaints everyday related to domestic violence since March 22. According to Manisha Gulati, chairperson of PSCW, prior to the lockdown, only a third of the calls they received pertained to domestic violence incidents. Even private helplines, such as that maintained by Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ iCall, has seen a spike in calls. “We are getting phone calls from Ghaziabad, Noida, Mumbai, Hyderabad and many other cities Everyday there are at least three calls,” coordinator Ruchi Sinha said.The second aspect to this issue is that while there are several helplines and shelter homes available for women to call or live in — both state-run, and those maintained by non governmental organisations — the help that they can provide has been curtailed due to the lockdown. Women cannot travel to police stations, and social workers cannot reach them or arrange for their travel; the police are overburdened with Covid-19 duties, and visiting homes to investigate domestic disputes is often not considered a priority. What’s more, domestic violence cases are filed in lower courts as these are civil disputes and at present, courts are only open for emergency hearings, such as bail pleas. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has received 250 domestic violence complaints between March 25 and April 22. “These were the numbers that could reach us. I am afraid the actual numbers would be higher. We’re trying to follow up on more cases. State bodies have also been asked to stay more alert,” said chairperson Rekha Sharma. Across India, only the most dire cases seem to be getting addressed.Last week, Kerala State Women Commission member Shahid Kamal got a call from Chennai pleading for help. The caller told her that his sister, a resident of Idukki district in Kerala, and her daughter were hiding in a forest after the woman’s husband ejected them from their home. The caller said that the jungle had several wild animals. Kamal immediately alerted the Idukki police, and the matter was investigated. The husband was taken into custody. “In some cases a little counselling and advice will do. But cases like this need serious intervention. It is fact during lockdown, domestic violence cases have increased. But if you ask me, data will be [lesser],” she said.Another counsellor said that parole granted to prisoners and under-trials — done in order to ease the pressure on overcrowded jails during the Covid-19 epidemic that requires strict social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus — has meant that several perpetrators of violence have returned home. In Kottayam, a family had approached the prisons department against the release of one of their male members from the jail on this account. The prisoner was released, but warned not to stay with his family. In Malda district of West Bengal last week, 26-year-old Sona Mondol was allegedly strangled by her husband of five years. In another incident in the district, another woman was allegedly killed by her husband for protesting against his extra-marital affair. Both men have been booked. “There is hardly anything we can do at this moment. We have helped the victims to connect with the local police station, lawyers and local NGOs,” said Debaprasad Roychoudhury, an official of Association of Protection of Democratic Rights, a NGO.Rituparna Borah, co-founder Delhi-based Queer Nazariya, a resource group for lesbian, bisexual women and transmen, said that the number of distress calls that they have received has increased, but unlike before where they could offer assistance in person — whether counselling or arranging for the queer person to leave their home if they needed to — the only help that they can offer at present is counselling over the telephone. The courts have taken cognisance of this issue. On April 18, the Jammu & Kashmir high court passed an order taking suo moto cognizance of domestic violence cases during the lockdown, and offered a slew of directions including creating a special fund and designating informal safe spaces for women like grocery stores and pharmacies, where they could report domestic violence/abuse without alerting the perpetrators. The Karnataka high court too asked the state government about the helplines, and action taken on domestic violence complaints. The state responded to the court on April 25 stating that helplines, counsellors, shelter homes and protection officers were working “round the clock” to help victims of violence. The Delhi high court recently directed the state and Centre to take measures to protect women from domestic violence, following a petition filed by an NGO. The Centre, Delhi government and the national and state commissions of women submitted status reports on the action taken against domestic violence, including spreading awareness about helpline numbers, shelter or one-stop homes as well as appointment of protection officers, which the court reviewed on April 25.The Delhi government told the court that on April 12, it put in place a protocol to tackle cases of domestic violence during the lockdown: once a survivor reaches out to the helpline (181), the telecaller will take down her complaint and then forward her case to a counsellor who is required to establish a phone communication with her on account of the lockdown. The counsellor is empowered to conduct sessions with the woman and her spouse or family if required. However, in case the woman is a victim of sexual or physical assault, the telecaller is required to inform the police about the case, and assist in filing a First Information Report. The counsellor is further required to inform the protection officer — Delhi has 17 — to allow them to file an incidence report.However, according to advocates Mithu Jain and her colleagues who filed the petition on behalf of All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Justice on April 15, the responses of both state and Centre offered no information in their respective status reports about victims who have been saved. “Is it their job to receive complaints alone? Where is the data to show that any action has been taken on these phone calls,” Jain asked.(With inputs from Saurabh Chauhan, Aneesha Sareen, Ramesh Babu, Joydeep Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-violence-during-covid-19-lockdown-emerges-as-serious-concern/story-mMRq3NnnFvOehgLOOPpe8J.html
26-04-2020||India||Assam conservationists oppose move to construct more highlands in Kaziranga||Four prominent conservationists in Assam have opposed the move to construct more highlands in the state’s Kaziranga National Park as a means to give shelter to wild animals during floods.On Friday, union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar had a video conference with Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya to discuss ways to mitigate the loss of wildlife during the annual floods in Kaziranga and other protected areas of the state.“Directed that more highlands maybe made for wild animals, to take shelter at the time of floods,” the union minister wrote on his Facebook page. He also asked Assam officials to ensure wild animals are not killed due to accidental hits by vehicles.In a statement issued on Sunday, Anupam Sarma, Team Leader of Brahmaputra Landscape, WWF India, Bibhab Talukdar, founder of Aaranyak, Rathin Barman, joint director of Wildlife Trust of India and Kaushik Barua of Assam Elephant Foundation cited 10 reasons why the move was not a good one.Spread over 430 sq km, Kaziranga is the biggest habitat of the one-horned rhinos in the world. But every year during floods nearly 80% to 90% of the park gets inundated forcing animals to cross the national highway located nearby and head to the hills of Karbi Anglong district.In an attempt to protect animals, artificial highlands to allow wild animals to take shelter during floods were constructed inside the park. At present there are 144 highlands inside Kaziranga.Nearly 200 animals including 18 rhinos were killed in the park during floods last year. But though the floods bring devastation, it also helps regenerate the grasslands inside the park, which are crucial for survival of rhinos and several other species.In their statement the conservationists said construction of more highlands might change Kaziranga into a drier habitat and in the long run it might not remain suitable for rhino, swamp deer, wild buffalo etc.“In every flood, the highland will erode naturally and deposit extra silt in the wetlands and water channels will eventually dry out. This will cause more damage to Kaziranga’s already fragile eco-system,” the statement read.“Change of vegetation is likely to compel the animals to stray out of the park’s boundary, especially during dry seasons. This will bring more threat to the animals, especially the rhino,” it added.The conservationists said that the new highlands may affect prey-predator reflex as it will affect visibility, might introduce invasive plant species in the park and may reduce grasslands for rhinos and other herbivores to graze on.“It will be more beneficial if more emphasis is given to grasslands management, restoration of wetlands and anti-erosion matters rather than making highlands,” said the statement.The conservationists suggested undisturbed animal movement in the identified animal corridors in Kaziranga and construction of an elevated highway to allow the wild animals to move to the Karbi Anglong hills during floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-conservationists-oppose-move-to-construct-more-highlands-in-kaziranga/story-V71cOgdpda0Mf600pkypvI.html
26-04-2020||India||Don’t blame an entire community for mistakes of a few: RSS chief||Asserting that an entire community cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a few, the Rashtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has said that the pandemic calls for national unity, and asked citizens to be aware of those who want to exploit the opportunity to “break the nation” and create tensions between communities.Bhagwat also said that the pandemic has also shown the need to create a new development model, which should have Swadeshi at its core. The RSS has long-held swadeshi, which refers to boosting domestic capabilities and production and reducing external economic dependence and inter-linkages, as a core ideological belief. He also underlined the necessity of following the government’s protocol on social distancing.For Coronavirus Live Updates“If anyone out of anger or fear does something wrong, we cannot blame the whole community and distance from them,” Bhagwat said in a televised address. This is widely being interpreted as a reference to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where thousands got infected. At the same time, Bhagwat warned against any attempt to disintegrate the country. He said it is incumbent on community leaders to ensure that people are not provoked by those who are “anti-India” to react with “anger or fear” to government’s instructions on physical distancing.“People don’t want any restrictions. We (RSS) stopped all programmes till June end. Some others might feel the government is trying to put restrictions ... some are creating a problem that leads to anger. The ones who will benefit from this will keep provoking” he said.The RSS chief also made a renewed pitch for encouraging Swadeshi or indigenous production and said the pandemic has given India the opportunity to become self reliant and cut dependence on other nations. He however cautioned that indigenous production will have to meet quality standards. “The PM (Narendra Modi) recently told the Sarpanches that this problem is teaching us self-reliance. We need to focus on employment. Will those who went (to their villages) come back, will people have jobs, will people be able to pay? We need to start preparing and think of self reliance,” he said.Political analyst Hari Desai said, “Bhagwat’s comments on not demonising a community and pushing for swadeshi are welcome. However it remains to be seen whether it will be followed by Swayamsevaks and BJP leaders who have been blaming a particular community for the spread of Covid-19.”Bhagwat also criticised the lynching of two Hindu religious leaders in Maharashtra’s Palgarh and said such instances should not be allowed.“…Should this (lynching) have happened, should law be disrupted, what role should the police have played? The sanyasis were beaten to death. They were people who served others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-blame-an-entire-community-for-mistakes-of-a-few-rss-chief/story-d5Q5PVLZMXk8bG8kHotOfM.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi greets people on Parshuram Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended greetings to the people on Parshuram Jayanti, saying his ideals will encourage people for ages. “The symbols of tenacity, strength and courage, Lord Parshuram’s ideals will continue to inspire people for ages,” Modi tweeted in Hindi. Lord Parshuram is considered an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-people-on-parshuram-jayanti/story-WMLbuxKzmxR9lg281epINO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala prepares for possible inflow of expatriates||The Kerala government is preparing for the return of thousands of expatriates from West Asia amid indications that Indians stranded around the world due to Covid-19-related travel restrictions are set to return to the country.On Sunday, the non-resident Keralites affairs (Norka) department started online registration of people who want to return to the state. Kerala’s higher education and minority affairs minister TK Jaleel said the government expects between 150,000 to 200,000 people to return within the space of a month.Kerala also wants the Central government to help in sending back migrant workers from north and northeast India stranded in the state before the expatriates arrive. At least 300,000 migrant workers are currently in some 10,000 camps across the state.The state government said among the people expected to return, pregnant women, relatives of expatriates who went abroad for a vacation and got stranded, patients with medical conditions other than Covid-19, students and people whose visas have expired will get priority.People who have tested negative for Covid-19 in other countries will have to give an undertaking that they will remain in quarantine for a fortnight on arrival in Kerala.“We have made all arrangements to receive our people. After tests, those who have symptoms will be shifted to our care homes. Others will be sent to their homes with strict instructions to remain in quarantine,” said Jaleel.“We will get a clear idea [about the number of people returning] once the registration is over. We will give preference to women and children,” he added.Last week, a woman from based in Dubai filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking help to return home to deliver her baby. She said she wanted to return for her first delivery in July, and that after seven months of pregnancy, she wouldn’t be allowed to travel by air.Many expatriates are upset with the government, especially at a time when Pakistan and the Philippines have evacuated their nationals from West Asia.Many Covid-19 care homes have come up near the four international airports in Kerala but authorities believe they may not be sufficient to cope with the flow, and vacant flats, locked houses and houseboats are also being prepared to house the expatriates. Work is progressing at Alapuzha to convert houseboats into quarantine homes and Covid-19 hospitals.There are about 1.8 million people from Kerala working in West Asian countries and their remittances during 2018-19 were worth Rs 88,000 crore, serving as the backbone of the state’s money order economy. A senior state health ministry official said on condition of anonymity that once the expatriates start arriving, Kerala will introduce reverse quarantine – the practice of separating the most vulnerable, elderly or people with co-morbidity conditions and closely monitoring their health indicators to protect them from infection.The government is working on the idea that in case of community spread, it can isolate the large greying population and check the mortality rate among them, unlike what happened in some Western countries, the official said. Since some those who returned from the Middle East last month emerged as super spreaders, the state will be more cautious this time.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to the prime minister to run special trains to take migrant workers in Kerala back to their states. Kerala is taking all steps to look after them but their presence is draining its coffers. “The state’s economy is in shambles. We want migrant workers to be sent back before the arrival of the expatriates. We hope the Centre will help us,” said a senior government official who declined to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-prepares-for-possible-inflow-of-expatriates/story-OiGKYQ0FwIUL1NTxyTdjmJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Centre rejects tax hike proposal by IRS officials, calls it ill-conceived||The government has “summarily” rejected an “ill-conceived” report prepared by a group of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers that suggested raising income-tax rate up to 40%, imposing a super-rich tax and levy a 4% Covid-19 relief cess to rebuild the economy post-coronavirus pandemic, two finance ministry officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.An ill-conceived report named as Fiscal Options & Response to Covid-19 Epidemic (FORCE) put up by a group of officers through IRS Association giving suggestions on increasing the taxes, etc., in the difficult time of Covid-19 pandemic and releasing the same in the media through IRS Association’s twitter and website is “an irresponsible act” of few officers, they said requesting anonymity.“A departmental enquiry will be initiated against people responsible for creating panic among the public by uploading this unauthorised report in social media that could have a serious consequence for both, the economy and the market. Thankfully, the market was closed,” one of the officials said.Some of the key recommendations of the FORCE report are raising income-tax rate up to 40% for those with an income minimum Rs 1 core per annum, re-introduce wealth tax for those with a net wealth of Rs 5 crore and levy a one-time Covid Relief Cess of 4% on those with a taxable income of Rs 10 lakh and above.“The proposals are against the government’s existing policy on taxation,” a second official said.In the budget this year, the government gave option to individuals to opt for lower income-tax rates, provided they forgo exemptions. Earlier, it had reduced corporate tax rates drastically. In order to boost investments, the government in September gave a Rs 1.45 lakh crore bonanza to the industry by drastically reducing corporate tax rates. Accordingly, firms had option for a lower corporate tax rate of 22% (15% to newly incorporated companies) provided they forgo exemptions. Those interested in exemptions could pay the tax at 30% (25% for new firms).While forwarding the FORCE report, the IRS Association on April 23 wrote to the chairman and members of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that it was prepared jointly by a group of 50 IRS officers. “Working from home, they have come together to leverage their combined knowledge, experiences, and commitment to building a healthy, strong and prosperous India,” the letter that was posted on its twitter handle late night on Saturday said.“The report is only recommendatory in nature and it is not an official document,” one executive functionary of the association said Sunday requesting anonymity.Later, on Sunday evening, the association tweeted, “The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRSA to CBDT for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the IT Dept.”A CBDT spokesperson said the board always takes direct feedback from its field formations to improve its systems and processes, but it does not entertain any such unsolicited suggestions from the association.“Neither the IRS Association nor any group of officers, mentioned in the said report, were ever asked by the government to give any report on the subject,” the first official said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIt is prima-facie an act of indiscipline and violation of conduct rules which specifically prohibits officers to go to media with their personal views on official matters without taking prior sanction or the permission of the government, the official said.“The Chairman, CBDT has been directed to seek explanation from these officers for writing such ‘ill-conceived views’ in public without having any authority to do so,” he added.He said, “People should completely disregard such report. In fact, the Finance Ministry is doing its best to provide relief and liquidity into the system and ease the lives of people in these trying times.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-dismisses-tax-super-rich-proposal-by-irs-officials-calls-it-irresponsible/story-lJ6haLkNydtIzMNcm7gXNI.html
26-04-2020||India||After lockdown ends on May 3, Odisha to bring back its migrant workers from Gujarat, Maharashtra||With its lakhs of migrant workers getting restive to come back to their homes, the Naveen Patnaik government on Sunday said that it would arrange buses to Gujarat and Maharashtra to bring back stranded migrant workers after national lockdown on coronavirus pandemic ends on May 3.After a discussion through video-conferencing among Patnaik, his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani, Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackrey and union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan today, it was decided that a coordination committee comprising two officers each from all the three states will decide on the modalities of bringing back the stranded workers by buses or any other modes of transport available.“Registration(with the Covid portal) is mandatory for all those who wish to come back to their native places. Suitable arrangements are being made so that they can be sent to quarantine facility immediately upon their arrival,” said Patnaik. The chief minister’s office said Odisha is in talks with the governments of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh so that no road tax is levied on the buses carrying the migrant labourers from Gujarat and Maharshtra to Odisha.The decision to bring back the Odia migrant labourer comes in the wake of 70 Odia migrants working in Surat’s textile mills going on rampage on April 11 demanding salary and permission to be allowed to travel back to Odisha. At least 2 lakh Odia migrants have been working in textile mills of Surat, but majority of them live in congested rooms and have no job security. After all the textile units in Surat were closed following lockdown, many of them wished to go back to Odisha as they quickly ran out of money and food. Most of the workers in Surat are from Ganjam, the home district of Naveen Patnaik.Similarly, thousands of Odia workers are stranded across Maharashtra after lockdown was announced. But some like Mahesh Jena, a 20-year-old casual worker in an iron foundry of Sangli-Miraj had arrived in his home district of Jajpur after cycling over 1700 km. A day earlier, the Odisha government allowed intra-state movement of labourers who are stranded in the state due to Coronavirus lockdown. Around 86,000 workers, including 16,000 from within Odisha, are being accommodated in 2,610 camps in various districts in the state.The migrant workers who arrive in Odisha from Gujarat and other states from May 4 onwards would be housed in quarantine centres that the government is quickly putting up in around 7,000 panchayats. The quarantine centres would have 2 lakh beds which would be scaled up to 5 lakh as more and more people come back.But the government’s decision that all such migrant workers would have to give out their Aadhar number while filling up an online portal for registration was slammed by Citizens’ Action Group on Covid-19, a civil society group of the state.The CAG members said most of the migrants working in informal sectors may not have an Aadhar card or be carrying it. “We are witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis and in such a situation, our approach should be one of making things easy for the most vulnerable sections of the society. Making Aadhar mandatory for registration doesn’t serve that approach well. Hence the government should look for other options such as voter ID card, driving license or a post-registration authentication by the Panchayat,” said Manas Ranjan Mishra, convenor of the group.The CAG also raised concerns about online registration being only source of mapping data on stranded people or workers. “Looking at the exploitative nature of the networks through which migrants seek work and travel, it is important that all steps are taken to ensure that the stranded workers are able to register themselves without any hindrance or coercion caused by people and groups that operate these networks. So offline registration should also be allowed,” the group suggested.In another development, the state government appointed over 20 senior IAS officers as Covid-19 observers to various districts as Odisha prepared for return of around 5 lakh migrants from other States. Several other IAS officers were also assigned specific responsibilitirs such as implementation of social distancing guidelines, management and welfare of stranded Odias in other States, IEC activities, registration of Odia returnees and procurement of essential medical equipment and supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lockdown-ends-on-may-3-odisha-to-bring-back-its-migrant-workers-from-gujarat-by-bus/story-GCQ6grmiujhfSOdOmNfHeP.html
26-04-2020||India||J&K crosses 500 mark with 29 fresh Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir crossed the 500 mark after 29 fresh Covid-19 infections were reported on Sunday, officials said. The total number of positive cases in the UT are now 523. Officials said all the new cases were reported from the Kashmir valley’s Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Srinagar and Kupwara districts. The numbers in the Valley have risen to 466. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted: “Total cases in J&K now 523. However, don’t let this number daunt you. This includes 137 recoveries too. Total active cases are 380. We will keep doing aggressive testing and strict containment. You have to support us by staying home.”“Also, 25 more patients have recovered and were discharged. Out of these, 10 are from Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Bemina, five from Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial hospital, Srinagar, two from Kupwara and eight from Chest Diseases Hospital, Jammu,” an official said.On Saturday, the UT had witnessed sharpest single day jump with 40 new cases after it had tested more than 1,000 people for Covid-19 in 24 hours. So far, 137 patients—110 in Kashmir and 27 in Jammu–have recovered while six have died. Till date, 66,977 people have been put under surveillance—6,232 in home quarantine, 258 in hospital quarantine and 10,763 under home surveillance. Besides, 49,338 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.J&K admn allows standalone shops to reopen with conditionsThe existing curbs will continue in red zones of Jammu and Kashmir while lockdown rules will be relaxed with certain conditions in some places in the Union territory, officials said on Sunday.In pursuance of the orders issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, J&K’s chief secretary and chairperson of state executive committee BVR Subrahmanyan issued an order permitting to open all standalone shops or neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes in urban areas with certain conditions.However, there are exceptions to the above shops which include eateries with sit-in facilities, cinema halls, malls, restaurants, parlours, saloons, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said that the order is detailed and there will be relaxation rules with conditions.“The relaxations are not for red zones and besides these relaxations won’t apply to a cluster of shops like in main markets of municipal towns. Similarly, shops that can attract a crowd like beauty parlours or saloons won’t be allowed,” said Pole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-crosses-500-mark-with-29-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-tf7D3KLLkWuQAJV7Q2NMWO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Two more test positive to take Uttarakhand’s count to 50||After a doctor from a military hospital in Dehradun tested positive for Covid-19 last week, a second healthcare professional from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, officials said.Another young woman, who delivered a baby on Saturday in Government Doon Medical College Hospital, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand has increased to 50.UB Mishra, dean of AIIMS Rishikesh said that a nursing officer working with the urology department tested positive on Sunday after first showing symptoms on April 24.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The nursing officer first showed mild symptoms on April 24, after which his samples were taken for testing on April 25. Till now what we have understood is that the nursing officer might have contracted the virus from an asymptomatic person,” said Mishra.The officials at AIIMS Rishikesh are now tracing close contacts of the health care worker and everyone will be quarantined and tested.“We will be putting all the staff and patients who came into contact with the positive patient in quarantine and everyone will be tested. Patients will be discharged from the hospital only after their test results show negative. No new patient will be admitted to the block where the nursing officer worked. However, general OPD services and Covid-19 OPD will be working as usual,” added Mishra.In Dehradun, a 32-year-old woman who gave birth to a child on Saturday also tested positive for the virus on Sunday, the source of which is being confirmed by health officials.Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer for Covid-19 in Dehradun said that the woman is a resident of Azad Nagar Colony, a containment area in Dehradun and had already been admitted to the hospital as she was pregnant.“After observing the new-born baby for some time, the doctors will decide whether to test the baby or not. We are tracing close contacts of the patient and the immediate family has already been quarantined, who will also be tested,” said Dr Chauhan.So far, Uttarakhand has tested around 5,000 people with 50 positive cases and 4,609 samples testing negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-more-test-positive-to-take-uttarakhand-s-count-to-50/story-ATs8unO7oTmru3hxXKZe0N.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Some Bihar migrants test positive, state prepares for a possible second wave||While the migrants, faced with uncertainty and fear, are desperate to return to their native places in Bihar and the Patna High Court gets ready to hear four PILs (public interest litigations) on the issue on Monday, an alarmed Bihar government is working out plans to deal with the prospect of another deluge of migrants returning home leading to a spike in the spread of COVID-19 in the state.The government has reasons to be worried since some of the migrants, who managed to reach state using desperate and daring means despite the lockdown, have tested positive for the disease and there is no telling how many of the new lot, it if is allowed to return, will end up becoming the transmitters of disease if not checked in time.“It is a fact that one cannot prevent migrants from coming for a long time as many states have already started doing it despite lockdown. They were stopped in the larger interest, but in the case of Bihar, it will be a tough ask due to the sheer magnitude and risk involved. Many of those who have reached have proved why travelling in the midst of lockdown is fraught with risk,” said an official, adding the state would have to keep its plan ready to tackle another surge, as the number of returning migrants could go into several lakhs, even if just one-third of the 22-lakh migrants, who have got registered for Bihar government’s assistance of Rs 1000 each, return.During Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar’s video conferencing with senior health and field officials, it came to light that eight migrant labourers who reached Bihar from different states during lockdown have tested positive.Arwal district magistrate (DM) said that a migrant worker who returned from Gurgaon on April 19 had tested positive, while Saran DM said that another person who drove his own car from Vadodara in Gujarat to Bihar on April 15, without a valid pass, had also tested positive.In another such instance, a person reached Bhagalpur from Mumbai travelling in an ambulance via Gorakhpur, Gopalganj, Begusarai, Naugachia and got himself admitted in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. He was found Covid-19 positive on April 20.“There were three persons with him in the ambulance. One of them has also tested positive, while the results of two others are still awaited and contact tracing is on. Some people who came in contact with them have already been quarantined,” Banka district magistrate said.District magistrates of Patna and Bhojpur have also reported incidents of people returning to Bihar from states like Delhi and Haryana despite the restrictions before they were found coronavirus positive.The chief secretary directed all the DMs to maintain a close vigil on all the migrants reaching the state and to ensure 100% testing so that they could be accordingly quarantined to prevent the spread of the infection.“Awareness should be increased at the Panchayat level, particularly in bordering districts, so that prompt information about migrants reaching home could reach the authority for timely action,” he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Pushpendra, professor and chairperson, Patna Centre of the Tata Institute of social sciences (TISS), said that return of migrants was natural, as they had been left with a Hobson’s choice after being rendered jobless in the midst of a pandemic away from home and family.“They cannot sustain outside without work. Bihar will need to bring about policy changes to deal with the situation not only to cater to their immediate needs but also for the long term,” he added.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-some-bihar-migrants-test-positive-state-prepares-for-a-possible-second-wave/story-ag0rKVBr1MZGaqr00vDbiN.html
26-04-2020||India||To fight Covid-19, Bangladesh gets Hydroxychloroquine, surgical gloves from India||India on Sunday provided Bangladesh 100,000 hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets and 50,000 surgical gloves for use in the country’s efforts to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19.This was the second tranche of aid provided by India to the neighbouring country under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) Covid-19 Emergency Fund. It had earlier provided a consignment of head covers and face masks.In a video message posted on social media, India’s high commissioner to Dhaka, Riva Ganguly Das, said many people in both countries had been affected by the coronavirus disease and India would stand by Bangladesh in the efforts to tackle Covid-19.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“A Saarc leaders’ video conference was held on March 15 and at that time, the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund was created. Under that fund, today we have provided the Bangladesh government 100,000 hydroxychloroquine tablets and 50,000 surgical gloves for health professionals,” Das said in a brief video message in Bengali posted on social media.She said Bangladeshi medical professionals had benefited from an online training programme organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Raipur, and another course would soon be organised.Das also pointed to India’s “neighbourhood first” policy and said Bangladesh comes first within the region for India. “I am absolutely confident that we will overcome this crisis with our joint efforts,” she added.Bangladesh has so far recorded almost 5,000 infections and 140 deaths.India has prioritised the supply of hydroxychloroquine tablets to its neighbours such as Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-fight-covid-19-bangladesh-gets-hcq-surgical-gloves-from-india/story-oHMb0DYIbmfu87i8kX7muI.html
26-04-2020||India||Bangladeshi man swims across river to seek Covid-19 treatment in Assam, sparks panic||Panic spread across several villages near the Indo-Bangla border in Assam’s Karimganj district on Sunday after a Bangladeshi national claiming to be a Covid-19 patient swam across a river and entered India seeking treatment, the Border Security Force (BSF) said.The man in his mid-30s identified as Abdul Haque, a resident of Sunamganj district of Bangladesh, was later handed over by BSF authorities to Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB).“The Bangaldeshi national swam across the Kushiyara river located on the border between the two countries and entered India around 7:30 am on Sunday. When villagers on the Indian side saw him, they stopped him there and informed us,” said Deputy Inspector General JC Nayak, BSF spokesperson based at Silchar, 53 km east of Karimganj.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The incident happened at a place called Mubarakpur nearly four km away from Karimganj town on an unfenced portion of the boundary between two countries. “The person had fever, didn’t look too well and was speaking incoherently. He was claiming that he was suffering from Covid-19 and crossed the river to seek treatment in India,” Nayak said.The BSF authorities informed BGB personnel from across the border about it. The Bangaldeshi authorities came to the Indian side in two boats and took the man back around 9 am.“We have no idea whether he was Covid19 positive or not, but it was clear that he was unwell. Villagers on the Indian side were afraid to approach him because of coronavirus scare. Only tests will reveal his exact status,” said Nayak.Though Kushiyara river gets flooded several times during the monsoon, the water level at present is pretty low and a person who knows swimming will be able to cross it without much difficulty, said Nayak.“In view of Covid-19, we have intensified patrolling in the border areas to ensure no one enters India from Bangladesh. But the area where this incident happened is unfenced till now. We had carried out awareness programs in villages and that is the reason why they informed us immediately,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladeshi-man-swims-across-river-to-seek-covid-19-treatment-in-assam-sparks-panic/story-WGIwY07BW9uhf6HvAoUHYI.html
26-04-2020||India||5 questions for Modi government in Congress’ demand for national Covid plan||The Congress party on Sunday stepped up pressure on the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic crisis by demanding a national action plan to contain the disease and its economic fallout. The party listed out five areas, it felt, must be addressed by a national plan so that the country and the state governments have clarity going forward.The party sent out a series of tweets through its official handle listing out the 5 core areas of focus the party felt needed further attention from the government in the form of a clear action plan. “A month of lockdown and there is hardly any clarity from the government on a number of issues. Does the govt have a national plan?” The party called attention to the following five areas in its tweet.-Procurement of more kits and increased testing-Lifting the lockdown-Economic revival-Stranded migrant workers-MSMEsOn the issue of testing, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari had spelt out party’s stance that questioned Centre’s less-than-optimal utilisation of its full testing capacity. Tiwari said the government needed to explain if it was deliberately testing less in order to play down the true magnitude of the pandemic in the country.“If India’s capacity is to carry out one lakh tests a day, then what is the reason for capping the tests at 39,000?,” Tiwari had asked.On the issue of lifting the lockdown, the Congress party said the country and the state governments needed a clear plan of action since the disease was not going to go away post-May 3—when the second phase of the ongoing national lockdown ends.Also Read: ‘Covid-19 not vanishing on May 3, where’s the national plan’: Congress asks PM Narendra ModiThe party also repeated its concerns over economic revival and accused the government of taking confusing decisions.The BJP government is making all efforts to increase the pain instead of reducing it. It is stopping the dearness allowance when it is dearly needed. It is cutting down on the Indian military’s needs. The government has lost direction,” a party tweet said.Another asked, “Why is the government not withdrawing projects like Central Vista and diverting the funds to fight COVID-19?”.The Central vista project is an ambitious plan in the pipelines, aimed to revamp the area around India Gate in the capital that houses government offices and Parliament among others.On the issue of MSMEs and economic revival, Congress wanted to know when the second dose of financial assistance will be provided to industries. “Despite industry voices demanding assistance, why is the BJP government not announcing the second financial assistance package? What is the Govt waiting for,” the party asked.Also Read: On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19On the issue of migrant workers, Congress has been demanding that arrangements be made to send them home since they are stuck in states where they work. Several state governments have indicated that they want to move migrants back to their homes in a phased manner which doesn’t harm the containment efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-questions-for-modi-government-in-congress-demand-for-national-covid-plan/story-2Swa9WqgMaRdQ4DZ8SrWFL.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CMs tomorrow to discuss way out of lockdown, Covid fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers via video conference on Monday morning on the way ahead in the fight against the novel coronavirus, amid indications that the discussions could also focus on a graded exit from the ongoing lockdown. This will be the third video conference of the prime minister with the chief ministers after the spread of the Covid-19 in the country. Sources in the government indicated that besides discussing the way forward in dealing with the pandemic, the discussion could also focus on a “graded” exit from the lockdown which is in place till May 3. The Centre and the state governments have been giving gradual relaxation in various fields and sectors to boost economic activities as also to provide relief to people. But some states are willing to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 to ensure that coronavirus cases remain under control. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday, the prime minister said the country is in the middle of a ‘yudh’ (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions. His note of caution comes against the backdrop of the Union government and states relaxing lockdown norms to revive economic activities. “I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard,” he said. Modi referred to a popular Hindi idiom ‘Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati’ (accident happens when caution is lowered) to make his point. The Centre has now allowed neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas to open during the lockdown. But those in the markets continue to remain shut till May 3. In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open. In a late night order on Friday, the Home Ministry also said malls continue to remain shut but markets in rural areas can open. However, opening of shops located in Covid-19 hotspot and containment zones, sale of non-essential items by e-commerce platforms and sale of liquor continue to be prohibited. In the last interaction on April 11, several chief ministers had recommended extension of the 21-day lockdown by two weeks, which was slated to end on April 14 earlier. On April 14, the prime minister had announced that the lockdown is being extended till May 3. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-on-monday-to-discuss-way-out-of-lockdown-covid-fight/story-yiNM3ZAhr0PhCLSMUE65YN.html
26-04-2020||India||270k trees to be felled in Dibang, plans for compensatory plantations at 25 sites||For the 270,000 trees that will be felled to make way for the 3,097 megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, compensatory plantations will be raised in 25 different fragmented lots of land in the Valley’s Anini town, according to the project proposal. The rest will be taken up on land that’s over 400 kilometres away in Tawang district.Under the Forest Conservation Act 1980, every time forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes such as mining or industry, the project developer is supposed to identify non-forest land of an equal area and also pay for planting forests over this, or when that is not available, on twice the area of degraded forest land. The project is being developed by—M/s Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited with Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is approximately Rs 25,296.95 crore, according to the factsheet.The proposed project, which is yet to get approval from the environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC), is located in “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” and is home to outstanding biodiversity, according to the FAC’s own documents. Environmentalists and local residents are now concerned that the same ecological value cannot be recreated through artificial plantations in fragmented patches of land.Compensatory afforestation for the project has been proposed over 1,074.329 hectares at a cost of Rs 19.6 crores, according to an FAC factsheet on the project reviewed by Hindustan Times .“So far in India we haven’t seen compensatory afforestation plots providing ecosystem and biodiversity services. There is also a concern that in many places monocultures have sprung up in the name of afforestation. There is no land to do such large-scale plantations either, so often public or forest lands are used. The spirit of compensatory afforestation is missing,” said NH Ravindranath, climate and forestry expert at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.He added that the acreage earmarked for the afforestation appears too small for plantations of the scale required to compensate for the trees to be felled to make for the Etalin project. “The forests that will be diverted appear to be dense as they have thousands of trees over 60 cm in girth. A lot may be lost,” he added.FAC’s factsheet, dated April 21, states that around 141,854 trees that are above 60 cm in girth which will have to be cleared.Local people of the Idu Mishmi community are concerned about the loss of native forests and wildlife and say they may end up losing grazing land for compensatory afforestation too.“There are two dams {proposed} in this region—the Dibang multipurpose project and the Etalin hydropower project -- which will together submerge a very large area. Most families in the project affected area don’t want to speak against the project because they want to get compensation for their land,” Aito Miwu, a resident of Anini, said over the phone“People in other parts of Dibang valley are not consulted and not allowed to speak up about the ecological loss in public hearings. The vegetation and biodiversity through compensatory afforestation cannot be the same. I have seen them planting pine which has no fertiliser value and nothing grows underneath pine trees,” he said.“These patches of land selected by the government are Mithun grazing land. One of the patches is in our village and none of us has been consulted about converting common grazing land. Many villages will oppose this,” he added.There is no mention in the FAC factsheet whether locals have been consulted on carrying out compensatory afforestation on grazing lands.“The FAC’s investigations have taken at face value the process of compensatory afforestation in a landscape like Arunachal Pradesh. This project will not only submerge old growth forests on mountain slopes, the compensatory afforestation measures proposed will governmentalize forest areas that are socially and economically accessible to communities as village forest reserves.Why have they not assessed how community access will be affected by these measures,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research.According to FAC’s factsheet, the project falls under the richest biogeographical province of the Himalayan zone and under one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions, having luxuriant forests and a plethora of flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”One of the FAC’s members, responding to a query from HT, said over the phone: “I am only a member. It will not be appropriate for me to comment on this matter. The FAC minutes will be published soon.” FAC discussed the issue of forest clearance to the project on April 23, but a decision hasn’t yet been taken, according to FAC members. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view because its a clean energy project, so did the subcommittee that visited the site,” said FAC member. Both FAC members requested anonymity. A sub-committee of the FAC has recommended in its report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area.“We have been eagerly waiting for this clearance which is a must for grant of forest clearance for the project. The proposal for grant of FC to Etalin project was submitted to environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the EAC (Expert Appraisal Committee) meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on grant of FC to the project. We are hopeful that FAC will finally be recommending the proposal for grant of FC,” Bharat Rohra, MD & CEO, Jindal Power Limited said on April 22, responding to HT’s queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-270k-trees-to-be-felled-in-dibang-plans-for-plantations-at-alternative-sites/story-ovSWP21DlEr9GsLZncG8NO.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for MaharashtraNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has come with suggestions, including a “generous financial package”, as he called for help from the Centre towards Maharashtra, whose economy has taken a severe beating during the coronavirus pandemic. Read more. Amit Khare returns to I&B, Health Secy Preeti Sudan gets extension in reshufflePM Narendra Modi effected a massive bureaucratic reshuffle amid the coronavirus crisis with 1985-batch Jharkhand cadre officer Amit Khare returning as secretary, information and broadcasting ministry, health secretary Preeti Sudan given a three-month extension and additional secretary PMO Tarun Bajaj taking over as secretary, department of economic affairs.Read more. 80% Covid-19 patients asymptomatic, silent spread concern looms in RajasthanAs doctors grapple with Covid-19 cases, an added concern is that about 80% of people infected by the coronavirus in Rajasthan are asymptomatic, posing a risk to vulnerable groups and increasing the possibility of a silent spread. Read more. Pakistan hasn’t let Covid-19 halt terror factories, raises mobilisation at launch padsPakistan, which is struggling with the coronavirus disease like the rest of the world, has doubled the number of terrorists waiting to infiltrate into Kashmir from its 14 operational launch pads, a senior government official told Hindustan Times. Read more. First pandemic epicentre Wuhan discharges its last Covid patient from hospitalThe central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first Covid-19 pandemic epicentre where the virus emerged late last year, has no remaining cases in hospitals, China announced Sunday.Read more. Kanika Kapoor shares her truth on coronavirus diagnosis, receiving hate: ‘Negativity thrown at a person does not change reality’Singer Kanika Kapoor, who was the first celebrity in India to be diagnosed with Covid-19 last month, has shared a long note on Instagram about it. She has clarified allegations that she wasn’t responsible when she returned from UK in March and avoided screenings at airport to put others at risk. Read more. Covid-19: As businesses open slowly, here’s your guide to safe shoppingAs small stores opened on Sunday and shopping options widened for many, concerns over how to navigate markets and order in food and groceries have resurfaced. Is it safe to handle packages and cartons stocked in shops? Read more. Artist Zarina Hashmi passes away in LondonZarina Hashmi, 83, passed away after a long illness in London on Saturday. The artist, a proponent of minimalist art, had several ongoing shows, including solos at New Delhi’s Kiran Nadar Museum of Art and the Pulitzer Arts Foundation in Missouri. Read more. ‘Briefings not worth the time & effort’: Donald Trump after ‘disinfectant row’US President Donald Trump has lashed out at the media. Days after he stirred a massive row by suggesting that disinfectants could be injected into the body to deal with Covid-19, now the US President has said that briefings are not worth the time and effort. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-financial-package-for-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YDUeO4IKt4MTkXW5x0nIAK.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Eight more patients discharged in Assam after testing negative||Eight more Covid-19 patients in Assam were discharged from two hospitals on Sunday after testing negative. Assam now has only seven active cases of Covid-19, health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.While four patients were discharged from Golaghat civil hospital in Golaghat district, four others were released from the Mahendra Mohan Chowdhury Hospital (MMCH) in Guwahati.“With this the total number of Covid-19 patients recovering in hospitals comes down to seven. Of the total 35 patients in the state, 27 have been discharged and one has died,” Sarma said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.However, the status of the first patient of the state, a 52-year-old from Badarpur who is undergoing treatment at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) who tested positive on March 31, continues to remain positive after repeated tests. The patient also suffers from diabetes and cancer.Meanwhile on Sunday, the state government decided to allow two-way inter-district travel for three days starting April 28.Sarma said that the move will allow people having own their vehicles to travel across the state to pick up children and family members who were stranded due to the lockdown.From Saturday, the government had allowed stranded people to use their own vehicles to reach their homes or workplaces with prior permission from district authorities. Nearly 27,000 availed the opportunity on the first day. It will continue till Monday.“Over 34,500 of the applications received were from those who wanted permission for two-way travel. We have decided to allow them to travel for three days beginning April 28,” Sarma said.Till Sunday Assam government has transferred a sum of Rs 2,000 each to accounts of nearly 2 lakh people from the state working in other states stranded due to the lockdown.The helpline number for the same had received nearly 6 lakh calls from all over the country. Of them, 3.25 lakh had filled online forms and given details of their bank information.“We will be able to provide relief to nearly 3 lakh applicants by the end of this month. Another instalment of Rs 1,000 each will be sent to them next month,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-eight-more-patients-discharged-in-assam-after-testing-negative/story-SMKzaq2CkKxnFafc2TYZcM.html
26-04-2020||India||Prolonged lockdown may push millions into margins of subsistence: Ex-RBI governor Subbarao||A prolonged lockdown may possibly push million of Indians into the “margins of subsistence”, former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subba Rao said on Sunday while expecting a V curved recovery once the Covid-19 crisis ends and the turnaround in India to be faster than some economies. He was participating in a webinar on History repeats - but differently- Lessons for the post Corona World,” organised by the Manthan Foundation here, in which former Deputy Governor of RBI Usha Thorat took part “Because most analysts believe that this year India will actually have negative growth or growth will contract. We must remember that even ahead of the crisis two months ago our growth slowed. Now it has completely stopped. Last year growth was five per cent. Just imagine, five per cent growth last year and we are going to negative or zero growth this year, a decline of five per cent growth,” he said. “It is true that India is going to perform in this crisis better than most other countries. But that is no consolation.... Because we are a very poor country and if the crisis persists and if the lockdown is not lifted soon enough, it is quite possible that millions of people will be pushed into the margins of subsistence, he said when asked about his views on the present situation. Subbarao said that as predicted by analysts, India will have a V shaped recovery which is far better than most of the other countries. “And why do we expect a “V” shaped recovery? Because unlike in a cyclone or in an earthquake, this is not a natural disaster constraint. No capital has beendestroyed. Factories are standing. Our shops are still standing. Our people are ready to work as soon as the lockdown is lifted. So it is quite possible the recovery will be V shaped and while we have a V shaped recovery, I think India has a better chance then most of the countries,” he opined. According to him, India’s recovery was faster than many other countries after the 2008 global financial crisis. On IMFs prediction that India may grow at 1.9 per cent during the current year against about five per cent in the last fiscal, Subbarao said many analysts feel that the prediction is outdated and the growth in GDP may slip into negative. He said the “life versus livelihood” dilemma for the country is arguably very “short while” for India. Usha Thorat said pumping more liquidity into the system alone cannot work and banks and Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFC) will need credit guarantee or enhancement to start lending. She also said that states need more support during the crisis and streamlining of non-merit subsidies was required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prolonged-lockdown-may-push-millions-into-margins-of-subsistence-ex-rbi-governor-subbarao/story-C6bfvVBUI0kEiAaNIh6iOK.html
26-04-2020||India||Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has come with suggestions, including a “generous financial package”, as he called for help from the Centre towards Maharashtra, whose economy has taken a severe beating during the coronavirus pandemic.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the NCP leader pointed out the economic indicators as well as strategy to overcome the state’s financial crisis.“So far Mumbai is the hardest-hit city in the Covid-19 outbreak and the prolonged lockdown conditions. It has severely impacted the economy of Maharashtra and may have detrimental consequences on Indian economy if not addressed urgently,” Pawar said in his letter.He said that there is an expected revenue shortfall of Rs 140,000 crore, or around 40%, and said that even if Maharashtra borrowed Rs 92,000 crore, based on the present borrowing limits at 3% of GSDP, it is not going to be enough. He said out of the borrowings Rs 54,000 crore has been planned for meeting the capital expenditure requirements for this financial year. “So, it is clear that state is going to face a shortfall of Rs 100,000 crore to sustain projected expenditure,” he said.Pawar also detailed the steps which could be taken to help Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit state in the country.One of the steps he suggested was to enhance the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM). At the same time, he said, covering the entire shortfall only through borrowing will push the state towards potential debt trap. “The other strategy could be to cut public spending, however, that would be counterproductive in view of the subdued economy. In fact, there will be additional expenditure requirements in the area of public health and medical education and other public services,” he said.He put in a request to extend a two-year moratorium on the National Small Savings Fund Loan, saying it will “help in bridging the likely budgetary gap”.Pawar also requested financial assistance to the Maharashtra government to the tune of 1 lakh crore for FY 2020-21. “Almost all countries US, Spain, Germany, France, Australia etc have released financial packages of around 10% of GDP. Thus, a room can be created by the Government of India along with RBI for giving suitable financial package to states,” he said.“In the eventual recovery of the Indian economy the states will play a major role and if left out without any help the states will not be in a position to supplement the required national government efforts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-financial-package-for-maharashtra/story-clol6CKEq6h7RDyag1Q4fP.html
26-04-2020||India||Senior health official dies of Covid-19 in West Bengal||West Bengal recorded the first case of a senior health official dying after being infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, assistant director of health services, died at a private hospital early on Sunday.Dasgupta, 60, was in-charge of the state’s central medical store. He was admitted to the hospital on April 18, a day after his samples tested positive, and had been on ventilator since then. His wife is also battling Covid-19.Condoling his death, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “We have lost Dr Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, Assistant Director, Health Services, West Bengal, in the early hours of today. He was Assistant Director of Health Services, Central Medical Stores. We are deeply pained with his untimely demise.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIn another tweet, she said, “His sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our COVID warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination. My heartfelt condolence to Dr Dasgupta’s bereaved family members and colleagues.”Following his death, Dasgupta’s colleagues remembered his last social media post on Facebook, dated April 9, which had said, “Trust god even if the answer is ‘wait’.”In a statement, the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum said, “This is the first reported death of a member of our medical fraternity in the state, who was tested positive for Covid-19…It is pertinent to note here that over the last few weeks, more and more healthcare workers are diagnosed with Covid-19, some of them asymptomatic, while several others are in quarantine.“We urge the health and administrative authorities to proactively look into the matter as it is a matter of grave concern. With limited resources at disposal, we cannot afford to have a situation where a shortage of healthcare providers poses a threat to delivery of care.” The forum requested all doctors in West Bengal to observe two minutes’ silence at 11 am on Monday to pay respect to the state’s “first Covid-19 martyr among healthcare professionals”. The number of health care staff affected in West Bengal was not immediately available.On social media, people demanded a state funeral for Dasgupta.“Dasgupta, who contracted Covid-19 while being on duty, has died. Let us demand a state funeral. No stigma please!” wrote retired civil servant Dinabandhu Bhattacharya, and many netizens supported his demand.According to the Union health ministry, a total of 611 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in West Bengal, of whom 105 have recovered. Though 57 persons who tested positive had died till Friday, the state has attributed only 18 deaths to Covid-19 and the rest to severe co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-health-official-dies-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal/story-M75bbs2sG7UO1AETwpsQKN.html
26-04-2020||India||Gangotri and Yamunotri open on Akshay Tritiya with 1st prayers on PM Narendra Modi’s behalf||Amid the lockdown, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines opened on Sunday on the occasion of the Hindu festival Akshaya Tritiya and rituals were done while following the norms of social distancing. Both the shrines, which are part of Uttarakhand’s ‘Char Dham’ pilgrimage, are located in Uttarkashi district of the Himalayan state. The portals of Gangotri shrine were opened at the auspicious time of 12:35 pm on Sunday with Ganga Pujan and recitation of Ganga Sahastranam. On Saturday, the palanquin of Goddess Ganga left from Mukhba, her maternal and winter abode for Bhaironghati, her summer abode.Following simple prayers and basic rituals, the portals of Yamunotri shrine were opened for this year at 12:41 pm on Sunday after the Goddess’ palanquin left from Kharsali for the shrine at 8:15 am the same day.Also Read: On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19Interestingly, the first prayers offered at Gangotri shrine was on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who donated Rs 1100 to Sripanch Mandir Samiti Gangotri on the auspicious occasion of Tritiya Mahaparva.Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, said that sub-divisional magistrate of Bhatwadi area, Devendra Singh Negi gave the amount of donation sent by Prime Minister Modi to the temple committee.“After that, we offered the first prayers to Goddess Ganga on behalf of the prime minister to give us the strength to fight the pandemic and win the war against coronavirus,” said Semwal.Also Read: ‘Don’t be overconfident’: In Covid-19 fight, Modi cautions against complacencyAshish Chauhan, district magistrate of Uttarkashi, where both the shrines are situated, said that due to the nationwide lockdown, both the shrines were opened in a simple manner while following the restrictions in force to contain COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangotri-and-yamunotri-open-on-akshay-tritiya-with-1st-prayers-on-pm-narendra-modi-s-behalf/story-y2tJi0hH05taFaonbbOEoI.html
26-04-2020||India||Amit Khare returns to I&B, Health Secy Preeti Sudan gets extension in reshuffle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi effected a massive bureaucratic reshuffle amid the coronavirus crisis with 1985-batch Jharkhand cadre officer Amit Khare returning as secretary, information and broadcasting ministry, health secretary Preeti Sudan given a three-month extension and additional secretary PMO Tarun Bajaj taking over as secretary, department of economic affairs.In view of the serious challenges being faced by the news media, be it print or TV, as also the advertising and film industry in face of the coronavirus crisis, the charge of I&B has been entrusted to Amit Khare, who retains charge as higher education secretary in the HRD ministry.Khare has earlier headed the I&B ministry and is well versed with the issues involved. His earlier charge as secretary, schools, has been given to Anita Karwal, who was CBSE chairperson. Karwal is a 1988-batch Gujarat cadre officer.Other important postings are Arvind Kumar Sharma, the powerful additional secretary at the PMO, who has been appointed as secretary, micro, small and medium enterprises ministry.Rajesh Bhushan, who was secretary, rural development, has been appointed as OSD, health and family welfare ministry. He will succeed Preeti Sudan after she completes her extended tenure at the health ministry.Tarun Kapoor, vice chairman Delhi Development Authority, will take over as petroleum secretary. Apurva Chandra will take over as Special Secretary and Director General (Acquisitions) at the defence ministry.Anand Kumar, a 1984 batch officer of the Kerala cadre, will move from the department of new and renewable energy to head the department of culture. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, a 1987-batch Gujarat cadre officer who was special secretary in NITI Aayog, has been appointed secretary in the ministry of environment, forest and climate change.Rajesh Verma, an Odisha-cadre officer of the 1987 batch, who was special secretary in the department of agriculture, has been appointed secretary, ministry of corporate affairs.Aramane Giridhar, an Andhra Pradesh cadre officer of the 1988 batch, who was additional secretary at the Cabinet Secretariat, has been elevated as secretary, ministry of road transport and highways.Nagendra Nath Sinha will be the new secretary of rural development department. He is at present secretary, department of border management in the Home Ministry.Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer in the department of personnel and training, will be secretary in the steel ministry. He is a 1987-batch IAS officer of Jammu and Kashmir cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-khare-returns-to-i-b-health-secy-preeti-sudan-gets-extension-in-reshuffle/story-quDgVk7RnAnB8DghzR3L5J.html
26-04-2020||India||Hyderabad’s Rachakonda Police adopt orphanages, old age homes during Covid-19 crisis||In a benevolent gesture, the Rachakonda Police Commissionerate here has adopted as many as 41 old age homes, orphanages and homes for specially abled persons amid the ongoing lockdown. In view of the COVID-19 crisis, inmates of the homes are being supplied with groceries and other essentials by the police even as different NGOs have also come forward to join hands with them in arranging ration, medicines and safety equipment.Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat said the police force decided to adopt thehomes as they mostly depend on the service of kind-hearted people in society. During the lockdown which restricts people to venture out, such people were not able to serve the needy nor the managements of the homes were in a position to step out to manage things. The requirement of each of the homes is assessed by the SHO concerned and furnished to the Office of Commissioner of Police. The Citizen Volunteer Cell at Rachakonda Police Commissionerate is managing the procurement and distribution of food, ration and other relief material and then maps the donors to the homes and ensures all that is necessary is supplied to them, said Bhagwat, who himself has distributed groceries at some of these homes and personally ensuring that their needs are fulfilled. Bhagwat said so far 41 orphanages, old age homes and homes for specially abled housing nearly 1,630 inmates were identified and the police would meet the requirements of the homes. Rachakonda is one of the three Police Commissionerates covering Hyderabad and its adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-s-rachakonda-police-adopt-orphanages-old-age-homes-during-covid-19-crisis/story-J7KzNAn1kLxKUy3MD5JYDI.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Don’t be overconfident’: In Covid-19 fight, Modi cautions against complacency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India’s “people-driven” battle against COVID-19 is the only way for the country to overcome the pandemic, and asked people to shun any complacency that they will not be infected by the coronavirus because it has so far not affected the places where they live or work.In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ broadcast, Modi said the country is in the middle of a ‘yudh’ (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions.His note of caution comes against the backdrop of the Union government and states relaxing lockdown norms to revive economic activities. “I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard,” he said.Modi referred to a popular Hindi idiom ‘Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati’ (accident happens when caution is lowered) to make his point. In his 30-minute address, Modi hailed states, emergency workers and civil society groups for their contribution in combating the pandemic, and said that the resolve shown by the people of the country has led to the beginning of a transformation with businesses, offices, educational institutions, medical sector rapidly undergoing new changes.With the country under a lockdown since March 24 midnight, he said India’s people-driven battle against the pandemic will be discussed when the world discusses the crisis later. “India’s fight against the coronavirus is people-driven in the truest sense of the term. Along with people, government and administration are fighting it as well... This is the only way we can win over the virus,” he said. Citing a Sanskrit shloka, he said. “Fire, debt and illness, if taken lightly, grow again at the first opportunity, assuming dangerous proportions, so it is important to treat them completely. Therefore, in over-enthusiasm, there should be no negligence. We will always have to remain cautious.” Lauding the contribution of people in terms of helping the poor with food and medicines, he likened the exercise with ‘mahayagya’ in which everybody is eager to contribute. “We are fortunate that today the whole country, each and every citizen of the country, every person is a soldier in this battle and also leading the battle,” he said. India’s decision to export medicines needed by several countries, including developed nations, has earned it praise from world leaders, Modi said, noting that it did so as part of its ethos.The prime minister said wearing masks will now become a part of a civilised society and also exhorted people to stop spitting in public places, saying it was high time to get rid of this “bad habit” once and for all.This will not only boost our basic hygiene standards but also help in preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection, he said. The health crisis, Modi said, has made the world pay special attention to Indian heritage of yoga and ayurveda as people look to them to boost their immunity.Modi expressed confidence that the world will acknowledge the significance of India’s traditional medicine system in a similar way it adopted yoga, and lamented that hundreds of years of foreign rule have resulted in Indians failing to realise their own strengths. Everyone in this battle is putting up a fight as per one’s capacity and ability, and altruism has gained in strength in recent years, Modi said, asserting that he bowed to this sentiment. He asked people to join ‘covidwarriors.gov.in’, a digital platform that links volunteers, health professionals, representatives of civil society and local administration with each other to take care of relief works. Over 1.25 crore people are already part of this portal, he said.Airlines have clocked a distance of over three lakh km under “Lifeline Udan” project to deliver over five hundred tons of medical supplies to different parts of the country, while the railways has been running more than 100 parcel trains on close to 60 routes, Modi added. He also greeted people on Akshaya-Tritiya and noted that holy month of Ramzan had also begun.“We should pray more than ever before so that prior to the celebration of Eid the world is rid of the coronavirus and we celebrate Eid with enthusiasm and gaiety like earlier times,” Modi said, urging people to adhere to guidelines of local administration.The pandemic, he noted, has changed the manner of celebrating festivals all over the world, including in India. People recently observed many festivals such as Bihu, Baisakhi, Puthandu, Vishu and Odia new year while staying indoors, he said.The fight against the epidemic has also given people a fresh perspective to look at the world around them with the importance of sanitary workers and neighbourhood shopkeepers being realised like never before, he said. People used to think negatively of police but a humane and sensitive aspect of policing has manifested itself now as uniformed personnel has been helping those in need, he added.The prime minister hoped that there may be some good news in the fight against the coronavirus during his next ‘Mann ki Baat’ episode, usually the last Sunday of every month. He reiterated his advice to people to maintain a distance of two yards from each other to keep healthy.“Maintain a distance of two yards and keep yourself healthy. ‘Do gaz doori, bahut hai zaroori’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-be-overconfident-in-covid-19-fight-modi-cautions-against-complacency/story-87PJdp7TDV3YtoyyUjaaIK.html
26-04-2020||India||CBI takes custody of DHFL’s Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan from Mahabaleshwar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday took custody of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL group who are allegedly involved in the YES Bank scam from their bungalow in Mahabaleshwar in Satara , 260 km south of Mumbai after their quarantine ended, a senior official of the agency said.The CBI had obtained an arrest warrant against the two brothers after the family was caught holidaying in Mahabaleshwar. On April 18, the brothers had obtained a stay on execution of an arrest warrant after their lawyer pleaded that the two should not be arrested amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The Special court had granted them relief and stayed the warrant. The court order protected the two from arrest till May 5.However, CBI, which was not heard while staying the warrant, approached the special court to lift the stay. The Wadhwans’ interim relief was cancelled on Saturday (April 25) and a CBI team from Mumbai reached Satara Sunday afternoon to arrest the two brothers, a senior officer of the agency said.The agency was assisted by the Satara police. The two arrested men will be brought to Mumbai by the evening, the officer said.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh confirmed the arrests with a tweet.“A CBI team has taken both Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhwan into custody. Satara Police has given them all required assistance & an escort vehicle with one plus three guards upto Mumbai on a written request. The arrest procedures are going on,” Deshmukh tweeted.  A #CBI team has taken both Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhwan into custody.@SataraPolice has given them all required assistance & an escort vehicle with 1+3 guard upto Mumbai on a written request. The arrest procedures are going on.#LawEqualForAllAccording to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, the Wadhawans allegedly “paid kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.The CBI had obtained non bailable warrant against the two on March 17 but the two men had not been arrested. On April 9, the Wadhawans, with a group of 23 people flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala after a senior home department official gave them a free pass. They were put in quarantine once the news of their lockdown violation became public. DHFL is already under probe ny teh Enforcement Directorate (ED) for allegedly siphoning of around Rs 13,000 crore taken from banks and for Wadhawans links with Iqbal Mirchi (now dead), an aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-custody-of-dhfl-s-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-from-mahabaleshwar/story-K25x9bq0MbjAO34yPG0S7L.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Covid-19 not vanishing on May 3, where’s the national plan’: Congress asks PM Narendra Modi||The Congress party on Sunday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi presents a national plan to contain coronavirus as per the requirement under the National Disaster Management Act which has been invoked by the centre to implement measures like lockdown and other restrictions to prevent its further spread.Congress said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should present a national plan before the chief ministers during Monday’s video conference meet called to consult states over the current situation of the outbreak, so that the state governments can formulate their own plans and strategies which can then percolate down to the district level- where the actual containment efforts are being carried out.“Covid-19 is not going to disappear on May 3, the virus is here to stay, and therefore we have to prepare ourselves and the people to live with the virus. And what is the best strategy whereby India can cope with this pandemic which appears to be unrelenting at the moment,” he asked, adding that the national plan was a prerequisite for the country going forward.The questions were raised by Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari, who held a press briefing via video conference on Sunday afternoon to raise some other questions like, over testing, alleging it to be very low and sought an explanation from the government on its testing strategy.“If India’s capacity is to carry out one lakh tests a day, then what is the reason for capping the tests at 39,000? Is there an attempt to play down the magnitude of the disease or is the government unsure that testing to the full capacity will lead to negative outcomes that the government is not prepared to deal with,” he asked.He went on to say that there was a report in the public space that said India had only 3 lakh RNA kits left. “The RNA kit is the most important component of the entire testing process. If that is true, then we will exhaust our testing capacity in a week’s time and be left without our testing shield. The government needs to tell the country, how many testing kits have been imported or manufactured in the last 36 days, how many given to which states, what has been the demand from different states, what is the position in regard to PPEs (Personal Protection Equipments), ventilators and masks,” Tiwari asked.“Are we prepared to exit this lockdown in a calibrated manner,” he questioned further.Also Read: Pray more this Ramzan: PM Modi appeals on Mann ki BaatFormer Prime Minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh has also raised a similar point and said that the battle against coronavirus can’t be won without more aggressive testing.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the May edition of his monthly Man ki Baat address on the All India Radio delivered earlier today warned people against complacency in fight against COVID-19 and appealed for continued care and precautions. Prime Minister also said that all sectors of society and business were adjusting to the realities of a post-coronavirus world.Also Watch: Mann ki Baat key highlights: PM Modi on spitting, masks and moreCongress leader Manish Tewari, however, alleged that a senior government official in Niti Aayog had claimed that there will be no fresh cases of coronavirus in the country after May 16 as per the projection/modeling done by experts based on the current data. He demanded to know if the government agreed with this assessment.“We would like to ask the government if they stand by this projection that there will be no fresh cases by May 16, 2020,” Tiwari asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-not-vanishing-on-may-3-where-s-the-national-plan-congress-asks-pm-narendra-modi/story-czXW5BQPvc8JYBccb3bhjL.html
26-04-2020||India||Over 10 pollution hotspots in Delhi, Mumbai turn into green zones during lockdown||With vehicles off the road and most industries shut for over a month due to the coronavirus lockdown, over 10 pollution hotspots in Mumbai and Delhi have turned into green zones recording minimal or no pollution.In Delhi, eight locations which used to be pollution hotspots before the lockdown have now become green zones, said Gufran Beig, director, Centre’s System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).The areas are Vinobapuri, Adarsh Nagar, Vasundhara, Sahibabad, Ashram road, Punjabi Bagh, Okhla and Badarpur, he told PTI, sharing a comparative map of Delhi’s air quality before and during the lockdown period.In Mumbai, Worli, Borivali and Bhandup were among areas which recorded cleaner air as compared to other areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).These pollution hotspots in Delhi and Mumbai used to report high pollution mainly due to industrial activity or vehicular traffic. The air quality index in these areas now lie in ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ category.An AQI between 51-100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’, and 401-500 ‘severe’.SAFAR also compared the concentration of the most dangerous air pollutants, PM2.5, PM10 and NO2, in the air during first phase of the lockdown from March 25 to April 14 with pre-lockdown period from March 1 to 21. The analysis was conducted in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad.PM2.5 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers), PM10 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 10 micrometers) and NO2 (nitrogen di-oxide released in traffic emissions) are some of the most dangerous pollutants and prolonged exposure to these can lead to serious respiratory disorders.In Delhi, PM2.5 concentration was found to be reduced by 36 per cent during the lockdown, PM10 by 43 per cent and NO2 by 52 per cent as compared to the pre-lockdown period, the analysis showed.The comparison in Mumbai in the same period showed a reduction in PM2.5 by 39 per cent, PM10 by 43 per cent and NO2 by 63 per cent.In Pune, a reduction was observed in PM2.5 by 25 per cent, PM10 by 26 per cent and NO2 by 57 per cent, according to the data.In Ahmedabad, PM2.5 reduced by 39 per cent, PM10 by 32 per cent and NO2 by 27 per cent, according to the data.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has also reported 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 levels and 50 per cent depletion in PM10 concentrations in the national capital.The apex pollution control body has analysed data from continuous ambient air quality monitoring network of 38 stations in Delhi between March 16 and April 15. Air quality trends have been studied in two phases -- pre-lockdown phase from March 16 to 21 and the lockdown phase from March 25 to April 15.In its report, the CPCB said, “Significant reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels observed. Overall, 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and 50 per cent reduction in PM10 concentration observed during the lockdown period.” India is under the lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus, which has claimed over 824 lives and infected more than 26,496 people in the country. During the lockdown period, not only air quality has improved, the health of rivers has also seen a drastic improvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-pollution-hotspots-in-delhi-mumbai-turn-into-green-zones-during-lockdown/story-gR1QoGLkQkgMjYYdKJ9kXJ.html
26-04-2020||India||From Pak’s terror factories, 450 reach launch pads to enter Kashmir||Pakistan, which is struggling with the coronavirus disease like the rest of the world, has doubled the number of terrorists waiting to infiltrate into Kashmir from its 14 operational launch pads, a senior government official told Hindustan Times.“Our information is that there are about 450 terrorists affiliated to different Pakistan -backed terrorist groups at these launch pads,” the official said. Pakistan has reported nearly 12,700 Covid-19 cases and 268 deaths.The new estimate, powered by new intelligence inputs received by national security planners in Delhi, indicates that Pakistan has doubled the presence of terrorists at the launch pads in just about a week or so.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 9, intelligence agencies had put the number of terrorists at the launch pads at about 230. “The situation has changed vastly over the last 2-3 weeks,” the official cited above said.According to information available with national security planners, the 450 terrorists include 244 from the Lashkar-e-Taiba, 129 from the Jaish-e-Mohammed and 60 from the Hizbul Mujahideen. Smaller groups such as the Al Badr make up for the rest.Most of these terrorists were minted recently from the many camps that are being run in Pakistan, mostly in its occupied territories.Available intelligence inputs with security agencies indicate that out of 16 terror camps, 11 are functioning in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), two in Punjab, Pakistan and three in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) region.Seven of the 11 terror camps running out of PoK are hybrid camps where the trainees include recruits of different terrorist groups. “The existence of such mixed terror camps is evidence that there is one force that oversees them; the Pakistani deep state,” a counter-terror official in Delhi said.Opinion | Pak’s troubled economy is hurting more than Imran Khan wants to believeThree other camps are dedicated to train Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and one for training Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) group. In the KPK region, the Hizbul Mujahideen runs two camps and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) runs one. The LeT and JeM share one camp each in Punjab province of Pakistan.Officials said Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence had gone to great lengths through the year to raise the presence of terrorists in Kashmir. This is the first summer after India scrapped Article 370 in August last year and there have been attempts to incite street protests, and violence, ever since.The terror reinforcements at the launch pads, an intelligence official said, were designed to beef up the strength of terrorists in Kashmir depleted due to some recent setbacks. It is estimated that there are about 240 terrorists in Kashmir including about 100 foreigners. Every 6 of 10 foreign terrorists are affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba; the other four are linked to the Jaish.As things stand, officials said, Pakistan’s ISI has only operationalised 14 of the 86 launching pads or detachments along the Line of Control in Srinagar sector, Rajouri-Poonch sector and in Jammu sector across the international border.In the Srinagar sector, 10 out of 51 pads are used by terrorists belonging to LeT, JeM, HM, Al-Badr and other sundry groups. In Rajouri-Poonch sector, three out of 13 pads across the LoC are occupied while one out of four pads are occupied by terrorists in Jammu sector largely belonging to LeT, JeM and HM terror groups.“Pakistan Army has no option but to continue with jihad in Kashmir else the public will start focusing on the poor domestic situation on the economic and Covid-19 response front and start questioning the leadership,” said a senior Indian general.Even though Rawalpindi GHQ plans to underplay its role by projecting local participation through the newly-formed Resistance Front and Tehreek-e-Millat-e-Islamia (TMI), Pakistani terrorists are being infiltrated to ensure that things don’t go south in the Valley and international attention .Besides, a sustained effort is on by the Imran Khan government to raise the Kashmir issue at multilateral fora including filing a petition through an NGO in the International Criminal Court at Hague apart from moving the United Nations Security Council.Also read | ISKP commander who was its bridge with Pak’s ISI, Lashkar arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-hasn-t-let-covid-19-halt-terror-factories-raises-mobilisation-at-launch-pads/story-4df2yg5EzNoQ0Ko36hHmDI.html
26-04-2020||India||96 booked in Rajasthan for funeral in violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms||Over 90 people from around two dozen villages in Rajasthan have been booked for allegedly attending a funeral without taking permission from the administration and violating social-distancing norms, the Jaipur Rural Police said on Sunday.Tarachand Sharma, station house officer (SHO) of Andhi police station, said a 75-year-old resident of Birasna Ramnagar panchayat was admitted in a local primary health care (PHC) centre on April 17 after he complained of pain due to gallstones. He was tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and a surgery was done on April 22 to remove the stones. “But his condition deteriorated and he died in the afternoon on the same day...his family members took the body from the hospital and his funeral was done at a crematorium falling in the limits of Andhi police station in the evening,” Sharma said.He said the family members didn’t inform the local administration even as more than a hundred people attended the funeral. According to federal guidelines, more than 20 people are not allowed at funerals during the lockdown announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.“We received information from our sources that 124 people attended the funeral --- which was against the orders of the district administration. Police, along with local medical teams, surveyed the area and have so far identified 96 people who have been booked,” Sharma said.These people, including the family members of the deceased, have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Sharma said all these people have been have been kept in quarantine at a private college in Sitapura area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-booked-in-raj-for-funeral-in-violation-of-lockdown-norms/story-0j1ohYnIqiha0SyWRFXhdO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 376 students from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota depart for home||At least 376 students from the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh who were stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota amid the nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus departed for home on Saturday, an official said.One NEET aspirant from Kashmir’s Kupwara, Haris (19) said “We were stuck in Kota for the past one month due to which our parents back home were concerned. Now we are happy that we are returning home”. He thanked the Rajasthan government, Jammu and Kashmir government and their coaching institute in Kota for facilitating the students’ return.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Another NEET aspirant from Kupwara, Ghazi Rasool Batt said “I am relieved on returning home in this Covid-19 crisis”. Sharing his experience on the problems they faced during the lockdown, he said “there was much difference between the food they received prior to and after the lockdown.”Also read: ‘Strategy must’, Ashok Gehlot to Centre on getting migrant workers homeSince many students from the valley are observing Ramadan fast, they were provided meals by the Allen Career Institute of Kota.The 14 buses that left from Kota on Saturday carrying the students will cover a distance of around 1000 km to reach the valley.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Over 20,000 students from Kota have already returned to their states in buses including those from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Daman and Diu, Dadar and Nagar Haveli, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh,” Divisional Commissioner, Kota, LN Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-376-students-from-jammu-and-kashmir-ladakh-stranded-in-rajasthan-s-kota-depart-for-home/story-esNcLnGoNhdUyJrpSexfqL.html
26-04-2020||India||100 tonne medicine, payments worth Rs 452 crore: How India Post served Covid-19-hit country||In a month of service (till April 24) since the Covid-19 lockdown began, India Post delivered over a 100 tonne of medicines and medical equipment and enabled Postal Savings Bank Account transactions amounting to Rs 33,000 crore and Aadhar-enabled payments worth Rs 452 crore, officials privy to the matter told Hindustan Times.Department of Post, which falls under Essential Service Maintenance Act, has been the bridge for many people across states during the Covid-19 lockdown. The department adapted to the situation caused by the coronavirus pandemic in a very short period of time to ensure doorstep delivery of pensions and medicines across the country. “One of the silent revolutions has been the Aadhar-enabled payment system,” said India Post director-general Arundhaty Ghosh. “You can withdraw money from any bank account and the postman will deliver it your home once your biometric is cleared.”Nearly 23 lakh users have transacted Rs 452 crore using this system across the country.The system requires the user to download the India Post Payment Bank app, following which the request can be made. At a time, Rs 10,000 can be withdrawn. “Many people were facing difficulties reaching their banks, so we decided to take this step to ease their troubles,” Ghosh added. The app can also be used to pay electricity and mobile bills. India Post savings bank accounts, which saw transactions amounting to Rs 33,000 crore, have, however, been operating through ATMs and post-office counters.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lauded the efforts of the Postal Department on Friday. “Kudos to the @IndiaPostOffice Network, our hardworking postmen for their stupendous efforts in assisting people during this time,” the PM said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-tonne-medicine-payments-worth-rs-452-crore-how-india-post-served-covid-19-hit-country/story-Y5jNWOPGDGNDti2wjOex4I.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Am alive’, says MP Covid-19 patient in video after being declared dead by doctor||Madhya Pradesh’s health department admitted its lapse in declaring a Covid-19 patient dead and issued a show cause notice to the concerned doctor who committed the error, a department official said in Ujjain on Saturday . The department swung into action and issued the notice to the doctor moments after a video clip, posted by the 30-year-old patient admitted to a private medical college in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of state capital Bhopal, , was shared widely on social media. The patient is heard saying in the video clip, “I was admitted to RD Gardi Hospital two days back. I read in a newspaper on Saturday that I have been declared dead whereas I am alive and healthy. Nothing has happened to me. Please share this video with others and improve the arrangements here.”Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Ujjain Dr Anusuiya Gawali Sinha said, “The name of the patient was entered in the record as dead in place of a 60-year-old Covid-19 patient from Ujjain who died on Thursday. The doctor who happens to be the nodal officer has admitted his lapse, saying that it happened due to confusion over names and addresses.”The CHMO said she had issued show cause notice to the doctor and warned him as well.“ I have issued a show cause notice to him and sought his explanation as to why action be not taken against him and his institution by the health department. Also, I have warned him that such an error should not be repeated in future.” The total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, as per the ministry figures. Of these, 57 deaths have been reported from Indore alone– the worst affected district in the state- followed by 15 in Ujjain and nine in Bhopal. So far, 210 patients have recovered from the disease in the state and returned home.According to the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis, an institute set up by the state government in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh was the fifth among the states in the total number of persons affected as per the data available on Friday evening. The test positivity rate increased from 5.10% to 5.26% whereas recovery rate had fallen from 12.035 to 11.38%. The case fatality rate increased slightly from 4.92% to 4.98%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/am-alive-says-mp-covid-19-patient-in-video-after-being-declared-dead-by-doctor/story-G2UEEjzd4NNSwiKZDl2LTN.html
26-04-2020||India||On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the festival of Akshaya Tritiya signifies the “power of giving” and said any and all help will go a long way in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic.In his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister said ‘kshaya’ means decay but what can’t be destroyed or get over is ‘akshay’.“We celebrate this festival every year. But, this year, this festival has a special significance for us. In today’s tough times, it reminds us that our soul and feelings are akshay. This day reminds us that no matter how many obstructions, problems and diseases we face, our spirit to fight them is akshay,” PM Modi said.WATCH | Mann ki Baat key highlights: PM Modi on spitting, masks and more Also read: PM Modi says India helped others, lauds people’s fight against Covid-19“Do you know that Akshay Tritiya is also an occasion to celebrate the power of giving. Whatever one gives wholeheartedly is significant. It doesn’t matter what and how much we are giving, our small efforts can make a difference for many people around us during this time of crisis,” he said.The Prime Minister said it is believed on this day the Pandavas got the Akshaya Patra, or a bowl which is never short of food, with the blessings of Lord Krishna and Suryadev.“Our farmers work hard for the country in every situation with this feeling. Due to their hard work, today the country and all of us and the poor have akshay food grain stocks,” he said.The Prime Minister also called upon people to also think about the environment, forests, rivers and the entire ecosystem. “If we want to remain akshay, then we will have to first ensure that our earth is akshay,” he added.The Prime Minister said that this is an auspicious day in Jain tradition also.Also read: Masks will now symbolise civilised society, says PM Modi on Mann ki Baat“It has been an important day in the life of first Tirthankar Bhagwan Rishabh Dev. The Jain community celebrates this day as a festival. That is why it is easy to understand why people start something auspicious on this day,” he added.“Since it is a day to start something new, can we resolve to make our earth akshay with our efforts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-akshay-tritiya-pm-modi-calls-on-people-to-help-each-other-amid-covid-19/story-WMJxRo5fvyZu7RD05vyJjK.html
26-04-2020||India||Pray more this Ramzan: PM Modi appeals on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to turn the month of Ramzan into a symbol of patience, harmony, sensitivity and service and follow norms of social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections. While addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister also said the coronavirus pandemic has changed the way festivals are being celebrated in India and across the world.“The holy month of Ramzan has also begun. While celebrating Ramzan last time, no one has thought that we will have face such a big crisis during Ramzan this time,” Modi said while speaking during the 64th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.“But now when the whole world is facing this problem, it provides us with an opportunity to make this Ramzan a symbol of patience, harmony, sensitivity and service. We should pray even more this time so that the world is rid of corona by the time of Eid and we celebrate with the same fervour and enthusiasm as before,” he said.Modi’s message came a day after the Muslim holy month began and when prayers in mosques have been stopped and religious gatherings banned across India to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Prime Minister also said that he was confident that by following the guidelines of the local administration, people will strengthen the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“It is essential right now to follow physical distance on the streets, residential areas and markets. I also express my gratitude to all those community leaders who are making people aware of maintaining a two-yard distance and staying home,” he said.Ramadan started on Saturday morning and is expected to end on May 24. Muslims fast during the daylight hours, a practice seen as one of the five pillars of Islam, over 30 days. They eat before sunrise and break their fast after dusk each day.The Union ministry of home affairs had on April 10 directed all states and the Union territories (not to allow any social or religious gathering and ensure strict compliance of lockdown ahead of various festivals like Baisakhi, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ramadan and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pray-more-this-ramzan-pm-modi-appeals-on-mann-ki-baat/story-X4Vh6DbmK5yLuDqVuUFEoK.html
26-04-2020||India||Assam to facilitate intrastate travel of 11k people in 700 buses today||Amid the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Assam government has begun transporting thousands of people from one part of the state to another in a three-day exercise.The one-time conditional travel allowing people stranded across the state due to the lockdown to reach their homes or workplaces began on Saturday and will continue till Monday.“Nearly 41,000 people had registered themselves at our helpline numbers. Of them, 5,000 were transported to various parts of the state in 300 buses of the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) on Saturday,” industries and transport minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOn Sunday, over 11,000 passengers will be transported by nearly 700 ASTC buses free of cost to various destinations. The same exercise will continue on Monday while maintaining safety and social distancing norms allowing 15-20 persons to travel in one bus.ASTC carried out a similar exercise last month between March 24 and 28 when it helped 28,000 people who had reached Assam by trains, buses and flights reach their homes across the state.Patowary informed that since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25, 357 trains carrying food items and essential goods have reached Assam. The transport department engaged 33,000 labourers and over 1,500 trucks to take goods to 28 locations in the state.“The food supply chain in the state is functioning very well and at present there is no shortage of food items anywhere in the state,” he said.The government also allowed those having their own vehicles to travel from one destination to another and employers to transport their workers to the workplaces with prior permission from district authorities.“We got over 51,000 requests from people who wanted to travel using their own vehicles. If the lockdown gets extended beyond May 3, we may allow another travel window later,” state health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday. On Saturday, 12,000 people moved within the state using own vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-facilitate-intrastate-travel-of-11k-people-in-700-buses-today/story-gLCNqV42dVvccrqrOryc4I.html
26-04-2020||India||4-yr-old Kerala boy, separated from parents due to lockdown, re-united after a month||A four-year-old boy from Kerala, who was forced to be away from his parents for over a month due to the lockdown, was re-united, thanks to the intervention of firefighters.After the boy’s father, an electrician, was asked to go on home quarantine in mid-March, the parents--Sajith and Vishnupriya from Kambalakad at nearby Kalpetta --shifted their son to a relative’s house at Shoranur in Palakkad district.Sajith was working at Payyannur in Kannur, and a COVID-19 case was reported in that area in mid-March, following which he was asked to go on quarantine. By the time Sajith completed his mandatory quarantine, the lockdown came into force, due to which the parents were unable to bring their child back.The couple approached the Kalpetta MLA CK Saseendran for help and the legislator got in touch with Wayanad Collector Dr Adeela Abdulla, who intervened to reunite the child with his parents.Two fire and rescue officials from Palakkad, Anup and Santosh, picked up the boy and his uncle in their vehicle from Shoranur on Friday morning, brought him to Kozhikode and handed him over to their counterparts in Kalpetta.The child was then taken to his parents in Wayanad.“The boy was brought in a Fire Force vehicle from Shoranur to Kozhikode from where our team went and brought him here and handed over to his parents by noon,”K M Jomy, Station Officer, Fire & Rescue, Kalpetta, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-yr-old-kerala-boy-separated-from-parents-due-to-lockdown-re-united-after-a-month/story-GuKdwkgRSfnP97Ri5bfPxJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi will implement Centre’s guidelines on reopening of shops, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday presented data on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital to say his government will not allow any more relaxation in rules during the ongoing lockdown than those permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs. Addressing a press briefing through video, the chief minister said his government will implement the Centre’s guidelines on the opening of neighbourhood and standalone shops during the lockdown till May 3 in the national capital.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Essential services will continue. Medical stores, grocery stores, fruits and vegetable shops, dairy will remain open. Besides this, no shopping complex or market will open. No shopping malls will open. But standalone shops in residential areas and neighbourhood shops will open as directed by the Centre,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief, however, pointed out that no shop will be allowed to open in the more than 90 containment zones in the city.“We will not allow anything else to open till May 3 for the next one week. The restrictions will continue like this till May 3. All of you have worked hard to keep the situation under control and we need to keep it up,” he said.“The Prime Minister has decided to extend the lockdown till May 3. Our decision on what to do in Delhi after May 3 will depend on what the central government does,” he said.Arvind Kejriwal also said the last week was slightly better than the week before for the people of Delhi in terms of the number of cases and deaths. Many people went home after making a complete recovery, he pointed.“In the seventh week since the beginning of the corona pandemic, 850 new cases were reported and for once we were really worried and said the cases were increasing rapidly. And in the eighth week, the last week, 622 cases were reported,” he said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It has been seen across the world that when coronavirus cases go up they double up.“In the seventh week 21 people died and last week nine died. Our efforts are to save people’s lives. In the seventh week, 260 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals, in the eighth week 580 went home,” he said.There is good news, he said. “A patient in LNJP Hospital was in critical condition and doctors said he was sinking. He was administered plasma therapy and his health has improved significantly. This has encouraged us as far as plasma therapy is concerned,” Kejriwal said.“We are asking every patient, who has recovered and discharged, to donate plasma,” he urged.The number of coronavirus disease cases in Delhi stood at 3548 on Sunday morning, including 2625 patients and 869 discharges and 54 fatalities, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-delhi-will-implement-centre-s-guidelines-on-reopening-of-shops-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-CK7sRV8MH0o0e7swOshLXN.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of them and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 update: Cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of themThe total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, according to the health ministry. Indore continues to be the hotspot in Madhya Pradesh; 56 fresh cases were reported in the city till Saturday afternoon. Read MoreCovid-19: The countries with most cases and deathsMore than 180 countries and territories have reported nearly 2.8 million confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 200,000 deaths since the contagion was reported from China’s Wuhan late last year. After the first death linked to the disease was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, global fatalities linked to the virus passed 200,000 on Saturday, more than one-quarter of them in the United States. Which are the 10 most affected countries?Read MoreRamayan: When Ram and Sita were photobombed by Laxman, Bharat, Shatrughan in this throwback picDoordarshan is revisiting its past glory in the times of coronavirus crisis as it telecasts its iconic series Ramayan and Mahabharat to help people tide over the lockdown. The social media generation has also found its latest fix in the Indian epics and the trivia involved with it. Throwback photos from the time when Ramayan was shot have become Twitter gold. Which is the latest one? Read More‘My family is more important than my game’Suresh Raina, ace India batsman who represents Chennai Super Kings in the IPL, where he is the second highest run-scorer in history. Sharing his experience of dealing with Covid-19, he told HT, “ It is everyone’s responsibility to be sensible, help each other and be united. The more you can stay at home, the better it is.”Read MoreYouTube app to save you from long scrolls by hiding the video comments sectionThis change will be coming to both Android and iOS versions of the YouTube app in the ‘next few weeks’ as mentioned in Google’s updated support page.Read MoreCovid-19: Proper intake of vitamins and minerals in your diet boosts immunity, here’s howAs the Covid-19 crisis disrupts economies globally, it’s vital to ensure adequate intake of micronutrients to boost overall immune functions and prevent life-threatening infections.Read MoreResidents help an elderly neighbour stay entertained in quarantine Being in lockdown is no easy task. Boredom and loneliness can really take a toll on one’s mental and physical health. For an elderly lady , her neighbours are the ones who are sharing their books and movies with her. Read MoreBihar BCECEB- ITICAT 2020 registration deadline extended due to lockdownBihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board (BCECEB) has extended the last date to register for Industrial Training Institute - Competitive Admission Test (ITICAT) 2020 till May 10. Earlier, the registration window was scheduled to close on April 26. This has been done considering the hardships faced by the applicants due to the lockdown in view of Covid- 19.Read More‘Covid-19 has taught India a lesson…’: CDS General Bipin RawatChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat commented on how Covid-19 has taught India a lesson. He said, “Covid-19 has taught us a lesson that time has now come to be self-reliant.” He added, “In India, when we’re looking at becoming a regional power, we’ll have to support others & not be dependent on support. It’s important that we start depending on Make in India.” Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-madhya-pradesh-covid-19-cases-reach-2-096-indore-has-half-of-them-and-all-the-latest-news/story-E1oKuVAomS0DWGcquFRO4J.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Intense lockdown in 5 Tamil Nadu cities: Here’s what will remain open, what won’t||Five cities in Tamil Nadu, including the state capital of Chennai, have been put under an “intense lockdown” to check the spread of the highly infectious coronavirus disease or Covid-19 on Sunday.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced the tightening of restrictions on Friday. The government decided to tighten curbs under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in select urban regions based on expert opinion as the number of infections rose.The “intense lockdown” in Tamil Nadu comes in the middle of a nationwide shutdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month and extended to May 3. The lockdown has been intensified for four days from Sunday till 9pm on Wednesday in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. Two smaller cities of Salem and Tirupur are under stricter restrictions for three days till 9pm on Tuesday.Here what will remain open, what is shut and what people can do:* People cannot step out of their houses even to buy groceries. “To vend vegetables and fruits, only mobile outlets shall be allowed,” the chief minister has said.* Home delivery of food from restaurants is permitted but takeaways are also not allowed.Also read: India reports 1,990 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in 24 hours* Authorities will carry out disinfection twice in the containment zones.* Government-run Amma canteens that provide food at subsidised rates, ATMs, hospitals, laboratories, pharmacies and allied services like ambulances will function.* During the intense shutdown, banks and central government offices are allowed only 33% of employees. * Employees in sectors like information technology have been allowed to work from home but other private sector firms shall remain closed, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-intense-lockdown-in-5-tamil-nadu-cities-here-s-what-will-remain-open-what-won-t/story-QNrzyOp73EcHKZbyjBIBJP.html
26-04-2020||India||Aggressive testing key to fight battle against Covid-19, says Manmohan Singh||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday said that without aggressive testing facilities, India cannot conquer challenges posed by Covid-19.Testing and tracing are the key to fighting the menace, he said in a video released by the Congress.“There are problems with regard to the inadequacy of testing facilities and without more aggressive facilities of testing, we are not going to conquer this menace,” Manmohan Singh said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Congress shared the thoughts of various leaders in the video to resolve the current crisis relating to the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. The leaders are members of a consultative group headed by Singh and formulate the party’s views on various matters. They also stressed on the issue of humanism, protection and financial security to drive the approach to dealing with migrant labourers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the party should have a broad framework for protection of migrants.“We must insist that migrants are protected. But, we must also acknowledge that state governments are actually going to be responsible for driving this thing. Different state governments might choose different methodologies to solve this problem,” he said.Gandhi said, “Our migrant strategy should include protection. The idea that you can tell the migrant that it is his problem, that has to be central. Movement of the migrant should depend on the two states and they should have a conversation.” “Testing and Tracing are the key to fight COVID19. Humanism, protection and financial security must drive our approach to dealing with migrant labourers. This is the only way ahead,” the Congress said while sharing the video.Former finance minister P Chidambaram suggested that one must leave it to the state from where the migrant originally came in to find ways to take back the migrants from other states. “But, the bulk will have to remain where they are. They have to be immediately given cash and grain,” he noted.Congress general secretary K C Venugopal said “The government is failing in this battle and we have to put pressure on the government for the people of the country.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the government’s financial action plan 1 has not really worked and “government needs to step up”.Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh sought scaling up testing facilities and noted that the country had the capacity to triple the amount of testing. For reaching a threshold level of covering one per cent of population, “we have to do something like 10 million tests”, he said.Party spokesperson Manish Tewari said it is incumbent upon the Congress to collectively apply our minds and suggest a smart plan to how do we transition out of this lockdown due to all the issues arising out of it, especially the economic issue.The Congress also said that it believes in dialogue and discussion as the path to finding solutions. PTI SKC DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-key-to-fight-battle-against-covid-19-says-manmohan-singh/story-rMWj4VnKxrXi71204fl9AO.html
26-04-2020||India||Masks will now symbolise civilised society: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the coronavirus pandemic has effected several positive changes in the way people are living their lives and masks are one of them as he addressed the nation through his Mann ki Baat programme. Prime Minister Modi also vouched again for the traditional gamcha, which he has been using to cover his mouth and nose amid the Covid-19 crisis during several of his addresses.“You would also have noticed how this crisis has made us more aware of various subjects. One of the first effects are using a mask and keeping our faces covered,” Modi said during the Mann ki Baat programme.The Prime Minister said as the times are changing due to Covid-19, masks have become a part of people’s lives.“We have not been habitual of seeing people around us with masks but this is happening now. But this doesn’t mean that all those who use masks are sick,” he said.He elaborated his point with an analogy about fruits and diseases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“When I talk about a mask, I remember an old thing. You also would be remembering, there was a time when a person seen buying fruits would be questioned whether someone in the family was sick. It meant, fruits could only be consumed during illness, such was the thinking that time,” he said.But with changing times, the way people thought about fruits has also changed, PM Modi said.“Similarly, perception regarding the mask is also about to change. You will see that mask will now become a symbol of civilised society,” he added.“If you want to save yourself and others from disease, then you will have to use a mask. And, I have a simple suggestion, gamcha,” he added. The Prime Minister also spoke about the harm of spitting in public and said people must shun this bad habit. “Another awareness that has come in our society is about the harm of spitting in public. Spitting here and there was a part of bad habits. This was also posing a grave challenge to cleanliness and health. In a way, we were always aware of this problem but this problem was not going away from society,” he said.“It is now time to eradicate this bad habit forever. It is also said, better late than never. It may be later, but this habit of spit should be given up,” he added.These things will not only increase the level of basic hygiene but also help to curb corona infection, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-will-now-symbolise-civilised-society-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-7QsZ3eJ2q9xluPuZiqVztI.html
26-04-2020||India||46 people discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in Jaipur, highest so far||Forty-six people were sent home from hospitals in Jaipur on Saturday evening after they recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), highest so far in Rajasthan as well as in the state capital. The last patient to be discharged in Jaipur was on April 1, said officials.Until Saturday, only six patients from Jaipur had been sent home from the three government hospitals where Covid-19 cases are being treated – SMS Hospital, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) and Jaipuriya Hospital.According to the state health department’s medical bulletin on Sunday morning, 244 people had been discharged in Rajasthan even as the number of recovered cases was 513.“We wait for three negative reports before discharging patients,” said Dr DS Meena, superintendent of SMS Hospital.Also read: Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers, says CM GehlotJaipur continues to report the highest number of cases in Rajasthan at 799. The capital also accounts for more than half the state’s Covid-19 mortality; 19 deaths out of 35 are from Jaipur.Officials said seven of these deceased people tested positive for Covid-19 after death. Also read: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3“The first of such case came to us on April 14. The man was operated for abdominal trouble and he died on April 17. Later, four doctors who were part of the surgical team also tested positive,” Dr Meena said.Also read: Rajasthan seeks ICMR approval to begin trials for plasma therapyOfficials said 58 cases were reported in the state on Sunday morning, including 20 from Nagaur and 15 from Jodhpur, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 2141.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-people-discharged-from-covid-19-hospitals-in-jaipur-highest-so-far/story-aSDbCfQfpnxoqQ5OlWdCNK.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi says India helped others, lauds people’s fight against Covid-19||India has decided to supply medicines to others in this hour of crisis in line with its culture and ethos, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, while also saluting the country’s “people-driven” fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In his monthly radio address, the Prime Minister said the government was doing everything to protect its citizens. He stressed that India, after meeting its requirements, has provided medicines to other countries.“Today, when world leaders say ‘thank you, India; thank you, people of India’ I feel very proud. India is caring for its own citizens and is contributing towards creating a healthier planet,” Modi said in Mann Ki Baat.The government has relaxed restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine as several countries, including the US and Brazil, sought supplies from India, which is its largest producer.A large part of Modi’s address was dedicated to thanking citizens for what he described as an active participation in the fight against Covid-19 and motivating front line workers such as health care staff, sanitation workers and policemen, among others.“There was a time when some people had negative thoughts about the police, but now when we see them feeding the poor, there is greater appreciation, he said.“I am so happy to see the immense appreciation for the working of sanitation workers…The appreciation for doctors, nurses and health care workers is exceptional,” he said. Modi said people in the country don’t appear to trust its traditional knowledge --- a situation he attributed to the country’s colonial history that he said led to lack of self-confidence.He appealed to the youth to make ayurvedic practices on boosting immunity popular with evidence-based research. “Let us make these systems popular and share them in a language in which the world understands,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said due to the challenging times, when people are confined to their homes, businesses were adopting new technologies.“Be it our businesses, office culture, education, medical sector --- everyone is adapting to new changes…There is a strong desire to innovate in various areas,” he said.While congratulating people on Akshay Tritiya, Basaveshwar Jayanti and Ramzan, Modi also emphasised that social distancing should continue to be followed.“While celebrating Ramzan the previous year, no one would have thought that there would be so many difficulties during Ramzan this time. This time, let us pray that there will be some good news from different parts of the world by the time of Eid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-says-india-helped-others-lauds-people-s-fight-against-covid-19/story-8DdtzN2E1zCrbbxwHRNwlK.html
26-04-2020||India||States get a shoutout from PM Modi for ‘very active role’ in Covid-19 battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday acknowledged the contribution of the state governments in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic as he addressed the nation through his monthly Mann ki Baat radio programme.“I also appreciate the role of the state governments. They are playing a very active role in combating this pandemic. Local administrations, state governments, are playing a key role in the battle against Corona,” the Prime Minister said.“Their hard work is praiseworthy,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states over video conference, the third such on issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, on Monday to discuss a number of issues including a decision on the lockdown.He also said earlier in his Mann ki Baat address that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic is “people-driven” and India’s efforts will be discussed the world over. India reported 26,496 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 1990 new infections in the last 24 hours— the biggest single-day spike so far. Out of this, 824 patients have died, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-get-a-shoutout-from-pm-modi-for-very-active-role-in-covid-19-battle/story-a0uR9blVNocwPvsPGGoTKM.html
26-04-2020||India||Govt issues preventive guidelines for essential service staff||The Maharashtra government has issued a circular stressing on the importance of social distancing, hygiene and wearing of protection gear, after some of its employees tested positive for coronavirus.The circular issued by the public health department on Saturday said some government staff involved in the maintenance of essential services in the state have tested positive for the disease.Employees should wear masks, hand gloves and if necessary, aprons, and ensure that soap, water and hand sanitisers (with at least 60 per cent alcohol) are available at workplaces, it said. “Wash your hands applying soap and with water for at least 20 seconds before beginning your daily work. Use hand gloves then. Do not touch (your) face, eyes, nose and mouth.Avoid putting hand gloves in pockets,” the circular said.The objects which are touched often, like door handles and taps, should be disinfected every two-three hours with a liquid containing one per cent sodium hypochlorite, it said.There should be a distance of at least one metre between two employees at the workplace, the circular said.“Use speaker mode while using mobile phone. Avoid contact of mobile phone with face whenever possible,” it said.“Take bath using soap and water immediately after reaching home if there is no facility to take bath at office or place of duty,” the circular said.Sanitation, health and police department officials and staff should use personal protection equipment, it said. “All officials and staff should not use or handle each other’s mobile phones, handkerchiefs, water bottles, glasses, etc,” the circular said. “All department heads should ensure supply of the personal protection kit, hand gloves, apron, jacket, masks, soap and sanitisers as per requirement,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-preventive-guidelines-for-essential-service-staff/story-b4o59z8gA5OooCmtTDo2eP.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Be a Covid warrior’: PM Modi urges people on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to contribute on the government’s digital platform for those who are on the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country.The Prime Minister, on his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, said the government has linked volunteers of various social organisations, representatives of the civil society and the local administration on the website covidwarriors.gov.in.PM Modi pointed out that in a short time, doctors, nurses, ASHA and Anganwadi workers, NCC and NSS and professionals from various fields are among the 1.25 crore people who have come together through this portal. “They have made this portal their own… These people are contributing significantly towards preparation and implementation of a crisis-management plan,” he said on his monthly Mann ki Baat radio programme.Also Read| ‘Thaalis, diyas, taalis inspired one and all’: PM Modi praises people’s efforts“Even you can serve the nation by associating with covidwarriors.gov.in and become a Covid warrior. Friends, every difficult situation, every battle gives us some lessons and teaches us something, open up avenues of possibilities and guide us toward new goals,” he said.Also Read: ‘Our fight against coronavirus will be talked about world over’: PM ModiThe resolve displayed by Indians during this tough time has led to a new change in India, the prime minister said.During his address, Modi also praised the billions of Indians and said: “India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven”.“It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration. A vast country like India, which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, this is the only option to win the war against corona,” PM Modi said.“We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-a-covid-warrior-pm-modi-urges-people-on-mann-ki-baat/story-sH9rtXASd6DPlW7p0P8v1L.html
26-04-2020||India||With 811 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra records highest single-day jump||Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, recorded its biggest single-day spike with 811 new cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the state have gone up to 7,628 cases.The state also recorded 22 Covid-19 related deaths on Saturday alone, and the toll has now reached 323. However, the mortality rate in the state has dropped to 4.4 per cent, from its peak at eight per cent a few days ago. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has increased, according to state officials.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, who had earlier said that lockdown will be extended in the state till May 18, said on Saturday the state government has not yet taken the decision. Maharashtra has also started giving hydroxychloroquine to asymptomatic patients and relatives of patients in densely populated areas such as the Dharavi slum in Mumbai.Maharashtra has decided not to allow standalone shops of non-essential services to remain open, despite the central government’s notification on Friday permitting their operations.As of March 25, Maharashtra has conducted 1,08,972 tests, of which 7,628 people have tested positive and 1,01,162 have tested negative. There are 555 containment zones in the state. On Saturday alone, 7,194 flying squads appointed by the state screened 31.43 lakh people in containment zones. A total of 1,076 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured and discharged in Maharashtra.The state government also pointed out that new Covid-19 cases are being reported from contacts of positive persons, but maintained that community transmission has not begun in the state. Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s first patient who will be administered plasma transfusion has been identified. The man is currently admitted to Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai. The transfusion process is likely to be carried out on Sunday.A plasmapheresis machine - which carries out removal, treatment, and return or exchange of blood plasma - has been installed at BYL Nair Hospital. Three units of plasma from recovered patients have been collected. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Five more recovered Covid-19 patients have been screened to donate plasma.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-811-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-jump/story-iCdZuyCEg2onTW5RcaprXI.html
26-04-2020||India||Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ highlights: Wearing masks will become symbol of civilised society, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s view on the current Covid-19 situation in the country was the focus of his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat. Here are the highlights of his speech:-“Every citizen is a soldier of the unprecedented battle India is fighting against Covid-19. Our fight is people-driven. ‘Taalis, thaalis, diyas, mombatti’ gave birth to an emotion that has driven Indians to help each other and the whole world is a witness to this,” PM Modi said.- “We are thankful to the farmers who are toiling hard, landlords who waived off rents, people who donated their prize money and pension to PM-CARES fund. Actions such as these give India the strength to fight the pandemic,” he said.-“A digital platform, covidwarriors.gov.in has connected all Covid-19 warriors who are volunteering to help the needy. I request you to connect to this platform and do your bit”, PM said.-“Every battle teaches us something, and gives us new opportunities. This battle has given birth to new scientific and technological temperaments. Every inventor is working on something that could help us during these times. I am also thankful to the state governments, officials of aviation sector, railway, and police for going out of their ways to ensure the delivery of essentials to the needy,” the PM said.-“Money is being directly transferred through PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to the accounts of the poor. All this is possible due to the hard work of Banking sector employees,” PM said.-“We are learning to appreciate all those who make our daily lives easier. People who clean our house, collect garbage, vegetable vendors etc are being recognised for their services and photos of people showering flowers on them have also reached me,” said PM Modi.-“It is in India’s culture to help the needy. We have provided essential drugs to many countries during this tough time and all countries are thanking the poeple of India for this. I feel proud when world leaders call me and say, ‘thank you, India’. India’s Yoga and Ayurveda are also being lauded overseas. We should recognise the potential of Ayurveda and work on evidence-based researches so that the world too sees it for the potential it has,” he added.-“Wearing masks and covering one’s face is the new norm and will soon become a symbol of a civilised society. We will also have to leave behind the habit of spitting at public places. This will help us fight coronavirus and improve our overall hygiene,” PM said.-“Today is ‘akshay tritiya’, and akshay means that which can never be destroyed. Let us take the pledge of making our earth ‘akshay’,” he said.-“It is also the month of Ramzan. Let us stay indoors and follow social distancing and work towards improving the situation so that we can celebrate Eid with our loved ones in a proper manner,” he added.-“If Covid-19 has not reached our offices or areas yet, it does not mean it will never. Let us make an example out of ourselves and learn from others’ mistakes. Our ancestors have taught us that one should never underestimate a dying fire, debt, and disease. We need to cure ourselves fully. We cannot afford any carelessness,” PM Modi said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-modi-mann-ki-baat-amid-covid-19/story-tz952FcxRr5XMZyrwdYKdP.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Have 25k kg onions, will travel’: Mumbai airport worker’s plan to beat lockdown||How do you travel from Mumbai to Allahabad when there is a lockdown? Buy 25 tonnes of onions, load them onto a truck and hit the road. Desperate to reach his ancestral village on the outskirts of Allahabad, Prem Murti Pandey, who works at Mumbai airport, says he did just that. He spent the first phase of the lockdown in Mumbai, but then it seemed that the restrictions could go on for a while. “Actually Azad Nagar in Andheri East, where I live is a very congested area and there is a bigger risk there of coronavirus spreading,” he told PTI. Buses and trains don’t run and flights are grounded during this lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus. “I realised that the government had left one way open,” Pandey said, referring to the relaxation on the movement of essential commodities like fruit and vegetable. His plan also involved watermelons -- 1,300 kilos of them. On April 17, Pandey hired a mini-truck for Pimpalgaon near Nashik, about 200 km way. There, he bought the watermelons for Rs 10,000 and sent the vehicle back to Mumbai with the consignment. He had already struck a deal with a buyer in Mumbai. Next, he studied the Pimpalgaon market for a good deal in onions. Pandey said he bought 25,520 kilos of onions at Rs 9.10 per kg, shelling out Rs 2.32 lakh. He then hired a truck for Rs 77,500 and set off on April 20 with the onions on a 1,200-km journey to Allahabad. He reached there on April 23 and headed straight to the Mundera wholesale market on the outskirts of the city. Unfortunately, he couldn’t find anyone who would pay cash for the load. So Pandey took the truck to his village, Kotwa Mubarkpur, a couple of kilometers away. The onions were unloaded there. TP Nagar police post in-charge Arvind Kumar Singh said Pandey came to Dhoomanganj police station on Friday and a medical team examined him. For now, he has been asked to quarantine himself at home. As for the onions, Pandey still hopes to get a good deal.Right now, the mandi is full of onions from Sagar in Madhya Pradesh. Once the Sagar supply is over, onions from Nashik will find buyers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-have-25k-kg-onions-will-travel-mumbai-airport-worker-s-plan-to-beat-lockdown/story-cVIbpL1X5CnnmPveZb2kmJ.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Our fight against coronavirus will be talked about world over’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on his Mann Ki Baat radio programme on Sunday tnat people across the globe will discuss India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic as he pointed out how every citizen has come forward to help each other.“When the entire world is battling this pandemic, in future whenever this war with the pandemic will be discussed, its events recalled, I am confident that India’s people-driven war will surely be discussed,” the Prime Minister said on his Mann ki Baat programme.“In every nook and corner of the country, people have come forward to help each other. From feeding the poor to arranging ration, observing lockdown, manning hospitals to indigenous production of medical equipment, the entire country is marching hand -in- hand in one direction towards one goal,” he said. Modi also praised the billions of Indians and said: “India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven”.“It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration... We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.Also Read| India striving for development, only option is to win war against coronavirus: PM Modi on Mann ki BaatThe Prime Minister also said the suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat have been many times higher than usual.“Encompassing many subjects, your Mann ki Baat suggestions have reached me. I have tried to read them and listen to them as much as possible. In the hustle and bustle of life, I got to focus on several topics which remain unnoticed through your suggestions,” he added.This is one of Modi’s several addresses to the nation since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown began last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-fight-against-coronavirus-will-be-talked-about-world-over-pm-modi/story-0NwYd8JjzQHq3CzVNXpkGM.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Thaalis, diyas, taalis inspired one and all’: On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi praises people’s efforts in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the spirit shown by people of India when they together clapped for Covid-19 frontline warriors during Janta Curfew, has inspired everyone. He said this during his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’.“The claps (taalis), lamps (diyas), candles and the sentiment generated by people, the spirit by which people resolved to do something, has inspired one and all,” PM Modi said.In his address to the nation last month, PM Modi had announced a self-imposed one-day quarantine known as ‘Janta Curfew’ to fight the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The Janta Curfew lasted for 14 hours - from 7 am on March 22 to 9 pm. The Prime Minister also urged people to praise the efforts of emergency workers by clapping or blowing conches - a call which was widely responded.Then, on April 5, PM Modi asked people to switch off the lights at the homes and light lamps or candles to spread the light and “fight the darkness of coronavirus”. Millions of people across the country responded to the call.“From towns to villages, everywhere people are coming together in this giant endeavour. Look at our farmers, in the middle of this pandemic, they are working day and night in the fields to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. Everyone is fighting this battle according to their capacity,” PM Modi further said on ‘Mann ki Baat’.In his last Mann Ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.According to the Union health ministry figures released on Sunday morning, India’s coronavirus count stood at 26,496 including 19,868 active cases and 824 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thaalis-diyas-taalis-inspired-one-an-all-on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-praises-people-s-efforts-in-covid-19-fight/story-eKw00aDINJgo2t1fvnFf9I.html
26-04-2020||India||India striving for development, only option is to win war against coronavirus: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio address “Mann ki Baat” on Sunday once again praised the billions of Indians, who he said have fought shoulder to shoulder in the country’s efforts to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus infection.“Friends, India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven. It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration. A vast country like India, which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, this is the only option to win the war against corona,” PM Modi said in the latest edition of Mann ki Baat.“We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.The Prime Minister also said the suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat have been many times higher than usual.“Encompassing many subjects, your Mann ki Baat suggestions have reached me. I have tried to read them and listen to them as much as possible. In the hustle and bustle of life, I got to focus on several topics which remain unnoticed through your suggestions,” he added.This is one of Modi’s several addresses to the nation since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown began last month.He has tried to reach out to people by apologising for the government’s tough decisions, spoke on the need to care for the poor, and honoured those at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic while outlining the next course of action.In his last address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the Prime Minister had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, the second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-striving-for-development-only-option-is-to-win-war-against-coronavirus-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-GUHeuqVRISAaBwthOwKgzL.html
26-04-2020||India||On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi hails ‘people-driven war’ against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the “people-driven war” in India against the coronavirus disease, and said it will be discussed in the future. He said this during his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat.“Suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat are many times higher than the usual. Encompassing many subjects, you mann ki baat has reached me. In hustle and bustle of life, several topics remain unnoticed have come to the fore through your feedback. I intend to share a few such aspects with the countrymen,” he said.“India’s fight against coronavirus is people driven. It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration,” added PM Modi.Be it businesses, offices, education institutes or medical sector, everyone is adapting to changes in the post-coronavirus world, he said.“A vast country like India which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, has only this option to win the war against coronavirus. We are fortunate that the entire country with every citizen as a soldier is leading and fighting this war,” he said.“Wherever you see, you will find that it’s a people-driven war. When the entire world is battling this pandemic, in future whenever this war with pandemic will be discussed, its events recalled, I am sure that this people-driven war of India will be surely discussed,” the Prime Minister further said.India’s decision to supply medicines to countries which needed them amid the Covid-19 pandemic was guided by its ethos, he said, adding that he feels very proud when world leaders thank India and its people for the assistance.In his over 30-minute-long address, Modi hailed the contribution of state governments in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they have played a very active role.In his last Mann ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.According to the Union health ministry figures released on Sunday morning, India’s coronavirus count stood at 26,496 including 19,868 active cases and 824 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-hails-people-driven-war-against-covid-19/story-sfBB2dKJmAR7XH5vNqB6zM.html
26-04-2020||India||Armed Forces understand their responsibility in fight against Covid-19: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat||General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) says that the armed forces understand their responsibility in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and have to ensure that they remain safe to support the people of the country. “As armed forces, we understand our responsibility that at this time when the nation is fighting against Covid-19 menace, the defence services must operate beyond the mandate and come to the support of our people and government in whatever way we can,” General Rawat told ANI in an exclusive interview on Sunday. He added that for the forces to support the country, they have to first ensure that ‘we remain safe from Covid-19.“In order to do so, we have to first ensure that we remain safe from Covid-19 because if our own sailors, soldiers and airmen get affected by this virus, how are we going to support our people,” he added.General Rawat said that strict directions have been issued to the armed forces on social distancing, wearing of masks and ensuring that people who need to be isolated remain in quarantine. Twenty five Indian Navy personnel and eight Army personnel including two doctors and one nursing assistant have so far tested positive for coronavirus. According to Navy sources, the reported cases are asymptomatic and were traced to one sailor who tested positive on April 7. Twenty of these sailors are from INS Angre, a shore establishment in Mumbai. The navy men have been admitted in naval hospital INHS Asvini in Mumbai’s Colaba after testing positive for the novel coronavirus.Speaking about the Covid-19 cases in military, General Rawat said discipline and patience has helped the armed forces in preventing the spread of disease.“Covid-19 has affected the three services in a very limited number. I would say that this is the discipline and patience which has helped us in preventing the spread of the menace,” he said. The CDS said that armed forces personnel have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and if anyone contracts the disease, authorities would be able to pick up the case very soon and ensure that the disease doesn’t spread. With Covid-19 cases spreading at a fast rate across the country, the army has said all its personnel will be classified as ‘green’ (who have completed 14 days of quarantine), ‘yellow’ (those who need to undergo 14 days quarantine) and lastly, ‘red’ (who are symptomatic and require isolation and further treatment in Covid hospitals).Referring to the nationwide lockdown, in place till May 3, General Rawat said that this is not the time to be impatient. “We do know when the country is under lockdown and (when) people are told to stay indoors, they tend to become impatient. This is not the time to be impatient. Patience is very important to ensure that we remain disciplined. Maintaining discipline in armed forces is not very difficult as we are accustomed to be in discipline but to maintain patience is the need of the hour,” he said.On the operational preparedness of the armed forces, the CDS said that India’s military is capable of undertaking any operational task assigned to it. “Whatever budget has been given to us, we must spend it pragmatically, avoiding any wasteful expenditure. We don’t see any major drop in our operational preparedness as far as the three services are concerned,” General Rawat said.“Covid-19 has taught us a lesson that the time has come to be self-reliant.”In India, when we are looking at becoming a regional power, we’ll have to support others and not be dependent on others. It becomes important we support Make in India (programme) and ensure that whatever (weapons systems) we are importing, gradually we get it through Make in India,” General Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-understand-their-responsibility-in-fight-against-covid-19-cds-gen-bipin-rawat/story-Q9lIg60rPBpwbcZFyVuA6H.html
26-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases in Varanasi rises to 34 after 7 cops test positive||Eight people, including seven policemen, tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Saturday in Varanasi, taking the number of infected people in the district to 34. These policemen were posted in Sigra police station in the city.District Magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said that 95 reports were received from the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Saturday in which seven police personnel tested positive for Covid-19. The police personnel include a sub-inspector, three head constables and three constables. The other 87 samples tested negative, said Sharma.He further said that the sub-inspector first developed dry coughing and fever. Thereafter, some police personnel exhibited symptoms. They all lived in the same barrack at police outpost. Three days ago, they were quarantined in a guest house and their sampling was done. On Saturday, their report was received and seven policemen were tested. They have been shifted to isolation ward of BHU.Another 39-year-old person has also been tested positive. He has also been shifted to DDU government hospital.There are 25 active Covid-19 cases in the city and eight have been cured of the disease. One person has died.The district administration is using specially designed drones to disinfect Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency.A statement by the principal scientific advisor’s office said it has collaborated with Invest India, the country’s National Investment Promotion Agency through the AGNIi Mission, and Invest India’s Business Immunity Platform (BIP) - to facilitate the use of specially designed drones to sanitise Varanasi, news agency PTI reported.The statement said using drones, authorities can spray disinfectant over large, crowded, vulnerable urban areas by protecting city-dwellers from Covid-19, while reducing human contact to keep frontline workers safe.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 1,793 on Sunday with 177 new patients reported in the last 24 hours.“The total number of samples found negative is 54,216. The total number of samples result awaited is 842,” Uttar Pradesh’s Directorate of Health Services said in a bulletin on Saturday.The media bulletin further said, “The total travellers screened at the border check posts is 15,59,010. These are all travellers and not suspects. 35 patients have been declared recovered and discharged today, taking the total number to 261.”Total number deaths due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh is 27 - one each at Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahar, Lucknow, four at Meerut, six at Moradabad, one at Firozabad, eight at Agra, three at Kanpur, and one at Aligarh, according to state health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-in-varanasi-rises-to-34-after-7-cops-test-positive/story-OIptfgXZ5t2bZrDtmk3KJM.html
26-04-2020||India||2 judges travelling over 2000 km by road amid lockdown to assume charge as HC chief justices: Report||With air and rail passenger services suspended due to a Covid-19-induced lockdown, two judges have embarked on a road journey, each of them covering over 2,000 km, as they gear up to take charge as chief justices of high courts in separate corners of the country. The judges -- who were elevated to the position of high court chief justices only recently -- hit the road amid the nationwide shutdown to ensure trials and justice delivery system do not go off the track.Justice Dipankar Datta, a judge at the Calcutta High Court, is taking turns with son to sit behind the steering wheel, as the family moved to Mumbai, where he would be taking over as the new Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, sources privy to the development said. Allahabad High Court judge Justice Biswanath Somadder, who has been elevated as the Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court, is driving to Shillong via Kolkata.Justice Somadder, who had served at the Calcutta High Court before being transferred to Allahabad, set out on the journey from the north Indian city along with wife on Friday evening in an official car, the sources said. He had a chauffeur by his side, who took charge of the wheels from time to time. The judge reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon, and left for Shillong in the evening, after a few hours of rest at his Salt Lake residence here.He is scheduled to reach the Meghalaya capital on Sunday afternoon.Justice Datta left for Mumbai from Kolkata on Saturday morning and plans to reach the country’s financial capital by Monday afternoon with overnight breaks on the way.President Ram Nath Kovind had on Thursday elevated Justice Dipankar Datta, senior judge of Calcutta High Court, as the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, and appointed Justice Biswanath Somadder of Allahabad High Court as Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court.Both Justice Datta and Justice Somadder were elevated as permanent judges of the Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-judges-travelling-over-2000-km-by-road-amid-lockdown-to-assume-charge-as-hc-chief-justices-report/story-O4LA6EaGeLJN2dW35LOvbO.html
26-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 update: Cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of them||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, according to the health ministry.Indore continues to be the hotspot in Madhya Pradesh; 56 fresh cases were reported in the city till Saturday afternoon. More than 100 people tested positive for the disease in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.Indore, the worst affected district, alone accounts for 57 deaths.Indore has the highest tally of Covid-19 cases at 1,085 followed by Bhopal (388) and Ujjain (103). A month ago, there was not a single Covid-19 case in Indore.“We feel the virus is more virulent in the Indore belt. We have sought help from the National Institute of Virology in Pune. They have agreed to study the virus from culture at other places and compare it by extraction of virus genome,” Jyoti Bindal, Dean of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, told news agency IANS.The Inter-ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which has been in Indore since April 22 to monitor the efforts to combat coronavirus, asked the state administration to identify the hotspots in the city and draw up a special plan for places where 10 or more positive patients have been found. The number of coronavirus cases in Jabalpur has now climbed to 43. Hoshangabad has 30 cases, Khandwa 36 and Chhindwara five.The number of cases in other districts is: Barwani 24, Raisen 26, Morena and Vidisha 13 each, Ratlam 12, Mandsaur eight, Shajapur six, Sagar five, four each in Gwalior and Sheopur, three in Alirajpur, two each in Shivpuri and Tikamgarh and one each in Betul and Dindori, according to state health officials.So far, 210 patients have recovered and returned home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-update-cases-reach-2-096-indore-has-half-of-them/story-K442ULvSCTRrX6oPoG4DFO.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers, says CM Gehlot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers: CM GehlotMigrant workers will now be able to go out of Rajasthan and those in other states can come back in a phased manner after his government coordinated with others, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday evening. Ashok Gehlot said the state government wants to send all migrants workers to their homes safely and expected their support.Read MorePost-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetHundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. Several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements.Read MoreBailout plan: Play more matches with IndiaThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the richest body in world cricket, has come up with a plan to help countries facing losses due to the cancellation of cricket worldwide -- although the idea is contingent on games resuming.Read MoreSara Ali Khan bonds with brother Ibrahim over intense workout and knock-knock jokesSiblings Sara Ali Khan and Ibrahim Ali Khan seem to be bonding over fitness. On Saturday (April 25) night, the actor shared a picture of the two of them after an intense workout.Read MoreNetflix has secret codes for hidden movies, shows: Here’s the whole listNetflix has a whole list of secret codes that you can use to find movies and shows, according to genres, to watch. Your Netflix home page is customised according to movies and shows you watch normally. Genres you don’t watch often enough will not be shown unless you specifically search for it with movie or show names. However, there is a way to navigate to content that fly below our radar. Read MoreWord of the Week: Saturnine - A grump by any other nameIn the old days people ascribed many qualities to the planets. In 15th century Europe, savants believed that the astrological influence of the planet Saturn -- which was considered in those days to be the planet most remote from the Sun and thus the darkest, coldest and slowest in its orbit – would generate the same qualities in human beings. Accordingly, anyone of a dark disposition, somewhat cold, remote or forbidding in manner, and grave and slow in movement and speech, was described as “Saturnine” . Read MoreUGC to issue guidelines next week on measures to be taken for current, next academic sessionThe University Grants Commission (UGC) on Saturday said that the two committees which were earlier formed have submitted their reports and the regulatory body will issue guidelines next week to universities and colleges regarding the measures to be taken for the current and next academic session.Read MoreCovid-19: How a WhatsApp group helped UK man travel India for treatmentA WhatsApp group helped a UK man travel to India for treatment. BJP leader KJ Alphons had received a message from the Mayor of Bristol about a patient in the UK. Alphons along with Justice Kurian formed a WhatsApp group for Covid-19. Alphons said that they have different help desks and volunteers who reach out for help with food and other needs. Watch the video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajasthan-to-organise-passage-for-migrant-workers-says-cm-gehlot-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uuGganhI0WfJxNVhq9qATL.html
26-04-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 update: Cases cross 3,000-mark, Centre says situation in Ahmedabad and Surat ‘serious’||The total number of coronavirus disease Covid-19 cases crossed the 3,000-mark (3,071 to be exact) on Sunday, according to the Uniokn health ministry data. Two hundred fifty six new cases were reported across the state on Saturday.Six more deaths have taken Gujarat’s Covid-19 death toll to 133. The state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra.Two teams of the Union government on Saturday met local officials in Ahmedabad and Surat districts where the number of Covid-19 cases has risen sharply in the last few days.On Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said the situation in these two emerging hotspots in Gujarat was “especially serious”.Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad crossed 2,000-mark to reach 2,003 on Saturday as 182 new cases were recorded in the city, while in Surat the number went up to 496, with 34 new cases.The state has recorded new Covid-19 cases in three digits daily for the past fortnight.After Ahmedabad Surat, Banaskantha recorded 11 new cases, Vadodara seven, Bhavnagar and Anand five each, Gandhinagar four, Chotta Udepur and Panchmahals two each. One case each was recorded in Patan, Mahisagar, Navsari and newly added district Surendranagar.There are no cases in Amreli, Dwarka and Junagadh districts.As many as 36,730 persons are quarantined, including 32,119 at home, 3,565 in government facilities and 246 in private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-update-cases-cross-3-000-mark-centre-says-situation-in-ahmedabad-and-surat-serious/story-wldSqAN7D4kkX7wuFkQboO.html
26-04-2020||India||Watch: How Chandigarh cops maintain social distance, yet catch lockdown violators||Police in Chandigarh now know how to follow social distancing norms and catch violators of the lockdown, put in place to curb the spread of the deadly disease, at the same time.Sanjay Baniwal, director-general of Chandigarh Police, shared a post on Twitter where a policeman can be seen demonstrating how the device functions.“VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers. Great equipment, great drill !!! Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha,” Baniwal tweeted. VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers.Great equipment, great drill !!!Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha pic.twitter.com/oTLsGoe6ytThe instrument, made by the VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police, has a long metal rod, which can be strapped to a policeman’s arms, with a tong-like shape at the other end. The device’s other end can be used to catch violators by attaching it around the person’s waist and leading them to the police vehicle without coming in any kind of contact with them.Also read: In this UP city, police perform aarti, give bananas to lockdown violatorsAuthorities have declared Chandigarh as a hotspot and a curfew has also been imposed in the city.Despite the country-wide lockdown, which has been extended till May 3, many have violated the rules and ventured out on the roads.Police across the country have used punishments—making violators do jumping jacks and sit-ups— to naming and shaming them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-how-chandigarh-cops-maintain-social-distance-yet-catch-lockdown-violators/story-KOP0IvpBuqbHYi9uzaDSLK.html
26-04-2020||India||5 cities in Tamil Nadu under complete lockdown from today to check Covid-19 spread||Five cities in Tamil Nadu - Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tirupur - will be shut down completely starting Sunday to check the spread of coronavirus diease Covid-19. The tightening of restrictions was announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday.While Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai will be shut for four days, the restrictions will be applicable for three days in other two cities.Grocery shops will be completely shut after the government order and movement of public will be fully curtailed. Palaniswami has assured people that vegetables and fruits will reach their doorsteps via mobile outlets.But, despite the assurances from the state government, Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai saw huge crowds on Saturday as people came out in large numbers to stock up essentials.“Usually I come to the market only twice a month. However, today I came here as CM Palaniswami has announced a complete lockdown for the next 4 days,” Gaurav, a resident of Chennai, told newa agency ANI.“I believe that hunger is scarier than coronavirus. Hence, I took the risk of coming to the Koyambedu market to stock up on vegetables as this 4-day lockdown might get extended by 6-7 days,” he added when asked about contracting the infection by coming in the crowded place.Following a review meeting on the Covid-19 scenario in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Palaniswami said public health and medical experts have opined that imposing further restrictions in urban regions alone will help prevent the spread of contagion.Till date, Tamil Nadu has 1,821 confirmed Covid-19 cases, according to Union health ministry data.Madurai and Salem have 56 and 30 cases respectively.The district collectors of Chengelpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram have also separately issued directions for implementing the full lockdown in their respective areas which are close to Greater Chennai Corporation neighbourhoods and falling under the jurisdiction of Chennai Police.Suburban Tambaram and Madambakkam in Chengelpet district, Avadi and Poonamallee in Tiruvallur district and Kundrathur and Ayyappanthangal in Kancheepuram district are among the localities that will be shut, the respective district authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cities-in-tamil-nadu-under-complete-lockdown-from-today-to-check-covid-19-spread/story-ApTyECnYqFpLei72J4MN1I.html
26-04-2020||India||India reports 1,990 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in 24 hours||India reported 1,990 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 561 more than Saturday, and 49 deaths in the past 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Sunday morning.The ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed 19,868 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 and 824 people have now died of the respiratory disease across the country. The number of patients who have been cured or discharged has also gone up to 5803 on Sunday morning from 5062 from a day earlier.Maharashtra and Gujarat, where the coronavirus outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently than the rest of the country, had the most number of cases. Also read: Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetWith 7,628 infections and 323 deaths, Maharashtra continued to report the most number of cases in the country. In Gujarat, there were 3071 Covid-19 patients and 133 deaths.Officials have said the national doubling rate of infections was 9.1 days. According to HT’s analysis of the numbers reported by the states, this was 4.3 and 6.7 days respectively for Gujarat and Maharashtra.Officials said the overall growth in the number of cases in India has been linear, compared to some other countries where it has been exponential.Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and secretary of the department of health research, has said the case positivity rate has been about 4.5% throughout. Positivity rate is the proportion of people who test positive among all individuals tested on a particular day. “So we can safely say that we have managed to flatten the curve,” Dr Bhargava said.Also read: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3While officials and experts argue that this number suggests India been testing adequately, the total number of tests carried out across the country is still a mere 420 per million population.ICMR data shows there were close to 40,000 tests carried out by the government as well as private labs across the country on Friday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states over video conference, the third such on issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, on Monday to discuss a number of issues including a decision on the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1-990-new-covid-19-cases-49-deaths-in-24-hours/story-QJbUgznsdlDuEllV2AAXGI.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra crosses 7,000-mark, lockdown in Tamil Nadu cities||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 26,496 on Sunday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 19,868 active coronavirus cases in the country, 5,803 patients have been cured or discharged while 824 people have died from the deadly contagion. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra crossed the 7,000-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases has crossed 2,600. Gujarat continues to have the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 7,628 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 323 deaths so far while 1,076 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 3,071 coronavirus cases and 282 recoveries so far. One hundred thirty three people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2,625 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Firty four people have died from the infection while 869 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,083 on Sunday. The state has reported 33 fatalities, and 493 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,096 positive cases of Covid-19. Ninety nine people have died from Covid-19 here while 210 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1,821 Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 960 recoveries and 23 Covid-19 deaths. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has announced complete lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai for four days starting Sunday.Uttar PradeshNearly 1,800 (1,793 to be exact) people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 261 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 27 have died from the infection here.TelanganaThe total number of infected people is touching 1,000 in Telangana (health ministry data showed 991 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday). Two hundred eighty people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,061 positive Covid-19 patients and 171 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.West BengalThe state now has over 600 cases of Covid-19 (the latest health ministry data shows 611 Covid-19 positive patients in West Bengal). There have been 18 deaths and 105 recoveries in the state.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 500 Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths. One hundred firty eight people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 494. Six people have died from the infection while 112 were cured.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 457 coronavirus cases on Sunday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 338 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 289 and 298 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 17 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. One hundred seventy six people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 67 in Punjab.In Bihar, 243 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered. Odisha has 94 Covid-19 positive patients, 33 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 67 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 13 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 48 coronavirus patients, 26 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 22 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 37 cases of coronavirus and 32 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 28 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 15 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura too had two cases of Covid-19, both recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the twelfth day of the extended lockdown phase on Sunday.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-crosses-7-000-mark-lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-cities/story-otxBMPzuLOs4MkLcF0epeI.html
26-04-2020||India||Will enquire about mortal remains of Indian who died in UAE: Centre to Delhi HC||The Central government on Saturday informed the Delhi High Court that it will enquire about the state and location of the mortal remains of an Indian national who recently died in United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the corpse was returned to the Middle Eastern nation due to immigration issues.“We will find out from the embassy concerned about the location and condition of the mortal remains of Kamlesh Bhatt, who died of heart attack in Abu Dhabi on April 17” the Centre told a single judge bench of the high court presided by Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva.The submissions were made while the court was hearing a plea filed by deceased’‘s brother Vimlesh Bhatt, resident of Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand seeking direction to repatriate the mortal remains of his brother, which were sent to India by Etihad airport services cargo on April 23, respectfully to Delhi from UAE.He sought direction to the authorities to bring back the mortal remains of his 24-year-old brother who was working in Abu Dhabi and on April 17, his family in India received the information regarding his death due to sudden cardiac arrest.“In a most inhumane, insensitive and unexpected conduct of the respondents the human remains of the deceased were sent back to UAE on the same flight without citing any order/notification/circular or furnishing any medical report by a medical officer or giving any explanation or reason to the petitioner who kept praying for handing over of the mortal remains of his 24-year-old younger brother,” the plea said.During the course of the hearing, Advocates Rituparn Uniyal and Abhishek Kumar representing the petitioner said that on April 23, a social worker at UAE shipped the human remains from Etihad Airport to Delhi’s International airport and even the petitioner was informed when the cargo had arrived here.The petitioner further told the court that it was shocked after the cargo company informed them that they were not allowed to unload the corpse due to a few immigration issue despite having complete documentation and legal formalities which were required for repatriation of human remains to India as laid down by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).Responding to the submissions Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearening for the Central government told the court, “This being a unique case, the ministries of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare are in the process of framing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in order to avoid such problems in the future.After conducting an urgent hearing through video conferencing, the court has now posted the matter for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-enquire-about-mortal-remains-of-indian-who-died-in-uae-centre-to-delhi-hc/story-MZm5c81UgDZ9iV10kuPiNO.html
26-04-2020||India||India records biggest single day spike, virus can survive on particulate matter: Covid-19 news today||India’s tally of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases shot past the 26,000-mark on Saturday with the biggest single-day spike in infections. Tests in Italy found the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollution particles.India crosses 26k Covid-19 cases with biggest 1-day spikeThe spike in coronavirus infections on Saturday was driven largely by Maharashtra and Gujarat where the outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently even as the rest of the country shows some improvement.Read MoreVirus could cling to air pollutantsSARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollutants, tests conducted in Italy have found -- a finding which, if validated, should cause concern in India, especially Delhi, where air pollution is a recurring problem, although both the researchers themselves and experts said it remains to be see if the virus remains viable and virulent on these particles.Read MorePost-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetHundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements.Read MoreCEA points at Spanish Flu lesson in Covid fightChief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian has presented his findings at the Finance Commission advisory council meeting on Friday where he said because India’s economy resembled the US economy at the time of the Spanish Flu, “its study can provide a reasonable guesstimate about what will happen in the Indian scenario”. Read MoreLockdown period will not count in insolvency proceedings: GovtThe government has issued two orders that exclude the lockdown period because of the Covid-19 outbreak from any corporate insolvency resolution or liquidation processes, the notifications issued on Friday said.Read MoreWHO warns against ‘immunity passports’ as nations look for ways to exit lockdownsThe World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday warned governments against issuing “immunity passports” or “risk-free certificates” to people who have recovered to enable travel or return to work because there is no evidence that people who have recovered are protected from a second infection.Read More2 cell types are entry points for virusScientists have identified two types of cells in the nose that are likely to be point of infection for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in the body.Read MoreVentilation, humidity key in AC rooms: Govt guidelines Rooms and offices with air conditioning must be well-ventilated and humidified, according to government’s guidelines to public sector offices after a report by a group of experts outlined precautionary measures that need to be taken to curtail the possible spread of Covid-19 in such environments.Read MoreDelhi to open neighbourhood shops outside Covid hot spotsDelhi decided to open all neighbourhood stores, even those selling non-essentials, in areas outside hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, a day after the Union home ministry allowed the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets.Read MoreHere’s something for you to do this Sunday: BirdingSince the lockdown began, and people started spending all their time at home, there’s been a huge upsurge of interest in birding.Read MoreCentre team says West Bengal not cooperating, row escalatesOne of the two interministerial central teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess how the state was dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic has again complained that it is not getting support in accessing hospitals and that local officials are refusing to accompany it.Read MoreGovt planning special flights for Indians stranded abroadThe Centre has started making preparations to run scores of special flights early next month to bring thousands of Indians stranded abroad due to the cancellation of international flights from March 22.Read MoreSonia writes to Modi, seeks Rs 1L-cr for helping MSMEsCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package for the revival of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), warning that if problems of the sector are not addressed, it could have a devastating effect on the economy.Read MoreMaharashtra records highest one-day spikeMaharashtra recorded the highest single-day increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with 811 infections and 22 people succumbing to the disease on Saturday but officials in the state worst hit by the contagion took heart in a dipping mortality rate and stricter containment measures.Read MoreGlobal deaths surge past 200,000The worldwide Covid-19 death toll zoomed past 200,000 on Saturday as the United Nations launched a global push for a vaccine to defeat the pandemic.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-biggest-single-day-spike-virus-can-survive-on-particulate-matter-covid-19-news-today/story-WANk0UoFH42j3DcDdXLDSM.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Bored’ truck driver plays card game with friends, 24 test Covid-19 positive||A bored truck driver’s effort to kill time by indulging in a game of cards with friends and neighbours led to the infection of coronavirus in 24 people in one locality of Vijayawada city in Andhra Pradesh, Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiaz said here on Saturday.A social grouping for whiling away time by another truck driver resulted in the virus affliction to about 15 people in another locality in Vijayawada.These two instances accounted for about 40 cases in the city in the last couple of days, he said.The truck driver in Krishna Lanka locality was bored and played cards with his friends and neighbours while the women grouped up and played tambola.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage All this resulted in the spread of the dreaded virus in 24 people, he said.“The same thing happened in Karmika Nagar. The truck driver moved around socialising and in the process about 15 people got afflicted,” Imtiaz added.Also read: India crosses 26,000 Covid-19 cases with biggest one-day spikeFailure to maintain physical distance was the sole cause for the transmission of the coronavirus in these cases, he said in a recorded video message.Vijayawada is one of the major hotspots of coronavirus in the state where over 100 cases have been registered so far.Also read: States divided on extending Covid-19 lockdown beyond May 3In the last 24 hours alone 25 fresh cases were reported in the city, which is part of the state capital Amaravati.The Collector appealed to people to strictly maintain physical distance to avoid the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bored-truck-driver-plays-card-game-with-friends-24-test-covid-19-positive/story-0DDOclFzZgNo7heYNHzHtM.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: After UP, Madhya Pradesh brings back migrant workers stuck in Gujarat||Thousands of migrant labourers from Madhya Pradesh have returned home from Gujarat, more than a month after the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic was imposed, news agency ANI reported.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan had said on Friday the state government will bring back migrant workers stranded in other parts of the country.ANI quoted the chief minister as saying on Saturday that at least 2400 migrant labourers reached Madhya Pradesh in 98 buses and were screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).They reached the central state’s Jhabua district from Gujarat.“We are bringing back migrant labourers from Rajasthan and this will continue…” Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.Also read: Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetThe chief minister said the state government is also making efforts to send labourers stranded in other districts of the state to their home districts.“We have arranged vehicles for them. They are being screened before leaving for their homes,” he added.This also comes after Chouhan’s counterpart in Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath announced that his government will bring back labourers and workers who have been stranded in other states and have completed 14 days of quarantine in a phased manner.On Saturday, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met chief secretaries of the states to talk about the thousands of workers, currently in migrant labour camps around India who want to return home, among other things.With no interstate travel being allowed and passenger trains not running, several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting, some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the Centre to set a protocol for such movements.Prime Minister Narendra Modi placed the country under a three-week lockdown from March 25 to April 14 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. As the number of coronavirus disease cases continued to increase, the lockdown was extended till May 3.The lockdown brought the entire country to a standstill but hit thousands of daily-wage migrant workers in big cities the most, who were seen walking back to their homes.The Centre directed the state governments to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown, and provide food and shelter to those distressed to avoid a nationwide exodus of labourers.Last week, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed stranded migrant labourers across India to return to their places of work within the city which are non-containment zones.“In the event, that a group of migrants wish to return to their places of work, within the state where they are presently located, they would be screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their respective places of work,” MHA said in a statement.The ministry, however, said labourer cannot move outside any state or Union territory they are in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-after-up-madhya-pradesh-brings-back-migrant-workers-stuck-in-gujarat/story-kVQm0NA5iInolXU2Jhia3I.html
26-04-2020||India||All you need to know about SVAMITVA scheme and its coverage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a scheme that has the potential to change the dynamics of rural areas. The announcement of SVAMITVA scheme coincided with the Panchayati Raj Day.The SVAMITVA scheme aims to provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India, according to the Ministry of Panchayati Raj.The schemeAccording to the panchayati raj ministry, SVAMITVA, or Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas, is a scheme for surveying the land parcels in rural inhabited area using drone technology and Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS).The survey will be done across the country in a phase-wise manner over a period of four years - from 2020 to 2024.The projected outlay of the project is Rs 79.65 crore for the pilot phase (2020-21).Objective of the SVAMITVA schemeThe scheme will bring financial stability to people living in rural areas by enabling them to use their property as financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. It will also lead to creation of accurate land records for rural planning and determination property tax.Through the SVAMITVA scheme, the government hopes that property disputes and legal cases will be reduced.How will the scheme helpThe outcome from the scheme would include updating the record of rights in the revenue/property registers and issuance of property cards to the property owners. This would facilitate monetisation of rural residential assets for credit and other financial services. Further, this would also pave the way for clear determination of property tax.The SVAMITA scheme will also enable updation of property and asset register to strengthen tax collection and demand assessment process of gram panchayats.Other gram panchayat and community assets like vilage roads, ponds, canals, open spaces, school, anganwadi, health sub-centres etc will also be surveyed and GIS maps will be created. These maps can be used to prepare better quality gram panchayat development plan.CoverageAbout 6.62 lakh villages in the country will be eventually covered in the SVAMITVA scheme. The pilot phase will extend to six states - Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand covering approximately one lakh villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-svamitva-scheme-and-its-coverage/story-qwMGmugQXo0cnhFQq9tCYM.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3||As India continues to grapple with the coronavirus outbreak amid a nationwide lockdown, some states are considering the option of extending the shutdown beyond May 3 while some others are in favour of restricting it to containment zones and their buffer areas and not the entire districts. So far, Telangana is the only state that has extended the lockdown till May 7. An official of Delhi government’s Covid-19 committee has suggested that the ongoing lockdown will have to be extended till mid-May for the epidemic curve to flatten as the national capital reported 2,625 infections including 54 deaths. “India is still on the ascending limb of the epidemic curve and so, to ease the restrictions will mean the cases will multiply uncontrollably. And, Delhi has a large number of containment zones, so it will be wise to extend it,” Dr S K Sarin, chairman of Delhi government’s committee on combating COVID-19, said on Saturday, reports PTI.“The lockdown will have to be extended till May 16 as that is when the epidemic curve is likely to start declining, which happens after the flattening of the curve,” he said.Maharashtra, too, is considering continuing the lockdown . The state government is considering extending the lockdown in Mumbai and Pune, the two biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the state. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday told HT’s business publication Mint that the lockdown will need to be extended if the spread of coronavirus is not contained. “The main objective of implementing the lockdown was to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and if the spread is not getting contained, we will have to extend the lockdown,” Tope told Mint.“If required, we will extend the lockdown for 15 more days after 3 May only for the containment zones, if not for the entire Mumbai and Pune,” the minister added. Of Maharashtra’s total 6,817 coronavirus cases, 4,447 come from Mumbai while 961 cases are from Pune, according to official data. In Madhya Pradesh, officials have indicated that there is no likelihood of immediate relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the hotspot districts after May 3 as there haven’t been any signs of improvement. “There are no signs of improvement in the situation in the state particularly in the hotspot districts. Hence there is no likelihood of any immediate relaxation from lockdown restrictions in these areas after May 3. Rather, there will be stricter compliance of restrictions to control the situation,” said an official on condition of anonymity on Saturday. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said he would go by the advice of the expert committee, set up to formulate lockdown exit strategy, in the matter of opening up the state.State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday said that the chief minister will consult all the departments and there could be a state cabinet meeting over the same.In Uttar Pradesh, the administration has decided not to allow any public gatherings till June 30.Officials in most BJP-ruled states have said they will follow the Centre’s directions on the lockdown.The decision on whether to lift or extend the lockdown is expected to be among the issues likely to be discussed in Prime Minister Modi’s video conference with chief ministers on Monday. Some chief ministers want lockdown to be lifted in districts not affected by the pandemic, even as differences remain on how the curbs should be enforced in the remaining areas.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his Andhra counterpart, YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, want the lockdown to be restricted to the containment areas and their buffer zones and not entire districts.Chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded migrant labourers to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-divided-on-extending-lockdown-beyond-may-3/story-o1Lul35IR8Uw6YXc91zOrK.html
26-04-2020||India||Bengal Governor pans CM with markaz statement, Muslim leaders irked||The West Bengal Imams’ Association on Saturday shot off a letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, accusing him of “trying to disturb the communal harmony from a constitutional position” and seeking retraction of his statement on Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi.The imams’ body threatened to start a movement if Dhankhar does not retract his statement or clarify himself. Of around 40,000 mosques in the state, clerics of 26,000 mosques are members of the association. Dhankhar referred to Nizamuddin markaz in his letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday. He wrote a day after Banerjee sent him a five-page letter, accusing Dhankhar of forgetting his constitutional role.“I can figure out that your entire strategy is crafted to deliberately divert people’s attention from your abject failure in combating and containing coronavirus in West Bengal. Your appeasement of the minority community was so explicit and awkward that as regards a question about the Nizamuddin markaz incident by a journalist, your reaction was ‘Do not ask communal questions’. This is most unfortunate and cannot be appreciated,” Dhankhar wrote to Banerjee.As Muslims across West Bengal observed the first day of the month of Ramzan, the imams’ body raised strong objection to Dhankhar’s comment.“Nizamuddin markaz incident was related to Delhi Police and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was completely their issue... we all are very much aware that general Muslims of India don’t have any relation with (the) markaz incident,” Md Yahiya, chairman, Bengal Imams Association, wrote to Dhankhar. Copies of the letter were sent to important officials at Raj Bhawan.If the authorities at Nizamuddin have made any mistake law will take it own course, said the letter. “As a lawyer by profession, I hope you are well aware about that.” Yahiya added and accused the Centre and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of targeting Muslims.This is the first time any religious body in the state has spoken out against Dhankhar whose acrimonious relationship with the Trinamool Congress government has been in news since last year. “The Bengal chief minister said in her press conference (when a journalist asked about Nizamuddin Markaz incident) that it is a communal question. What’s wrong with that reply? As a chief minister she also has right to freedom of expression,” said Yahiya’s letter.The letter said that when students of Jadavpur University (JU) once asked Dhankhar questions on the Jamia Millia University incident, Dhankhar, in his capacity as chancellor of JU, said Jamia Millia is not related to Bengal. “By avoiding such question in her (Banerjee’s) press meet how is it appeasement of Muslims of Bengal as you mentioned in your letter? Please clarify or retract publicly for trying to disturb the communal harmony from a constitutional position, as early as possible. Since in this lockdown period we can’t move towards Raj Bhavan, we need to do our movement from home,” the letter said.A Raj Bhawan official said the offices were closed during the weekend and correspondences would be checked on Monday. Trinamool Congress leaders were not willing to react. However, BJP Bengal unit general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “This (the letter) is part of a greater conspiracy. It is well known that a large number of people from Bengal attended the markaz in Delhi and many of them have not been traced and placed under quarantine.”“The Governor has only warned the government. Mamata Banerjee must remember that one can ride a tiger but getting off the tiger is not easy. She must stop her communal politics,” said Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-pans-cm-with-markaz-statement-muslim-leaders-irked/story-YNVX9gRhrIDV7xcQdRf5NM.html
26-04-2020||India||MEA minister Jaishankar speaks to his counterparts from African countries||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke to his counterparts from African countries Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali and discussed health cooperation and development partnership with them.“An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali. Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges,” he said in a tweet. An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali. Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges.In conversation with Mali’s Foreign Minister Tiébilé Dramé, Jaishankar discussed health security and solar energy.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Health security and solar energy discussed with FM @T_Drame of #Mali. Our medical supplies will be reaching there shortly,” he said in a tweet.Health security and solar energy discussed with FM @T_Drame of #Mali. Our medical supplies will be reaching there shortly. Underlines India’s growing cooperation with the Sahel.Jaishankar spoke to Uganda Foreign Minister Sam Kutesa and confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat coronavirus.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“Followed up on PM @narendramodi’s talk with President Museveni by talking with FM Sam Kutesa of #Uganda. Confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat #coronavirus. India and Uganda will address this global challenge cooperatively,” he said in a tweet.Followed up on PM @narendramodi’s talk with President Museveni by talking with FM Sam Kutesa of #Uganda. Confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat #coronavirus. India and Uganda will address this global challenge cooperatively.He also spoke to Comoros Foreign Minister Mohamed El Amine Souef. “A SAGAR friendship reaffirmed. Wonderful talking to FM Mohamed El Amine Souef of #Comoros. Our will surely grow further,” he said in a tweet.A SAGAR friendship reaffirmed. Wonderful talking to FM Mohamed El Amine Souef of #Comoros. Our health cooperation and development partnership will surely grow further.So glad to learn that Minister Alpha Barry of #BurkinaFaso has recovered from #Coronavirus. Wished him and his other colleagues good health when I spoke to him today. Indian medical supplies will be reaching Burkina Faso very soon. Friends stand by each other in times of crises.Jaishankar also wished good health to Burkina Faso Foreign Minister Alpha Barry who recovered from coronavirus infection.“So glad to learn that Minister Alpha Barry of #BurkinaFaso has recovered from #Coronavirus. Wished him and his other colleagues good health when I spoke to him today. Indian medical supplies will be reaching Burkina Faso very soon. Friends stand by each other in times of crises,” he said in tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-minister-jaishankar-speaks-to-his-counterparts-from-african-countries/story-1tArB3sAVz3ZzTdrZNrFXP.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan HC closed till May 3 as key official tests Covid-19 positive||The Rajasthan High Court was on Saturday declared closed till May 3 after one of its key officials, sitting close to judges during the judicial proceedings, was tested positive for Covid-19.In a statement, the high court said it shall remain closed till May 3 and no matters, except only immensely urgent matter, will heard.Also read: India crosses 26k Covid-19 cases with biggest 1-day spikeClick here for complete coronavirus coverage The concerned judge, to whose court the official was attached, however, tested negative for the infection. The notification to this effect has been issued today on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-hc-closed-till-may-3-as-key-official-tests-covid-19-positive/story-wfAhKBNurs2RVnnxw12nxM.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi addressing nation on Mann Ki Baat, focus on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat today as the country continues to be in a lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic.His address is focussed on the progress in the fight against Covid-19 disease and his views on the road ahead. “Have been getting several insightful inputs for this month’s #MannKiBaat. Do tune at 11 am tomorrow,” the prime minister had tweeted on Saturday.  Have been getting several insightful inputs for this month's #MannKiBaat. Do tune at 11 AM tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/bwPKfiXOYCIn his last Mann Ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said. Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions. According to the Union health ministry figures released on Saturday evening, India’s coronavirus count stood at 24,942 including 18, 953 active cases and 779 deaths from Covid-19.Sunday’s broadcast of Mann Ki Baat will originate from AIR Delhi and be relayed by all AIR stations, AIR FM channels, including FM Gold and FM Rainbow, local radio stations and all five community radio stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today-focus-likely-on-covid-19-situation/story-28Do83sK2TtrRSQ4ZMdTQK.html
26-04-2020||India||India crosses 26,000 Covid-19 cases with biggest one-day spike||India’s tally of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases shot past the 26,000-mark on Saturday with the biggest single-day spike in infections, driven largely by Maharashtra and Gujarat where the outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently even as the rest of the country shows some improvement.According to HT’s analysis of daily new cases reported by states, the latest 5,000 were reported over four days, a day longer than it took for countrywide infections to rise from 15,000 to 20,000. The national doubling rate of infections was 9.1 days, federal officials said on Saturday. For Gujarat and Maharashtra, this number was 4.3 and 6.7 days respectively, according to HT’s analysis of the numbers reported by the states.The two regions together accounted for 1,067 of the 1,834 new cases on Saturday. Maharashtra alone reported 811 new cases. Maharashtra’s capital city Mumbai logged an increase of 602 infections. In all, 824 people have now died of the disease across the country, an increase of 46 since Friday.Also read: PM Modi to address Mann Ki Baat at 11am today, focus likely on Covid-19 situationOfficials said the overall growth in number of cases in India has been linear, compared to some other countries where it has been exponential. “It is hard to say whether the peak will arrive next month or later, but if you look at the graph it is quite linear. The case positivity rate has been about 4.5% throughout, so we can safely say that we have managed to flatten the curve,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research.Positivity rate refers to the proportion of people who test positive among all individuals tested on a particular day. While officials and experts argue that this number suggests India been testing adequately, the total number of tests carried out across the country is still a mere 420 per million population. “It is not possible to stop an infectious disease but what lockdown has done is delay the spread, and successfully so,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine specialist, Safadrjung Hospital, Delhi. According to ICMR data, there were close to 40,000 tests carried out by the government as well as private labs across the country on Friday. Also read: Man kills wife in red zone, is asked to walk out of area so he can be arrested“This is the capacity if we work in a single shift, but it can be scaled up to do almost double the number of tests. We have enough testing kits to perform tests for at least eight weeks and ICMR is in the process of procuring more. There is absolutely no shortage of kits or any other material in the country that would hamper the testing. Everyone who needs testing is being tested,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR.According to government data, 5,209 people have recovered from the infection, taking the India’s overall rate of recovery to 20.88%. As on Friday, India’s fatality rate was at 3.1%, which officials said was lower than what has been seen in several large countries. In the US, for instance, it is 5.6%.In the national capital, which had the highest number of cases for several weeks when the outbreak began last month, 111 new cases were detected and one additional fatality was reported.In Maharashtra, 22 new deaths were recorded on Saturday. In Gujarat, two teams form the Union government reached Ahmedabad and Surat, which were identified on Friday as particularly serious hot spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-26k-covid-19-cases-with-biggest-1-day-spike/story-ayJwjZoPCa4uv0Kqf66GEN.html
26-04-2020||India||Here’s something for you to do this Sunday: Birding||I have been working largely from home for the past two weeks. Every evening, at around 6pm, I head up to the terrace, where I spend 15 minutes watching the Rosy Starlings that are staging in Delhi ahead of their north-western journey to Europe and Central Asia. I haven’t seen any murmurations, but some of the flocks are large. On Friday evening, I saw one with a few hundred birds. And then I got back to work.Birding is one of the few outdoorsy things you can still do during the lockdown — even in a Mumbai apartment with no balconies (one of my colleagues in Mumbai wrote a fascinating article on how people are feeling the pinch of this now; over the past two decades, developers in the city decided that balconies were a luxury and decided people would happily give them up for a small extra room).Since the lockdown began, and people started spending all their time at home, there’s been a huge upsurge of interest in birding. And people are realising that there are a lot of birds around. One of my friends, a recent convert, sends me photographs taken in his garden, asking for bird IDs. They are common birds, but it is likely he is seeing them for the first time. Just like I did around 14 years ago.I started birding in 2006 when my son (then four years old) picked up an interest in birding. And I suddenly started seeing birds — they’d always been there; I just hadn’t noticed them before. I still don’t see all of them. On Sunday morning for instance, I was helping my son out with a concept in differentiation when he pointed out a Blyth’s Reed Warbler on the moringa tree outside his window — it was on its way back to Eastern Europe and Central Asia. The math session didn’t go very well.Delhi is an especially good place to bird — although the best bird picture of the lockdown is from Mumbai (and was taken by HT’s own photographer, Pratik Chorge, in Navi Mumbai). Delhi has the second highest number of bird species in a city after Nairobi (Kenya) where you can sometimes see Marabou Storks nesting on the top of street lights. The closest relative of the Marabou in India, the Greater Adjutant Stork is a common sight in Guwahati’s urban landscape (especially where there is garbage). Even in the heart of Delhi, near the HT office, I’ve seen Indian grey hornbills, and, back when my office was a corner room at the 16th floor, a pair of Egyptian vultures that were nesting on the terrace of an adjoining building. From that office, on clear winter days, I’ve also seen the Delhi zoo’s resident population of great White Pelicans — they live in an open-air aviary and do not leave because they are well fed — soaring on thermals. Now, I’m grounded in a first-floor office in the same building, and the only birds I see (and hear, more often than I see) are the rose-ringed parakeets in the solitary tree outside the window. Delhi is also a good place to bird because it, Gurugram, and parts of Haryana and Rajasthan lie along the Central Asian Indian flyway, which is an important migration route, largely for water birds.So, what birds can you expect to see at home?If you have a garden, you can see most of the garden birds — barbets of two kinds, pigeons of two kinds, doves of two kinds too, the Rufous Tree-pie, the Indian Silver Bill, two species of bulbuls, the Common Tailor Bird, the House Sparrow, three kinds of starlings, the Common Crow, the Indian Grey Hornbill, the Purple Sunbird, the Oriental Magpie Robin, the Shikra, babblers of two kinds (maybe three), the Black Kite, and a few others.Even a few plants in a balcony are bound to attract a few of these birds. If you are lucky and have an old tree in or near your house, you may even be able to see owlets, a Barn Owl, maybe even a Golden Oriole.And then, of course, you could look skywards. I’ve spotted ibises of two kinds and an Oriental Honey Buzzard flying over the house; the son has spotted a Booted Eagle, an Egyptian Vulture, and a flock of Common Cranes. In the winter months, we see ducks, sometimes geese. We are locked down. The birds are still free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-something-for-you-to-do-this-sunday-bird/story-iWXJGGJ69zmfTbnFiqhbyJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand shops in 9 hill districts with no Covid-19 cases to reopen from Sunday||Uttarakhand government has allowed most shops selling goods to open in nine of the total 13 districts from Sunday. The permission doesn’t apply to liquor shops and other commercial establishments offering services like salons and beauty parlours. The decision was taken after a meeting of officials chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. A state government official privy to the development said on condition of anonymity, “During the meeting, it was decided that the nine districts in the hilly areas of the state which have so far seen no cases of COVID-19 will have their shops opened from Sunday as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. They will open from 7 am to 6 pm in the evening while maintaining necessary precautions like social distancing.”The official added, “However liquor shops and hair-cutting salons will remain shut. In the four major districts of the state including Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and US Nagar which have witnessed COVID-19 cases, there will not be any relaxations. Only shops of essential items will open there as per the status quo, from 7 am to 1 pm.”The official, however, said that the district magistrates of the four aforementioned districts can take a necessary decision on any relaxation in certain areas after evaluation of the situation.Earlier on Saturday, CM Rawat had announced the reopening of the non-Covid hospitals in the nine hill districts from Sunday to treat people suffering from other diseases. “The hospitals there would treat the patients suffering from various ailments like they used to do before the lockdown. As the season of diarrhoea and dengue is also near, these hospitals will be needed to treat these diseases in coming days,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe CM also said that “The four hospitals which will continue to treat the COVID-19 patients in the state will be Government Doon Hospital in Dehradun, Dr Susheel Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani, Government Medical College in Rudrapur and Mela Hospital in Haridwar.”Uttarakhand has a total of 48 coronavirus patients till Saturday, 26 of them have recovered. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-shops-in-9-hill-districts-with-no-covid-19-cases-to-reopen-from-sunday/story-Mfp0qz5an2vVH1HMlhbAfO.html
26-04-2020||India||A girl without a jaw, her father with a back injury wait outside AIIMS for lockdown to end||During meal distribution every day, Sneha Kumari hopes that the volunteers will dole out khichdi rather than any other dish. The semi-solid rice and lentil stew is the only food she can swallow without having to chew, for the comfort of her dislocated jaw. “My jaw hurts due to which I can’t eat food. Because of the pain, I only prefer something light like juice,” said the 16-year-old who has been staying in a tent outside the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here along with her father since the lockdown began. The father-daughter duo came to the national capital from Nepal’s Parsa district in February for Kumari’s jaw surgery at the premier medical institution. There was a tumour in her jaw which doctors at the AIIMS surgically removed two years ago along with her jawbone, which they had replaced with metal plates. “In February 2018, we came to Delhi after the Cancer Hospital in Nepal referred my daughter to AIIMS. The doctors here took out the jawbone and placed a metal plate. They said that after one year, they will take a bone from her leg and place it in her jaw,” said Nand Kishore, Kumari’s father. Kishore, 39, himself cannot walk without support from a stick due to a backbone injury for which he underwent surgery in Nepal around four years ago.Kumari’s surgery, initially scheduled for February 25, was postponed several times, finally being rescheduled for March 24. “But the Prime Minister imposed a lockdown in the country after the Janta Curfew on March 22. We spoke to the doctors and they said nothing can be done about my daughter’s condition till the lockdown is in place,” Kishore said. The metal plates in Kumari’s jaw have now dislocated. In need of an urgent surgery, she is mostly under enormous pain. “I had Rs 15,000 when I left Nepal and thought it would be enough for us to sustain for around 15 days. But we are stuck here for so long and have run out of money. We can’t even return to our country,” said Kishore, who worked for an NGO in Nepal.Unable to travel back to their country because of restrictions in people’s movement, they now live in a tent outside the hospital and depend on food distributed by the Delhi government, police and NGOs. Kumari feels lucky on the days when khichdi is on the menu as otherwise she has to stay hungry. “If I try to eat dal-rice, my jaw hurts because of the effort made to chew,” she said. Not having any idea about if and when his daughter’s surgery will take place, Kishore longs to return home. “When the lockdown will be removed, I will ask someone in Nepal to put some money in my account so that we can go back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-girl-without-a-jaw-her-father-with-a-back-injury-wait-outside-aiims-for-lockdown-to-end/story-nQX4N2v1JVoLwgylq6i0rJ.html
26-04-2020||India||29 insurance companies, 9 securities-related entities can collect Aadhaar for KYC: Here’s the list||The finance ministry has allowed 29 insurance companies and 9 securities entities to collect Aadhaar for the purpose of know your customer (KYC), a move aimed at checking money laundering and routing investments into shell companies.Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said that the two notifications issued in this regard by the Ministry of Finance “to allow these entities to use Aadhaar authentication services under Aadhaar Act with necessary standard security and privacy measures would help these entities to perform in real time, do e-KYC and would also reduce their cost of transaction”.“This would also be beneficial to the customers or the investors, especially the small and retail investors, as they need not submit physical papers or documents for KYC,” Pandey, who is also the Revenue Secretary, said.The move is aimed at checking laundering of funds into insurance companies and shell companies. An official said use of Aadhaar authentication service by these entities is voluntary and if an investor gives Permanent Account Number (PAN), he or she does not need to go for Aadhaar authentication.Through two notifications, the finance ministry has allowed 29 insurance companies and 9 stock/securities entities to undertake Aadhaar authentication services of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) under section 11A of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.The BSE, National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL), Central Depositary Services (India) Ltd, CDSL Ventures Ltd, NSDL Database Management Ltd, NSE Data and Analytics Ltd, CAMS InvestorsServices Ltd, Computer Age Management Services Pvt Ltd and Link Intime India Pvt Ltd are the 9 stock/securities related entities.The 29 insurance companies include Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, Bharti AXA Life Insurance, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, HDFC Life Insurance, HDFC Ergo General Insurance and SBI General Insurance.The ministry has allowed these insurance and securities entities to use Aadhaar authentication services under the PMLA subject to the satisfaction of their regulatory authorities, namely - the Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (IRDAI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), respectively that they are complying with the standard of privacy and security as per Aadhaar Act.“This would ease their KYC process and reduce cost and time besides preventing money laundering activities, if any,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-insurance-companies-9-securities-related-entities-can-collect-aadhaar-for-kyc-here-s-the-list/story-j0kDi5XuA5S40u8ooJhtqL.html
26-04-2020||India||38 new Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, total count 541||At least 38 new Covid-19 cases were reported in West Bengal, taking the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 541, officials said on Saturday.The death toll due to the contagion remained 18 in the state, a bulletin released by the West Bengal Health Department said.Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha had on Friday said the panel set up to ascertain the exact number of Covid-19 fatalities in the state, after auditing 57 suspected deaths, certified that only 18 of them were caused “directly by the disease”. The 39 other deaths were due to severe co-morbidity conditions, he had said.With the 38 new cases, the total number of active coronavirus cases in the state stood at 423, the department said.Since Friday evening, 947 samples were tested, it said, adding, a total of 9,880 samples have been examined in the state so far.In the last 24 hours, two persons were discharged from hospitals after they recovered from Covid-19.Till date, 105 coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state, the bulletin said.While the West Bengal government said the number of Covid-19 cases is 541 in the state, the figure put up on the Union health ministry website for West Bengal is 571.Meanwhile, the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (I- NK) on Saturday evening said two administrative officials tested positive for coronavirus and have been shifted to a government hospital for treatment. They had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient, it said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-new-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-total-count-541/story-HCgam1GBvWPtibdaLnstHM.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi to open neighbourhood shops outside Covid hot spots||Delhi decided to open all neighbourhood stores, even those selling non-essentials, in areas outside hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, a day after the Union home ministry allowed the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets, even as Maharashtra and a few other regions chose not to relax restrictions over fears of the outbreak spiralling out of control.Delhi’s salons, barber shops, liquor stores and restaurants will remain closed and e-commerce platforms will be allowed to sell only essentials. The tentative easing of restrictions under the national lockdown – in place till May 3 – did not include shopping malls, liquor and cigarette shops and sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms. Releasing the revised guidelines late on Friday, the home ministry said neighbourhood and stand-alone shops, including those located in residential complexes, were allowed to resume operations with immediate effect.A Delhi government official said shops selling non-essential products too can open, but not in Covid-19 containment zones. “No activity will be allowed in containment zones,” the official said, adding that other restrictions on industries and private organisations remained in place.The national capital currently has 92 containment zones, areas where clusters of the infection have prompted hard lockdowns. Residents in these hot spots are not allowed to step out of their homes, with the authorities home-delivering essentials to their doorstep.India is among dozens of countries across the world that have been forced to take the tough decision of locking down their populations at home to halt the spread of the pathogen that has killed at least 200,000 people. While crucial to break the chain of infections, these measures gravely threaten economic activity, with many likely to lose their jobs or have their pay cut as nations brace for a recessionary period.The central government said that while malls will remain shut, markets in rural areas can open. While allowing these shops to operate, a move seen as a relief to both traders and consumers , and seen as an important step towards reviving economic activity, the government said that the establishments will function with 50% workforce and after adhering strictly to precautions, including social distancing and wearing masks.The home ministry clarified on Saturday that only shops engaged in “sale of items” were allowed, which meant barber shops, salons, liquor shops and restaurants (except delivery chains) were not allowed. E-commerce companies were told they could continue delivering only essential items.Several stand-alone shops opened in Delhi early on Saturday after the late-night announcement of the home ministry. A senior official who attended a meeting at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office to discuss the matter said that the Delhi Police faced law-and-order problems while trying to get some outlets to close in some areas. “Actually, the Delhi government was left with no other option than to allow the shops to open because the news spread like wildfire across the city and many owners resumed their business. Altercations with the owners were reported in some parts of north and north-east Delhi. Others would show the MHA order on their WhatsApp,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The police and the district magistrates informed the CM that it would be impossible to go to pockets of the city and get shops to stop operations now, a second official said. The government later decided to allow the shops to resume operations.The Delhi government said that a decision to further relax some restrictions of the lockdown will be taken on Monday.Several outlets such as stationery shops, electronic stores and hardware shops among others were open in different parts of the city on Saturday. Many of those shops, in areas such as Laxmi Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, were closed after police intervention.The Delhi government’s decision to comply with the Centre’s directive prompted strong reactions from resident welfare associations (RWAs). “This will create crowd on the roads and social distancing will go for a toss. The government’s own projections show that the Covid-19 situation is not good. The CM had two days back said that the number of Covid-19 cases may increase if relaxations are given, then what changed in these two days?” said BS Vohra, president, federation of east Delhi RWAs.The Centre has allowed states to take their own decisions on opening up shops. Kerala, which was previously asked by the Centre to withdraw its order allowing restaurants and limited public transport, welcomed the order. “It will ease some pressure,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The state governments in Gujarat, Odisha, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Goa, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana also said they would follow the Centre’s new norms.“We have to slowly revive economic activity but social distancing has to be maintained. If social distancing is not maintained around the shop, it will be closed by the police and will remain closed till May 3,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said.Maharashtra and Assam, however, said there would be no immediate let-up in the restrictions. “We will get more clarity after a video conference with the Prime Minister on Monday,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. “We haven’t taken any decision on the order of the ministry of home affairs as yet. But there will be no further relaxation in lockdown rules till May 3,” he added.The chief ministers of states are scheduled to have a video conference meeting with the Prime Minister on Monday. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said a decision on opening shops or further activities will be taken only by April 27.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country crossed 25,000, with the deaths surpassing 800, on Saturday. A month has passed since the lockdown was clamped across the country, and data shows that the sweeping measure has slowed the spread of the disease.The latest order issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, which was an addendum to the April 15 guidelines, said: “All shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State/UT, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, except shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, with 50 per cent strength of workers with wearing of masks and social distancing being mandatory (will be allowed to function).”“All shops, including neighbourhood shops and stand-alone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT (will be allowed),” it added.Later, the home ministry issued clarifications on its order. “In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls are allowed to open. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open,” it said . “Shops in markets/market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open,”the ministry said in a statement.A senior home ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that gyms, bars, sport complexes and theatres will not be allowed to function as they provide services, not the sale of items.Dealers of electronics and electrical items and other shops in residential areas outside containment zones in urban centres can now open.“The latest decision will reopen major economic activity in rural, semi-rural and even urban areas and concerns raised by people on social media about non-availability of certain items will now be addressed,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named. “However, everyone should observe complete safety measures as we are still in a critical phase of the Covid-19 spread,” the official added.The latest order is likely to benefit rural areas the most, opening up commercial activities further as all non-essential items will now be available to the public through shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-open-neighbourhood-shops-outside-covid-hot-spots/story-KoCSqIxaiLQRCcOwm4K1tL.html
26-04-2020||India||Delay in test results has Centre, states worried||A diagnostic result for a Covid-19 test in Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat takes up to five days as compared to a day in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, officials in these states said, admitting that this delay was hampering the fight against the pandemic. The Central government this week had sent inter-ministerial teams to Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat to suggest measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases. The teams have asked the state governments to improve the efficiency of Covid-19 testing labs to reduce the time in getting the results.Also read: Virus could cling to air pollutantsThe health department officials of these states told the Central teams that despite allowing more labs to conduct Covid-19 tests, there was still delay in getting the test results in the absence of automatic extractor machines. The officials in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan said that the RNA extraction, a crucial component of the test, was being done manually, thereby delaying the results by at least a day, if not more.As the number of Covid-19 cases has increased, the state governments began taking more swab samples, without realising the limited capacity of laboratories in these states. Many of these states have now sent samples to laboratories outside the state to get faster test results. Rajasthan last Tuesday sent around 4,000 samples to Delhi, after there was a delay of four to five days in getting results from the labs in the state. “We had no option as RNA extraction kits were not available. In the majority of our [state government] labs, the RNA test has to be done manually,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary (health). On Friday, Madhya Pradesh sent about 1,600 samples to a lab in Puducherry after there was a delay of up to six days in getting the results from labs in Nagpur, Mumbai and Noida, a MP government official said. Newly appointed Madhya Pradesh health minister, Narottam Mishra, on Friday urged union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to instruct labs in Noida and Mumbai to release the tests results early. Also read: All you need to know about SVAMITVA scheme and its coverageResults of about 8,800 tests were pending for the past four days, said an MP government official, who was not willing to be named, adding that the delay was preventing doctors from going ahead with the treatment of thousands of suspected cases. “Without a test, we cannot give any medication and a delay of four to five days can prove fatal for a patient,” said the official quoted above. MP has 11 labs for conducting Covid tests but only three have automatic extractor machines. State health commissioner, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, said they have got more automatic RT-PCR machines, which were being installed. “The testing capacity of the state will further increase with these machines functioning and pendency will be almost nil,” he said. In West Bengal, the average time to get Covid-19 results is three to four days, which has doubled since the first week of April. “Earlier we used to get fewer samples and results would come in one day or two at the most. Now hundreds of samples are coming every day. With a backlog piling up, it takes around three to four days to test samples,” said a senior doctor of a state run testing facility. The lab has the capacity to test 100 samples every day; it is getting more than 400. “Our technicians are now working in double shifts and we are testing around 130-140 samples per day,” the doctor said, adding that the other 14 labs in West Bengal were labouring under similar pressure. Health secretary, Vivek Kumar, did not respond to phone calls.In Maharashtra, where the government has conducted over one lakh tests till Friday, the average time to get the results is three to four days even though the state has 49 labs, including 23 private ones.On April 16, the family of a 36-year-old doctor from Shivaji Nagar died because of Covid-19 and his family got his report on April 17, two days after the samples were taken. Similarly, a 27-year-old woman from Grant Road, who was nine months pregnant, had to wait for four days to get her report from a private laboratory for admission in a hospital for delivery. She gave swab samples on April 11. State government officials said there was huge pressure on government labs to conduct Covid-19 tests because they are free; private labs charge Rs 4500 for each test. However, private labs claimed that whenever they confirm presence of virus in a patient, the state government gets it rechecked, leading to delay in declaring the Covid-19 test results. In Uttar Pradesh, officials said they were delivering test results between 24 and 48 hours. “About 85% of the samples are tested in 24 hours. The majority of labs in Uttar Pradesh have maintained the consistency in time taken for testing samples,” said state surveillance officer, Dr Vikasendu Agrawal.Officials in Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh said test results were available within a day. Arja Sreekanth, Andhra Pradesh nodal officer for Covid-19, said both the pace of testing and time taken to submit results have improved. Between April 7 and 8, only 217 samples were tested and on April 13, around 1,000-1100 tests were done.“We provide results in seven to eight hours,” he said, adding that till Friday, the nine laboratories in Telangana, on an average, are testing 500 to 600 samples as against the capacity of 1,560 samples a day. In Kerala, test results come within a day, a marked improvement of the state of affairs at the end of March, a state government official said. In Karnataka, the average the number of tests being conducted per day has gone up from around 500 in the first week of April to nearly 3500 every day on Friday, officials said, adding that the result were coming within 48 hours.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delay-in-test-results-has-centre-states-worried/story-VJU6Doa3RSyxmWsWSf073J.html
26-04-2020||India||National plan must for dealing with crisis: Sibal to govt||The Congress on Saturday urged the government to formulate a national plan under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for handling the Covid-19 crisis.Addressing a news conference through video, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also said it is time the government rethink its lockdown measures as the country cannot have the “lockdown of people and lockout of the economy”.“As per the act, the government is duty bound to formulate a national plan to deal with Covid-19 but strangely it has maintained a conspicuous silence. The Centre seems to have delegated its responsibilities to state governments,” he said.Without the necessary human and physical infrastructure and adequate financial resources, Sibal said state governments are not in a position to effectively deal with this pandemic.Calling upon the judiciary to evolve a policy to ensure that the justice delivery system is considered an essential service during such a crisis, Sibal alleged that bureaucrats, who do not have any idea about ground realities, were formulating policies during the lockdown period.“Apart from a few exceptions with available yet depleting resources, states are doing a commendable job. However, our Prime Minister’s limited role is addressing the nation from time to time,” he said.The Congress leader said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) made no preparations to put in place a plan despite the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring the virus to be a public health emergency by the end of January.“Why were detailed plans not made within seven weeks of the WHO declaration? We are in the fourth week of April. There is no plan in place even now,” he said.Sibal added the union home secretary, presumably presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the act, is issuing directions to state governments to deal with the situation.“Going by the advisories issued so far, it is clear that NEC has neither prepared a plan which is to be submitted to the NDMA for approval nor have various ministries prepared disaster management plans,” he said.“The NDMA, chaired by the Prime Minister, has distanced itself from the responsibilities of the Union government and in gross violation of the provisions of the act, authorised the MHA to issue such directions as it chooses. This too was dehors the law,” Sibal added.The former union law minister said the government advisories pay scant regard to the responsibilities of the NDMA.“We would like the Prime Minister to inform the nation about minimum standards of relief that are required to be provided to persons affected by the disaster,” he said.Instead of discharging its solemn responsibilities to provide relief to the poor and helpless stranded migrants, Sibal said the Centre was shifting the onus to state governments to do what they can without a plan and without guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief.“It is unfortunate that even till date, there is no plan. We are all aware that the provisions in shelters are pathetic without adequate sanitation, medical cover, food and clean drinking water. States are not able to make available adequate food supplies to those affected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-plan-must-for-dealing-with-crisis-sibal-to-govt/story-XO0PcjX6PsYUKMwYxJXu2N.html
26-04-2020||India||Manmohan Singh criticises govt over dearness allowance freeze||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday slammed the Centre for freezing the dearness allowance (DA) of central government employees and added it was unnecessary to impose these hardships. “We should be on the side of people whose dearness allowance is being cut. I sincerely believe it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and also on the armed forces people,” Singh said at a meeting of Congress’s Consultative Committee.Gopal Agarwal, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s economic affairs spokesman, clarified the government has announced a freeze only on the additional part of the DA. He added what was being paid earlier has not been stopped.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and other leaders like Rahul Gandhi, P Chidambaram, KC Venugopal, Randeep Singh Surjewala and Manish Tewari spoke on the DA issue at the meeting. The meeting was convened two days after the Centre held back revision of the DA for 18 months and proposed a similar move by state governments to save about Rs 1.2 lakh crore to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Sonia Gandhi, who last week formed the Singh-led committee to formulate the party’s views on important issues, attacked the Centre over the central vista project that involves redeveloping of iconic landmarks in New Delhi.“I see the problem is that you are building your central vista at the same time. ... you are taking away money from the middle class, you are not giving money to the poor people and you are spending it on your central vista.”Chidambaram cited the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train and the central vista development projects and added these should be first halted before the DA is frozen.Surjewala said it would have been fine if the money spent on the central vista project is transferred to migrant labourers, who have been hit hard by the Covid-19 lockdown. “But you are continuing with the new Parliament house, new buildings for ministers, new house for the Prime Minister. You are continuing with zero cut on expenditure of the government which could save you close to 2-2.5 lakh crore rupees. But you are denying relief to your armed personnel, to your pensioners, to your government servants.”The BJP’s Agarwal said: “The Congress is trying to give this issue a spin. I do not understand how they are linking it to the central vista and the bullet train projects.”He added that the pandemic has prompted the government’s to freeze the DA. “These are difficult times and the government needs money for taking care of the poor. Everyone is helping in whatever way they can.”BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh hit out at Singh in a tweet. “Looks like economist in him [Singh] has disappeared silently ..? Aghast at the way he argues ... Maharashtra , Telangana Govt have cut 30% salary of class 1,2,3 employees. He was silent then. He opens his mouth when increment in DA is halted not DA.”Sanjeev Sanyal, the Union finance ministry’s principal economic advisor, said the freeze is a temporary measure. “It should be noted that such measures are not unprecedented. In the aftermath of the 1962 & 1971 wars, much stronger measures had been instituted. The Compulsory Deposit Act 1963 applied to all taxpayers, property owners & all government employees,” he tweeted.The National Council (Staff Side), a joint consultative body of the central government employees, has written to the cabinet secretary protesting against the freeze. “Central government and state committee employees are the ones who are playing their frontline roles in the fight against Covid-19 virus by taking all risks and working in the field exposing themselves without any sufficient PPE [personal protection equipment] and freezing of DA will have a serious impact on their HRA,” the council said in its letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-criticises-govt-over-dearness-allowance-freeze/story-HUx2qP9C4DFizKgNMOt4VM.html
26-04-2020||India||Rajasthan HC adjourned after lawyer appears in vest||A lawyer appeared before the Rajasthan high court in a vest on Friday and prompted adjournment of a bail hearing and an order asking lawyers to wear proper uniform even when they appear before courts via video conferencing.The court said that the Advocates Act requires lawyers to appear before courts in a prescribed dress. It added the decorum of courts should be maintained even when they are functioning through the virtual medium because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a lockdown to ensure social distancing to check its spread. “Learned counsel for the petitioner was contacted through video conferencing. He was found to be wearing Banyan [vest]. Even through video conferencing, the decorum of court is required to be maintained,” justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma said in his order. The judge adjourned the case while referring to an earlier instance when he had similarly cautioned lawyers to appear in proper uniform after a lawyer appeared in his vest to argue the case on April 7. “This court has already observed that during this pandemic where court functioning is being done through video conferencing, lawyers must appear in proper uniform. Keeping in view that the petitioner’s counsel was not in proper uniform, the matter is adjourned.”Sharma had on April 7 asked the Rajasthan High Court Bar Association to urge lawyers to be dressed appropriately when appearing through video conferencing. The Bar had subsequently assured compliance with the court’s directions.Section 49 (1) (gg) of the Advocates Act empowers the Bar Council of India to frame rules prescribing the dress or robes to be worn by advocates after taking into account the climatic conditions. An advocate has to wear a white shirt and long trousers which can be black striped, white or grey with black open breast coat and gown. They are also required to wear a white band. Lawyers can also wear black, white or grey dhoti instead of trousers. After courts across the country started hearing cases through video conferencing due to the Covid-19 lockdown, various high courts and the Supreme Court have issued orders asking lawyers to be dressed in the prescribed uniform while appearing through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-hc-adjourned-after-lawyer-appears-in-vest/story-euOie1pd805jPG7Wt8779H.html
26-04-2020||India||President’s ex-secy Sanjay Kothari takes oath as CVC||Retired IAS officer Sanjay Kothari, who was secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind, took oath as the new Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) on Saturday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a communication. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu were present during the ceremony.The post of CVC, an autonomous anti-corruption watchdog, was lying vacant since June last year. Vigilance Commissioner Sharad Kumar had been in interim charge.Kothari, an officer from the 1978 batch from Haryana, was named the new CVC by a high powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February this year. In the same meeting, ex-Broadcasting Secretary Bimal Julka was appointed as the next Chief Information Commissioner (CIC).“At a ceremony held today at 1030 hrs at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Sanjay Kothari was sworn in as the Central Vigilance Commissioner,” the Rashtrapati Bhawan communication said.At the time of his appointment, Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who was in the selection panel along with Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, had opposed the decision.The Congress had then termed the process of appointing the CVC as “illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional” and demanded immediate scrapping of the decision.The CVC is a statutory body and derives its powers from Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2013. It is free of control from any executive authority and has the responsibility of monitoring all vigilance activities in the Central government besides advising various authorities on planning, executing, reviewing and reforming their vigilance work. A major part of its work is to refer important corruption activities to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The CVC was instrumental in removing former CBI Director Alok Verma from his post in January 2019 after allegations of corruption were levelled against him in 2018.All the Central Vigilance Officers (CVOs) in government departments submit reports to the CVC and operate on the basis of guidelines/circulars issued by the CVC.The new CVC worked as the secretary, department of personnel and training (DoPT), and special secretary, tourism, at the Centre. In Haryana, he held various important positions, including District Magistrate (DM) Gurgaon, home secretary Chandigarh, and Managing Director of Haryana Tourism. He has spent around 15 years in the field of tourism, both at the Centre and in Haryana.Officials close to him say he has a special interest in administrative reforms, creation of institutions and carrying out reforms for “good governance”. He is the author of a book, Good Governance Initiatives and Reforms (2007).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-s-ex-secy-kothari-takes-oath-as-cvc/story-1hqRs1iCfvbUG0XDUSdGWI.html
26-04-2020||India||Govt ramps up manufacturing capacity of key medical items||India has ramped up its domestic manufacturing capacity of some essential medical items needed in managing coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and it is placing orders for ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) and even respiratory masks with many domestic manufacturers, a health ministry official said on condition of anonymity. From entirely importing all these items a couple of months ago, India is now manufacturing more than 100,000 PPE kits and N-95 masks each day in the country. About 104 domestic manufactures of PPE, and three companies that make N95 masks, have been identified. Nine domestic manufacturers have also been identified to make ventilators, and they have already started production to cater to the government’s order of 59,000 units, the official added.“Earlier everything was imported, but now, we have managed to build an ecosystem wherein these products are being manufactured domestically. It may still be some time before these units manufacture the numbers required to meet our requirement but we have made a great start,” the official said. Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, chaired the 13th high-level meeting on Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) of the group of ministers (GoM) on Saturday. The group reviewed the adequacy of isolation beds, wards, personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks, drugs, ventilators, oxygen cylinders and other equipment. The health minister also said that India has been saved from getting into the stage three of transmission, which is the community transmission stage where getting to the source of infection is near impossible.“We are prepared to deal with any kind of situation; in fact, we are over prepared. There is no shortage of any medical equipment anywhere,” said Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ramps-up-manufacturing-capacity-of-key-medical-items/story-UH1AzRTciPmIyWp70GSA9O.html
26-04-2020||India||Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meet||Are you willing to take your people stuck overseas back? What kind of concessions would you want after May 3? How do we get migrant workers stranded outside their home states back? These were some of the questions discussed at a meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with chief secretaries of the states on Saturday -- two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to meet with the chief ministers of states over video-conference, and some of the officials present at the meeting said that these may be indicative of the kind of issues that will be discussed at that meeting, the fourth such on issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read| Here’s something for you to do this Sunday: BirdThousands of Indians stuck abroad are eager to return, although there is no clarity when international flights will be allowed -- although there’s been talk in some government circles of so-called rescue flights to bring back Indians after May 3, even if the skies aren’t opened. And hundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. Several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements. The brainstorming session was also attended by secretaries of key departments, Directors General of Police, and district magistrates. All the DMs were on listen-only mode.Guidelines to start industries, shops and services outside the containment zones were allowed from April 20. But in opening speech, Gauba told the states that the instructions issued by the union home ministry have not been followed properly at the ground-level. According an official present in the meeting, Gauba said that local administrations were either far too lax or too strict, and some had “ushered in a kind of inspector-raj”.The cabinet secretary underlined that although there has been a “substantial improvement” (in checking the spread of the virus) it was not uniform, this official added on condition of anonymity.Also read: Delay in test results has Centre, states worriedHe reiterated that there is a need to focus on containment even while relaxing restrictions further, indicating the Centre’s strategy after the lockdown ends. Gauba also stressed on the need for “strong action on surveillance front” to “actively identify people and areas” who are vulnerable to or have been infected by the virus.Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta—representing the state worst hit by the pandemic—suggested tougher norms. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla chipped in and said any state is free to impose additional measures over and above the Centre’s rules for so-called hot spots.“You should not lower your guard,” Bhalla said.Mehta also highlighted that many private labs are taking huge number of swab samples but are unable to test them and give reports in time. He suggested that ICMR must have an oversight on private labs, a suggestion well-received by union officials.The migrant workers’ issue took much of the time in the meeting. Punjab chief secretary Karan Singh said that there are about 1.1 million daily wage workers from UP and Bihar working in Punjab’s farms and as the harvest season is over, these workers want to return to their home states.Several states including Bihar maintained that the states can’t negotiate such tricky matters among themselves and the Centre needs to come up with a protocol. West Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay claimed that everything is under control in his state till Bhalla reminded him of hundreds of loaded trucks stuck at the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal that need to be unloaded for Bangladesh.West Bengal and the Center have been sparring for days, most recently over a report by a central team that visited the state and found problems in its response to Covid-19. Gujarat informed that it has allowed 28,000 industries to start in rural areas while asking the Centre to make arrangements for shifting migrant workers.While many states spoke of the work done in their areas, only Karnataka demanded that liquor shops must be opened. Karnataka chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said that liquor shops can be allowed to operate with strict social distancing norms in place as the state needs them for its “budget-balancing exercise”. Liquor sales are a major source of excise for all states. On the question of bringing back Indians stranded overseas, Kerala was the most vocal. Its chief secretary Tom Jose said that the state government is under “immense pressure” to bring back 5 lakh Malayali workers and students stranded in West Asia.Jose also explained the elaborate plan in place to quarantine expat Malayalis if the union government decides to bring them back.Bandopadhyay and some other states didn’t give any specific assurance to accept their domiciles from abroad. Bandopadhyay said he will have to talk to the chief minister. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla pointedly responded to this and said a large number of Indians are stuck in a few neighbouring countries and states must come up with plans on how to deal with them if the Centre allows their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-lockdown-plan-migrants-in-focus-at-centre-states-meet/story-0fn00XSpkNYidCeCDZS2dK.html
26-04-2020||India||CEA points at Spanish Flu lesson in Covid fight||A paper recently published by the US-based National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is bringing considerable comfort to policy makers here. Chief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian was the first to draw attention to the research and others like it on the Spanish flu pandemic (1918-1920) because he finds several lessons that the management of that pandemic holds for the Indian government. And if history were to repeat itself, he suggested, maybe India’s economic recovery after the crisis could be V-shaped. Subramanian presented his findings at the Finance Commission advisory council meeting on Friday where he said because India’s economy resembled the US economy at the time of the Spanish Flu, “its study can provide a reasonable guesstimate about what will happen in the Indian scenario”. He was also present at the Prime Minister’s meeting with economists on Wednesday.The Spanish flu emerged in 1918 and claimed 39 million lives till 1920. “The Spanish flu infected 1/3rd of the population in the US and had a mortality rate of 6%. So, by itself, the percentage of people that are infected by Covid-19 is much less as here the mortality rate is just 3%,’’ Subramanian told Hindustan Times, adding that important lessons can be derived by looking at the economic impact of the flu in 1920.“There are several similarities that the US economy at the time and the Indian economy now have. For example,the proportion of urban population in the US was 45% while India’s, some say, could be closer to 45% (now),’’ he said.Subramanian also points out that the proportion of various sectors like manufacturing, agriculture and services at that time in the US are similiar to the Indian economy’s numbers now. “There are some differences like India’s services sector is 5% greater than what the US’s was and the agri sector -- India’s is at a much lower share now than US was at the time. But at the macro level, there are similarities.’’And there are learnings, he added. The first and most important one, is the beneficial impact of the lockdown. Back then, “some counties (like our districts) enforced lockdown-like restrictions called Non Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs),’’ he said. This involved shutting churches and schools. “It turns out that the counties that had stricter NPIs had lower mortality. They also were able to bounce back economically soon. That means that jaan hai, aur jahaan bhi hai (lives and livelihoods were both saved),’’ he said riffing off the PM’s phrase during his second address to the nation.The second lesson for Subramanian is the one on GDP. While many research firms expect India’s growth this year to fall to near-zero, the CEA is taking heart from US numbers post-Spanish flu -- they dropped to 3.5% but went to 7.5% soon after. “It’s the V-shaped recovery,’’ he said. “However this analysis has to come with the caveat that we are dealing with enormous uncertainties,” Subramanian added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cea-points-at-spanish-flu-lesson-in-covid-fight/story-bMWrrU9fXxrCfKLjyVM96M.html
26-04-2020||India||AIR’s Dawn Chorus to ring across globe||On Sunday, May 3, All India Radio (AIR) will air morning songs of birds from around the globe to spread a message of hope and a victory over odds.May 3 is International Dawn Chorus day, and every year the morning melodies of birds is broadcast live by radio channels. The spectacular live broadcast moves from one country to another, from east to west, along with the sun’s rays. However, with Covid-19 ravaging many countries, live broadcasts have become difficult and Ireland’s RTE radio and the European Broadcasting Union (which represents radio companies across 56 countries) , prime movers behind the project, decided to cal it off this year.However, the country’s own All India Radio (AIR), decided to step forward. AIR’s External Service Division (ESD) decided to put forward its own crowd sourced dawn chorus. “India had been participating in the EBU-RTE dawn chorus event for the past four years. We were looking forward this year also. But when we learnt that the dawn chorus may not happen because of coronavirus related concerns, we considered taking our own crowd-sourced version to the global level,” said a senior AIR official who asked not to be namedThe official said AIR wrote to several broadcasters many of whom sent in their own crowd-sourced recordings.“There has been a response from the European Broadcasting Union, BBC Scotland, Bangladesh,Around 22 countries from the EBU have already sent recordings which are also crowd-sourced. AIR’s recordings and compilation will be sent to broadcasters in at least 20 countries that have shown interest and many of them will be telecasting the crowd-sourced chorus this year, according to the official. “The programme used to happen once a year but this year, it was not happening the way it did. We thought it would be interesting, because the regular dawn chorus was not happening, to ask for recordings from others,” said Shashi Shekhar Vempati, CEO of Prasar Bharati.“Prasar Bharati has taken a lead in this year’s dawn chorus. The recordings we have taken through crowd-sourcing and which have been shared by other broadcasters will be aired on the 3rd of May. The recordings will also be shared with other broadcasters who will air them according to their requirements,” said Amlanjyoti Majumdar, Director of the External Service Division of AIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-s-dawn-chorus-to-ring-across-globe/story-DkWE23MFSaWn62tQZ8cQfP.html
26-04-2020||India||Ventilation, humidity key in AC rooms: Govt guidelines||Rooms and offices with air conditioning must be well-ventilated and humidified, according to government’s guidelines to public sector offices after a report by a group of experts outlined precautionary measures that need to be taken to curtail the possible spread of Covid-19 in such environments.The recommendations come after scientists in China’s Guangzhou found that 9 of 90 people having lunch at a restaurant on a particular day contracted the coronavirus disease from an infected person because they were sitting in the same air current, a finding that has prompted worry over closed spaces such as offices, hospitals and even homes.According to the guidelines issued to the central public works department, the Union government asked air-conditioning units to be set at 24°C and 30°C and relative humidity to be maintained between 40-70% in all government buildings. The guidelines added that some windows should be open or exhaust units activated to ensure fresh air circulation.The guidelines are part of recommendations by the Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE), which said that people at home can maintain humidity levels by keeping a flat pan filled with water out in the room.While using an air conditioner unit at home is safe, central air conditioning in large offices, malls, and hospitals can raise the risk of an infection, especially if the air blows over groups of large people or if there is little fresh air. Many hospitals have shut centralised air conditioners to ensure there is no circulation of the virus between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 areas. “We have stopped the central air conditioning in the suspected Covid-19 ward and the screening area. Window air conditioners have been installed here. As for the trauma centre, it is a Covid-19 hospital, so the central air conditioning is running,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).At Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi super-specialty hospitals, all central air conditioning have been switched off.“There is a problem when it comes to centralized air conditioning in hospitals because most do not have proper filters. So, window AC can be used in Covid-19 wards, to at least separate them from the rest of the areas. In fact, in Covid-19 wards – pumps and filters should technically be used to create negative pressure just like in bio-safety laboratories,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of department of microbiology at AIIMS.The ISHRAE guidelines suggest maintaining positive pressure in non-Covid-19 areas and negative pressure in areas with Covid patients, so that infected air from the room does not leak out and infect others.The study in Guangzhou found that while the air conditioning air flow played a part in the spread of the infections, the AC ducts itself had no traces of the virus. The concern, according to the researchers, appeared to be of virus droplets spreading through wind in enclosed places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ventilation-humidity-key-in-ac-rooms-govt-guidelines/story-Bzsd3Jm2UVA7PiyJKRLNDK.html
26-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Supreme Court heard 593 cases via video facility||The Supreme Court has heard a total of 593 cases through video conferencing facility in the last 34 days.203 out of the 593 cases were connected cases, that is, cases involving the same issue which were heard along with the main case.The top court also delivered judgments in 41 cases during this period. Through these 41 judgments, the court disposed of an additional 174 cases which were connected matters.The apex court started hearing cases through video conferencing on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The top court also issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases would be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.Since then, the court sat for hearing on 17 working days with a total of 34 benches hearing cases through video conferencing.Besides, 53 benches also sat to decide review petitions though those were decided in chambers without oral hearing; 84 review petitions were disposed of by the court during this period.The hearings in Supreme Court is conducted through the Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. The platform is hosted on the servers of National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre.While the judges on the bench join the video conference from the residence of one of the judges, the lawyers join from their respective houses.The court also came out with standard operating procedure (SOP) for filing, mentioning and hearing of cases through video conferencing on three occasions - March 23, March 26 and April 15.But there have been criticism from various quarters regarding hearings through video conferencing.“I was party to the video conference proceedings in a case on Kerala-Karnataka issue. But my experience was slightly disappointing. On the first day, when the cases were taken up there were serious technical glitches on the part of the Registry as the Vidyo app did not function. So the court had to eventually fall back upon Whatsapp video calling facility. Whatsapp video call cannot take more than 3 to 4 persons simultaneously. Therefore, the judges said they will hear only government counsel. Since I was appearing for an individual, I was disconnected and an order was passed about which we came to know later. During the next hearing, the case was disposed of based on the statements made by the solicitor general without hearing us”, said advocate Haris Beeran.“Majority of the complaints raised regarding video conferencing are with regard to technical glitches faced by lawyers. But this is due to internet connectivity issues at lawyers’ residences or offices. Supreme Court judges have been provided with internet connectivity with speed upto 100Mbps at their residences. They have, therefore, not experienced any difficulties during video conferencing. Besides, many lawyers join the hearing through their mobile phones and they are disconnected when their device receives another call. These issues can hopefully be worked out ”, a Supreme Court official said on condition of anonymity.The SOP issued by the Supreme Court on April 15 contained instructions to minimize technical glitches. Besides, the court also provided helpline numbers for addressing queries relating to mentioning of the matters for urgent hearing, technical support for video conference, or e-filing,“It is only common to expect technical glitches in the first few days. That should, however, not blind us from the long term benefits of this initiative”, said Surya Prakash, Programme Director at Daksh, a civil society organsiation.Another issue which has been highlighted is regarding how the hearing through video conferencing affects open court hearing.One of the important facets of our court system is open court hearing. It means hearings in courts are open to public except in certain special cases involving privacy issues of parties.But the hearing of cases through Vidyo app can be accessed only through a weblink sent by the Supreme Court Registry to the lawyers involved in the case.The lawyer can join the video conference by clicking the link. Hence, the public cannot access or listen to the case. Access to media is also restricted with only a limited number of journalists permitted to view the hearing through a screen set up for this purpose at the Supreme Court.“Open court hearings are important in retaining the trust of the citizens in the functioning of the judiciary. While implementing hearings through video conferences, enabling open court features should also be prioritized. Access to archives of these recordings could also be made available to public but after taking into account privacy concerns. This is best achieved by a statutory backing. It is heartening to see that Supreme Court has asked high courts to frame rules in this regard”, Surya Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-sc-heard-593-cases-via-video-facility/story-NTBvCTQorBVUHbOPooFKfP.html
26-04-2020||India||Centre team says West Bengal not cooperating, row escalates||One of the two interministerial central teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess how the state was dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic has again complained that it is not getting support in accessing hospitals and that local officials are refusing to accompany it.The state and the Centre have exchanged words over the central teams and the availability of testing kits. The team in question has pointed to several gaps in West Bengal’s response to Covid-19, most of which the loal administration has denied. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Centre of maligning the state and spreading “canards” about its testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state.In a letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday, the leader of one of the IMCTs, Apurva Chandra, said that even as the team repeatedly seeks a schedule of visits to hospitals, quarantine centres and containment zones, it is being given only half-an-hour notice for the visits when they happen. Chandra referred to Sinha’s press statements that the teams are free to visit anywhere but “senior officers of the state government cannot waste their time accompanying the IMCTs” and termed it a violation of Union home ministry’s order directing the state government to provide logistics support and facilitate field visits of IMCTs.Hitting out at the central teams, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said their real aim was to spread the virus in West Bengal as they visited districts with no hot spots and asked the state for an audit committee that had already been in place since early April.“Their real aim is to spread the political virus. They are doing it shamelessly. Blatantly. Take your pick. IMCT = India’s Most Callous Team. IMCT = I must cause trouble (in Bengal),” O’Brien said.The central teams have sought escorted visits to hospitals and Personal Protection Equipment from the West Bengal government.Chandra in his letter said the state is also yet to provide any further details on aspects such as supply of essential commodities, conditions in relief camps, enforcement of lockdown measures etc. “IMCT has been in Kolkata since 10 am on April 20. Four letters have been written by IMCT to the state government till today. No response has been received to any of the letters till date,” Chandra said in his letter on Saturday. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Chandra asked the West Bengal government whether it will take responsibility of their safety and security in the absence of police escort and if the Border Security Force is permitted to take any action to ensure their safety in case of any incident.A central government official, who did not wish to be named, said another central team visited Kalimpong on Saturday on its own after informing the chief secretary. “They returned without visiting any hospital or meeting with the district magistrate or chief medical officer-- all refused to meet the team,” the official said.The central teams has asked West Bengal to furnish the details of quarantined and tested persons, who returned from to the state after visiting Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in New Delhi that last month emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.North Bengal affairs minister Rabindranath Ghosh said, “They (IMCT) are only wasting the time of officers. They should visit other states instead.” The IMCT headed by Chandra had earlier highlighted several anomalies in its letter to Sinha after visiting two hospitals in Kolkata. It said there was a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards and possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for four hours and a lack of social distancing at hospitals. Apart from West Bengal, the Centre has also deputed inter-ministerial teams to Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-team-says-west-bengal-not-cooperating-row-escalates/story-J7SxiYlJccAgIgARDWkrUI.html
26-04-2020||India||Mamata govt asks hospitals to ensure faster test results||The West Bengal government has directed hospitals to ensure faster Covid-19 test results as part of a series of directions issued to them for better handling of the pandemic. The directions were issued hours after a central interministerial team sent to the state to assess the handling of the Covid-19 situation raised concerns over the testing, treatment of patients, and sought an explanation.The number of Covid-19 cases rose to 571 in the state on Saturday with 38 new cases while the death toll stood at 18. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and top health department officials met principals and senior doctors of medical colleges and hospitals on Friday and issued the instructions. The hospitals have been instructed that no patient shall be refused treatment and collection or swab samples and their results should be done in 12 hours. The testing process currently takes over two days.The government instructed the hospitals to make ambulances available for referral of patients to other facilities and that dead bodies be shifted from wards without delay. The instructions came after one of the IMCT teams visited Kolkata’s Bangur Hospital, where a patient recorded the video of a body lying on a bed. The video went viral on social media and prompted the state government to ban the use of mobile phones inside Covid-19 wards.The government has instructed hospitals to ensure that doctors working in emergency and outpatient departments wear protective gear and the areas where they work and clothes they change are sanitized on a regular basis. There was no official media briefing on Saturday and officials refused to comment on the new instructions.Sinha on Friday said the health department’s audit committee formed on April 3 had reviewed 57 deaths of people, who had tested positive for Covid-19. It added the panel concluded that only 18 deaths were caused by the virus. The remaining 39 were “due to severe comorbidity” and that Covid-19 was not the immediate cause of these deaths. “We have been asking the audit committee to submit a consolidated report as a lot of questions have been raised... The report could have come three days ago. We got it today… We are not in a game of proving anything,” said Sinha when asked whether the report was a response to the central teams.Dr Kaushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said the tussle between the state and the Centre is uncalled for because the interest of the patients should be the only priority. “However, we strongly feel that the audit committee in its present form should be scrapped and its terms of reference changed.” Reacting to the instructions, Dr Chaki said doctors have been raising most of these issues for over a month.One of the two Interministerial teams sent to West Bengal highlighted several anomalies in its letter to Sinha on Friday. They included a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards, the possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for hours, and the lack of social distancing at hospitals. The observations were based on an inspection of two hospitals in Kolkata. West Bengal is among the states where the Centre has deputed interministerial teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-govt-asks-hospitals-to-ensure-faster-test-results/story-fGK7399GHstrlWCukmlEKP.html
26-04-2020||India||Maharashtra records highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with 811 infections and 22 people succumbing to the disease on Saturday but officials in the state worst hit by the contagion took heart in a dipping mortality rate and stricter containment measures.The state now has 7,628 cases and 323 deaths. Of this, nearly two-thirds are in the capital Mumbai, which shot past the 5,000 case mark with 602 new infections on Saturday. The city has 5,049 cases and 191 deaths.Maharashtra took 30 days to register the first 1,000 cases on April 7. It crossed the 2,000 mark in six days, took another three days to reach 3,000 and a further three days to touch 4,000 cases. From thereon, the state recorded 1,000 cases every two days.But officials insisted that the government’s containment measures are working and underlined a drop in the mortality rate of around four percentage points over the past two days. The government also decided to not allow any non-essential shops to open despite a federal directive permitting their operation.Dr Avinash Supe, head of a committee appointed to advise the state government on management protocol for serious Covid-19 patients, said that the mortality rate has dropped satisfactorily, but the graph of fresh cases would have to be observed for the next two weeks.“The doubling rate has reduced to over seven days, when many other countries are still lingering at 3.5. Similarly, our mortality rate has dropped to 4.4% from 8% in the state and 4% in Mumbai. If we maintain this trend of doubling it would help us in containing the spread,” he said. Supe added that unless the trend of cases was reviewed for at least two weeks, it would be difficult to comment about the curve.Dr Sadhana Tayade, DESIGNATION of Directorate of Health Services, said that the mortality rate was expected to fall further in Maharashtra. “We have been strictly monitoring the containment zones and have been following protocols strictly. There is the central government’s prediction of rise in cases by May-end and we are prepared for it. The rise is also because of the rise in testing,” she said.Maharashtra currently has 555 containment zones, of which 987 are in Mumbai.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the World Health Organization (WHO) and central government were continuously reviewing the situation in the state. “We have been concentrating on slums and congested areas than buildings and individual apartments. As directed by the central teams that visited Mumbai and Pune, we are concentrating on containment in areas like Dharavi and the hygiene in these areas,” he said .Tope said that though the federal protocol mandated testing of people with symptoms, the state government was testing of asymptomatic contacts too. “We have been aggressively doing testing and quarantining contacts of patients. Now, the relatives of patients in areas like Dharavi will be administered with hydroxychloroquine,” he said.The health minister, however, clarified that the state government was unlikely to extend relaxations to non-essential shops. A senior state government official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray felt that lifting of restrictions might further jeopardise social distancing and lead to rise in cases. “Even if we extend the relaxation and allow stand-alone shops to operate, the police and revenue machinery will be engaged in implementing lockdown orders to a great extent. Secondly, shortfall of raw material and manpower will continue to persist until the lockdown is not lifted completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-one-day-spike/story-vgXBhDajR3fdJHlwqAZJFI.html
26-04-2020||India||Effective testing reduces cases, key to successful lockdown exit, finds study||A periodic lockdown, combined with extensive testing, may be the best strategy to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new modelling study has found, indicating that non-pharmaceutical interventions are significantly less effective in the absence of ramped-up screening and strict quarantine.The working paper, published by a group of 10 scientists from Chennai, Bengaluru, Goa and Pune, looks at three kinds of lockdowns: a 30-day single lockdown (India’s ongoing lockdown is to continue for 40 days); a periodic lockdown of seven days followed by five days of relaxations; and a light-switch lockdown, in which restrictions are clamped for two weeks every time the number of infections cross a particular threshold.The study found that a single lockdown with no testing merely delayed the peak number of infections without affecting the quantum, but effective testing and lockdown reduced the peak infection by roughly 80%.A periodic lockdown with no testing reduced the peak by roughly 60% while periodic lockdown, testing and quarantine reduced it by about 90%. A light-switch lockdown reduced the peak further – because restrictions came into effect every time a threshold was crossed – but the disease was seen to persist in the community. “In this case, the number of infected cases will just keep oscillating between some minimum value and the threshold. Thus, the disease will persist as those susceptible keep getting infected,” said Snehal Shekatkar, a professor at the Centre for Modelling and Simulation, Savitribai Phule Pune University, and one of the authors.In all three scenarios, the efficiency of lockdowns was significantly increased by ramping up testing.Scientists found while the light-switch model was the best theoretically, it was not of much use practically because the total number of infected individuals is never known, and, therefore, preferred the periodic lockdown model.A second simulation also showed that for periodic lockdown model, different combinations of lockdown days and workdays were possible to achieve similar number of hospitalizations and infections. For example, seven days of lockdown corresponded to five work days but 20 days of lockdown allowed 10 work days – for the same number of cases.The study, which did not take into account the economic and social costs of a lockdown, also offered two clues about exiting lockdowns.The first was increased testing. “Lockdown substantially slows down the spread, but doesn’t get rid of the virus. If enough tests are not done, infected individuals will start infecting the healthy ones when the lockdown is lifted. Thus, massive testing during the lockdown is the key to locating these infected cases so that the lockdown doesn’t need to be extended,” said Shekatkar.The second was on exercising caution while opening transportation networks. Considering 318 cities connected via direct rail links, the scientists found that in the absence of any testing and quarantine, it took between 60 and 90 days for an infection to start in a node (Delhi or Mumbai) and sweep across the country.“We tried to show that starting transportation has a potential risk until the entire population is cured. Of course, our model does not incorporate economic costs and policymakers can consider alternatives such as starting local transport and limiting the number of people,” said Bhalchandra Pujari, another author.“But ramping up tests or keeping testing facilities along transportation routes may be a feasible solution,” he added. The 10 authors of the paper are part of the 500 scientists’ consortium, Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effective-testing-reduces-cases-key-to-successful-lockdown-exit-finds-study/story-gNbFmeZSUpGPoi3TAGFpuN.html
26-04-2020||India||2 cell types are entry points for virus||Scientists have identified two types of cells in the nose that are likely to be point of infection for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in the body.The respiratory tract is filled with numerous cells, among which are goblet cells and ciliated cells. While goblet cells secrete mucous to trap pathogens and foreign matter, ciliated cells have hair like structures that transport such trapped matter out of the body. According to a study published in Nature Medicine, these cells also have high levels of the proteins ACE2, which acts as a receptor for the virus’s spike protein to attach itself to, and TMPRSS2 which helps the virus to enter the cell, and thereafter replicate and causes infection. The conclusions of the study stress the importance of wearing masks to both prevent infection and also reduce transmission of the disease, experts said.In usual circumstances, ACE2 is recognized as a potential therapeutic strategy in hypertension and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, lung injury, and fibrotic disorders. TMPRSS2 is understood to be involved in a variety of biological processes, whose malfunction often leads to human diseases and disorders.The researchers analysed multiple Human Cell Atlas (HCA), which provides reference maps of all the cells in the body. These included cells from the lung, nasal cavity, eye, gut, heart, kidney and liver. They looked for cells that expressed the of two key entry proteins and found them in the nose, eyes and intestine.This suggests infection via the eye and tear ducts, and a potential for faecal-oral transmission, the study said.“Earlier studies had also pointed out that the ACE2 receptor is expressed more in the epithelial cells of the nose but this study shows that the protease which helps with the binding of the spike protein of the virus are co-expressed in the nose and hence these cells are more likely to get infected. This study shows that the upper respiratory tract gets affected first by the infection. This is why its transmissibility increases manifold, making SARS-CoV-2 more infectious than SARS,” said Dr. Shobha Broor, former head of the AIIMS department of virology who has read the study. Dr Martijn Nawijn, from the University Medical Center Groningen in the Netherlands and co-author of the study, said in a statement published in ScienceDaily, a website for latest research: “While there are many factors that contribute to virus transmissibility, our findings are consistent with the rapid infection rates of the virus seen so far. The location of these cells on the surface of the inside of the nose make them highly accessible to the virus, and also may assist with transmission to other people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cell-types-are-entry-points-for-virus/story-VZ250MIqdc4r0OIzxsTqPJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Virus could cling to air pollutants||SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollutants, tests conducted in Italy have found -- a finding which, if validated, should cause concern in India, especially Delhi, where air pollution is a recurring problem, although both the researchers themselves and experts said it remains to be see if the virus remains viable and virulent on these particles.Preliminary findings from the study suggest that if weather conditions are stable and concentrations of particulate matter (PM) are high, the virus could create clusters with PM.There is no reason to panic yet because no assessments have been conducted on the viability of SARS-CoV- 2 when absorbed on PM.The yet-to-be-peer-reviewed test results published in Medrxiv — a website on health research papers — says it needs to be studied what average PM concentrations are required for a potential “boost effect” to the outbreak. The study led by the University of Bologna and University of Trieste was conducted by collecting PM10 (coarse, respiratory pollution particles) from Bergamo in Italy’s Lombardy region.The highest number of Covid-19 cases were recorded in Lombardy and Po Valley in northern Italy, an area also characterised by high concentrations of PM. Data available till April 12 shows about 30% of Covid-19 positive people live in Lombardy, according to the paper.The research team conducted their studies on 34 PM10 samples from an industrial area in Bergamo collected with air samplers over a period of three weeks from February 21 to March 13. The study found several samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 gene markers.India has among the highest PM concentrations globally. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) under the Union ministry of health released a report in December 2018 which concluded that one in eight deaths in India in 2017 were due to air pollution.Professor Kalpana Balakrishnan, who was one of the lead authors of the ICMR study and director, department of environment health engineering, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute in Chennai, said: “It is well known that viruses and bacteria can be components of PM. They were detected along with PM fraction during measles, H1N1, and viral haemorrhagic fever outbreaks. An article in BMJ has also captured this. In fact, it has also been seen that during seasonal peaks of the outbreak, the virus or bacteria is found more in the PM component. But I will not attach much importance to it as of now because we don’t know if the virus on the PM remains viable. Is it virulent?” She added that she was “more concerned about long-term PM exposure leading to population level vulnerability to Covid-19 health outcomes”. “Long-term exposure causes cardio-respiratory issues which can make people very vulnerable,” she said.The findings of ICMR published in The Lancet Planetary Health also found that air pollution lowers life expectancy by 1.7 years on average in India. India’s average annual PM 2.5 concentration was more than 80 micrograms per cubic metres in 2018, eight times the World Health Organization guideline for annual average PM2.5, according to a study by IIT-Delhi.Prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy which makes people living in polluted areas more susceptible to developing chronic respiratory conditions. This is borne out by the high Covid-19-related death rates in northern Italy compared to the rest of the country, scientists said in a paper published in The Journal of Environmental Pollution on April 4.The aerosolised virus can put health workers at risk. Manufacturers of protective garments for health care workers say that increase in humidity and pollution levels can mean that the Covid-19 virus stays suspended in aerosolised state. “The health ministry demands that the PPE kits be fluid-resistant with seam-sealing because earlier it was thought that the virus can only be transmitted through droplets. Seam-sealing is of no use against the aerosolised virus unless the material for the coverall is viral-resistant. Currently, the manufacturers are using laminates to make the non-woven material fluid-resistant, but these laminates are also porous and can allow particles less than the size of 2.5 micrometer to pass through; the size of the coronavirus is between 60 and 140 nanometer,” said Sanjiv Relhan, chairman, Preventive Wear Manufacturers Association of India.“The study found evidence of Covid-19 on particulate matter. However, we cannot draw parallel with India or any other country, since the longevity of the virus on PM may vary with temperature and humidity. Unless such relation is established, it is practically difficult to model for Indian condition. Nonetheless the study implies that risk is greater for airborne transmission in polluted places, a theory proven true in USA, Italy, UK so far (based on studies reported),” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor and air quality expert at IIT Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-could-cling-to-air-pollutants/story-3IVTDluMJ7UIGGZlm7L64J.html
