27-04-2020||India||Rajasthan tally at 2,234 with 83 new Covid cases; toll at 46||Jaipur: The number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan mounted to 2,234 as 49 more people were diagnosed with the disease on Monday while the death toll from the pandemic rose to 56 with five fresh fatalities.Additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said of the 49 new cases, 19 were reported from Jaipur, eight from Tonk, nine from Jhalawar, four from Kota, six from Jodhpur and one each from Jaisalmer, Bhilwara, and Ajmer.A constable posted at the main gate of the police headquarters is among the 19 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jaipur. His 31 colleagues have been quarantined while the police headquarters has been sanitised.Jaipur has the highest cases in the state (827) followed by Jodhpur (370), Kota (162), Tonk (123), Ajmer (124), Nagaur (113) and Bharatpur (110).Singh said the rate of infection during the second phase of the national lockdown has declined in Rajasthan. He said as per projections of the health department, if the increase in the infection rate continued at the same rate as was during the first phase of the lockdown, then the number of cases would have been 3,377. “But the effective measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of the virus has limited the case.”He said 669 people have recovered from the disease and 313 discharged from hospitals. As many as 87,777 samples have been tested of which 80,830 have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-tally-at-2-234-with-83-new-covid-cases-toll-at-46/story-DTylstTSNHsFmE61VN9LfN.html
27-04-2020||India||Maha inches closer to 10k cases with 8,590 infections; 369 dead||MumbaiMaharashtra is likely to touch 10,000 Covid-19 case count by Thursday (April 30); the number of cases has already breached the 8000 mark. On Monday night, it stood at 8590, with 522 new cases registered. In the last nine days (since April 19), it has recorded 4946 new cases., which indicates that there has been a steady rise , said the officials. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1000 cases on April 7 It crossed the 2000 mark in six days on April 13 and the 4000 mark on April 19. It crossed 6000 cases on April 23. In Mumbai, the case count went up to 5776, with 369 new cases. However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts. “We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced following detection of positive Covid 19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). ”It is true that we were expecting the decline in the cases from April 21, which is not happening but rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching any conclusion, Dr Lahane said.The state’s health officials are treating the periods from March 23 to April 5 and April 6 to April 19 as the first two incubation cycles. All international flights were stopped on March 22. So far, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra.The death toll in the state reached 369 with 27 deaths registered on Monday. Of them, 15 are in Mumba, taking the toll in India’s commercial capital to 219.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24% (342 deaths till Sunday) from 7.41% on April 13. However, it is higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13% till Sunday. As of Monday, 1282 people have recovered from the highly contagious viral disease. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals where 1,76,357 isolated beds and 7248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories between asymptotic, mild and serious cases. We also have around 3000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N95 masks,” he said.Maharashtra currently has 572 active containment zones. Around 7861 survey teams comprising doctors and health care workers have screened 3.23 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-inches-closer-to-10k-cases-with-8-590-infections-369-dead/story-F0Ywy6ldDGZBtMzz5UhGUI.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India moving towards financial emergency, states rendered helpless by govt, claim Opposition leaders||Finance ministers of Opposition- ruled states on Monday said they fear country is moving towards a financial emergency and no concrete measures are being taken by the Centre to address the mounting woes of the states as they remain helpless amid the coronavirus pandemic.The ministers were addressing a webinar hosted by Gulati institute for Finance and Taxation (GIFT) in Thiruvananthapuram. The opposition leaders said they want the Centre to take immediate loan from the Reserve Bank and transfer the money directly to the states. Instead of this the Centre is waiting situation to be worsened and if people suspect a financial emergency they can’t be blamed, they said. All states, the ministers said, should come together and fight what they called ‘unilateral decisions of the union government.’ Despite emergency situation, the union finance minister is yet to call a meeting of state finance ministers even as the states face a major fiscal crisis as all sources of revenue shrunk like never before, they said. The meeting was called by Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Issac in the backdrop of states plagued by fiscal constraints in dealing with the pandemic and many of them were forced to cut salaries of its employees.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, former finance minister of Jammu and Kashmir Haseeb Drabu, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI secretary D Raja and writer and economist Sanjay Baru attended the webinar. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was among those listed as speakers but he was not seen in attendance.“Delhi is in dire straits. If the situation continued like this even the health sector will also be affected. Being a consumerist state we are suffering heavily due to loss of economic activities. We need immediate help,” said Manish Sisodia. Punjab Finance Minister Badal said Rs 1000 crore was due in Goods and Services Tax (GSST) to the state and the Centre was not even ready to part with this amount.“There is an undeclared emergency in the country. The country is going through a difficult situation and the economy is in doldrums. We don’t want mere slogans now. The centre is yet to come up with a concrete plan to revive the economy,” said Jairam Ramesh.The Kerala Finance Minister said that even during the pandemic there is no end to discrimination. The Centre had recently said corporate donations to PM-CARES come under the CSR but such donations to the CM relief fund do not come under the category. “We have been asking for the state FMs’ meeting for quite some time. But it is yet to take place. We have been hearing only monologues. We don’t need mere self praise or kudos. We need proper share and money to tide over the crisis,” said Issac adding the initiative to bring together opposition ruled states will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-moving-towards-financial-emergency-states-rendered-helpless-by-govt-claim-opposition-leaders/story-1kSHCiVoWTTDJkARWz14EK.html
27-04-2020||India||Jamia alumni chief held under UAPA||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Sunday arrested Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia president Shifa-Ur-Rehman under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged role in inciting the communal riots in Northeast Delhi in February. Rehman, who faces up to seven years in prison if convicted, was produced before a court which sent him in 10-day police custody for further interrogation. A police officer, who did not wish to be named, said they have technical evidence against Rehman which suggests that he allegedly incited mobs during the riots. “We have his CCTV footages and we have also checked his call record details and WhatsApp messages which suggest his involvement in hatching conspiracy to instigate riots in northeast Delhi.”No senior police officer authorised to speak to the press wished to comment on the arrest. The Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia did not respond to the arrest either. The communal violence had broken out on February 24 and 25 after clashes started between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) supporters and its opponents. It later degenerated into the riots that left at least 50 dead.HT has learnt that police have arrested at least 1,100 people in 760 cases of rioting, murder and violence. Of these, police claim that around 70% cases have been solved. Last Wednesday, the police booked suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain under the UAPA. Hussain is in jail in connection with communal violence and murder of an Intelligence Bureau staffer.The police have also arrested Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zagar under the UAPA. They are accused of allegedly conspiring to incite the communal riots. A 20-member group of scholars, filmmakers, advocates and writers protested against the witch-hunt of anti-CAA activists and released a statement saying that instead of engaging with protesters, the state has chosen to detain and arrest them under harsh penal provisions. They said while the crime branch is already probing the riots, the Delhi police’s special cell has filed a separate first information report (FIR) under which the scholars were being arrested. “This FIR has enabled the stitching together of a political narrative where a direct link is sought to be made between anti-CAA protests and the widespread violence that rocked Northeast Delhi in the end of February,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamia-alumni-chief-held-under-uapa/story-546yQNkokyjexNTePJkOVI.html
27-04-2020||India||NBWL allows coal mine in part of Assam’s elephant reserve||New Delhi: The National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has recommended that part of 98.59 ha (hectares) reserve forest land that is a part of Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve be used for opencast coal mining by North-Eastern Coal Field of Coal India Limited according to minutes of the 57th Meeting of the Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife held on April 17 through video-conferencing. The rest of the area may be considered for underground coal mining, the body said. The proposal of locating the coal mine inside the reserve was considered during the 54th meeting of the board on July 18 last year when it was decided that a committee comprising noted elephant expert and member of NBWL, Professor R Sukumar, a representative of the wildlife division and the state chief wildlife warden of Assam would visit the site and submit a report to the ministry. The environment ministry was to also arrange a meeting with officials of Coal India Limited.R Sukumar submitted to NBWL that 57.02 ha of forest land has already been used for mining by Coal India Limited and that in the balance 41.39 ha of unbroken area a cautious approach needs to be adopted owing to the rich biodiversity according to the minutes. The NBWL meeting was chaired by environment minister, Prakash Javadekar.The so called unbroken area is on a steep hill slope that is part of the Dehing Patkai Elephant reserve adjoining forests in Arunachal Pradesh which includes Deomali Elephant Reserve with a sizeable population of elephants. The say the proposal for already “broken up area is recommended for approval” subject to submission of a rectified site specific mine reclamation plan in consultation with the Assam Forest Department and that for the unbroken area, the matter will be considered after Coal India Limited submits a feasibility report for underground mining.“Coal India had broken up 57.2 ha years ago and mined it without any permission, in violation of laws. They have been directed to (pay) penalty for this and submit a mine reclamation plan. The plan they have submitted includes trees from central India which is not even the native biodiversity of Assam. So they have been asked to come back again with a proper plan,” said Sukumar, ecologist at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). “The rest of the area bordering Arunachal Pradesh, it cannot be broken up. The standing committee has told them (CIL) that forests there cannot be opened up,” he added over phone from Bangalore.A CIL spokesperson said he was not aware of the NBWL decision and needs time to get details on it.“Elephant herds have strong fidelity to their range. They move around the same area for many years. Obviously such projects will affect their movement and demographics. I am not very aware of the landscape in this reserve but conflict is bound to increase if there are human dominated areas in the neighbourhood,” said M Ananda Kumar, elephant biologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nbwl-allows-coal-mine-in-part-of-assam-s-elephant-reserve/story-nftehXmWLCWGC4tZkcBmuJ.html
27-04-2020||India||2 brothers die in MP as doctor fails to refer them to Covid hospital||Two brothers in Raisen district died of coronavirus in a span of 48 hours in a hospital in neighbouring Bhopal while four others in the family have been hospitalised after it emerged that the doctor treating them did not refer them to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, officials said.The developments also forced Raisen’s superintendent of police to send 57 police personnel who dealt with one of the deceased to quarantine centres and ask their family members to self-isolate.District collector Umashankar Bhargava on Monday issued a show cause notice to a doctor posted as medical officer in the district hospital holding him responsible for the deaths, and terming his act as tantamount to a serious crime under Madhya Pradesh Civil Service Conduct Rules, 1965.According to the show cause notice, the doctor treated the elder brother, a trader who ran a tiffin service, in his private hospital since April 17 but didn’t advise him to go to a dedicated Covid hospital. He did not inform the administration and his seniors either in health department.Those hospitalised from the affected family include parents of the deceased, their younger brother and the eldest brother’s wife.The eldest brother who was 45 years old died on Friday in Hamidia hospital in Bhopal. As he was a suspected case of Covid-19 the district administration did not allow the body to be carried to Raisen. After due procedure by the health department, the body was handed over to his wife who cremated it alone with the assistance of her friend. Later, she was hospitalised.The test of his sample which came after his death suggested that he was suffering from Covid-19. Later, his younger brother who was 40-year-old and ran a coaching centre at Raisen too died in the same hospital on Sunday. He was cremated by their youngest brother in Bhopal, who was later hospitalised with symptoms of Covid-19.The parents of the deceased have been hospitalised in Raisen district hospital, district collector Bhargava said.“The eldest among brothers had symptoms like fever, cough and respiratory problem on April 12 itself. He went to the private hospital of Dr Deepak Gupta who is posted as a government doctor in the district hospital at Raisen, on April 17. Neither he advised the patient to go to a dedicated Covid hospital nor did he inform the administration. On April 20, the patient went to the district hospital from where he returned home. Again when he came to the district hospital on April 22 his condition was serious. He was referred to Hamidia hospital in Bhopal where he died on April 24,” the DC said.“His younger brother was referred to the Bhopal hospital on April 24 where he died on April 26.”The collector’s notice to Dr Deepak Gupta said, “Despite seeing the Coronavirus symptoms and being a government doctor you treated the patient (eldest brother) in your private hospital which resulted in death of two persons. Hence, your act being tantamount to a serious crime under MP Civil Service Conduct Rules, 1965 is a punishable act. You are expected to give reply to the notice within 48 hours otherwise one-sided action will be taken against you. Since you are under home quarantine this notice is being served to you through WhatsApp and you are expected to reply through WhatsApp only.”Superintendent of police, Raisen district Monika Shukla said, “Fifty seven police personnel who took food packets from the tiffin centres have been quarantined and their family members asked to self-isolate. The samples of the police personnel are being collected to send it for tests.”She said, “The deceased who ran the tiffin centre should have told us about his condition when he developed the symptoms. But he didn’t. In a way his act of concealing his disease and continuing his business of tiffin centre was a criminal act. But since he is no more we can’t lodge an FIR against him.”Dr Gupta claimed he was being made a scapegoat.“I examined him on April 17 in good faith. He had only fever and no symptom of Coronavirus. I advised him to go to district hospital if he has any problem. Had he had any symptom of coronavirus why I would have exposed myself to the threat of contracting the virus. I have my family and children too. He went to the district hospital twice on April 20 and 22. On both occasions two different doctors examined him but they too didn’t find any symptom of coronavirus in him. Even in Hamidia hospital where he was referred the doctors didn’t see any symptom in him. But unfortunately I am being made a scapegoat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-brothers-die-in-mp-as-doctor-fails-to-refer-them-to-covid-hospital/story-9rE4rvFzxlSBlgGbq6LYwJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Andhra governor tests negative for Covid after 4 Raj Bhavan staff prove positive||In a big relief to the officials of the Andhra Pradesh health department, Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Monday tested negative for Covid-19.State nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth confirmed to HT that the governor had undergone test for the virus after four of the Raj Bhavan employees tested positive on Sunday evening.Harichandan had volunteered to undergo the test to rule out any possibility of contracting the virus from the Raj Bhavan staff who tested positive, including his chief security officer, a staff nurse and two attendants.“The governor has tested negative,” the nodal officer said.However, as per the Covid-19 protocol, it is mandatory for any primary contact of the coronavirus positive patients to be in quarantine for a period of 14 days. So, the governor, too, would have to be under home quarantine for two weeks, Sreekanth said.The officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation had carried out disinfectant operations at Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada, using drone, immediately after the four staff members tested positive on Sunday. All the four have now been undergoing treatment at the Vijayawada government general hospital.Meanwhile, Vijayawada has become a hotspot for the dreaded virus. More than 160 of the total 210 positive cases reported in Krishna district are from Vijayawada city.While a truck driver is said to have become responsible for spread of the virus to 23 other persons in Krishna Lanka area, another person who runs a tiffin centre at Karmiknagar area was found to have spread the disease to 17 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-governor-tests-negative-for-covid-after-4-raj-bhavan-staff-prove-positive/story-Ne57cMSQqskLronQaa4mkN.html
27-04-2020||India||Unable to get liquor, man drinks mixture of sanitizer and cough syrup, dies||A 29-year-old research student is said to have died in Hoysala Nagar of Dharwad district Karnataka after consuming a mixture of sanitizer and cough syrup as he was unable to get liquor. The deceased, identified as Sudeep Kariyanna, is said to be a native of Honnavara, Uttara Kannada district but was studying at the zoology department of Karnatak University, Dharwad and staying in a rented accommodation in Hoysala Nagar.A station house officer of Sub Urban Police station in Dharwad said that the incident was reported to them on Monday afternoon by the landlord of the house which Sudeep had rented after foul smell was emanating from it. An empty bottle of sanitizer as well as a bottle of cough syrup was found next to his body and the landlord in his complaint to the police said that the student had been complaining of lack of availability of liquor due to the lockdown.Sudeep’s body has been shifted to the Dharwad district government hospital for post-mortem. “Prima facie it looks like a case where the deceased has consumed a mixture of sanitizer and cough syrup as a substitute for liquor. We have registered a case and are investigating,” said the SHO who did not want to be named as she is not authorized to speak to media.It maybe recalled that about 10 days back in Gambayarpur village of the same district, two people died and 13 others fell ill after consuming sanitizer for its alleged ‘alcohol content.’ Cops and health officials have repeatedly appealed to people not to consumer sanitizers or syrups. Desperate tipplers have taken to consuming all kinds of substances and there have been numerous reports of break-ins and thefts at liquor stores across the state ever since lockdown was announced on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unable-to-get-liquor-man-drinks-mixture-of-sanitizer-and-cough-syrup-dies/story-7Dm07kg6bRRWPKmAS7BWOM.html
27-04-2020||India||Goa seeks lockdown extension, but wants economic activity resumed||The Goa government has recommended to the Prime Minister that the lockdown should continue beyond May 3 even though economic activity within the state should be allowed to continue. Amid demands that since Goa is a green zone, economic activity within the state can resume, Sawant said that there will be no further relaxations until May 3, but depending on the central government’s advice, a decision regarding opening up other sectors like public transport will be taken after that. “We have sent our written representation. We are of the opinion that the lockdown should be extended, but economic activity within the state, should continue. This is especially important since our neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka are witnessing a rise in figures it is important that the lockdown continues,” Sawant said. After the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed some more relaxations, shops including non essential shops located outside municipal markets have opened in the state marking a significant resumption of economic activity in the state. However, the hospitality, tourism sectors as well as public transport continued to remain shut making the full resumption some distance away. “Depending on the central government guidelines that come for the lockdown 3.0 to be effective after May 3, we will decide on opening up sectors,” Sawant said. Sawant also said that the people of the state will have to get used to practising social distancing for the better part of the next 12 months and possibly even more. “People should get used to social distancing for the next one or two years,” Sawant said. Sawant has however said that the state government has been talking to their counterparts from other states concerning the facilitating of transport arrangements for those migrant labourers who wish to return to their villages. Those locals who have been stranded in other places too will be allowed to return if they can make their own transport arrangements, Sawant said. “We are talking to officials from other states” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-seeks-lockdown-extension-but-wants-economic-activity-resumed/story-DbKBpFCQfw6VAFzT6zn6IM.html
27-04-2020||India||Odisha faces quarantine crunch as 5 lakh workers register to return home||Over five lakh migrant workers stranded in different states have registered themselves since Friday on an online portal started by Odisha government to facilitate their return after the lockdown to check the spread of the Covdi-19 pandemic is lifted, officials said Monday.“The portal which was running since Friday, saw 5.5 lakh people registering their names and other particulars,” said Odisha’s government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi.Officials fear that the massive registration could overwhelm the preparations made by the State government for the workers’ return.“We have no idea as to what would be the final number of registration on the Covid portal. If all the 5.5 lakh turn up within one week of the opening of lockdown on May 3, it would be impossible to house all of them at one go,” said an official in charge of overseeing the quarantine set-up. OIdisha has reported a total of 111 cases of Covid-19 so far. On Saturday, the Odisha government had said it has managed to create 2.2 lakh quarantine beds in 7,120 temporary medical centres in about 7,000 gram panchayats and 120 urban local bodies to house the migrant workers for 14-day quarantine. Though the government earlier had made the provision for home quarantine of 14 days for anyone returning from outside Odisha, it shelved the idea as a number of people in home quarantine slipped out and spread infection.Already 86,000 workers, including 16,000 from within Odisha, are being accommodated in 2,610 quarantine camps in various districts of the state.Political leaders from districts like Bolangir and Kalahandi expressed their apprehension over the influx of the migrant workers. Sangeeta Singh Deo, BJP MP from Bolangir said many sarpanchs are worried over whether quarantine and social distancing protocols can be managed at the temporary centres with the return of migrant labourers.Kalahandi MP Basanta Panda, said the panchayats are ill-equipped for such large scale return and the government should address their concerns before allowing migrants to return.With lakhs of its migrant workers getting restive to return home, the government on Sunday had said that it would arrange buses to Gujarat and Maharashtra to bring back stranded migrant workers after the lockdown ends on May 3. In a video conference with his Gujarat and Maharashtra counterparts, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said a coordination committee comprising two officers each from all the three states will decide on the modalities of bringing back the stranded workers by buses or any other modes of transport available.But on Monday, around 200 migrant labourers from Odisha stranded in Surat boarded four buses to return home. The migrant labourers said they have got approval from Surat district collector Dhavalkumar Patel. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said the migrant labourers returning from Surat will be kept in the government quarantine facilities for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-faces-quarantine-crunch-as-5-lakh-workers-register-to-return-home/story-faNpZr80AQJig1mLoYCbHO.html
27-04-2020||India||Telangana may soon be Covid-19 free hopes KCR, says lockdown to continue till May 7||Emphasising that Telangana was heading towards becoming a coronavirus-free state gradually, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said the lockdown would continue strictly till May 7, as announced earlier, without any scope for complacency.KCR, who attended the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday morning but did not get an opportunity to speak, shared the details of the video conference with his senior officials at a meeting later in the evening.He said Telangana was gradually coming out of the Covid-19 pandemic and there were clear indications that the state would become coronavirus-free very soon.On Monday, only two positive cases – both from Hyderabad – were reported in the state and as many as 21 out of 33 districts in the state are going to be declared Covid-19 free by April 28. “More than 97 per cent of the patients admitted in hospitals are on the path of recovery,” the chief minister said.Stating that Telangana was able to prevent the spread of the virus by strictly enforcing lockdown restrictions, KCR said many containment areas were reporting zero positive cases. “By next week, I am sure the entire state will report zero positive cases. Even if one or two cases surface here and there, they could be tackled very easily,” he said.He, however, said the government would not remain complacent just because the numbers of positive cases were coming down. “We are always alert about any unforeseen situation that would result in an increase in the number of cases. The department of health is always alert with all the necessary equipment,” he said.“We shall bring down the number of containment zones as the number of positive cases comes down. But the officials and the people will be alert in the containment areas,” he said and appealed to the people to follow rules and cooperate with the government by staying indoors, except in emergency situations.On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who too could not get a chance to speak at the PM’s video conference, said his government had put forth certain proposals post-lockdown on May 3.He said while introduction of public transport might take more time, allowing private transport could be looked into. He wanted that the inconvenience to the people should be mitigated, though the state would have to bear the brunt of financial loss in the coming days.He said the state has 676 mandals (revenue blocks) of which 63 are in red zones and 54 in orange zones and the remaining are in the green zone, which account for 80% of the total mandals. While safeguarding the green zones the government will have to see that orange and red zones change into the green. Hopefully activity may pick up in the green zones soon, Jagan said.He asked the people not to attach any stigma to coronavirus positive patients as it could affect anybody in the state including him in the days to come.“The coronavirus is not going to disappear from the country. It is going to stay here for a long time and we have to live with it. It can affect anybody. Even I may get coronavirus. So, we should not subject coronavirus patients to social discrimination as it comes and goes after running its course. We have to learn to live with it in the days to come,” Jagan said in a message to the people through electronic media.He said the people would have to make some lifestyle changes to boost their immunity levels, maintain social distancing and take care of the old and sick. “Coronavirus will come and go and we need not attach any stigma to it as anyone is vulnerable to the disease and we should take precautions as per guidelines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-may-soon-be-covid-19-free-hopes-kcr-says-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-7/story-jCMdu6wG54dvLDrA9Gif7O.html
27-04-2020||India||Yogi holds Covid-19 review meeting, discusses quarantine centres||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting of the state’s Covid-19 management team on Monday and ordered officials to ensure that adequate arrangements for food and drinking water etc. were made at all quarantine centres and shelter homes in the state.Earlier on Monday morning, Yogi attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with all the CMs to review the lockdown situation in the country. “The CM didn’t make any demand at PM’s Modi’s video-conference meeting with all the CMs,” said RK Tiwari, chief secretary. “UP’s turn to air its views also didn’t come on Monday’s meet,” said Awnish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home.Adityanath’s order about the availability of food and drinking water assumes significance after reports appeared about inadequate facilities at some of the quarantine centres and shelter homes in the state. The CM said each quarantine centre and shelter home should have a capacity between 15,000 and 25,000 litres of water.He said the capacity of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals should be expanded in all the districts. He also ordered that all migrant workers from UP, who are slated to return to the state soon, should be mandatorily quarantined for 14 days at these centres and shelter homes.He appealed that lockdown should be strictly enforced and those living in hot spots should not venture out under any circumstances. Only healthcare personnel, sanitation workers and home delivery of essential items would be allowed in the hotspots, he added.He said emergency health services for non-Covid-19 patients should be restored immediately in hospitals. All patients, who are coming to hospitals, must be compulsorily screened, he added.The CM said most of the state’s private hospitals have been covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme and a protocol for Covid-19 and non-Covid hospitals is in the works. “UP is setting up a Covid-19 hospital in all the 52 medical colleges in the state. Those districts that don’t have a medical college should convert its district-level hospital as a Covid-19 facility,” he said.“An additional chief medical officer-rank officer has been entrusted with the responsibility to train medical officers and paramedical staff. A mobile app is being developed for effective training. Teachers and principals of high schools and intermediate colleges, respectively, will also undergo compulsory training,” he added.The CM announced that the distribution of food grains to the poor and the needy would restart on the International Labour Day on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-holds-covid-19-review-meeting-discusses-quarantine-centres/story-thbIHcv9DlVZSbG4rrAlhK.html
27-04-2020||India||3 IRS officers stripped of their charge for creating panic with tax hike report||Three senior Indian Revenue Service officials who had played a key role in preparing a report on raising income tax and placed it in public domain have been chargesheeted for conduct rule violations, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. They have also been stripped of their charge.The three officers, according to documents accessed by HT, are Prashant Bhushan, Prakash Dubey and Sanjay Bahadur.The action comes just a day after the Finance Ministry distanced itself from the recommendations of the widely-circulated report that had proposed raising income-tax rate up to 40% from 30% for those with income of Rs 1 core per year, reimposing a wealth tax on those with a net wealth of Rs 5 crore, and levy of a one-time Covid-19 relief cess of 4% on those with a taxable income of Rs 10 lakh and above.Also read: Centre rejects tax hike proposal by IRS officials, calls it ill-conceivedThe government had described the report as ill-conceived and irresponsible.Officials told Hindustan Times that a preliminary inquiry carried out by the government had blamed the three officials.Prashant Bhushan, a 1988 batch IRS officer, is the general secretary of the Indian Revenue Service Association and is alleged to have placed the report, drafted by a group of young IRS officers, in public domain.Prakash Dubey, the joint secretary of the IRS Association, and Sanjay Bahadur, a 1989 batch officer, have been charged with getting young income tax officers to prepare a report which they passed on to the IRS Association that ultimately placed it in public domain.Prakash Dubey was a director in the department of personnel and training while Sanjay Bahadur was the income tax department’s Principal Director Investigation, North East Region.Also read: At meet with chief ministers, PM Modi’s 5 clear messages on Covid-19 battleA government official explained that the three officers, despite having more than 30 years of service, had failed to exercise due care and misguided 50 young officers to prepare the report and circulate it.In this case, the three officials of the rank of Principal Commissioner, instead of sending the government through official channels, misguided the junior officers and went public with it.“This created panic and tax policy uncertainty in the already stressed economic conditions in the country,” a top government official said, explaining why the government had moved swiftly and firmly to act against the three officers.Top government officials underscored that the officials had no business circulating reports about an official matter in their personal capacity. They, one of them said referring to the charge sheet issued to other officers, had ended up creating confusion and uncertainty with respect of the policy of the government on income tax rates, which could have an adverse impact on economy, especially when the country is battling a pandemic and the government is keen to ensure a stable tax regime.It has also been pointed out that the proposals are against the government’s existing policy on taxation.In the budget this year, the government offered individuals the option of paying lower income-tax rates provided they forgo tax exemptions.It had earlier reduced corporate tax rates drastically in September, sacrificing Rs 1.45 lakh crore in revenue. Companies were given the choice of opting for a lower corporate tax rate of 22% (15% for newly incorporated companies) provided they don’t seek exemptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-irs-officers-stripped-of-their-charge-for-creating-panic-with-tax-hike-report/story-ZIpQborTMv2SKbcnuHRnGJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Petition against PM-Cares Fund has political colour: Supreme Court||A petition challenging the validity of the PM-Cares Fund, which was set up last month in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and various Chief Minister Relief Funds has a “political colour”, the Supreme Court said on Monday.The court was hearing the plea by three lawyers and a law student, who chose not to pursue the case after a three-judge bench headed by NV Ramana asked them to withdraw the petition or face fine.“The petition has a political colour. Either you withdraw it or we will impose fine,” the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai, said.In their plea filed on April 11, the petitioners submitted that the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF), which aims to aid families affected by natural calamities, the PM-Cares Fund and the Chief Minister Relief Fund of various states did not have the backing of any law.They argued that the money received in those funds, instead, should be transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) which are funds created under the Disaster Management Act.“The Prime Minister is calling for money and promoting the non-statutory ‘PM-Cares Fund’ instead of calling for money and promoting the NDRF which is the statutory fund, under the 2005 Act needed to combat the COVID-19 crisis...,” the petitioners said.The petitioners also prayed “mass house-to-house tests” should be conducted so as to trace, identify and isolate persons infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.“Universal house-to-house testing is indispensible for the purpose of tracing the carriers/patients and isolating them for good, otherwise the whole exercise of our fight against COVID-19 pandemic would prove to be futile and the country and public at large would suffer irreparable consequences and untold misery,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-against-pm-cares-fund-has-political-colour-sc/story-93CUJypKO4eWiqX8ik58QN.html
27-04-2020||India||Amazon partners with Indian Railways for transporting essentials||E-commerce platform Amazon India has tied up with the Indian Railways for using special parcel trains for transporting essential goods under the lockdown.In a statement issued on Monday, Amazon said it has ramped up its operations to 55 lanes in a bid to enable faster deliveries. The Indian Railways has deployed special parcel trains in addition to freight trains for movement of essential goods in small parcel sizes.“Amazon India will transport consignments via rail across the country and is leveraging the ‘COVID-19 Parcel Special Trains’ introduced by the Indian Railways to ramp up its operations to 55 lanes during the lockdown period. This enhanced network will enable sellers in Amazon India’s network to ship their products across the country and keep their businesses running, thereby, allowing people to access a more diverse selection of essential products,” a statement by Amazon said.Amazon had last year tied up with the national carrier got for inter-city transportation of e-commerce packages on 13 lanes, and had also set up pickup kiosks for customers in Kolkata and Mumbai.At present, the home ministry has allowed e-commerce companies to deliver essential goods.The home ministry on Saturday had issued a clarification stating e-commerce companies would be allowed to sell only essential goods on their platforms.“It is clarified that sale by e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only,” the home ministry had clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-partners-with-indian-railways-for-transporting-essentials/story-1vaj4vE0emo4ol6hGekeNP.html
27-04-2020||India||This Kolkata hospital offers ‘virtual visiting hours’ for Covid-19 patients||A private hospital that registered West Bengal’s first Covid-19 death on March 23, has found a way to make patients interact with their families since the state government has banned mobile phones in isolation wards at hospitals across the state.The government’s decision came after a patient at the state-run Bangur Hospital in Kolkata shot a video of a dead body lying in a ward and shared it on social media. Subsequently, even the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) visiting Bengal raised the issue. In its order, the government said the ban was being imposed because mobile phones carry germs and infection. “Keeping in mind the anxiety of family members of patients and the recent government directive banning mobile phones in isolation wards, given how mobile phones are carriers of germs and infection, AMRI Hospitals has started ‘Virtual Visiting Hours’ so that patients can keep in touch with family members even from isolation,” AMRI hospital said in a statement on Sunday. The service was launched on the very same day.“Every day, nurses at the isolation wards will approach each patient and connect them to their family over video call. The virtual visiting hour will take place from 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm,” the statement said.Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals, said, “Since normal visitations don’t apply to patients in isolation wards, we have been thinking of how to help our patients and their family members. We started it on Sunday, which has made both patients and their family members happy. This will mitigate their anxiety to a great extent. Our doctors also believe that getting to interact with their loved ones will help patients recover faster.”Dr Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said, “Experts have categorically said that when a patient is kept in isolation the mobile phone becomes an essential item. It helps him fight the isolation and psychological pressure. And, it takes only a few seconds to disinfect a phone.”Incidentally, a senior health department official infected with Covid-19 died at AMRI Hospital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-kolkata-hospital-offers-virtual-visiting-hours-for-covid-19-patients/story-Re1poRjBAqW64H082TM9YP.html
27-04-2020||India||Two new containment zones in Delhi take total to 99||The Delhi government on Monday added two more localities – one in south Delhi the other in New Delhi to the list of containment zones in the fight against Covid-19. As the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic continues, the government insists that the sealing of the containment zones is an effective way of checking the spread of coronavirus.Read full list here of Delhi’s containment zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shop No. J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki Village, New Delhi.5. Jain Moholla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi6. Boundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of humayupur lane includes, Ashiana complex & B-4/206 Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi7. H. No. 50, Hauz Rani, New Delhi, from Mother Dairy to back corner of Raja Ram Mohan School, Hauz Rani, New Delhi.8. Entire effected area around H. No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar, New Delhi9. H.No. 153/B, 4th Floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi10. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi11. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari, New Delhi 12. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi 13. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 14. Entire affected area including-Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali in South Delhi15. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka. 16. Dinpur Village 17. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi 18. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 19. Plot No.-1294, Sonu Yadav Ka Makkan, Theke Wali Gali, Opposite DC Office Kapashera, Delhi 20. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi 21. South-East Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti 22. South-East Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas. 23. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar ( Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone 24. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, Delhi 25. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, New Delhi 26. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi 27. MehelaMohalla, MadanpurKhadar, Delhi28. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi 29. South-East E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi 30. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash, Delhi 31. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 32. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash, Delhi 33. Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, SangamVihar, House No. 112B, Gali No.2, New Delhi 34. Entire Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, Delhi 35. South-East Gali No. 6, A Block, Abul Fazal Enclave, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi 36. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi 37. (Whole Gali H. No. 48 to Chaupal), A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony, Delhi 38. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area){Added in Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi} 39. H. No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 40. Whole Kumhar Gali (H.No. 1751 to 1815) to Chaupal Chowkm Kotla Mubarakpur Delhi 41. B Block Jhangirpuri42. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri43. 1100 WaliGali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 WaliGali (H. No. 12381268), 1300 WaliGali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi 44. G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town, Delhi 45. H.No.716 to 785, H. No. 786 to 860, H. No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jhangir Puri, Delhi 46. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 47. Flat No.-265 to 500 Sanjay Enclave, Jahangirpuri, Delhi 48. Gali No. 3, 4 & 5 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar, Delhi 49. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi 50. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi 51. East Gali No 9, PandavNagar , Delhi 11009252. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension, Delhi 53. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi 54. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), KishanKunj Extension, Delhi 55. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi. 56. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092. 57. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 110091. 58. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi 59. Shahdara E-Pocket, GTB Enclave, Delhi 60. Shahdara J & K , L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri 61. Shahdara F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony 62. Shahdara Pratapkhand ,Jhilmil Colony63. Shahdara Gali no 3,4 and 5 East Ram Nagar, Shahdara 64. Shahdara H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-92 65. Shahdara Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi 66. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh 67. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi. 68. Israel Camp, Rangpuri Pahari, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone 69. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone70. EA Block, Inderpuri, New Delhi 71. H. No. P-65 and H. No. P-184, Pillanji Village, New Delhi 72. Sadar Bazaar, Central District73. Chandni Mahal, Central District74. l Nabi Karim, Central District. 75. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi 76. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 77. NawabGanj Area, Delhi 78. Oberoi Apartments 79. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar New Delhi 110015 80. n and around area of B- 1/2, PaschimVihar , New Delhi 81. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar , New Delhi 82. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden , New Delhi 11.04.2020 83. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, PaschimVihar , Delhi 84. In and around area of A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur, Delhi 110063. 85. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 86. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar, New Delhi 87. West In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar, New Delhi. 88. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No. 2, Nangloi, Delhi 89. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar, Delhi 90. In and around area of G-1, 2nd Floor, Mansarover Garden, Delhi 91. Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar, Delhi 92. Entire AF Block, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi93. Entire Street No. 9, Shalimar Village, Delhi 94. Entire Gali No. 3, Shalimar Village, Delhi 95. H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 96 E-51, Main Road, Shastri Park, Delhi & E-21, Gali No.-8, Shastri Park, Delhi 97. T-606, Gali No. 18, Gautampuri, Delhi 98. A-97, 98 & 99 Near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park, Delhi99. Block No. X, from H. No. 303/6, Gali N. 1 to H.No. 289 Gali No. 3, Yadav Villa, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-new-containment-zones-in-delhi-take-total-to-99/story-pPfG1J9IMSdcVT2QK0KCdJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Bengal’s Covid-19 graph shows sharp spike, cases more than double in 1 week||West Bengal’s graph of people testing positive for Covid-19 is sharply rising, with the number of total cases more than doubling in seven days. Earlier, the state had recorded 339 cases between March 17 and April 20, however, as many as 357 cases have been recorded in the past seven days. On Monday, 47 new Covid-19 cases were reported.The state has recorded 696 positive cases till April 27, of which 504 are active cases.While the state administration claimed the increase was at par with the national average, senior doctors attributed the sudden rise to the low testing rate during the early days.Incidentally, the state that had been receiving a lot of flak over its low testing rate increased the number of daily tests conducted from April 15, when it started testing about 350 people per day on an average. The number of tests further increased from April 20, the day when incidentally, two inter-ministerial central teams reached Bengal. While the state had conducted only 5,469 tests till April 20, another 6,574 tests were conducted in the last seven days.“Our testing has rapidly increased. As many as 1,150 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Monday evening.“Our positive confirmation rate is at par with the national rate,” Sinha said.Senior doctor Kunal Sarkar, however, said that the state was still not conducting enough tests. “We have to keep in mind that here we have not yet found as many asymptomatic patients as in other states. The testing rate is still low. Going by the state’s population and national testing average, Bengal needs to conduct 4,000 tests on a day on an average,” Sarkar said.Doctor and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Fuad Halim echoed Sarkar. “The number of Covid-19 patients is increasing with the increase in the number of tests. The tests increased in the first place after I filed public interest litigation in the Calcutta high court. But, the state is still testing about four times below the national average, going by per million population,” Halim said.West Bengal’s present population is estimated at 10 crore.Only four of Bengal’s 23 districts are in the ‘red zone’ and, according to Sinha, 80% of the state’s cases are from the state capital of Kolkata.The situation is improving. “Five out of 8 containment zones in East Midnapore, 13 out of 57 containment zones in North 24 Parganas, 13 out of 56 containment zones in Howrah have not reported a single case in the past two weeks,” Sinha said.For Kolkata, however, the situation is not so hopeful. Of the 227 containment zones in the city, only 18 have not reported any case in the past two weeks.Under this scenario, the police have started acting tough. On Sunday, Kolkata police prosecuted 163 people for not covering their faces and 26 people for spitting in public places, besides booking 554 people under the Disaster Management Act for violating the lockdown.The police in the districts are using drone cameras and balloon cameras to identify lockdown violators, even though reports of lockdown violation, especially at various market places, came from different parts of the state even on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-covid-19-graph-shows-sharp-spike-cases-more-than-double-in-1-week/story-JjnNN6tIbSpjHAEM02TdmI.html
27-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mamata Banerjee questions Centre’s lockdown move and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘How do you enforce lockdown and open shops?’ asks Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee on Monday accused the Centre of making contradictory statements about the enforcement of the lockdown and said there should be greater clarity on the Union home ministry’s order on reopening shops. Read more. Singapore, Kuwait record highest number of Indian Covid-19 casesSingapore and Kuwait have emerged as the countries with the highest number of expatriate Indians infected by the Coronavirus, accounting for more than half of the 6,200 such infections reported from across the world, people familiar with developments said on Monday.Read more. Kerala for partial nationwide lockdown till May 15, seeks financial reliefThe Kerala government wants the lockdown, in place to check the spread of coronavirus disease, to be extended partially till May 15 and sought an exclusive Covid-19 financial relief from the Centre to compensate Rs 80,000 crore loss it suffered during the shutdown.Read more. Mumbai cop who was denied admission in 4 civic hospitals dies of Covid-19A 57-year-old head constable attached with the Kurla traffic division of Mumbai Police, who was denied admission in four civic hospitals died of Covid-19 on Monday. He was undergoing treatment at Parel’s King Edward Memorial Hospital. This is the third death due to coronavirus from the Mumbai police force in the last 48-hours.Read more. Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and KashmirPakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir by resorting to unprovoked firing, officials said on Monday. The Pakistani troops targeted Indian positions by using both small and heavy firearms in Silikote, Churunda and Tilawari areas of Uri sector in Baramulla district, they said. There were no reports of any casualties so far, the officials said.Read more. ‘From my personal experience…’: UK PM Boris Johnson returns to work after covid boutIn his first day back at work UK PM Boris Johnson said the country was beginning to ‘turn the tide’. Boris Johnson returned to work after suffering from covid-19. While speaking outside 10 Downing Street, Johnson argued that lifting the lockdown too soon would allow a second spike of infections. He also hinted that the country was approaching end of 1st phase of the conflict. Watch the full video for more details.Watch video here.No hike in school fees this year, says UP deputy CM Dinesh SharmaIn a major relief to parents, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Monday directed all private schools across Uttar Pradesh not to hike fees in this academic session in view of the lockdown. The decision was taken in a meeting with secondary education department officials.Read more. ‘Riding my bicycle for 60-70km; planning to try out rock climbing’Top athletes talk to HT about their experience of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. This is CS Santosh, India’s most accomplished rallyist. He is the first Indian to both compete and complete the Dakar Rally and has taken part in the world’s most celebrated and dangerous rally every year since 2015.Read more. Fan asks Kapil Sharma why he no longer posts angry tweets, comedian says ‘tamasha dekhne walo me se ho aap’Gone are the days when Kapil Sharma would vent out his frustration on Twitter. His newfound calm on social media prompted a fan to tell him during an Ask Me Anything session that it has been a while since he angrily tweeted something.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-questions-centre-s-lockdown-move-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xOyUsrCVEGYIduEKwrptrK.html
27-04-2020||India||HD Kumaraswamy demands Covid-19 tax on ‘super rich’ to offset economic losses||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former chief minister of Karnataka HD Kumaraswamy has demanded that the government announce new schemes to save livelihoods of people especially those in the unorganised sector. Asking the government to provide immediate relief to farmers, construction workers, cab and auto drivers, garment workers and others, Kumaraswamy said that the economy is unlikely to bounce back quickly, it is important to lower the cost of living.Demanding that the government cut petrol and diesel prices, the Karnataka leader said in a series of tweets that the loss of revenue maybe offset partially by imposing Covid-19 cess on the ultra-rich. Citing RBI and international economic agencies, he said that GDP growth rate is expected to fall to a historic low. “Such a dire situation calls for citizen centric measures like full or partial waiver of EMIs, rents, school fees and other levies,” he added. Meanwhile, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, in a letter to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, demanded a special package for farmers on the lines that the state government has provided to dairy farmers. Gowda, who has always projected himself as a farmer leader and a ‘son of the soil’, said that farmers are on the brink of bankruptcy as they are unable to sell their produce due to the lockdown. Underlining that this was forcing farmers to sell their land, Gowda demanded that an immediate package for distressed farmers be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hd-kumaraswamy-demands-covid-19-tax-on-super-rich-to-offset-economic-losses/story-FYzKjk85UCVG6IurZTGmnL.html
27-04-2020||India||Singapore, Kuwait record highest number of Indians infected with Covid-19||Singapore and Kuwait have emerged as the countries with the highest number of expatriate Indians infected by the Coronavirus, accounting for more than half of the 6,200 such infections reported from across the world, people familiar with developments said on Monday.More than 2,300 infections among Indian nationals, most of them workers living in dormitories, had been recorded in Singapore till late last week, and more than 1,300 infections were reported among expatriate Indians in Kuwait, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Other countries where sizeable numbers of Covid-19 infections among Indians have been reported are Bahrain and Qatar (about 500 each) and Iran (about 300), the people said.Iran was the first country where a large number of Indians were infected by the Coronavirus last month. Most of them were elderly Shia pilgrims from Kashmir and states such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, and a majority of the infections occurred in the holy city of Qom.Indian diplomats worked with Iranian authorities to create a special facility in Qom to treat the infected Indians, who are now expected to be brought back from Iran once the nationwide lockdown is eased next month.As of April 16, the total number of Indians infected in 53 countries was 3,336 and this almost doubled to 6,200 by last week. The total number of infected Indians who have died abroad currently is around 40, the people said.The welfare and treatment of infected Indians has figured in conversations between the prime minister and external affairs minister and their counterparts in countries such as Singapore and Kuwait.During a conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 23, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said his government “will care for Indian migrant workers here, just as we care for Singaporeans”.Indians now account for almost a quarter of the more than 11,000 Covid-19 cases recorded in Singapore till last week. Most of Singapore’s infections are work permit holders living in foreign worker dormitories and 25 of these dormitories have been designated isolation areas so far, Channel News Asia reported.The welfare of Indian nationals also figured in Modi’s recent phone conversation with his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Sabah al-Khaled al-Hamad al-Sabah, who said his government “values the contributions of the large Indian community…and would continue to ensure their safety and welfare in the present situation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-kuwait-record-highest-number-of-indian-covid-19-cases/story-nNW338HhJdwSu93GC2aCOM.html
27-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, senior bureaucrat Amit Khare returns to helm I&B ministry||Senior IAS officer Amit Khare on Monday took charge as the secretary of the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry, a vital move, as the government is increasingly focussing on adopting the right communication strategy as the country prepares to move into the next phase in the battle against coronavirus.This is the second time that the Jharkhand-cadre 1985-batch IAS officer will work at the helm of the I&B ministry. He had occupied the position before being made Secretary (School Education) in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD). At present, Khare also holds charge as Secretary (Higher Education) in the HRD ministry.On Monday, Khare took charge of the ministry in the afternoon and met all the key officers.The return of the veteran officer to the I&B ministry, which decides the Union government’s communication outreach, is important as the government has been trying to spread awareness about the tough decisions it has been forced to take following the Covid-19 outbreak.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been at the forefront of this information outreach as he has repeatedly made television addresses and held interactions to communicate the government’s perspective on the situation.On Sunday, in his Mann Ki Baat address, PM Modi had once again focussed on coronavirus and warned against any complacency.With the government focussing on hotspots and devising different strategies for different districts depending upon their situation, the I&B ministry is also working to tweak its strategy to localized needs, which considering the diversity is a challenge.Another challenge that the ministry has been facing is the unending stream of fake news and untruths that have swamped social media sites.The appointment of Khare also comes at a time when the media, be it newspapers, broadcasters or the cinema industry have all been hit hard. Representatives of these sectors have repeatedly approached the government about the adverse impact their advertisement revenues as well as circulation mechanisms have suffered.In an order on Sunday, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) headed by the prime minister made several key changes including bringing Khare into the I&B ministry in place of Ravi Mittal, who has been made secretary sports. CBSE chairperson Anita Karwal has been made School Education secretary in the HRD ministry, a charge Khare held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-senior-bureaucrat-amit-khare-returns-to-helm-i-b-ministry/story-DO6ZmBhXB8zW06y1PJfm9I.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Tripura witnesses first wedding amidst lockdown||Amidst lockdown, Tripura witnessed it’s first marriage after the couple was granted permission from the administration. Sunny Sutradhar, 24, a supervisor in export sector in Delhi got married to Subhra Shil, a swimming instructor at a school in Delhi. Both of them are from Purba Gakulpur village, near to Udaipur in Gomati district , almost 50 kilometres from Agartala. They met each other over social media many years ago and fell in love. Their families also fixed their marriage long back but they had to hold the marriage due to lockdown. “ We need to join our work in Delhi as soon as the lockdown is lifted. We have no time on our hand and that’s why, we sought special permission from the administration for our wedding. We have cut off many rituals except the customary one. We married maintaining social distance and wearing masks,” Sunny told reporters. Only 20 invitees from both the groom and bride’s family attended the wedding. The groom’s family got to know about the provision for seeking special permission regarding marriage from the administration. Accordingly, they applied for so and their all official formalities were done in two days. Udaipur sub divisional magistrate Aniruddha Roy said, “ Seven restrictions were given to them during the wedding including no wedding reception except the customary one, not more than 20 invitees from both the sides can attend, one vehicle will carry only one passenger and the driver, wearing masks, using hand wash or hand sanitizers, social distancing etc. All the rules were followed by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-tripura-witnesses-first-wedding-amidst-lockdown/story-f7bfWX5fY68b2JfFrDWgSP.html
27-04-2020||India||Testing, surveillance behind high number of cases in Ahmedabad: Municipal commissioner||With 1,854 Covid-19 cases and 103 deaths, Ahmedabad is the most affected district of Gujarat and has reported the second highest number of deaths. Jaykishan Sharma spoke to the city’s municipal commissioner, Vijay Nehra, about the reasons for the spurt in cases and the strategy to contain the virus.What are the reasons behind the high number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad?While we were aware that every effort must be made to contain the disease, we realize it will not be possible unless we do proactive discovery of cases and nip the infection spread in the bud. So, we adopted an intensive proactive discovery approach to find cases which we call the EPIC approach – enhanced testing, intensive surveillance, proactive detection and corona checkposts. As a corollary to this approach, it was all but natural that reported cases would go up. It must be appreciated it helped us in locating cases before they did large-scale damage through community spread. We have done 3,250-plus tests per million, more than double than the next highest figure in a city like Delhi, which has done around 1,500 tests per million. The doubling rate, which was three to four days, increased to seven to eight days. The recovery has improved. In the past, it was 5% and at present, the recovery rate is 10%.Any other reasons behind such a high number of cases?In the entire world, the problem has come to the cities first. In India also, Delhi, Mumbai, Indore, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and big cities with dense population were the first to be affected by Covid-19. As a quick early response, we effectively home quarantined almost 6,000 passengers who had come from Covid-19-prone nations. Of them, only 14 were found positive. But the cases increased after people in large numbers from Ahmedabad, who attended the [Tablighi Jamaat meet] in Delhi, came to Ahmedabad and were found positive.Maximum cases have been reported from the Walled City. Is there any specific strategy to deal with this?More than 800 medical teams are in the field for surveillance and as a result, we are able to catch super-spreaders like vegetable sellers, kirana owners and milk sellers on a daily basis through our intelligent sampling approach. On a scale never seen before in India, we sealed the old Walled City and in a single day, surveyed more than 100,000 people. We adopted a strategy of cluster containment early on and were able to moderate the growth of virus in hot spots like central Ahmedabad. Even at the cost of a rise in figures, we firmly believe aggressive testing and surveillance is the way forward. It might give an impression figures are rising in Ahmedabad, but it should be appreciated we are testing most aggressively. To complement our medicare efforts, we used the technology infrastructure that we had as part of Smart City Ahmedabad. We proactively monitor the lockdown in Ahmedabad through our 3,000-plus cameras in the city and in close coordination with police. Spitting fines and mask-wearing compliance is done through these cameras.What was the initial response of the administration to Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad?Ahmedabad is a unique cosmopolitan city with a diverse multi-ethnic population. At the same time, it has diverse residential and habitation patterns which pose their own challenges regarding spread of the virus. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) was alive to the Covid-19 challenge even before the first case cropped up in India. We were among one of the first urban civic bodies to suspend mass transport to avoid infection spread. We were the first civic body to launch a massive disinfection campaigns with support of our fire department.How are you tracking the people in home and institutional quarantine?Everything, right from daily essentials to medicines to special requirements, were supplied to the 6,000 home quarantined passengers by AMC staff and there was real-time monitoring of these people. We used GPS app-based location tracing of quarantined people to monitor their real-time locations. For those who were not home quarantined, we established a world-class facility in the Sports Club of Ahmedabad with every modern amenity and passengers were kept there free of cost. We are happy that the quality of quarantine ensured there was hardly any spread of infection from these passengers and we were ahead of the curve when it came to dealing with the disease. We established quarantine facilities in every zone of AMC to deal with Covid-19 in a decentralised and effective manner. We now have more than 10 quarantine centres in Ahmedabad either operational or ready to be put into operation.What were the steps taken to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities after the lockdown?Once the lockdown started, the biggest challenge was to ensure citizens don’t face any hassles and have uninterrupted access to basic requirements of life. Immediately, AMC rolled out new initiatives, including door to door supply of vegetables and other essentials, collection of garbage of Covid-19 suspects such as bio-medical waste, free food and medicine delivery to elderly on demand, surveillance and fumigation through drones and disinfection through a wide range of mechanical vehicles. Hyper-marts were taken on board and door to door supplies of groceries is being done by them. Our e-rickshaw-based Vegetable on Wheels initiative was recognised by the Union government as a model to be replicated by all.How are you tackling the distribution of food in slums and areas having high concentration of workers?We tripled our citizen helplines and now address citizen complaints, including Covid-19-related ones, almost on a real-time basis. To ensure the person at the bottom of the pyramid doesn’t suffer, AMC tied up with civil society members and we distributed around 50,000 food packets a day to the needy and no one in Ahmedabad slept hungry. Stranded migrant workers were provided with a roof and thousands were given a place to dwell. Similarly, to address the nutritional needs of people in slums, AMC supplied free vegetables and milk. We were one of the pioneers in social distancing and the ubiquitous circles outside shops were drawn very early on in Ahmedabad. AMC has enlisted more than 5,000 citizen volunteers through its online volunteer platform, who came forward to donate ration kits, food packets and sanitary material. Ahmedabadis came forward to sponsor tests for fellow citizens and hundreds of tests have been sponsored so far. With the support of Ahmedabadis, our strategy of aggressive testing is bearing fruit and we are hopeful that by May-end, we will be able to tide over this situation and this city will emerge victorious over Covid-19 sooner than later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-surveillance-behind-high-number-of-cases-in-ahmedabad-municipal-commissioner/story-BpkFhHSduN6upEFWvIMFJK.html
27-04-2020||India||Delhi Police receives 750 calls on its helpline number regarding lockdown in 24 hrs||The Delhi Police received over 700 calls on its 24x7 helpline number from 2 pm on Sunday and the same time on Monday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. A total of 30,899 calls were received by the police till Friday on its helpline (011-23469526), they said. Police received 750 calls from 2 pm on Sunday to 2 pm on Monday. Out of the 750, fifty-two were related to areas outside Delhi, which were referred to the respective state helpline numbers. Four calls were related to no food or no money, which were forwarded to NGOs. A total of 558 calls were related to movement passes, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-receives-750-calls-on-its-helpline-number-regarding-lockdown-in-24-hrs/story-p0WNt6NY3PpYdE7viZGCiK.html
27-04-2020||India||Kerala for partial nationwide lockdown till May 15, seeks financial relief||The Kerala government wants the lockdown, in place to check the spread of coronavirus disease, to be extended partially till May 15 and sought an exclusive Covid-19 financial relief from the Centre to compensate Rs 80,000 crore loss it suffered during the shutdown.The demand was conveyed by chief secretary Tom Jose, who represented the southern state, at the chief ministers’ video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.The economic condition in the state is precariously poised and it wants the Centre’s assistance to overcome the difficult situation, said chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan later in the evening. He said, in the last meeting with the PM, he had spoken in detail so this time the chief secretary attended the meeting and submitted the state’s proposals in writing.“Our cumulative loss is over Rs 80,000 crore. Micro and small and medium enterprises alone lost over Rs 14,000 crore. Hotel, tourism, fisheries, IT, self-employment and other sectors also lost badly. So we want an exclusive package to revive these sectors,” said the CM, adding the state has also asked the Centre to hike its borrowing capacity from the present 3% to 5%.The CM said 13 fresh cases were reported on Monday and two districts in green zones — Kottayam and Idukki — were put in the red zone as more cases were reported from there. Out of 13 new cases, Kottayam reported six and Idukki four. The state had reported 481 positive cases and 358 people were recovered, he said.Another issue raised at Monday’s video conference was the return of immigrant workers from Middle-East countries, said the CM. “We want the Centre to bear the airfare of the people, as they are reeling under financial constraints. We will screen them thoroughly at airports and they will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine on their arrival,” he said, adding more than 2, 20,000 were registered on the website of the non-resident Keralites affairs (Norka) department.There are at least 18 lakh people working in Gulf countries from the southern state and it is expecting that almost two lakh will be returning in the coming months. The CM said the state also sought the Centre’s help in sending stranded migrant workers back to their states. There are at least four lakh migrant workers who are living in 10,000 camps in different parts of the state. He sought non-stop trains from the Railways for the stranded labour force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-for-partial-nationwide-lockdown-till-may-15-seeks-financial-relief/story-dFJ8lhHE4gsGTYmNs5X2YM.html
27-04-2020||India||‘How do you enforce lockdown and open shops?’ asks Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee on Monday accused the Centre of making contradictory statements about the enforcement of the lockdown and said there should be greater clarity on the Union home ministry’s order on reopening shops.“On the one hand they lockdown should be strictly maintained on the other hand they’re saying to open all shops. What should we do? There is a lack of clarity between what the Central government is saying and their directives,” she said at a briefing at the state secretariat according to ANI.Banerjee who was among the chief ministers who did not get to speak at the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday morning, said her government was in favour of the lockdown.“If you open shops, how would you enforce lockdown? I think the Centre should come out with a clarification,” Banerjee said.She also said that the Centre should consult states before releasing circulars.“Central government is releasing circulars all of a sudden. I don’t have any problem with it but there must be some consultation. They should have asked the position of states,” she said.The lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus is scheduled to end on May 3 but a few chief ministers want it extended. West Bengal has so far reported 696 cases of Covid-19.Last week, Banerjee clashed with the Centre over the visit of two Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) to Bengal to oversee the state government’s efforts in the containment zones in teh fight against Covid-19.While the central teams complained that they did not get support in accessing hospitals and that local officials refused to accompany them, the ruling Trinamool Congress accused the two Central teams of spreading a “political virus” in the name of assessing the coronavirus containment efforts on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-do-you-enforce-lockdown-and-open-shops-asks-mamata-banerjee/story-1vEWDNObFZ02HAPH9JEgjN.html
27-04-2020||India||Assam allows rural stand-alone shops to open, to continue inter-district travel||Guwahati: The Assam government on Monday decided to allow stand-alone shops in rural areas to open and also continue with inter-district transportation of people stranded due to the lockdown.The decisions were taken in a cabinet meet held on Monday afternoon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers.“Only stand-alone shops in rural areas in green and orange zones (except containment areas) will open. No ‘bazaar’ or ‘haat’ (market places) will open,” Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna tweeted.Of the 33 districts in Assam, 5 districts-Golaghat, Nalbari, Marigaon, Dhubri and Goalpara in the red zone.While the shops in rural areas will be allowed to open from Tuesday, decision on allowing shops in urban areas to operate will be taken only after May 3 when the ongoing lockdown period ends.Parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary informed that shops within a radius of 5km around the boundary of districts declared as red zones also won’t be allowed to open.“Areas within that radius even if they fall in a green zone will continue to follow the rules meant for red zones,” Patowary said.He informed that the ongoing relaxation for interdistrict movement of people stranded across the state due to the lockdown will get extended till May 2.Since April 25, Assam State Transport Corporation has been transporting people across the state in buses free of cost. While 41,000 people had registered to avail the service, till Monday, 27,000 had travelled to their respective destinations. The service was launched initially for 3 days, later it was extended till April 30.“Some people have not been to avail the service yet and we are getting lots of requests from the districts to extend the date. Hence the cabinet decided to extend the date further till May 2,” he said.Patowary added the ongoing lockdown measures for districts in the red zone will continue to be strictly enforced.Assam has recorded 35 Covid-19 positive cases till date. While one patient has died, 27 have been discharged from hospitals and 7 are still recovering.Meanwhile, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal announced an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for journalists in the state who are involved in covering the Covid-19 pandemic amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-allows-rural-stand-alone-shops-to-open-to-continue-inter-district-travel/story-z5KnJQ657lB7Us05TV0TbP.html
27-04-2020||India||Mumbai cop who was denied admission in 4 civic hospitals dies of Covid-19||A 57-year-old head constable attached with the Kurla traffic division of Mumbai Police, who was denied admission in four civic hospitals died of Covid-19 on Monday. He was undergoing treatment at Parel’s King Edward Memorial Hospital. This is the third death due to coronavirus from the Mumbai police force in the last 48-hours. Over 50 policemen from the city police have tested positive for Covid-19 so far and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. He is the third Mumbai police constable to succumb to Covid-19.A senior police officer confirmed the development to HT. Mumbai Police on Monday evening informed about the demise of the head constable through Twitter.The head constable had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of KEM Hospital. He had medical history of blood pressure, a senior police officer said.On April 21, he was allegedly denied admission by four civic hospitals despite having coronavirus symptoms. The head constable’s 25-year-old son rushed him to Rajawadi Hospital around 2 pm after he had developed fever. The doctors conducted preliminary analysis and recommended home quarantine for him. “When I asked them to admit him, they claimed there was no bed available and asked me to take him to Kasturba Hospital,” the head constable’s son earlier speaking with HT said.He then took his father to Kasturba Hospital, where doctors supplied oxygen to the head constable. “They asked me to take him to Nair Hospital and didn’t even take my father’s swab for testing,” the 25-year-old alleged.At Nair Hospital, too, the authorities did not admit him stating they had no beds and that they did not test patients. “On their recommendation, I took my father to KEM Hospital, where doctors refused to admit him. After I contacted the police, my father was admitted to the ICU at 11pm,” the youth said.“My father has given 28 years to police service. If anything goes wrong, the doctors are responsible,” an emotional son had said.The deceased cop’s brother is also a policeman attached with the Mumbai Crime Branch. The head constable lived with his wife, two sons and two daughters at Kurla’s Kamani slums. His elder son works as a CCTV operator at Mantralaya for a private firm on contract basis.A 35-year-old constable, also attached with the Kurla traffic division, has tested positive for Covid-19, and has been admitted to Thane’s Kaushalya Hospital. It is suspected that he contracted the virus from the head constable.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on Friday had said that the constable was stable and the hospital’s dean will speak to his family about their complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cop-who-was-denied-admission-in-4-civic-hospitals-dies-of-covid-19/story-Xg6fqLi4wqXEqquZ0txmzN.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19: J&K evacuates 369 students from Kota||Jammu: The Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh Union Territory (UT) administrations on Monday evacuated a batch of 369 students from Kota, the country’s coaching hub for medical and engineering aspirants, amid the second phase of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on April 15 for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The students, who were pursuing coaching classes for various professional courses, were left stranded in Kota since March 25 when the 21-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were initially imposed.“A total of 369 students reached Lakhanpur on Monday around 7 am. We provided them breakfast after they underwent proper screening. Altogether, 213 students, including 57 from Ladakh, left for Srinagar in the morning. Another 186 students, accompanied by 30 of their parents, from Jammu will reach their destinations by the evening,” said OP Bhagat, deputy district magistrate, Kathua.“As per the guidelines, the students will be kept in administrative quarantine before they are allowed to go to their homes. However, the health officials didn’t come across Covid-19 symptoms among any students,” he added.The students are happy to be back home.“Most of the students from the other states had left for their native places after the lockdown restrictions were announced. Our classes stopped on March 25 and we’re also facing problems in getting our food. Then, we got in touch with J&K officials and also tweeted our plight tagging our Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu,” said a female student from J&K.An official the Ladakh UT administration thanked the J&K authorities for the cooperation. “We’ll be receiving our first batch, comprising 57 Ladakhi students, from Kota soon.”A total of 15 Jammu and Kashmir State Road Transport Corporation buses were pressed into service to bring back the students from Kota.J&K has reported 523 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 137 have recovered and six have died, according to the latest figures of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-j-k-evacuates-369-students-from-kota/story-btyFucgH9IRSHc30acIPeK.html
27-04-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir by resorting to unprovoked firing, officials said on Monday.  The Pakistani troops targeted Indian positions by using both small and heavy firearms in Silikote, Churunda and Tilawari areas of Uri sector in Baramulla district, they said. There were no reports of any casualties so far, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-PVKId4RywiOWsHqdZki5rM.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Not possible’: Bihar CM cites lockdown for delaying Kota students’ return||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state was strictly adhering to the central guidelines on lockdown, and it will not be possible to bring back anybody, including students from places like Kota and migrant workers stranded elsewhere, till the time Union government amended or issued fresh directive in this regard.Participating in a video conference, along with chief ministers of other states, Kumar said that many states have facilitated the return of students from the Kota in Rajasthan.“Such steps have stoked speculations and unwarranted interpretations on social media,” said Kumar, apparently re-iterating his earlier stand that a move to transfer people from one place to another defeated the very spirit of implementing a lockdown.“Bihari students are not only in Kota. Many are also in different parts of the country to get coaching. Bringing them back is not possible under the present framework. For this to happen, the Centre needs to amend its existing guidelines and issue fresh directives,” chief minister said, suggesting that any such relaxation should be evaluated for striking a uniformity in the future strategy on Covid-19.Kumar, who heads a coalition government with the BJP and the LJP in the state, said that it was for the Centre to take a call on the duration of the lockdown. “It can take the views of specialists and qualified persons in this regard. Bihar will comply with the Centre’s decision,” he said.Pressure has been building on the government for the safe passage of thousands of students and lakhs of migrant workers back home from their present locations as educational and industrial activities came to a juddering halt. Anxious parents, relatives and Opposition parties started to mount pressure, accusing the government of abandoning its own people.A public interest litigation (PIL) was also filed in Patna High Court and the verdict that was due for the day has been deferred for Tuesday.Aware that the return of students was intricately linked with the similar demand by a very large number of migrant workforce, the state government is treading with caution both to abide by the legal obligation for following the existing guidelines and also for limiting the spread of the contagion.Kumar informed the PM that the state government has received over one lakh phone calls and messages from migrant workers. “Based on their feedback, we are making an all out effort to redress their problems,” he said, while urging that anyone being allowed to be sent back to the state should be subjected to intensive screening.“We have also received 25 lakh applications seeking Rs 1,000 assistance announced by the state government and have transferred the amount through DBT mode into the accounts of 15 lakh people so far,” he said, drawing the attention of the PM towards the urgent requirement of additional ventilators and testing kits.Last week, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey had raised the earlier demand for ventilators from 100 to 500.Chief minister said that the state government was taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the pandemic and has initiated intensive drive for door-to-door, on the pattern of pulse polio campaign, for screening.“Seventy-five lakh families have been screened. We want to screen each and every family in the state, after the exercise is over in four worst affected districts. Testing is being carried out on a massive scale and the number of quarantine centres has been increased,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-possible-bihar-cm-cites-lockdown-for-delaying-kota-students-return/story-JZaVfa2D7mQvdwa11qwXvJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Anantnag braces for Covid-19 spurt as woman tests positive after death||The death of a woman in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district who later turned Covid-19 positive too, triggered fear among the already declared hotspot that many people who participated in her last rites may have contracted the infection as she was not buried as per the Covid-19 protocol.The family of the deceased alleged that the Maternity and child care hospital in Anantnag, where the 32-year old woman delivered dead twins and shortly died herself on Saturday, did not follow the proper protocol as they handed over the body to her family before the test results were out, due to which a large number of people attended her funeral in Kharpoora (Already declared hotspot) area of Anantnag.Her tests came out positive late on Sunday, a day after she was buried.The family alleged that the doctors at the hospital were negligent as they delayed her treatment on Saturday citing that she had come from a red zone. “She was left unattended for nearly 2 hours, after which she delivered two dead children, and shortly died herself too,” a relative said.“A probe is underway as the attendants of the woman have accused doctors of negligence. Regarding the SOP, the doctors had properly wrapped the body and advised the attendants of social distancing, however, the release of the body before the test result is a lapse which people have to answer,” said principal Government Medical College, Anantnag, Shaukat Jeelani.The relative added that “The doctors are lying when they say that the body was properly wrapped. They also did not advise us anything. We washed the body and around 100 people attended the funeral.”The authorities have now quarantined three doctors and the two paramedical staff who came indirect contact with the woman and also started quarantining the people who participated in her funeral.Deputy commissioner Anantnag Basher Ahmad Dar, “Enquiry is under way. On the basis of findings, action will be taken. No body will go unpunished if found involved in negligence and dereliction of duty”.In the southern district of the Valley, over 50 cases have been reported so far out of which two are pregnant women.Health authorities of the maternity hospital said that the woman’s twins were a case of Intra-Uterine Death (IUD) and the probe will make clear the sequence of events.“The probe will make clear everything about her death as well as the protocols. On our part, we followed the Covid protocols, wrapped her properly and gave instructions to her family not to wash her and maintain social distance while performing her last rites. What they did was beyond our control,” said medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Mir Ji Andrabi.The incident has created a fear among the localities and even people are also questioning the administration as to how the pregnant woman directly reached the maternity hospital from a red zone and how a large number of people were allowed to gather for her funeral.“Not only the health dept but also district admin should be questioned… when the village of the deceased lady has been already declared as red zone…How these people came out of their houses and participate in the funeral???,” questioned a netizen. Kashmir reported its first case on March 18 and it was not until April 15 that the Anantnag district reported its first Covid-19 positive case..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anantnag-braces-for-covid-19-spurt-as-pregnant-woman-tests-positive-after-death/story-TIrbJFLgqqqvCxOBcmNodM.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Won’t lose a single rupee’: Govt clarifies after cancelling Chinese Covid-19 test kits||The central government on Monday released a statement on the controversy surrounding the pricing of Chinese Covid-19 rapid antibody tests. The release issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated that the ICMR hasn’t made any payment with respect to the supplies of the Chinese rapid antibody tests. It said that the government will not lose any money on the cancellation of the rapid testing kits from the two Chinese firms. The ICMR, on Monday, directed states and Union territories to stop using rapid antibody tests from two Chinese companies and return them to the supplier after they were found faulty. The two Chinese firms in question are Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics.“Because of the due process followed (not going for procurement with 100% advance amount), GoI does not stand to lose a single rupee,” the release stated.The ministry also said that it had carried out a tender process, receiving bids between Rs 1,204 and Rs 600 for the order. The ministry said that it had selected the lowest quote, Rs 600, for the order.The government’s clarification comes amid controversy around the Chinese rapid tests. A trial in Delhi High Court on Monday revealed massive profiteering and over-pricing by a firm in the Covid-19 test kits sold to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), news agency IANS reported.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged a scam in the supply of these rapid testing kits to the government. The Congress also cited media reports on the pricing controversy. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel demanded a clarification from the government. “The recent Delhi HC (high court) judgement has raised a pertinent question - Why was ICMR purchasing antibody test kits for Rs 600 per piece, which was imported for Rs 245?” Patel tweeted out.Earlier in the day, the ICMR responded to Congress leader Udit Raj’s tweet over the price of kits for testing the coronavirus disease.“This is Fake News. Price range approved by ICMR is Rs 740-1150 for RT-PCR and ₹528-795 for Rapid Test. No test has been procured at Rs 4500. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR or Ms Anu Nagar, JS Health Research(011-23736222),” ICMR tweeted.Udit Raj had tweeted a screenshot of a tweet on Sunday, which claimed that the Union government granted the tender for coronavirus testing kits to a Gujarat-based company at the price of Rs 4500 per kit when the same was being offered to it by 17 other companies at the price of Rs 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goi-does-not-stand-to-lose-a-single-rupee-mha-clarifies-after-cancelling-chinese-covid-19-test-kits/story-LNlRmOVGPjEI0vnYAxJ9GI.html
27-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nitish Kumar says no to getting students back from Kota and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar says no to getting students back from Kota. Then explainsBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, unfazed by mounting pressure, said on Monday that his government will not be able to bring home students stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota unless the Centre revises lockdown guidelines. Read moreAt meet with chief ministers, PM Modi’s 5 clear messages on Covid-19 battlePrime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers on Monday to focus on a graded exit from the national lockdown from May 3 and plan for a step-by-step revival of economic activity in green zones that haven’t reported Covid-19 cases. Read more‘Shame and disgust’: Rahul Gandhi amid row over cost of Covid-19 test kitsFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged a scam in the supply of rapid test kits to the government to detect coronavirus cases, saying it was beyond belief that some people were indulging in profiteering from the immeasurable suffering of millions. Read more‘They become what they are not’: Yuvraj Singh feels young cricketers are trying too hard on social mediaFormer India cricketer Yuvraj Singh has also become active on social during this quarantine phase where he is talking to several current cricketers on Instagram Live. Read moreNever Have I Ever review: Mindy Kaling’s Netflix show takes desi drama worldwideNever Have I Ever review: Mindy Kaling’s semi-autobiographical Netflix show is part teen romance, part coming-of-age comedy, featuring an excellent performance by Poorna Jagannathan. Read moreVivo overtakes Samsung in the Indian market, Xiaomi still on topVivo has shipped more smartphones than Samsung in India for the first time ever in the last quarter, according to Canalys data. Vivo’s sales to vendors nearly doubled year-on-year to 6.7 million units. That’s 20% of the market. Read moreDIY tips for better living: Use the healing powers of art to spruce up your homeSince we are all getting to spend a lot more time at home and even working from home these days, there are so many DIY tips and tricks that can uplift your space and mood. Read moreWatching this father-son duo talk about financial terms may inspire you to pick up an economics book right nowThis just over two-minute-long clip was posted to Twitter on April 23. It shows the father-son duo, Kyren Gibson and Kyng Lyons Gibson, having a chat while sitting in a car. Read moreFYJC admissions: Maharashtra education department discusses challenges, possible solutions with different exam boardsEven as the state education department has announced the cancellation of the last paper of SSC exam, it now has the challenge of planning for the first year junior college (FYJC) admissions with several challenges coming up due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. Read moreWatch: Cured Covid-19 patient Tabrez Khan explains why he donated his plasmaCovid-19 patient Tabrez Khan, who has now been cured, has volunteered to donate his plasma to help other patients. Watch it here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nitish-kumar-says-no-to-getting-students-back-from-kota-and-all-the-latest-news/story-12a8nQN4OhJDxRZgEmhwBO.html
27-04-2020||India||No risk of transmission from Covid-19 recovered patients, says govt||In encouraging news amid the coronavirus health crisis, sixteen Indian districts which earlier had Covid-19 positive cases have not reported any fresh cases of the highly infectious disease for the last 28 days. The three new districts which are latest additions to this list are — Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar, data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare indicated on Monday.A total of 85 districts in 25 states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid-19 fresh case in the last 14 days. “The stigma related to Covid-19 patients should be addressed through an intensive campaign. We have to understand that there is no risk of transmission from recovered patients. They, in fact, can be a potential source of healing for antibodies using plasma therapy,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told the media in the daily news briefing.ALSO READ | At meet with chief ministers, PM Modi’s 5 clear messages on Covid-19 battleThe health ministry official reiterated that no community or area should be blamed for the spread of the coronavirus disease and healthcare and sanitation workers should not be attacked as they are helping in bringing the coronavirus crisis under control.On the testing capacity in the country, the health ministry official said, “At the level of ICMR, we have sufficient amount of kits as far as RT PCR test is concerned. Not only are sufficient amount of kits available but we have also parallelly ensured geographical adequacy so that kits can reach states which need them.” Since Sunday morning, there has been an increase of 1,396 positive cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 27,892 in India. 6,184 patients have been cured or discharged while 872 people have died from the deadly contagion in the country. The official said that a total of 381 people have recovered in the past day and the recovery rate of the country now stands at 22.17 per cent.At the briefing, Empowered Group-5 chairperson Parameswaran Iyer said cooked meals are being served to 1.5 crore people daily by the government, NGOs and industry as per data available on April 25. He also praised the Indian Railways and said it had done a tremendous job in distributing essential supplies and in keeping the supply chain intact. “If you look at the movement of rakes, you will see it has gone up from 67% on March 30 to 76% on April 25,” Iyer said. Earlier on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with various chief Ministers via video-link on whether and how to exit the nationwide lockdown. Kerala was the only state not represented by its Chief Minister in the video-conference. Pinarayi Vijayan did not attend the meeting because he was not among chief ministers listed to speak at the meeting, his office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-coronavirus-hit-districts-have-zero-new-cases-health-ministry/story-5VOgiRQuPz1hQ2fGlaI26H.html
27-04-2020||India||Mumbai mayor visits hospital in nurse’s uniform, encourages health staff||Kishori Pednekar, the mayor of Mumbai, put on a nurse’s uniform and visited the Brihanmubmbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run BYL Nair Hospital on Monday morning in a bid to encourage and enthuse the staff, who are in the front line to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Pednekar, a former nurse, mingled with the hospital’s nursing staff and enquired about the difficulties they are facing while dealing with the pandemic.A BMC official said Pednekar ensured that social distancing norms were adhered to during her visit to the hospital. “I’ve worked as a nurse and I’m acutely aware of the professional challenges. I put on my uniform to convey a message to the nursing fraternity that I’m one of their own. I interacted with the nursing staff to encourage them in their valiant fight against the pandemic. These are hard times. We need to stand by each other to fight this pandemic together,” she told HT. pic.twitter.com/jzrImVsuZgPednekar, who was born to a mill worker father, started her career as a nurse before she took to politics and joined the Shiv Sena’s women’s wing in 1992. Initially, she worked for the Sena in Raigad and Sindhudurg districts in western Maharashtra. She was elected a BMC councillor in 2002 and has since been re-elected twice in 2012 and 2017.She had quarantined herself at her official residence in Byculla for a week after 53 Mumbai-based journalists recently tested Covid-19 positive at a health camp organised by the BMC authorities. Pednekar, who was present at the health camp, had announced that she would quarantine herself for two weeks but decided to get back to her public life after she tested Covid-19 negative for the second consecutive time.“I stepped out after both my swab samples tested negative. I’m Mumbai’s first citizen and I need to work for the Mumbaikars,” she added.On Tuesday, Pednekar plans to make a similar visit to the BMC-run Sion Hospital. Mumbai reported 5,407 Covid-19 positive cases and 204 deaths till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-mayor-visits-hospital-in-nurse-s-uniform-encourages-health-staff/story-hHHRo1VSrUWxYBY1GTIhXJ.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Shame and disgust’: Rahul Gandhi amid row over cost of Covid-19 test kits||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged a scam in the supply of rapid test kits to the government to detect coronavirus cases, saying it was beyond belief that some people were indulging in profiteering from the immeasurable suffering of millions.He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate strict action to bring the corrupt to justice.“That any human being would try and profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers and sisters is beyond belief and comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” Gandhi tweeted.“When the entire country is fighting against the Covid-19 disaster, some people are still profiteering. Shame and disgust at this corrupt mentality. One detests and feels ashamed of such a corrupt mindset. The country will never pardon them. We demand from the Prime Minister strict action against these profiteers,” he said in another tweet in Hindi.The Congress cited media reports about rapid test kits for Covid-19 were being sold at around 150% profits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and asked the Prime Minister to fix the responsibility for it.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said it was “shameful and inhuman” that people were supplying test kits bought for Rs 225 at Rs 600 to the state exchequer.“Corruption in Corona Testing Kits OR Profiteering by duping the Exchequer. Import Price of 1 Testing Kit= Rs 225! Purchase Price of Testing Kit= Rs 600! Profit Margin = 166.66 pc! Shameful and Inhuman! Will PM fix responsibility,” he tweeted.Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel too demanded a clarification from the government. “The recent Delhi HC (high court) judgement has raised a pertinent question - Why was ICMR purchasing antibody test kits for Rs 600 per piece, which was imported for Rs 245?” he asked on twitter.Later addressing reporters through video-conferencing, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari demanded that the government should make public details of all purchases made in the last one month to fight Covid-19.He said the government should put an immediate end to the huge profiteering in procurement of equipment.“What is happening? There seems to be absolute anarchy in procurement of equipment for fighting Covid-19. We would like to demand from the government to make public all details made with regard to procuring equipment for testing, PPEs and ventilators. All those transactions must be transparently placed in public domain,” added Tewari.Referring to a company engaged in supply of testing kits acquired from China, he alleged that kits purchased at Rs 245 were being sold by the same company to ICMR at Rs 600 each while the same to Tamil Nadu government were sold at Rs 400 each.“The price of one testing kit was Rs 245, thus 5 lakh kits amount to Rs 12.25 crore. However, the firm sold the kits to another company at Rs 21 crore and the ICMR procured these kits at Rs 30 crore, which is a profit margin of more than 100%,” Tewari said.The Congress leader said the matter came to light in a petition before the Delhi high court by a company supplying such equipment.“This is an extremely serious matter which hurts the fight of India against Covid-19. Our country’s resources are scarce and we have to optimise them and not allow companies to make arbitrage of over 60% in these transactions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shame-and-disgust-rahul-gandhi-amid-row-over-cost-of-covid-19-test-kits/story-pFuGuYnu80STKteQOXwhrM.html
27-04-2020||India||At meet with chief ministers, PM Modi’s 5 clear messages on Covid-19 battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers on Monday to focus on a graded exit from the national lockdown from May 3 and plan for a step-by-step revival of economic activity in green zones that haven’t reported Covid-19 cases.PM Modi, who was speaking at his fourth interaction via video conference with chief ministers on the Covid-19 challenge, underlined that the country had to think of the way ahead, beyond May 3, when the second round of the national lockdown ends.The states should strictly enforce the lockdown guidelines in the hotspots, or the red zone areas, and focus on converting them into orange zones - areas with a few Covid-19 cases - and thereafter to green zones.Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details Apart from a graded exit from the lockdown, PM Modi outlined his government’s thinking on reviving the economy, the plan to evacuate Indians stranded abroad, the condition of migrant workers and stressed that fighting Covid-19 was a collective responsibility.India had gone into a complete lockdown mode on March 25 to prevent the coronavirus disease from spreading. The lockdown brought economic activity to a grinding halt, and put a lid on consumption that powers the economy. PM Modi renewed the lockdown on April 14 but this time, started easing the restrictions to revive economic activity.But the lockdown had saved lives, PM Modi told the chief ministers. Many countries, much smaller than India, had lost many more lives in the pandemic. But he cautioned that the danger of the virus is far from over in India.Instead, the prime minister asked states to consolidate their gains and at the same time, revive economic activity. But you should ensure that there is no casual attitude towards the virus, he told them.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma summarised PM Modi’s message, saying that even as the lockdown is relaxed from May 3, the entire mindset of the lockdown should continue.PM Modi also hinted that the government might look at certain reforms that had been held up earlier. “We have to be brave and bring in reforms that touch the lives of common citizens,” he said. PM Modi did not elaborate on the reforms that he had in mind.PM Modi also underlined the plight of migrant workers and asked chief ministers to take special care of workers from other states and ease their hardship.The government has been reluctant to facilitate the return of millions of migrant workers on grounds that mass travel can take the infection to unaffected areas. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thakceray has repeatedly asked for special trains to be run to let the migrant workers return home. Some other states have offered to run buses.PM Modi didn’t rule out the Centre’s approval but appeared to message that states should assess how they would be able to run the factories and industrial units in the absence of the migrant workers.The prime minister also indicated that the Centre’s evacuation plan for Indians stranded abroad was on track. Since Indian citizens stuck abroad would have to be placed in quarantine centres immediately on their return, the Centre has made it clear that this plan would depend heavily on the ability of states to accommodate them at quarantine centres and hospitals.This, PM Modi said, had to be done keeping in mind that the citizens don’t get inconvenienced on their return and their families are not under any risk.PM Modi, who has more than once spoken of the crucial role played by state governments in fighting Covid-19, underscored that it was the collective responsibility of the Centre, states and people to stop the virus from spreading.If one state goes down, it will take the entire country down, he said. The remark came against the backdrop of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s faceoff with the Union home ministry over the visit of a central team to her state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meet-with-chief-ministers-pm-modi-s-5-clear-messages-on-covid-19-battle/story-vL2yCGml7bKacATZmb8NGI.html
27-04-2020||India||Return Covid-19 rapid test kits: ICMR to states after complaints over results||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked states on Monday to stop using rapid tests kits made by two Chinese companies and return them.In a letter to chief secretaries, ICMR additional director general GS Toteja said the scientific body has evaluated the performance of the kits, which were initially seen as crucial in efforts to speed up Covid-19 testing, and found wide variation in results.ICMR has tested the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon diagnostics in field conditions, the letter said.“The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes,” it said.He said states should stop using kits procured from these companies and return them so that they could be sent back to the suppliers.Toteja said several states procured rapid antibody test kits even as ICMR made them available at the clear instruction that these kits were to be used only for surveillance purposes. On April 16, ICMR received a consignment of 550,000 of these test kits from the two Chinese companies.On April 21, ICMR put on hold the use of rapid testing kits after complaints from several states. The first came from West Bengal, which said the kits returned ‘inconclusive results’. Soon, Rajasthan, which was the first to start using the kits on April 18, found that patients already confirmed through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were reported as negative by the rapid test kits.After India halted its use, both the Chinese companies that exported the kits issued a statement saying their testing kits were of optimum quality and they would cooperate with the Indian authorities to get to the cause behind the inaccurate test results.The principle mechanism of how the blood tests work is one of the reasons they are turning out to be complicated: these detect antibodies that an infected person’s body creates in response to the virus, instead of detecting the virus itself – which is the case in the swab tests.Antibodies can take days to show up in the blood, scientists say. In a yet-to-be peer reviewed paper comparing 12 such blood test kits, American researchers found that the accuracy of positive results ranged between 81.8-100% after 20 days of a person first showing symptoms. The accuracy of negative results in those not infected was in the 84.3-100.0% range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-covid-19-rapid-test-kits-icmr-to-states-amid-complaints/story-fKtXccLsVltpHNTaUIXunK.html
27-04-2020||India||ICMR tells states to ‘stop using Rapid Testing Kits’ from two Chinese companies||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday issued a revised advisory to state governments regarding Rapid Antibody Blood tests for coronavirus and asked them to stop using kits from two Chinese companies. The two Chinese firms in question are Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics. In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states and Union territories, the ICMR said that RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test “is the best use for diagnosis of Covid-19”. It said the test detects the virus at an early stage.The ICMR said that it has evaluated the testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics and found “wide variation” in their sensitivity, “despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes”. It asked for testing kits procured from these Chinese companies to be sent back to the suppliers. Earlier in the day, the top medical body responded to Congress leader Udit Raj’s tweet over the price of kits for testing the coronavirus disease.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issues revised advisory to state governments regarding Rapid Antibody Blood tests. ICMR has written to them to stop using Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics kits. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/brLQILbk54“This is Fake News. Price range approved by ICMR is Rs 740-1150 for RT-PCR and ₹528-795 for Rapid Test. No test has been procured at Rs 4500. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR or Ms Anu Nagar, JS Health Research(011-23736222),” ICMR tweeted.The ICMR also tweeted the contact details of its officials, in case, anyone there is ready to supply the kit at a lower price.Udit Raj had tweeted a screenshot of a tweet on Sunday, which claimed that the Union government granted the tender for coronavirus testing kits to a Gujarat-based company at the price of Rs 4500 per kit when the same was being offered to it by 17 other companies at the price of Rs 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-using-rapid-testing-kits-from-two-chinese-companies-icmr-tells-states/story-RKNieaxaZSCkg4626CrXmL.html
27-04-2020||India||Nitish Kumar says no to getting students back from Kota. Then explains||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, unfazed by mounting pressure, said on Monday that his government will not be able to bring home students stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota unless the Centre revises lockdown guidelines.A national lockdown is in place till May 3 to check the halt of coronavirus disease.“Our students are not just in Kota but also many other parts of the country... it would not be possible to bring them back until the Centre amends its guidelines, which we are adhering to suitably,” said Nitish Kumar.Participating in chief ministers’ videoconference with Prime Minster Narendra Modi, Kumar spoke about many states having arranged for return of students from the Rajasthan town, and also made an oblique reference to the pressure from opposition parties that his government has been facing on the issue.A total of 2,152 cases of coronavirus have been reported in Rajasthan so far.Earlier today, a group of 369 students, hailing from different districts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, reached home from Kota in 15 buses, officials said.All the students would go through mandatory administrative quarantine as a precautionary measure after reaching their home districts, officials added.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath set the ball rolling on the matter by being the first to send the buses to Kota to bring home students, putting pressure on other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-says-no-to-getting-students-back-from-kota-then-explains/story-ZJU6sSt2LFWsUUEDaL7CkM.html
27-04-2020||India||Tablighi chief Maulana Saad tests negative for Covid-19, no summons yet, says lawyer||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi has tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday, in a test done in a private laboratory, according to his lawyer Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi. The Tablighi Jamaat chief, who is currently in home quarantine, has not been summoned by the Delhi Police so far, the lawyer said. “Maulana Saad has tested negative for Covid-19. He is not an absconder, nor has he been asked by the Delhi Police to appear. We have not received any summons. We have received three notices till now and have responded to all three of them,” Ayyubi said, news agency ANI reported.“People of Markaz and Tablighi Jamaat are fully co-operating with the Delhi Police. Delhi Police has recently searched Maulana Saad’s office in Markaz and offices and residences of other accused,” the lawyer said.The chief of Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz was in the midst of a row over allowing the global congregation amid the coronavirus pandemic and is being investigated in cases lodged against him under various sections, including by the Enforcement Directorate.His lawyer, however, indicated that the Maulana was cooperating with the police and the investigative agencies have not asked him to join investigations yet.The Markaz chief had earlier said that he believed in the judicial system of the country and the truth shall prevail.Earlier this month, Maulana Saad had asked his followers, who tested positive for coronavirus and had recovered, to donate their plasma for the treatment of other Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-chief-maulana-saad-tests-negative-for-covid-19-no-summons-yet-says-lawyer/story-vOP1OizIH5Gex5CTXXfpvK.html
27-04-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry HQ reopens; ‘is sanitized and safe,’ tweets Hardeep Singh Puri||The headquarters of the Ministry of Civil Aviation at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in Delhi, reopened on Monday. The office was sealed last week after a civil aviation staffer tested positive for coronavirus on April 21.In a tweet, Union Minister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, said that the office has been sanitised, “is safe and has been reopened”.  Puri, who was working out of Nirman Bhawana and Udhyog Bhawan in the meanwhile, said he worked from the Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan office today.  The @MoCA_GoI office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan is sanitized, safe, up & reopened. It was sealed after one of our colleagues tested positive for #COVID19 on 21st April.After operating from Nirman Bhawan & Udhyog Bhawan for a while, I worked out of my Civil Aviation office today. pic.twitter.com/68wFat1fYH“The @MoCA_GoI office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan is sanitized, safe, up & reopened. It was sealed after one of our colleagues tested positive for #COVID19 on 21st April. After operating from Nirman Bhawan & Udhyog Bhawan for a while, I worked out of my Civil Aviation office today,” Puri tweeted out. The ministry personnel who tested positive for Covid-19 had attended the office on April 15. “An employee of the ministry who had attended office on 15 April 2020 has tested positive for COVID19 on 21st April. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the Premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self isolation as a precaution,” the ministry tweeted out.Puri came out in support of the staffer and assured “all possible help”. “We stand by our colleague at @MoCA_GoI who has tested positive for COVID19 & have extended all possible medical help & support,” the minister had tweeted. “Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures. I wish him strength & speedy recovery,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-civil-aviation-ministry-hq-reopens-is-sanitized-and-safe-tweets-hardeep-singh-puri/story-lAXuHa77fNUp4RR6JwFM8J.html
27-04-2020||India||Meghalaya and Mizoram CMs want lockdown extension with some concessions||The chief ministers of Meghalaya and Mizoram during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday supported the extension of the lockdown across the country to check the spread of coronavirus.Both of them, however, wanted relaxations in economic activity in areas which haven’t reported any cases or where most Covid-19 patients have recovered.Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga were among the nine chief ministers who spoke at Monday’s video conference.“We have mooted to continue with the lockdown post May 3rd with relaxation on activities in green zones or non-Covid affected districts in Meghalaya,” Sangma tweeted after the video conference.Meghalaya has recorded 12 Covid-19 positive cases till date. While one patient has died 11 others are recovering. All the cases are from the state capital Shillong.“As far as Mizoram is concerned, I informed the PM that we have just one Covid-19 patient who is recovering slowly. But since we are surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and neighbouring states which also have Covid-19 patients, we can’t be complacent and guard have to ourselves very strictly,” Mizoram CM Zoramthanga told HT over phone from Aizawl.“We will try to relax the lockdown a little after May 3 and allow some economic activity slowly. In our view, the lockdown should continue as the situation is grim in several places. But some kind of activity can be permitted in green zones,” he added.Mizoram has reported only one case of Covid-19 so far. At the video conference, Prime Minister Modi told the chief ministers that the lockdown has yielded positive results and the country has managed to save thousands of lives in past one and a half months.The lockdown which began on March 25 was to end on April 14 but was extended to May 3 after many chief ministers recommended it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-and-mizoram-cms-want-lockdown-extension-with-some-concessions/story-vq9B4yulTfglADlQpE9u8J.html
27-04-2020||India||Pak Army publication focuses on Kashmir; Bajwa writes on Art 370, Balakot||Kashmir appears to be the focus of the 2020 edition of an internal publication of the Pakistan Army, with its chief Gen Qamar Bajwa describing last year’s Balakot air strike and the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status as events that impacted regional geo-politics.A majority of articles in the latest edition by army officers, former diplomats, academics and journalists reference the Kashmir issue, and offer suggestions ranging from creating a Kashmir Fund to support people in the Indian Union Territory, and adopting information and cyber warfare by establishing communications links inside the Kashmir Valley.The Green Book 2020, a biennial publication of the Pakistan Army with essays by both serving and retired officers that reflect the military’s overall strategy and objectives, also has a message by Bajwa that describes Kashmir as a “nuclear flashpoint”.In his message in Green Book 2020, posted on the website of Pakistan’s National Defence University (NDU), Bajwa says the environment in South continues to be complex, with the lines getting blurred between different types of warfare.“Year 2019 witnessed two significant events which will have lasting imprint on the geopolitics of this region; first, the unwarranted Balakot Strike by Indian Air Force on 26th February and second, the unilateral annexation of Indian Occupied Jammu & Kashmir by [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi on 5th August, through abrogation of Article 370 and 35A,” Bajwa wrote in the message issued as patron-in-chief of the publication.“Former was a coercive attempt to carve out space for war under nuclear overhang and enforce compellence; adroitly denied by Pakistan Air Force the very next day, through a calibrated and proportionate response – Indian craving for establishing a New Normal was stymied comprehensively. The latter, despite condemnation by the world at large, continues to haunt the lives of over eight million Muslims of [Kashmir]…,” he added.“Kashmir is a nuclear flashpoint and in total disregard to international norms, Mr Modi has not only endangered the immediate neighbourhood, but has also raised the ante for the entire World. The scholarly discourse in current edition of Pakistan Army Green Book has accordingly spotlighted the implications of these events from diverse perspectives and dimensions,” Bajwa further wrote.Some recent editions of the Green Book had focused on the internal threat posed by terrorist groups but this year’s edition marks a return to the traditional focus on India as Pakistan’s greatest threat. Several articles in the Green Book dwell at length on the Pulwama terror attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in February last year that triggered a fresh stand-off between India and Pakistan, the Indian Air Force strike on a JeM facility at Balakot and the retaliatory action by the Pakistan Air Force.The articles make references to other events such as the 1999 Kargil conflict and the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, which led to face-offs between the two countries, but make no mention of the role of Pakistan-based elements in triggering these events.Lt Gen (retired) Raza Muhammad Khan, a former Corps Commander and former president of NDU, in his article, “The prospects and panacea of peace in South Asia”, recommended the creation of a “domestic and international Kashmir Fund”, saying it could crowd sourced and the Pakistan government “should provide tax incentives for donations”.The federal government, in the absence of resources, “must encourage the provinces to allocate at least one percent of their NFC [National Finance Corporation] shares and earnings” and the Kashmir Fund should be controlled by the prime minister to prevent human rights violations in Kashmir, “informing the Indian masses and liberal intellectuals about the colossal cost…of enslaving nine million Kashmiris…and exposing the lies of the Indian government,” Khan wrote.Khan also recommends that Pakistan must make any dialogue with India “conditional with the reversal of all illegal measures taken by it in August, and inclusion of third party, preferably UN mediators in the process”.Journalist Farzana Shah, who focuses on defence issues, wrote in her article “National security & emerging geopolitical scenario: Post Article 370 obliteration”, that Pakistan should adopt am out of the box solution by taking “the war into non-kinetic domains” such as information and cyber warfare and electronic warfare.Pakistan’s establishments “must provide support to diplomatic efforts being done by government through operations in these two domains with focused goal of extracting authentic information from stakeholders in [Kashmir], most importantly from general public…Once information [is] gathered, FO [Foreign Office] must disseminate it with proper narrative of the state of Pakistan,” she wrote.“A single video clip or picture can change the perception of India, which it has built so painstakingly over the years. Pakistan needs to keep world attention on [Kashmir] and in order to do that communication links inside the [Kashmir] valley must be established…Pakistan’s response in these two domains will be purely non-kinetic, denying any involvement of arms. If executed properly and a local uprising occurs inside [Kashmir], it will make it extremely difficult for India to keep selling the terrorism card….”“Only a native uprising will be just and politically defendable for Pakistan on international forums. Even such an uprising will need support in the information domain,” she added.Lawmaker Mushahid Hussain, chairman of the parliamentary committee on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), wrote that Pakistan needs to pursue a multi-pronged strategy with regard to India and Kashmir with the “kind of clarity and commitment that Pakistani policy-makers demonstrated while building the Nuclear Bomb”.“Such a strategy should target Modi and his RSS Gang, and separate them from the broader Indian society and polity that opposes Modi, along with a united front of all Kashmiris and the linkup of the Kashmiri resistance with other insurgencies inside India,” he added.Former foreign secretary Shamshad Ahmad Khan, in his article “India-Pakistan relations in perspective”, wrote that “India’s continued ascendancy in Afghanistan will remain a danger of no less gravity to the already volatile security environment of this nuclearised region” than the Soviet presence in Cuba in the early 1960s.“Our main concern has always been to offset India’s superior conventional strength. The only credible response has to be a counter force which in the dreary India-Pakistan scenario could only be tactical warheads,” he added.The former diplomat wrote that US President Donald Trump’s offer during Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Washington in July 2019 to play a “facilitating role in resolving the Kashmir issue” was the “best-ever position taken by an American president in recent history on India-Pakistan issues”.While continuing to support the Kashmiris’ “freedom movement”, Pakistan should resume the composite dialogue with India to build trust and develop mutually beneficial cooperation, he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-army-book-focuses-on-kashmir-bajwa-writes-on-art-370-balakot/story-Zn97e8GcYZ7E7tRJqSfjTN.html
27-04-2020||India||Indian passport services resume at some centres in UAE||Indian passport services have been resumed at a number of centres in Dubai and the Northern Emirates following a relaxation in coronavirus-related restrictions, the Indian Consulate here has announced.The five centres have been reopened following the relaxation of coronavirus-related restrictions, including Al Khaleeh Centre and BLS Deira in Dubai, the Sharjah Main Centre, Fujairah ISC and BLS Ras Al Khaimah.Dubai announced on Tuesday last the extension of working hours for certain commercial activities within the emirate effective immediately in a further relaxation of restrictions imposed on trading and business activities as part of the coronavirus lockdown.According to a Twitter announcement by the Consulate, only passports that have already expired or will expire by May 31 will be accepted for renewals by these centres.These renewal applications can only be submitted after booking an appointment with the centre, which can be done by emailing info@blsindiavisa-uae.com, according to the announcement on Sunday.In emergency cases, applicants can email passport.dubai@mea.gov.in with a copy of the passport, a note explaining the emergency and proper supporting documents.Similarly, attestation services at these centres also call for prior appointments. These can be booked by sending requests through the Q-ticket app, by calling 04-3579585 or by emailing ivsglobaldxb@gmail.com.In case of emergencies, an application can write to attestation.dubai@mea.gov.in.All visitors to the centres will also have to maintain social safe distancing.The UAE Ministry of Health and Prevention on Sunday announced 536 new cases of the coronavirus. The total number of cases in the UAE now stands at 10,349, and the total death toll at 76.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-passport-services-resume-at-some-centres-in-uae/story-VyTsC1wr3t2IIrTtwMlWSK.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Fake news’: ICMR responds to Congress leader Udit Raj’s tweet on Covid-19 kit||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) responded to Congress leader Udit Raj’s tweet over the price of kits for testing the coronavirus disease.The top medical body also tweeted the contact details of its officials, in case, there anyone is ready to supply the kit at a lower price.“This is Fake News. Price range approved by ICMR is Rs 740-1150 for RT-PCR and ₹528-795 for Rapid Test. No test has been procured at Rs 4500. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR or Ms Anu Nagar, JS Health Research(011-23736222),” ICMR tweeted. Udit Raj had tweeted a screenshot of a tweet on Sunday, which claimed that the Union government granted the tender for coronavirus testing kits to a Gujarat-based company at the price of Rs 4500 per kit when the same was being offered to it by 17 other companies at the price of Rs 500. “This is being circulated on social media. It is difficult to ascertain the truth,” Raj had posted. Several other Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, have also targeted the central government over the purchase of these testing kits.Congress leader Ahmed Patel said the antibody test kits were being bought for Rs 600 per piece by ICMR even though they were being imported for Rs 245 each. He tweeted that no one should profit at the expense of the poor in the midst of a pandemic.After that, Rahul Gandhi alleged some people were indulging in profiteering while supplying rapid test kits for Covid-19 to the government and demanded that the Prime Minister take strict immediate action against them.Their comments came after Delhi High Court directed that these kits must be sold at Rs 400. The court said that a profit of 61% on the original price was more than sufficient, especially when the country was going through an unprecedented medical crisis affecting people and the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-news-icmr-responds-to-congress-leader-udit-raj-s-tweet-on-covid-19-kit/story-vnIGB1ItDvXFr8HkYrXBKO.html
27-04-2020||India||Eleven poisoned vultures cured and released into the wild in Assam||Veterinarians in Assam have cured 11 vultures who were poisoned after eating a contaminated carcass and released them in the wild on Monday.Nineteen vultures belonging to two different species had died at Sibsagar district on April 21 after they consumed meat of a poisoned calf’s carcass at Lepaigaon Pathar in Assam.“Seventeen of the dead vultures were Slender Billed while two others were White Backed. Preliminary investigation suggests it could be a case of secondary poisoning,” said Jayashree Naiding, divisional forest officer, Sibsagar.  “The primary target of the poisoning could be some other species, maybe stray dogs or wolves. But the vultures fed on the poisoned carcass and it resulted in the deaths,” she added.Thirteen other vultures were rescued from the area and sent to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) near Kaziranga National Park for treatment and rehabilitation.Two of the surviving vultures, one Slender Billed and another White Backed, died during treatment. But vets at CWRC were able to treat the others - 7 Himalayan Griffons, 3 Slender Billed and 1 White Backed.“Secondary poisoning led to vulture deaths and remains a very critical issue. We are losing this threatened and critically endangered species, also known as nature’s cleaners,” said Samshul Ali, a veterinarian with Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) working at CWRC.“We tried our level best to stabilize the two seriously ill birds, but they succumbed to death in the early hours of Friday,” he added.The cured vultures were released by a WTI and CWRC team in presence of forest officials and conservationists.Last year in March, a similar incident took place in Sibsagar district wherein 39 vultures died after consuming poisoned meat at Panidihing.The CWRC team was able to rescue 30 vultures from that incident and release them to the wild. In April 2018, the team had rescued and released 10 poisoned vultures into the wild.While Himalayan Griffons are listed as near threatened, White Backed and Slender Billed vultures are listed as critically endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eleven-poisoned-vultures-cured-and-released-into-the-wild-in-assam/story-PhfhmVxCxhj93OM2ggC3GO.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Over a lakh Keralites, mostly from Middle-East, register to return home||Twelve hours after the Kerala government opened a website, on which all those who want to return from abroad would have to register, over a lakh of Kerala diaspora have registered expressing their desire to return, when the airports open. These registrations are mostly from the various Middle East countries and among it, the maximum registrations are from the UAE.The registration has to be done on www.norkaroots.org, of the state-run Norka-Roots, the official body of diaspora.This new facility was opened by the Kerala government, after the Centre, following the numerous requests from several quarters decided to take a positive step.The Union Cabinet Secretary a few days back asked the various state-chief secretaries about the arrangements and the manner in which the returning diaspora would be taken care of.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had informed the efforts of Kerala were praised by the Cabinet secretary and asked other states to follow the way Kerala has done.Vijayan also pointed out that all arrangements were ready at the four Kerala airports.Those arriving will be screened. While those with no Covid-19 symptoms will be allowed to go for home isolation, others will be quarantined under the present medical guidelines.According to the state government, various hostels, hotels, halls, private hospitals with accommodation facilities as well as floating houseboats at Alappuzha are ready to house them.While many of these coronavirus care centres would be operated for free, those wishing better facilities and comfort will have to pay.Of an estimated 2.5 million non-resident Keralites, 90 per cent of them are in the Middle East countries, three to five lakh are likely to return after the revival of air services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-over-a-lakh-keralites-mostly-from-middle-east-register-to-return-home/story-h6f3L1QHkIGhplhm2UGwxO.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala wants economic package from Centre, evacuation of expatriates||Kerala wants the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus to be lifted in a staggered manner and has asked for an exclusive Covid-19 financial package from the Centre. The southern state, with a large expat population, also wants the central government to expedite their return. This was conveyed by the state chief secretary who represented the southern state at the chief ministers’ video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country on Monday. A government spokesperson said that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan did not attend the video conference as he had spoken in great detail at the last such meeting with the prime minister. So, this time Tome Jose, Kerala’s chief secretary, attended the meeting and submitted the state’s proposals in writing.The economic condition in the state is precariously poised and it wants an economic package to overcome this difficult situation, according to the proposal submitted. Kerala has also asked the central government to hike its borrowing capacity from the present 3% to 5%. The state has been forced to cut its employees’ one-month salary because of the situation arising out of the coronavirus mess, it said.According to data released by Union health ministry on Monday morning, Kerala has 800 cases of coronavirus infections. These include 458 active infections and four deaths from Covid-19. Another issue raised at Monday’s video conference was the return of the state’s migrant workers from Middle-East Asian countries. The southern state, which has a huge migrant population working in the Middle-East, wants the Centre to expedite their evacuation. Among 18 lakh Keralites in the Persian Gulf, there are reports that at least 2 lakh, mainly blue collar workers, women and students, are ready to come back. Twelve hours after the Kerala government opened a website, on which all those who want to return from abroad would have to register, over a lakh of Kerala diaspora have registered expressing their desire to return, when the airports open, according to news agency IANS. These registrations are mostly from the various Middle East countries and among it, the maximum registrations are from the UAE, the agency added. Another proposal on Kerala’s wishlist is Centre’s help in sending stranded migrant workers back to their states. There are at least 3 lakh migrant workers who are living in 10,000 camps in different parts of the state. The state said the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to the PM twice to arrange non-stop trains for them but the state is yet to get a reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-wants-economic-package-from-centre-evacuation-of-expatriates/story-VayhEFbKBWdZKdS9XndOeO.html
27-04-2020||India||Woman gets threat calls for Facebook comment on social distancing in slums||A 33-year-old businesswoman in Maharashtra’s Mumbai received several threats and abuses over the phone after she commented on a video on Facebook about social distancing in slums, police said.Goregaon Police said the woman, who co-owns a start-up, complimented the social activist who uploaded the video, ‘Social distancing a Myth in Slums’. But she also criticised him for his careless comments while he addressed the issue, angering a friend from college over her “negative comment”The friend then tagged people asking them to give her a fitting reply following which multiple people trolled her. She blocked them and thought the issue was over. However, on April 24 she began getting calls from five people and was threatened, abused with lewd comments. The accused demanded an apology and asked her to delete her comments. After that, the accused wrote defamatory comments about on her company’s website and LinkedIn. They also tried to contact her business partner, who lives abroad. “Social media is also to share our views and we are bound to have differences in opinions. But it is more than just dangerous for the nation to have citizens who convert the social media interaction into threats, harassment and defamation,” she said while speaking to HT.A first information report (FIR) was registered on Sunday at the Goregaon police station against the people who harassed and trolled her under section 509 (word, act or gesture to insult the modesty of a woman), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 67 (publishing obscene content in electronic form) of information technology act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-mumbai-woman-abused-threatened-over-difference-of-opinion-on-social-distancing-in-slums/story-ZyHIvEGLwHm0kH9HA9nJtN.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases near 28,000-mark, PM Modi and CMs discuss the way ahead: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 27,892 on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 20,835 active coronavirus cases in the country, 6,184 patients have been cured or discharged while 872 people have died from the deadly contagion. There were 1,396 new cases of Covid-19 and 48 deaths in the last 24 hours.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with chief ministers of various states over the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. While all other CMs, or their representatives, were present during the interaction, chief ministers of nine states could only speak during the meeting .Here are the latest developments:1. Chief ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat and Haryana participated in a meeting with PM Modi via video conferencing. Other chief ministers were asked to send their submissions in writing.2. Except for Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh, all other states expressed willingness to lift the Covid-19 lockdown.3. During the meeting, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar said the state has started door to door screening, similar to the polio campaign. “We are working on a similar mechanism and four crore people have been screened,” he said.4. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani said in hotspots areas of the state and after the Nizamuddin incident, Surat Vadodara and Ahmedabad have increased surveillance and started treatment of affected people.5. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked chief ministers to ensure no stigma is attached to the coronavirus disease in their respective states.6. PM Modi stressed on the importance of maintaining distance to avoid coronavirus. “Do gaj ki doori (a distance of two yards). We have to keep spreading this message and should be a life lesson for all,” he added.7. The RBI announced Rs. 50,000 crore Special Liquidity Facility (SLF) for mutual funds in a bid to ease liquidity pressures on mutual funds (MFs) amid the coronavirus crisis and Franklin Templeton mess.8. PM Modi on Monday said that the 300 districts across the country where no Covid-19 positive case has been reported “should be treated as sacred”.9. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said people who reside in the state but work in the national capital are “corona-carriers”. He has appealed to the Delhi government to make staying arrangements for such people there itself.10. With 1002 patients, Telangana became the ninth state with over 1000 coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-near-28-000-mark-pm-modi-and-chief-ministers-discuss-the-way-ahead-10-points/story-HnA5NMgfT4eY9CtFdinNHM.html
27-04-2020||India||In PM Modi’s Covid-19 meeting with CMs, Kerala and Bengal strike a different chord||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with the chief ministers to form a strategy to find a way ahead in the country’s fight against the coronavirus lockdown.As several issues were discussed by the Prime Minister and the heads of states, Kerala was the only state not represented by its chief minister in the video-conference.A government spokesperson said Pinarayi Vijayan had spoken in detail and this time a chance was given to those who could not speak the last time. So, the state’s chief secretary Tom Jose attended the meeting instead.In the meeting, the southern state sought a staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid-19 package. Another issue Kerala raised was the return of the migrant population from the Middle-Eastern countries. It wants the Centre to expedite the evacuation.Reports had said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee would only attend the meeting briefly and then ask a senior bureaucrat to represent her.But Mamata Banerjee, who was said to be upset she was not given a chance to speak, did attend the meeting.As the nationwide lockdown is about to end on May 3, PM Modi underlined the key challenge of balancing lives and livelihood in the country. The Prime Minister has already held three such meetings with chief ministers to discuss the situation in the country as it tackles a rising number of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meeting-with-cms-kerala-and-bengal-strike-a-different-chord/story-PbIjSsFMQGnOH4kjEaewYM.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Need to strengthen economic activities, combat Covid-19’: PM Modi to CMs||India is focusing on a two-pronged strategy aimed at saving lives of its citizens while also restarting economic activities that have come to a virtual standstill due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers in a video conference on Monday.Going forward, the country needs to gradually convert its red zones (districts with high number of Covid-19 infections) first into orange zones (districts with fewer cases) and, eventually, into green zones (districts with no infections), Modi said, according to a communication released by his office after the meeting.The green zones should be treated as sacred places, he said. “These places will contribute to economic activity, but collectively practice social distancing...Our focus will be how to expand the green zone.”Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details According to a government assessment in mid-April, 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) were identified as red zones. Additionally, there were 207 orange zones in the country, and the rest of India’s 730-odd districts were classified as green zones.“I would like that red zones and hot spots to show extra caution...we should make special teams in those areas,” Modi said, stressing that the task will be to keep the safe zones safe.All chief ministers, or their representatives, were present during the discussions on India’s response to the deadly infection and the way ahead, but just nine of them could speak due to time constraints.While Meghalaya said it will likely extend the lockdown announced to stop the spread of the contagion beyond May 3, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh felt curbs should be in place but left the decision to the Prime Minister, according to an official aware of the developments who did not want to be named.Others — Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Bihar and Haryana — who got the chance to speak in the fourth such meeting between Modi and the chief ministers since March 20 supported the lifting of the lockdown.Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown that came into place on March 25. Later, he extended the curbs till May 3 as Covid-19 cases continued rising in the country.“The lockdown has yielded positive results; the country has managed to save thousands of lives in the past one and a half months,” Modi told the chief ministers.In his address, Modi underlined the key challenge India was facing — that of balancing lives and livelihood. With economic activity coming to a halt, workers in the unorganised sector are staring at a bleak future and millions of jobs are on the line in the organised sector. At the same time, India’s front line health care staff are fighting a battle to slow the rate of the deadly disease.“..on the one hand, we are challenged by how to save lives...on the other, we also have to equally focus on the financial aspect of this....That’s why we have to strengthen economic activities... (and) increase our strength to combat the virus,” he said, according to the person quoted above.Modi said areas that are hard hit by the disease will also suffer the maximum impact on the economy front. The Prime Minister said with the restarting of conditional and limited economic activities from April 20, India’s challenges have increased too. “We have to analyse whether these (the relaxations announced by the government) led to new kind of challenges in these areas,” he said.Modi reiterated that social distancing --- of at least two yards --- was the need of the hour, and authorities cannot compromise on this aspect in the fight against the fast-spreading infection. He also advocated the need for wearing masks.“This should be made into a mantra for all: ‘do gaj doori (a distance of two yards)’. We have to keep spreading this message and it should be a life lesson for all. In the same way, masks or face covers should become a major part of our lives.”Modi stressed that there will be no discrimination against states on the basis of the number of infections and all will be equally treated. “With all humility, I want to tell CMs, if there is a spike in cases, your state will not be seen as guilty. If cases are low in your state, it will not be seen as great (achievement). We don’t want this sentiment...,” he said.Modi laid emphasis on the importance of technology, and suggested that people associated with universities can be roped in for devising ways to strengthen research and innovation. “We have to be brave and bring in reforms that touch the lives of common citizens,” he said.Modi also asked the health sector to be prepared to tackle seasonal diseases despite the Covid-19 outbreak.“In June, there are particular diseases associated with the heat. We have to get our systems ready and started for this. Some doctors have shut their clinics and we have to operationalise them. All services cannot stop for coronavirus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-strengthen-economic-activities-combat-covid-19-pm-modi-to-cms/story-dZfGxkQzyexnbNgg7pxfwJ.html
27-04-2020||India||‘300 districts with no Covid-19 case sacred’: PM Modi tells chief ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the 300 districts across the country where no Covid-19 positive case has been reported “should be treated as sacred”. In his digital interaction with chief ministers, PM Modi said that state governments should ensure that precautions - like maintaining safe distance - should not be abandoned in these districts, people with details of the meeting said.The Prime Minister said that there is a need to expand green zones like these districts because in the coming days, what happens in these areas will “pave the way for our lives in the future”, the people quoted above said.The Prime Minister also said that some chief ministers have sent him written suggestions, and there are suggestions from expert too which will form the basis of Centre’s decision on Covid-19 lockdown and ensuring the life goes on.“Our mantra is to convert red to orange, orange to green,” PM Modi said at the meeting. He further said that this moment of crisis “has given is an opportunity to reform”.“There is no space to fight each other, states have to take the lead in leading reform,” the Prime Minister said.The chief ministers who attended the meeting included Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi), Pinarayi Vijayan (Kerala), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), E K Palaniswami (Tamil Nadu), Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya) Trivendra Singh Rawat (Uttarakhand) and Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh).Among those present at the virtual meet also included Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and top officials from the PMO and Union Health Ministry.The Centre and the state governments have been giving gradual exemptions to boost economic activities as also to provide relief to people as some states want further relaxation in areas which have seen few or no coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-districts-with-no-covid-19-case-sacred-pm-modi-tells-chief-ministers/story-bI7uK5kvR60ustUHUET2nK.html
27-04-2020||India||Athiya Shetty calls hersef ‘introvert’, says ‘It hasn’t been exceptionally hard for me to just stay at home’ amid lockdown||While the world is reeling under the shock of the Covid-19 crisis across the world, Bollywood stars, too, are facing the heat. With no film releases in sight and no shootings, everyone is confined to their respective homes. However, not everyone is complaining about it, especially not Athiya Shetty.“I am an introvert, so it hasn’t been exceptionally hard for me to stay at home. I feel at peace and quite comfortable being at home. The challenge for me has been processing all the information and news around the crisis, that has affected me. There is so much we can do to help but we can’t go out there physically and do it,” she shares.  sometimes darkness can show you the lightA post shared by  Athiya Shetty (@athiyashetty) on Apr 26, 2020 at 6:53am PDTWhile the 27-year-old is finding it challenging to reach out to people in need, she is trying her best to do it along with her family. “I have been doing that via an organisation which is run by my family. I feel like it is also just a time to be empathetic and sympathetic with everyone going through this. This is a disease of the rich which eventually the poor people have to suffer and it is just heartbreaking,” she explains.Athiya has also been doing her bit for the staff working at her building. She recently shared a video on social media in which the residents of her whole building were seen giving a round of applause for the staff.“There are people in my building who weren’t able to go to their respective villages. We provided them housing in the building, obviously keeping in mind the social distancing rules. They have stepped up in order making sure everyone is okay and that is highly commendable,” the actor adds. Absolutely blessed we are....it’s these 20 daily wage workers who stood by us when our regular staff had to move to their homes because of the lockdown...pay+bonus +gratitude +respect +🙏it is !!! https://t.co/lmCBki7svIAnd amid all this the actor, is getting a lot of time to spend with her otherwise busy family, which includes her father Suniel Shetty, mother Mana Shetty and brother Ahan.But she is quick to add that it is her father, who is in fact enjoying this family time more than anyone else.“He hasn’t got the chance to spend time like this with the four of us in the house. I feel like everybody is busy doing their own things and everyone has their own time table and schedules. Finally, all four of us are in sync and have the same schedule and spending a lot of time together. We eat together now which we haven’t done in a long time,” she says.Follow @htshowbiz for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/athiya-shetty-calls-hersef-introvert-says-it-hasn-t-been-exceptionally-hard-for-me-to-just-stay-at-home-amid-lockdown/story-eO8Ld04klGXeL3gUDBivvI.html
27-04-2020||India||Yes Bank Fraud: Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan sent to CBI custody till May 4||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) produced Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) group before a special CBI court on Monday. Both the brothers were remanded to CBI custody till April 29. The Wadhawan’s were arrested on Sunday afternoon from their bungalow at Mahabaleshwar in Satara for their alleged involvement in the Yes Bank fraud. According to the CBI FIR, between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crores in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, the Wadhawans allegedly “paid a kickback of ₹600 crores” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.The duo, along with 23 other family members, was under home quarantine for 14 days since April 23, a senior official of the agency said.The CBI had obtained an arrest warrant against the two brothers after the family was caught holidaying in Mahabaleshwar. On April 18, the brothers had obtained a stay on the execution of an arrest warrant after their lawyer pleaded that the two should not be arrested amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The special court had granted them relief and stayed the warrant. The court order protected the two from arrest till May 5.However, the CBI, which was not heard while staying the warrant, approached the special court to lift the stay. Wadhwans’ interim relief was cancelled on Saturday (April 26) and a CBI team from Mumbai reached Satara on Saturday afternoon to arrest the two bothers, a senior officer of the agency said.The agency was assisted by the Satara police. They were brought to Mumbai by Sunday evening. The CBI had obtained a non-bailable warrant against the two on March 17 but the two men had not been arrested. On April 9, the Wadhawans, with a group of 23 people, flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala after a senior home department official gave them a free pass. They were put in quarantine once the news of their lockdown violation became public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhwan-sent-to-cbi-custody-till-may-4/story-926FJT94FKJa9jEywykqDO.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Do Gaj ki doori’: PM Modi wants all to follow this mantra in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday once again stressed on the importance of maintaining a distance of two yards, saying it should be a mantra for all in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“For a long time now, Covid-19 has become a part of our lives. Considering the threat that it poses, we shouldn’t compromise on one thing,” PM Modi said during his interaction with chief ministers. “Do Gaj ki Doori (a distance of two yards). We have to keep spreading this message and should be a life lesson for all,” he added.This is the third time in four days that the Prime Minister has stressed on the need to maintain “Do Gaj ki Doori”.On Friday, he underlined how the “Do Gaj ki Doori” mantra practised by villages is a useful social distancing example to be followed by everyone. The slogan given by rural India “showed the wisdom of the people”, he said.“With its simple mantra of Do Gaj Ki Doori, rural India has described social distancing in simple words. The villages have showcased the best of their principles, traditional values to fight coronavirus,” Modi had said while addressing gram panchayat heads on National Panchayati Raj Day.Then again on Sunday, he said it is essential to maintain social distancing and underlined the ‘Do Gaj ki Doori’ mantra to deal with the coronavirus pandemic.“It is essential now to maintain physical distancing in streets, residential areas and markets. I express my gratitude towards those community leaders who are making people aware of maintaining do gaj doori and staying home,” PM said during monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’.In the same way, the Prime Minister said masks or face covers should become a major part of everyone’s lives. PM Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of all the states to discuss a way ahead and measures to be taken for a graded easing of the lockdown across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-gaj-ki-doori-pm-modi-wants-all-to-follow-this-mantra-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-12kpr45UYNT3EpZF0TlDKP.html
27-04-2020||India||‘People with Covid-19 shouldn’t be seen as criminals’: PM Modi tells chief ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked chief ministers to ensure there is no stigma attached to the coronavirus disease Covid-19 in their respective states.Interacting with the chief ministers through video conferencing, PM Modi said that they are in a better position to assess the Covid-19 situation since they are “acquainted with the ground realities”. He also said that state authorities can help in identifying how the disease is spreading to new areas, the reason behind it and the mental stress that people are facing, people aware of what transpired in the meeting said.Those who have contracted the disease should not feel that it is their fault, they should not be perceived as criminals, the PM further said. He assured that if a spurt in cases is reported from particular area, that state won’t be seen as guilty, according to people mentioned above.At the same time, he also asked the state governments to not be too soft.This was PM Modi’s fourth such interaction with chief ministers since March 22 when he first spoke to them on the coronavirus situation and steps taken - both by the Centre and the states - to contain the pandemic. Two days later, on March 24, the Prime Minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. He extended the lockdown till May 3 on April 14, the last day of the initial three-week shutdown.Also Read: 300 districts with no Covid-19 case sacred, says PM ModiApaert from the chief ministers, among those who attended the virtual meet included Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and top officials from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and Union Health Ministry.The prime minister was wearing a white ‘gamcha’ (scarf) with green border. He has been using the ‘gamcha’ to cover his face during such meets.In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday, the prime minister said the country is in the middle of a ‘yudh’ (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions.His note of caution came amidst gradual exemptions being granted by the Centre and states to revive economic activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-covid-19-shouldn-t-be-seen-as-criminals-pm-modi-tells-chief-ministers/story-RlIk2PAaSTxWKJ9snCEEeM.html
27-04-2020||India||India third biggest military spender in 2019 after US, China: Sipri report||India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released on Monday. This is the first time that India and China have featured among the top three military spenders.New Delhi’s defence spending grew 6.8% to reach $71.1 billion in 2019, said the report on Trends in World Military Expenditure.“India’s tensions and rivalry with both Pakistan and China are among the major drivers for its increased military spending,” the report quoted Sipri senior researcher Siemon T Wezeman as saying. Russia and Saudi Arabia were the fourth and fifth largest spenders last year. According to the report, global military expenditure stood at around $1,917 billion in 2019 - the highest in over three decades.This represents an increase of 3.6% over the global defence spending in 2018 and the largest annual growth in military expenditure since 2010. The five top spenders in 2019 accounted for 62% of the global expenditure.The Sipri report said India’s military expenditure grew 259% over the 30-year period (1990-2019) and by 37% over the decade (2010–19). “However, its (India’s) military burden fell from 2.7% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2010 to 2.4% in 2019,” the report said.India’s military spending has grown significantly over the past decade due to a raft of reasons including a mounting salary bill for about 1.4 million serving personnel, pensions for more than two million veterans and deals worth billions of dollars to induct new combat jets, air defence missile systems, helicopters, warships and artillery guns to enhance capabilities.The world military burden - global military expenditure as a share of GDP - in 2019 was 2.2%, a marginal increase over the previous year, the report said.The US topped the list of military spenders with $732 billion in 2019 accounting for 38% of the total global defence expenditure. It spent almost as much on its military last year as the next 10 highest spenders combined, the report said.Sipri said China allocated around $261 billion to the military in 2019, which is roughly equivalent to 14% of the global military expenditure. It added that China’s military spending in 2019 was 5.1% higher than in 2018 and 85% higher than in 2010.“China’s military expenditure has increased continuously since 1994 (for 25 consecutive years). The growth in its military spending has closely matched the country’s economic growth. Between 2010 and 2019, China’s military burden remained almost unchanged, at 1.9% cent of its GDP,” the report said.It added that Pakistan’s military expenditure grew 70% over the decade 2010- 19, to reach $10.3 billion. “Its military burden increased from 3.4% of GDP in 2010 to 4% in 2019,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-third-biggest-military-spender-in-2019-after-us-china-sipri-report/story-HkEvBRvf4tqQaLs3SicV6J.html
27-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai police team enforcing lockdown attacked by mob, 4 detained and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai police team enforcing lockdown attacked by mob, 4 detainedA policeman from Mumbai’s Shivaji Nagar police station sustained injuries in his right hand on Sunday evening while trying to disperse a mob, who had gathered on a road, defying the nationwide ongoing lockdown restrictions. Read more.PM Modi meets chief ministers over Covid-19 lockdown, states spell out their wishlistPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with chief ministers of different states through video conference on the Covid-19 lockdown, and their wishlist if the restrictions are to be eased. And except Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh, all other states have so far express willingness to lift the Covid-19 lockdown. Read more. RBI gives Rs 50,000 cr boost to mutual funds after Franklin Templeton crisisIn a bid to ease liquidity pressures on mutual funds (MFs), the Reserve Bank of India on Monday announced Rs. 50,000 crore Special Liquidity Facility (SLF) for mutual funds. The move comes after Franklin Templeton rounded up 6 funds last week. Read more. From extending lockdown to starting industries: What chief ministers said during meeting with PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a video conference with the chief ministers of all states to discuss further strategies for the prevention of the coronavirus infections and ways to ease the lockdown across the country. Read more. CDC, top US health body, adds 6 new symptoms of coronavirusThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the US’ top public health body, has added six new symptoms, which it said could be signs of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), even as experts continue to study the virus and the disease it causes. Read more. ‘He has set the bar so high’: Kane Williamson picks best batsman in world cricketThere is no doubt about the fact that Kane Williamson is one of the nicest guys around in international cricket. It’s not just his demeanour on the pitch but off it as well, that makes him special. Read more. HRD minister to address parents soon, here are some concerns raised by themUnion HRD Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal will go live today at 1 pm on Twitter, where he will address the concerns of parents whose wards’ education has been affected due to the ongoing lockdown. Read more. ‘Donald Trump’s plan…’: Netanyahu ‘confident’ US will support West Bank annexationIsraeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu is ‘confident’ that US will support West Bank annexation. Netanyahu said he was confident to annex parts of the occupied West Bank this summer. In a video message, he said, “Three months ago, the Trump peace plan recognized Israel’s rights in all of Judea and Samaria and President Trump pledged to recognize Israel’s sovereignty over the Jewish communities there and in the Jordan Valley.” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-police-team-enforcing-lockdown-attacked-by-mob-4-detained-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zAlixoJ1k5tfSVR0iELXlN.html
27-04-2020||India||Haryana home minister identifies ‘corona-carriers’, seeks Delhi govt’s help||Haryana home minister Anil Vij termed the people who work in the national capital but stay in Haryana as “corona-carriers”. He has appealed to the Delhi government to make staying arrangement for such people there itself. “Many who work in Delhi and stay in Haryana, are ‘corona-carriers’. I appeal to Delhi CM that staying arrangements of people who work in Delhi should be made in Delhi itself. They shouldn’t be issued passes to travel to Haryana as this is increasing Covid-19 cases here,” said the minister.Coronavirus cases in Haryana rose to 296 on Sunday after nine people, according to a state health department bulletin.Nuh with 57 novel coronavirus cases, followed by Gurgaon (51), Faridabad (45), Palwal (34), Sonipat (20) and Panchkula (18) are among the worst affected districts in Haryana.The minister said it has come to light that many of the coronavirus patients in the NCR districts including Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad have been found to have contracted infection from the national capital and said daily movement of the employees working in Delhi to their residences in Haryana increases the risk of Covid-19 spread.“Haryana’s Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Sunday apprised her Delhi counterpart about the situation, saying this kind of movement has to be stopped and Delhi government should not issues passes to these employees for movement,” said Vij.According to the bulletin, 199 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery from the infection, leaving 94 active cases in the state. “First, it was Tablighi Jamaat members who led to spike in number of cases in Haryana as 120 of them were found positive. Now, it is the movement of these employees from the national capital to their residences in Haryana which is increasing the threat of infection in the state,” Vij said.As on Sunday evening, the state has a recovery rate of 67.22 per cent, fatality rate of 1.01 per cent, COVID-19 positive rate (proportion of positive cases to total tests conducted) of 1.51 per cent, the doubling rate of cases is 18 days, while tests per million being conducted are 846, the bulletin said.In another development, MNCs, BPOs and IT enabled services (ITES) in Gurgaon may have to allow their employees to work from home till the end of July, said Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority CEO V S Kundu.Gurgaon, which is part of the National Capital Region, is known as the millennium city and is home to many BPOs, MNCs and technology giants, including Infosys, Genpact, Google and Microsoft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-home-minister-identifies-corona-carriers-seeks-delhi-govt-s-help/story-N5NFoxHzOlWpdbhvXrBprO.html
27-04-2020||India||CDC, top US health body, adds 6 new symptoms of coronavirus||The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the US’ top public health body, has added six new symptoms, which it said could be signs of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), even as experts continue to study the virus and the disease it causes.CDC has said the six new symptoms are chills, repeated shaking with chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat and new loss of taste or smell.It had earlier said fever, cough and shortness of breath were the symptoms of the deadly disease, which has infected 2,971,477 people and killed 206,544 across the world. Shortness of breath was later changed to “shortness of breath or difficulty breathing” by the body.Also Watch | Covid-19: Are immunity passports an option to exit lockdown? “People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms reported – ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. These symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus,” CDC said on its website.The body also described a set of emergency warning signs that should warrant immediate medical attention, including trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion or inability to arouse, bluish lips or face.This list is not totally inclusive—others who have experienced COVID-19 reported an array of symptoms, according to CDC.The health agency clarified that a runny nose rarely occurs with Covid-19 and sneezing is still not a symptom of the virus.The World Health Organization (WHO) and CDC had first urged people to be on the lookout for fever, dry cough and breathing difficulties. After that people reported losing their sense of taste and smell and then came sporadic cases of gastrointestinal issues, such as diarrhoea.Purple or blue lesions on people’s feet and toes, most commonly appearing in children and young adults, dubbed “Covid toes” have also been seen. Some doctors reported the virus may trigger sudden strokes in adults in their 30s and 40s, which could be a result of blood clotting issues. Doctors at Mount Sinai Hospital noticed detected signs of blood thickening and clotting in different organs of Covid-19 patients as the coronavirus infections spread through New York City in late March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cdc-top-us-health-body-adds-6-new-symptoms-of-coronavirus/story-PlVrgIopTWJRqq8n0uDcUM.html
27-04-2020||India||Cobra commando allegedly chained at Karnataka police station for not wearing mask, CRPF takes up matter||Anger erupted on social media after reports of a CRPF Cobra commando allegedly chained at Karnataka’s Belagavi police station surfaced. The Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) top brass has written to the state police chief on the matter.“We have taken up the case with the State Police Chief of Karnataka. Tuesday his bail plea case is coming before the court. CRPF too shall be in court through a local officer. Thereafter investigation shall be followed up to take it to the logical conclusion,” M Dhinakaran, DIG, official spokesperson CRPF stated.A twitter user had posted the video wherein commando, Sachin Sunil Sawant, is seen chained at the police station.Sawant was on leave till April 11 which was extended due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The police said that Sawant was roaming about streets without wearing a protective mask amid the lockdown and used filthy language when asked interrogated. The incident took place on April 23.Also Watch: Specially-abled woman beats odds, stitches masks for locals amid lockdown The commando was arrested and sent to judicial custody and was allegedly mishandled and chained at Belagavi police station in Karnataka. Sawant’s family has alleged that he was beaten with lathis and handcuffed by cops. His unit - 207 Cobra - which is posted for anti-Naxal operations, has put him under deemed suspension.Karnataka has reported 503 Covid-19 cases so far. 19 people have succumbed to death due to coronavirus in the state while 182 people have been cured or discharged.The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 27,892 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cobra-commando-allegedly-chained-at-karnataka-police-station-for-not-wearing-mask-crpf-takes-up-matter/story-DjpgWuzEgkugHfEBXBVJkJ.html
27-04-2020||India||First Covid-19 positive case found in Jhansi, authorities begin contact tracing||The coronavirus disease has now entered Jhansi in uttar Pradesh. The city in the Bundelkhand region was untouched till now, but one person tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.District health official Andra Wamsi said that 114 samples were tested on Sunday evening, and the result of one came positive, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported.The person who tested positive lives in Orchha Gate area in the city. He is 59, Live Hindustan reported.He has been admitted to the intensive care unit of the medical college in the city where his condition is stable. The authorities have started the process of contact tracing to identify who the patient came in contact with.Those living in Orchha Gate and nearby areas have been asked to take extra precaution.So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 1,868 Covid-19 positive cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Six people among those whose samples were collected in Lucknow on Sunday have tested positive for Covid-19, said King George’s Medical University on Monday.As many as 461 samples were collected in Lucknow on Sunday for Covid-19 testing.In view of Ramzan, Buddha Purnima, Eid ul-Fitr and Bada Mangal, Lucknow Joint Police Commissioner Naveen Arora has banned religious and other gatherings, slaughter of animals and sale and transport of meat under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).The 21-point advisory by Arora said that five or more persons will not gather in a group without permission. It added that strict action will be taken against those people, who will not follow the guidelines.India’s total number of Covid-19 positive cases stands at 27,892 including 6,185 cured/discharged, one migrated and 872 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-positive-case-found-in-jhansi-authorities-begin-contact-tracing/story-LgP6p2SGcZoGoFVB73A47O.html
27-04-2020||India||Boost primary sectors to tackle economic loss due to lockdown: Tripura CM||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has appealed to people to increase activities in the primary sector, including agriculture, fisheries, dairy, animal husbandry, in order to tackle the adverse impact on the economy due to the Covid-19 lockdown. As he emphasised the importance of strengthening the primary sectors, Deb assured people of subsidised loans under different government schemes.“Since the beginning, we have focused to strengthen the primary sectors. In this present situation, we set our target to reduce the deadline by one to two years to achieve self-sufficiency in primary sectors,” Deb said in a statement on Sunday. “We have decided this to make up the loss of economy caused due to lockdown. Our goal to make Tripura a model state is fixed and we need the cooperation of people for this,” the chief minister said.Regarding fisheries, he pointed out that fish seeds are produced in the state and Andhra Pradesh procures them from West Bengal worth of Rs 150 crore.“If Tripura can meet the demand of Andhra Pradesh, the same amount can be earned by us. Hence, the income of the fish cultivators will increase. So, I appeal to work hard to meet the target by 2020. Our government has already contacted the Andhra Pradesh in this issue,” said Deb. Similarly, he said, the government is planning to introduce “one district, one fruit or one crop” formula in the block level to increase the production of jackfruit, pineapple and oranges by three times. The state has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 250 crore in the rubber sector in the last two-and-a-half months. The state earns revenue of nearly R. 1500 crore from rubber per year. Deb also asked market committees to ensure social distancing norms are followed in markets along with other rules and also laid emphasis on engaging volunteers to help people maintain the guidelines. He also said thermal screening in the markets would be started soon. The government has allowed single shops and rural markets to open in the state.There are no cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the northeastern state after two infected people recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-primary-sectors-to-tackle-economic-loss-due-to-lockdown-tripura-cm/story-z2eZnhFOc5BGyhDR0lk1KL.html
27-04-2020||India||10 new cases take Agra’s Covid-19 tally to 381, Kanpur another hotspot in UP||Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district reported 10 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh said on Monday. The total number of positive cases in the district now stands at 381, news agency ANI reported. Kanpur has emerged as another Covid-19 hotspot in the state with 33 coronavirus cases being reported in the past 24 hours, news agency IANS reported. The city has 185 total Covid-19 cases. 10 new COVID19 positive cases reported in Agra district in last 24 hours; the total number of positive cases in the district is now 381: DM Agra Prabhu N Singh“The latest cases were detected from Bhannana Purwa area where 10 members of a family contracted the virus, while 10 cases were reported from the Colonelganj area. There are 13 women who have coronavirus. We have prepared a contact list of those who came in contact with them and now their tests would be conducted too,” Kanpur’s Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Ashok Shukla said.1868 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. While 289 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 29 have died from the infection here.On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to ensure geo-tagging of all shelter homes in the state and called for an increase in pool testing at all Covid-19 hospitals. This came after the chief minister held a meeting with chairpersons of 11 committees to review the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state.The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 27,892 on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 20,835 active coronavirus cases in the country, 6,184 patients have been cured or discharged while 872 people have died from the deadly contagion.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-new-coronavirus-cases-take-agra-s-covid-19-tally-to-381-kanpur-another-hotspot/story-5WhEVaEDlJLQK2DEWvOh3L.html
27-04-2020||India||From extending lockdown to starting industries: What chief ministers said during meeting with PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a video conference with the chief ministers of all states to discuss further strategies for the prevention of the coronavirus infections and ways to ease the lockdown across the country.Nine chief ministers spoke during the video conferencing, the fourth between PM Modi and the CMs on the coronavirus pandemic since March 20. These are chief ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat and Haryana are going to talk about what they want and what should be done in their states.Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details The rest attended the meeting and were asked to write to the Prime Minister with their suggestions.Here’s what the chief ministers said:* Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma said he will continue with the lockdown in the state even after May 3 with restrictions on inter-state and inter-district movement and relaxation for medical emergencies and essential services.* Mizoram’s Zoramthanga talked about how religious they are following lockdown and said they will continue to follow directives of the Centre.* Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy sought intervention from the Centre for providing personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other medical equipment. He asked for financial aid and grants to fight Covid-19 and starting of industries post lockdown.* Uttarakhand’s Trivendra Singh Rawat said business and trade activities should start in a phased manner with a focus on following all precautionary measures.He said governments should slowly come to ease people’s life by turning the situation to normal. Rawat added that all development work in the state is already continuing, including MGNREGA. Economic revival is key to moving forward, he said.* Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur said that they are now in a position to start economic activities. He said the decision over the lockdown should be taken in consultation and consideration of other states.He said his government has reached out to the people through Anganwadi centres to create sensitisation. “We have been aggressively testing people with symptoms because bordering states have reported cases. We are very happy that 12 districts of Himachal have no positive case,” he said.Thakur also talked about how the state has reached out to financially aid the poor and needy. He said that the state is prepared to tackle the challenge.* Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik had several suggestions and said the national lockdown should continue but important activities should be allowed. Patnaik said public gatherings, religious and educational institution must be completely stopped and urged for economic activities within the states only. He also urged the Centre to relook to initiate measures to kickstart the economy as “we work together to curb the disease.”* ﻿Bihar’ Nitish Kumar said the state has started door to door screening, similar to the polio campaign. “We are working on a similar mechanism and four crore people have been screened,” he said.Kumar said Rs 1000 each has been sent to poor migrant labourers stranded in other states. He said lockdown will continue till May 3. “We will not dilute the guideline, and will enforce the same,” he said.“We don’t have resources to call back our migrant labourers from other states. We need to devise measures to ease people’s life in green zones,” he added.* Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani briefed PM Modi on the Covid-19 situation in his state and said that till April 17 over 22,000 tests have been done and in the last 10 days another 28,000 tests done.“We have ramped up our facilities in the last 10 days and all positive cases are being treated. Door to door testing continues in hotspot areas of the State. We are increasing beds in Covid care centre. We have adequate medical facilities to tackle the challenge of Covid,” he said.The Gujarat CM said in hotspots areas of the state and after Nizamuddin incident Surat, Vadodara and Ahmadabad, they have increased surveillance and started treatment of affected people.He said 85% of people, who died of Covid-19 in Gujarat were affected by one or more other diseases. Business and economic activities in rural areas have already started in rural areas and over 700 construction projects are ongoing with 30,000 plus labourers involved, he added.“We are ensuring SoPs for lockdown and social distancing are followed in all trade and construction projects. Post-May 3, we should extend lockdown and on a phase-wise manner we should ease the situation, taking into consideration that Covid does not spread. The Centre should decide in the interest of the country and Gujarat will respect all decision taken by the central government, he said.* Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said containment zones are left, in rest of the areas, we have started industries and trade activities, with over 4 lakh people involved. “We have also started farming activities by following all protocols and social distance is maintained. We have started online classes for higher classes. The inter-district and inter-state movement will remain closed. We will follow any decision taken by the government of India for lockdown,” Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-extending-lockdown-to-starting-industries-what-chief-ministers-said-during-meeting-with-pm-modi/story-JE29H3etsLY1HKFEromJUK.html
27-04-2020||India||Mumbai police team enforcing lockdown attacked by mob, 4 detained||A policeman from Mumbai’s Shivaji Nagar police station sustained injuries in his right hand on Sunday evening while trying to disperse a mob, who had gathered on a road, defying the nationwide ongoing lockdown restrictions. Initially, the lockdown was enforced for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Four persons were detained in the incident, which occurred on a road at densely populated slum Shivaji Nagar in Govandi at around 6:50 pm on Sunday. The patrolling police personnel reached an intersection in Shivaji Nagar after the police control room informed them of a mob was roaming on the road, the police said.“A 30-odd-member strong crowd, including two women, had gathered at the intersection flouting lockdown restrictions. They pelted stones at the police personnel and also shouted slogans against them,” said Sudarshan Paithankar, senior inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station.“A man from the crowd attacked a police inspector with an iron rod. Though he managed to deflect the attack aimed at his head, he sustained injuries in his right hand. The mob also damaged the glass panes of a police vehicle,” he added.Shivaji Nagar falls under the jurisdiction of the M-East ward of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is at a greater risk of Covid-19 transmission because it has one of the worst health indices in the city, according to the BMC authorities.The ward, which includes the slum pockets of Deonar, Govandi, Bainganwadi, Shivaji Nagar, and Cheetah Camp and the Deonar dumping ground, is spread across an area of 32.50 square kilometres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-team-enforcing-lockdown-attacked-by-irate-mob-in-govandi/story-dUn8L97ySG5DxyNwywqcsL.html
27-04-2020||India||PM Modi meets chief ministers over Covid-19 lockdown, states spell out their wishlist||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with chief ministers of different states through video conference on the Covid-19 lockdown, and their wishlist if the restrictions are to be eased. And except Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh, all other states have so far express willingness to lift the Covid-19 lockdown.While all the chief ministers were present at the meeting, the fourth between PM Modi and the CMs on the coronavirus pandemic since March 20, nine of them got to speak due to time constraints.These were chief ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat and Haryana. Other chief ministers were asked to send their submissions in writing.Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details Also Read: People with Covid-19 shouldn’t be seen as criminals, says PM ModiThe first to speak was Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma who said that the state will continue with lockdown beyond May 3 with restrictions on inter-state and inter-district movement. However, essential services and travel due to medical emergency will be allowed, he said.Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga talked about how religious they have become during the lockdown and will go buy what the Centre decides.Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy sought Centre’s intervention for providing Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other medical equipment for the state’s healthcare warriors. He also expressed willingness to start industries when the lockdown ends on May 3, and sought financial aid from Government of India to fight Covid-19.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that business and trade activities should start in a phase wise manner, with focus on all precautionary measures. “We should look towards easing people’s life by turning the situation to normal. Economic revival is key to moving forward,” Rawat said at the meeting.He also said that Uttarakhand, which is a tourism and pilgrimage destination, has been greatly affected by the lockdown.Also Read: 300 districts with no Covid-19 case sacred, says PM ModiHimachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said that the state government is now in a position to start economic activities. “However, lockdown should continue considering with the issue with other states as well.”Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that lockdown will continue in the state till May 3. “We will not dilute the guideline, and will enforce the same,” Kumar said.Giving details about the measures taken by Bihar government, Kumar said, “We have started door-to-door screening, like the polio campaign. Four crore people have been screened.”Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said he is in favour of continuing the lockdown, but said that it is important that economic activities should be allowed. “I sincerely urge the Union government to initiate measures to kickstart economy as we work together to curb the disease,” said Patnaik.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday that there were 300 disease-free districts in the country and another 297 districts did not have any hotspots or small areas having more than five cases. He had said that only 127 districts in the country have Covid-19 red zones.The Union health minister had said this indicated that the disease has been contained largely to hotspots.On Saturday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting with state chief secretaries, in which he indicated that there is a need to focus on containment, even while relaxing restrictions further, hinting at the Centre’s broad strategy after the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-meeting-with-cms-meghalaya-to-extend-lockdown-mizoram-abide-by-centre-s-decision/story-Brri2nmrlWaZDoVGYpAlIN.html
27-04-2020||India||Geo-tagging shelter homes, increased pool testing: Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 plan||Amid the coronavirus crisis, the Yogi Adityanath government has decided to focus on districts with no or less than ten coronavirus cases so that industrial activities can start soon in those areas, HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported. In this manner, small industrial activities can be started in around 45 districts across Uttar Pradesh.On Sunday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with chairpersons of 11 committees of the state to review the situation regarding the coronavirus pandemic.Adityanath directed officials to ensure geo-tagging of all shelter homes in the state, on the lines of the community kitchens, news agency IANS reported. The chief minister also asked health officials to increase pool testing in all Covid-19 hospitals in order to maximise testing facilities. Adityanath asked the officials to promote cashless payment through Rupay card.According to the Ministry of Health, 1868 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. While 289 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 29 have died from the infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geo-tagging-shelter-homes-increased-pool-testing-uttar-pradesh-s-covid-19-plan/story-LrBhv7a8ABxXgygdp23uRJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Video of water, food being thrown at people at Agra quarantine centre goes viral||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra scrambled to contain criticisms after at least two videos of people at a quarantine centre were seen crowding to receive essential supplies like food and water being tossed at them.In one of the videos, which are being shared widely, a man in a blue protective gear is seen throwing packets of biscuit near the gate as people from the other side gather to take them.The video was shot at the Sharda Group of Institutions, which has been turned into a Covid-19 quarantine centre by the administration.It also shows people crowding and reaching out for water bottles kept outside the gates without following social distancing norms. “This is what is being done to people who have been isolated. We were told we will get medical check-ups but nothing of that sort has happened. Everyone—doctors and administration people—is being negligent. There are no proper arrangements for food and water,” a woman is overheard saying in the second video.Agra’s district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, according to news agency ANI, they held inspection at the quarantine centre at Sharda Group of Institutions after receiving complaints about food distribution.“The top officials of the team have been asked to look into the matter and fix the responsibilities. The team has been directed to identify the loopholes and be more careful in rendering services at the Covid-19 quarantine centre,” Prabhu N Singh said, according to ANI.The city of the Taj Mahal, which was praised for the ‘Agra model’ of containment, has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh at 372. Congress leader Akhilesh Pratap Singh criticised the treatment meted out to the people in the video.“Loo at this role model city of Agra. It is now being addressed as ‘Wuhan’ of India where people are being treated like animals in quarantine centres. Whose role model is this city? You can very well guess…,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-water-food-being-thrown-at-people-at-agra-quarantine-centre-goes-viral/story-nr0wANtejtqD4B9M9lNNMM.html
27-04-2020||India||Global military spending saw largest increase in decade in 2019; China, India in top 3: Study||Global military expenditure at 3.6 per cent saw its largest annual spike in a decade in 2019 with China and India being the second- and third-largest spenders after the US, a Stockholm-based think-tank said on Monday, the first time the two Asian giants were among the top three countries spending more on armaments.The total global military expenditure rose to USD 1,917 billion in 2019, representing an annual growth of 3.6 per cent compared to 2018, according to a new report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI).The 3.6 per cent spike it said was the largest spending growth since 2010.While the US drove the global growth, China and India -- the top Asian military spenders -- were respectively the second- and third-largest military spenders in the world, the report said.China’s military expenditure reached USD 261 billion in 2019, a 5.1 per cent increase compared to 2018, while that of India grew by 6.8 per cent to USD 71.1 billion, it said.“India’s tensions and rivalry with both Pakistan and China are among the major drivers for its increased military spending,” said Siemon T Wezeman, SIPRI Senior Researcher.The total global military expenditure in 2019 represents an increase of 3.6 per cent from 2018 and the largest annual growth in spending since 2010, it said.The five largest spenders, which accounted for 62 per cent of the total expenditure, were the US, China, India, Russia and Saudi Arabia, the report said, adding that this is the first time that two Asian states have featured among the top three military spenders.In addition to China and India, Japan (USD 47.6 billion) and South Korea (USD 43.9 billion) were the largest military spenders in Asia and Oceania. Military expenditure in the region has risen every year since at least 1989.The report said that the military spending by the US grew by 5.3 per cent to a total of USD 732 billion in 2019 and accounted for 38 per cent of global military spending.The increase in US spending in 2019 alone was equivalent to the entirety of Germany’s military expenditure for that year.“The recent growth in US military spending is largely based on a perceived return to competition between the great powers,” said Pieter D Wezeman, Senior Researcher at SIPRI.The global military spending in 2019 represented 2.2 per cent of the global gross domestic product (GDP), which equates to approximately USD 249 per person.“Global military expenditure was 7.2 per cent higher in 2019 than it was in 2010, showing a trend that military spending growth has accelerated in recent years,” said Dr Nan Tian, SIPRI Researcher.“This is the highest level of spending since the 2008 global financial crisis and probably represents a peak in expenditure,” the researcher said.In Europe, Germany’s military spending rose by 10 per cent in 2019, to USD 49.3 billion, the largest increase in spending among the top 15 military spenders in 2019.“The growth in German military spending can partly be explained by the perception of an increased threat from Russia, shared by many North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member states. At the same time, however, military spending by France and the United Kingdom remained relatively stable,” said Diego Lopes da Silva, Researcher at SIPRI.In 2019, Russia was the fourth-largest spender in the world and increased its military expenditure by 4.5 per cent to USD 65.1 billion.“At 3.9 per cent of its GDP, Russia’s military spending burden was among the highest in Europe in 2019,” said Alexandra Kuimova, Researcher at SIPRI.The average military spending burden was 1.4 per cent of the GDP for countries in the Americas, 1.6 per cent for Africa, 1.7 per cent for Asia and Oceania and for Europe, and 4.5 per cent for the Middle East (in countries for which data is available).SIPRI said that data from previous global economic downturns suggests that the economic crisis resulting from the coronavirus pandemic will probably disrupt the future military spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-military-spending-saw-largest-increase-in-decade-in-2019-china-india-in-top-3-study/story-VYMH0qLJ0T5IlF5CTYwEoO.html
27-04-2020||India||VC with PM: Maha CM expected to demand for special trains for migrants||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to demand special travel arrangements for over 5.7 lakh stranded migrant workers in the state when Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a crucial meet with CMs of all the states and union territories via videoconference on Monday morning. The PM is likely to seek key inputs from various states in a bid to compile a comprehensive plan regarding the lifting from the second phase of the nationwide restrictions, which were imposed on April 15 after the initial 21 days ended and extended it for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Maharashtra is expected to extend the lockdown, especially in the urban areas, beyond May 3, and CM Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar have written to the central government for arranging special trains for the migrant workers’ safe passage to their respective native places, including Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar and Madhya Pradesh (MP). Thackeray is also likely to draw the PM’s attention to the non-payment of central funds, as the state, like many others, is yet to receive them.The state has lodged 5.7 lakh migrant workers in 4,620 shelter camps in various districts, especially near the interstate borders, since the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25. Most of the migrant workers are anxious to return to their respective states, despite the state government making adequate arrangements for their food, shelter, and health services. In some camps, the migrants have displayed violent behaviour for not being allowed to go back to their native places, according to the reports received by the state government.Pawar wrote to Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal last week, expressing his concerns over a backlash if the special trains are not arranged for the migrants. Pawar’s fears are likely to prompt CM Thackeray to demand special travel arrangements for over 5.7 lakh stranded migrant workers during the videoconference with the PM.“The stranded migrant workers belong to at least 10 states, including UP, MP, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, and Rajasthan, and have become restless and homesick after living in these camps since the lockdown restrictions were imposed. It has become impossible to keep them cooped up in the camps after the second phase of the nationwide lockdown ends on May 3. The CM is expected to raise this issue during the meeting with the PM,” said a senior state government official.Thackeray is also likely to raise the demand for the central assistance, clarity on the central policy on the personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and their adequate supply to the state, which tops the list for both the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths, and also suggest the extension of the lockdown in the hotspots beyond May 3.There has been a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state over the past few days. On Saturday, 811 new cases were reported --- the highest single-day rise – after April 23 when 778 fresh cases were recorded.On Sunday, Maharashtra crossed the mark of 8,000 Covid-19 positive cases, a day after crossing 7,000 and just two days after recording 6,000.Earlier, the state had taken 30 days to cross the first 1,000-case mark on April 7, and then it doubled within six days on April 13.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 440 new Covid-19 positive cases and 19 fresh deaths, taking the total count to 8,068 cases and 342 fatalities. Mumbai tops the state chart with 5,407 Covid-19 positive cases and 204 deaths to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vc-with-pm-maha-cm-expected-to-demand-for-special-trains-for-migrants/story-l47OZGMBXN2Dos7KKVWK0K.html
27-04-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 36 new Covid-19 cases, total number reaches 2,221||Thirty six new cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 has been reported in Rajasthan, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,221, Rajasthan health department said on Monday.Three more people succumbed to the disease in the state. The overall death toll in the state stands at 44, according to the health department data at 9 am.While nine more patients have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur and Jhalawar, six each have been reported from Jodhpur and Tonk, the health department data showed. Four new cases have emerged from Kota and one each from Bhilwara and Jaisalmer.With 817 Covid-19 positive cases, state capital Jaipur leads in the overall number, followed by Jodhpur (370), Kota (162), Ajmer (123), Tonk (121) and Nagaur (113).So far, 629 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 263 have been discharged from hospitals, said Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh.In Jaipur, more than 80 per cent cases have been reported from Ramganj neighbourhood. A 45-year-old man, who returned from Oman on March 13 and who tested positive on March 26, has been the superspreader causing infection to at least 232 people.The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is under way to track the people infected with the virus.Meanwhile, 102 new cases were reported on Sunday. This included 38 from Jodhpur, 20 are from Nagaur, 16 from Jaipur, 11 from Ajmer, 9 from Kota, 2 from Dholpur and 1 each from Banswara, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhalawar, Sikar and Udaipur. As on Sunday afternoon, seven districts in the state had more than 100 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-36-new-covid-19-cases-total-number-reaches-2-221/story-joJyucH4k1meuk2qGJ1DdJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Telangana becomes 9th state with over 1000 cases, Delhi nears 3000-mark: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 27,892 on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 20,835 active coronavirus cases in the country, 6,184 patients have been cured or discharged while 872 people have died from the deadly contagion. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 8,000-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases near 3,000. Gujarat continues to be the state with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 8068 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 342 deaths so far while 1076 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 3301 coronavirus cases and 313 recoveries so far. 151 people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2918 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 54 people have died from the infection while 877 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2185 on Monday. The state has reported 33 fatalities, and 518 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2096 positive cases of coronavirus. 103 people have died from Covid-19 here while 302 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1885 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1020 recoveries and 24 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar Pradesh1868 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 289 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 29 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1097 positive Covid-19 patients and 231 cases of recovery. 31 people have died.Telangana1002 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 280 people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West Bengal649 people have been infected by the coronavirus in West Bengal. There have been 20 deaths and 105 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 523. 6 people have died from the infection while 137 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 503 Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths. 182 people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 458 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed 4 deaths due to Covid-19 while 338 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 289 and 313 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 18 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 176 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 71 in Punjab.In Bihar, 274 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 56 patients have recovered. Odisha has 103 Covid-19 positive patients, 35 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 82 Covid-19 cases, 3 patients have died and 13 have recovered. Uttarakhand has 50 coronavirus patients, 28 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 22 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 27 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 37 cases of coronavirus and 32 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 30 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had reported two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-becomes-9th-state-with-over-1000-cases-delhi-nears-3000-mark-covid-19-state-tally/story-NIFM71hhWtY6vHWxBGWO0N.html
27-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 27,892, death toll at 872||India on Monday reported nearly 600 fewer cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than Sunday even as the country’s infection tally went up to 27,892, the Union health ministry’s data showed.There were 1,396 new cases of Covid-19 and 48 deaths in the last 24 hours as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with chief ministers in a video conference that is expected to focus on the next move in India’s battle plan against Covid-19.According to the Union health ministry dashboard at 8am, there are 20,835 active Covid-19 cases and 381 more people, or 6,184 so far, have been cured or discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. The country’s death toll so far is 872.The Prime Minister had in his Sunday’s Mann ki Baat episode hailed citizens for going beyond their call of duty and leading the battle against the disease but also warned against any complacency over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has also said India’s strategy to manage the disease won’t change and it will “aggressively look within the community for those who have been infected. Look for them, test them, isolate them, and treat them”.Also read: India should open up nowField tests to determine the reliability of the new, quick-result blood tests bought by India have been inconclusive, according to an official from India’s top medical research body.“The experts are working to find out the cause of such huge variations in test results, and until they reach any conclusion, it is advised to the states to not use rapid test kits for Covid-19 testing,” an Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) official has said.The development deals a blow to plans of many states to ramp up testing by deploying the kits that were imported less than a fortnight ago. Their use was halted within a couple of days after they returned wildly varying results, often giving false negatives.Rapid test kits were being seen as crucial in efforts to speed up Covid-19 testing, which at present is done through the RT-PCR mechanism that takes about 24-48 hours to process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-27-892-death-toll-at-872/story-3ZNVJ3GFlKIHspHKVgkOzI.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Bhilwara model’ to help Indore win Covid-19 war, says Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has expressed hope that his government will be able to bring the Covid-19 crisis in Indore city under control by following the ‘Bhilwara model’ of infection containment.In an e-mail interview to PTI, Chouhan said his government was also adopting the ‘IITT’ formula - of identification, isolation, testing and treatment - to deal with the coronavirus outbreak in the state’s industrial hub.“We have decided to adopt the Bhilwara model to tackle the coronavirus situation in the city. We are trying to ascertain the health status of all residents of Indore. For this, we are going to conduct screening of every citizen of Indore,” he said.Asked about the possibility of lifting curfew or lockdown in Indore after May 3, Chouhan said a suitable decision would be taken in the interest of the city after looking at the situation.“A decision to lift the lockdown can be taken when the risk of coronavirus infection in Indore starts decreasing, when the number of infected persons starts coming down and the situation seems to be under control,” the chief minister said.He also said that the reason for high death rate in the city is that people who came to Indore from abroad hid information about their foreign travel due to lack of awareness, insecurity and fear. These people infected others unknowingly, and the epidemic spread in the city, he said.“A large number of patients among those who succumbed to coronavirus had other serious illnesses. Such patients were brought late to hospital,” said Chouhan.Indore, having a population of more than 30 lakh, has emerged as a coronavirus hotspot, not just in the state but in the entire country. As many as 31 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Indore on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 1,207.News agency ANI quoted Indore’s Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia as saying that 60 deaths have been reported in the district due to the virus. Indore’s Covid-19 death rate of 4.85 per cent is higher than the national average, according to data analysis.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Madhya Pradesh has 2,096 COVID-19 cases, including 210 cured/discharged/migrated and 99 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhilwara-model-to-help-indore-win-covid-19-war-says-chief-minister-shivraj-chouhan/story-JR8wJTRfwZ6XtZeu3ZdJMJ.html
27-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 54,000 Covid-19 deaths in hardest-hit US, number of cases near a million and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 54,000 Covid-19 deaths in hardest-hit US, number of cases near a millionThe United States recorded 1,330 more Covid-19 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to figures reported late on Sunday by the Johns Hopkins University.The United States is by far the hardest-hit country in the global pandemic, in terms of both confirmed infections and deaths. Read more. Indian firm ready to begin producing possible vaccinePune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Sunday it will likely begin the production of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by Oxford University in the next two-three weeks and hopes to bring it to the market by October if human clinical trials of the same are successful. Read more. 9 CMs to speak with PM Modi during meeting over lockdown, exit strategyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with several chief ministers on Monday morning and nine of them will speak to him on issues from another extension of the lockdown to an exit plan and how it should be implemented. Read more. Covid-19 lockdown: India should open up nowThe easy option would be to just continue with the lockdown, but it is also an option that should not be exercised easily — the Indian economy would have been mostly inactive for 40 days by the time the lockdown ends on May 3. That’s already done enough damage . Read more. Kim Jong Un ‘alive and well’: SeoulNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un is “alive and well”, a top security adviser to the South’s President Moon Jae-in said, downplaying rumours over Kim’s health following his absence from a key anniversary. Read more. ‘Instead of training, spending time painting, cooking’Top athletes talk to HT about their experience of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. This is Hima Das, the 20-year-old sprint star from Assam who became the first Indian athlete to win a gold medal in an international track event at the 2018 IAAF World U-20 Championships.Read more. Hrithik Roshan responds to fan’s query if he is smoking in pic with his sons, says he’d ‘decimate’ every cigarette from planetHrithik Roshan’s ex-wife Sussanne Khan recently shared a picture of him and his sons--Hrehaan and Hridaan--chilling in their balcony during the lockdown. The lovely photo showed the family enjoying the great views from their home but one fan spotted something curious in it. Read more. Stuck at home? Here are some Netflix hacks that you should know aboutNetflix has a bunch of features that allow users to dig deeper into its collection. It also has features that allow users to preserve their bandwidth as they binge watch through the lockdown. Read more. An open and shut case: How did Quarantine get its name?By May 3, India will have been in lockdown for 41 days. It isn’t the first time that people have been kept isolated to prevent the spread of a disease. There are mentions of it in the Bible, and in a Persian medical encyclopedia from 1025 – both to contain leprosy. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mutual-funds-scramble-to-keep-lid-on-franklin-impact-and-all-the-latest-news/story-r9VpcNUY88EACVaYkOakQN.html
27-04-2020||India||9 CMs to speak with PM Modi during meeting over lockdown, exit strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with several chief ministers on Monday morning and nine of them will speak to him on issues from another extension of the lockdown to an exit plan and how it should be implemented.Chief ministers of all states are expected to be present at the meeting through video conferencing, the fourth between PM Modi and the CMs on the coronavirus pandemic since March 20, and nine of them will get to speak due to time constraints. These are chief ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat and Haryana.Also Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details The Prime Minister had talked about limited time at an earlier meeting and urged the CMs to feel free to either write to him or call him and promised to take into consideration their views.The interaction between PM Modi and the chief ministers is expected to focus on the next move in India’s plan against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as well as a graded exit from the 40-day lockdown.Several states want restrictions under the national lockdown to be eased in regions that have not witnessed local outbreaks of Covid-19 amid demands for curbs to remain in place in hotspots.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday there were 300 disease-free districts in the country and another 297 districts did not have any hotspots or small areas having more than five cases. He said only 127 districts in the country have Covid-19 hotspots or red zones.“In the last one week, there are 66 districts from where no case has been reported and 56 districts from where no case reported in the past 14 days,” he said.The Union health minister said this indicated that the disease has been contained largely to hotspots.The states have said there should be a continued ban on mass gatherings; educational institutions must remain closed; interstate transport prohibited, except in cases of enabling the movement of migrant workers, and social distancing must be strictly observed.However, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal indicated that ending the lockdown will not be easy and a top medical expert advising the Delhi government arguing for the extension of the lockdown beyond May 3.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has also said the state will like to continue with the lockdown in containment zones in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Thane – the major hubs of the disease.The states are also expected to demand a financial package from the Centre, and an amendment to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar has written to the Prime Minister, seeking a “generous financial package” for Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, and enhancing the borrowing limit under the FRBM Act.Another key issue expected to be discussed at the meeting is a clearer policy on migrant workers and the chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded labourers to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-cms-to-speak-with-pm-modi-during-meeting-over-lockdown-exit-strategy/story-tk7WKwDkynQw09UVS2E2YM.html
27-04-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to track medical history of 60-plus population in Covid-19 containment zones||The Rajasthan government is identifying people above the age of 60 in Covid-19 containment zones and will track their medical history for targeted attention and care and to save their lives, said officials.In Rajasthan, most of the coronavirus disease deaths in containment zones have been among this age group.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary of medical and health department, said: “Through the Ayushman Bharat-MGRSBY database, we have identified people in the age group of 60-plus living in the containment zone in the Ramganj area of Jaipur and all other large outbreak zones in the state.”He said that the department was tracking the history of their treatment under the health insurance scheme from the data available for last four years.“The objective is to quickly identify them for respiratory and other vulnerabilities like kidney, hypertension, diabetes or such similar conditions. We are focusing on them for targeted attention and care,” Singh said.The primary objective, he added, is to save lives of the vulnerable, to the maximum possible extent.Meanwhile, two people, who were declared dead on arrival at SMS Hospital on April 24 and April 25, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.Singh said in Ramganj, the large outbreak zone in Jaipur, there are about 10,140 people in the target age group; 6,366 of them in 60-69 group, 2,866 in 70-79 group, 794 in 80-89 group and 114 in 90-100 group.In Jaipur, which had 808 Covid-19 cases on Sunday evening, more than 80 per cent cases have been reported from Ramganj neighbourhood. A 45-year-old man, who returned from Oman on March 13 and tested positive on March 26, has been the superspreader, causing infection to at least 232 people.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 tally in Rajasthan on Sunday evening reached 2,185. There have been 41 deaths in the state due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-track-medical-history-of-60-plus-population-in-covid-19-containment-zones/story-F9llJSoUuWr1jFQy0iXakJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Assam to relax inter-district travel curbs||Starting April 28, the Assam government will further relax inter-district travel curbs for three days.State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said that the government will allow two-way travel for people with own vehicles to pick up children and family members, and return. From Saturday, the government had opened a three-day window for private vehicles to travel one-way provided they had permission from the district administration.Only two persons will be allowed at a time, however -- a driver and a passenger in the back seat. Sarma said over 34,500 people had applied for permit.The state has had 35 positive cases of Covid-19 and one death so far.On Saturday, the government had begun a three-day exercise to transport people stranded across the state to destinations within the state in Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) buses. “Nearly 41,000 people had registered themselves on our helpline numbers (for this scheme),” sadi transport minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-relax-inter-district-travel-curbs/story-F0MWy1w3GSC7zaxUNoUH4K.html
27-04-2020||India||‘Feels great’: 391 Assam students get back home from Rajasthan’s Kota amid lockdown||After states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Assam brought back nearly 400 students, who were stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, on Sunday amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus disease.The 391 students started their 2000-kilometre journey from Kota in 17 buses and crossed through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal to reach Chirang early on Sunday.“After a long journey from Kota 391 children are back, with smiles & cheers. To ensure they & their families remain safe, we are putting them into 14-day quarantine. Today around 3 am, I & @Pijush_hazarika received them and ensured smooth shifting at Sarusajai Sports Complex,” Himanta Biswa Sarma, Assam’s health minister, tweeted.“Returning to my home state feels great. We were taken care of. The government has done a lot for us. I thank them,” one of the students, who returned home, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: 2,000 students stranded in Rajasthan amid coronavirus lockdown plead to Maharashtra government for helpThe Assam government had air-dropped eight police officers to Kota last Thursday and they came back with the students. Each student said Rs 7,000 for the trip back home.“Earlier, we’re not planning to bring them back, but we decided against it after UP, MP and Uttarakhand governments brought back their students. Besides, our students are young and are distressed because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sarma had said earlier.Also read: 376 students from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota depart for homeThe students, who were in quarantine in Kota, will have to undergo a test after five days following which doctors will decide whether their quarantine be extended beyond two weeks.Sarma had said that the state government might facilitate a similar return journey for students from Assam, who are stranded in other states.Kota, a hub for coaching centres catering to engineering and medical aspirants, is a popular destination for thousands of students from across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feels-great-391-assam-students-get-back-home-from-rajasthan-s-kota-amid-lockdown/story-xCRSwPgQ7g0Yig3fvZJSKP.html
27-04-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 cases rise by 70% in 1 week||The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Gujarat doubled over the last week to 151 on Sunday. Over the same period, the number of positive cases grew by 70% and crossed the 3,000 mark.On April 20, the state had recorded 1939 cases and 71 deaths. On April 26, the number of cases stood at 3301.The state government said the increase in number of cases is due to aggressive testing and that it was on expected lines. On the deaths, the government said that 47% of the dead were 60 years of age and suffered from comorbidities that reduced their immunity.On Sunday, the government also rolled back its decision to open shops in non-containment zones across Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot. These four regions account for almost 90% of the cases in the state.Gujarat is among the states worst hit by the disease. Only three of the 33 districts in the state are free of the disease.The central government had earlier sent its teams to the state to assess the situation and give recommendations to the state government to effectively contain the spread of the disease. According to the health department data, an average of four Covid-19 deaths have been reported from the state every day since March 22. The highest number deaths have so far were reported from Ahmedabad (104) followed by Surat (15) and Vadodra (12). Junagadh, Amreli, and Devbhoomi Dwarka remain unaffected. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) attributed the spike in cases to aggressive testing and that there was no reason to worry. “Around 47% of the dead were over 60 years of age, 41% were between 40 and 60 years, 10% were between 20 and 40 years,” Ravi said “We have a total of 21 laboratories, government and private, operational with a capacity of 3,000 tests per day.” She said the government had conducted 3,028 antibody tests. “The laboratories are providing results as quickly as possible in order to trace the affected people and get them treated. Gujarat is at par with other states of India and the world in lab testing and tracing of affected people. Ahmedabad has tested 2,701 samples per million population. Gujarat’s testing per million population is 721 compared to the national average of 392,” Ravi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-cases-rise-by-70-in-1-week/story-dG3AVNcmK8O0MWEz5AsPTM.html
27-04-2020||India||3 terrorists gunned down in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, search operation on||Three terrorists were killed by security forces in an encounter which broke out in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Sunday evening, the Indian Army said in a statement today.The police, however, said that body of one terrorist has been recovered.The gunbattle started after a patrol party of the Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Jammu and Kashmir Police was attacked in Munda Qazigund, in the district.The patrol party had gone to the village after receiving specific information about a group of terrorists hiding in there. The security forces had cordoned a cluster of houses. As they launched a search operation in the morning, the forces came under heavy firing from a house where 2-3 terrorists are believed to be trapped.The search operation is still going on, said the police. A separate encounter has also been reported in Kulgam.This was the third encounter in South Kashmir in last two days in which nine militants were killed.With these killings, the number of militants killed in April this year has reached 26, news agency PTI reported. The overall count of the militants killed so far this year has risen to 58, PTI further reported.The Indian Army, in two separate successful operations conducted within 24 hours from April 24 to 25, killed four terrorists at Anantnag and Pulwama districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-gunned-down-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam-encounter-still-on/story-Jx6LxytAtIHHXrFJEFaiRI.html
27-04-2020||India||To a question about god during coronavirus pandemic, Maharashtra CM has this reply||As Maharashtra’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went beyond the grim 7000-mark, the state’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray put in praise for all those who are on the forefront to curb the spread of the infection.The Shiv Sena chief, while addressing the state’s residents on Facebook, also talked about the state of affairs.“Everyone’s asking where’s God. God is in everyone who is serving us in these hard times— the police, doctors, sanitation workers and others,” the Maharashtra chief minister said.Thackeray thanked people for celebrating festival like Akshay Tritiya from home during the lockdown and urged Muslims not to go out to pray during Ramzan.“Today is Akshaya Tritiya but there’s no celebration, I’m thankful for that. I urge all my Muslim brothers to continue to cooperate with the government. Do not gather for mass prayers at mosques or any other place. Stay at home and perform prayers inside,” he said.As the coronavirus cases continue to rise in Maharashtra, particularly in Mumbai and Pune region, the state is deliberating extending the lockdown put in place to stop the spread of Covid-19 for another 15 days after May 3. A decision on the issue is expected after Monday’s meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers. Thackeray said the state has succeeded in slowing down the spread of the coronavirus disease because of the lockdown and he will review the situation before making any decision about relaxations. “To an extent, the situation in the state is under control if compared with other countries where cases are multiplying on a daily basis. This has become possible because of lockdown,” the chief minister said.He said the state government is considering to give further relaxations after May 3 but the decision is yet to be taken.“I will review and decide what more relaxations can be given after May 3. But one thing is for sure, we will have to avoid crowding,” Thackeray said indicating that restrictions are likely to continue in some areas of the state even after May 3 when the nationwide lockdown is going to end.Maharashtra had registered 811 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike, taking the state’s tally to 7628 cases. It also recorded 22 deaths on Saturday and now the death toll is at 323.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-a-question-about-god-during-coronavirus-pandemic-maharashtra-cm-has-this-reply/story-hAUu86inXSjMzQ2hOzfjkN.html
27-04-2020||India||Gujarat Congress leader Badruddin Shaikh passes away due to Covid-19||Gujarat Congress leader Badruddin Shaikh has passed away due to Covid-19, party leader Shaktisinh Gohil said.“I am at loss of words. Badrubhai, as we called him, was a stellar of strength and patience. A senior leader of our Gujarat Congress family, I knew him for 40 years when he was with Youth Congress. He was relentlessly working with poor people and was infected with COVID-19. RIP my friend,” Gohil tweeted on Sunday.In another post, he wrote that Shaikh got infected while helping the poor in Ahmedabad.“My friend Badru was a true #CoronaWarrior. He got infected with coronavirus whilst helping poor people in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. He is a big loss to our Gujarat Congress family as he succumbed to COVID-19. Lesson for all: Please take care and cooperate with your local authorities,” Gohil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-congress-leader-badruddin-shaikh-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/story-7ZZOovNqh9qRYz1OqrbwlJ.html
27-04-2020||India||6 family members of Kurnool MP test positive for Covid-19||Six family members of Kurnool MP Dr Sanjiv Kumar tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday.“Six of my family members have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh,” Kumar told ANI.Sanjiv’s father Srirangam, 83, has some health issues. He went to Hyderabad a few days ago for treatment. There he was tested for corona and was found positive for the virus.Sanjiv’s younger brother Dr Achyuta Rao and his wife Dr Suvarna, younger brother Dr Gangadhar, his wife Dr Padmaja and son Jatin, 13, also tested corona positive. All are in an isolation ward of the Government General Hospital in Kurnool.Kumar said that none of them has any contacts. He said that they were unaware of how they got affected despite following the lockdown absolutely.The MP, however, expressed confidence that all his family members will return safely and healthy soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-family-members-of-kurnool-mp-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-vD9IAifANChk4nws4RVB9I.html
27-04-2020||India||Guard at health minister Harsh Vardhan’s OSD office tests Covid-19 +ve: Report||A security guard deployed at the office of OSD to the Union health minister at AIIMS and a nurse working in Dr B R Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital of the facility have tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Sunday.The security guard, posted at the office of officer on special duty (OSD) to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan located in the teaching block of All India Institute Of Medical Sciences, was tested positive on Saturday, they said.According to the sources, the entire wing where the OSD office is located is being sanitised and several staffers, including the OSD, is learnt to have been advised self-quarantine. Their samples are also likely to be taken for testing.Two children of the nurse, who was deployed at the daycare facility of the cancer centre, have also tested positive for COVID-19.Contact tracing was initiated at the facility on Sunday and all those who have come in contact with the security guard and the nurse have been advised self-quarantine. Further contact tracing is on, they said.Patients who had come for chemotherapy on Saturday at the daycare facility along with healthcare staff at the hospital who had come in contact with her have been advised self-quarantine.Besides, at least six more staffers, including two from the record section, a lab attendant and the personal assistant of a faculty at the Cardio-Neuro Centre of AIIMS have also tested positive recently, the sources said.Over 70 people from various departments in AIIMS have been advised self-quarantine, they said.On Wednesday, a male nurse working in the gastroenterology department of AIIMS was found positive for COVID-19, following which around 40 healthcare staff, including doctors and nurses working in the department, were advised self-quarantine. However, all the staff who had come in contact with the male nurse have tested negative and the department is fully functional, a doctor said.Last week, two female nurses, one from the cardiology department and one posted in the Trauma Centre of AIIMS had also tested positive for coronavirus. All those who came in contact with these two nurses have been asked to go into self-quarantine.The Trauma Centre nurse’s child and husband had also tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guard-at-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-s-osd-office-tests-covid-19-ve-report/story-nvy6q7Twb48fWe3SXpVMPK.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Pune’s Serum Institute to start producing Oxford vaccine in 3 weeks||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India on Sunday said it plans to start production of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University in the next two to three weeks and hopes to bring it to the market by October if the human clinical trials are successful.The Pune-based company has partnered with Oxford University as one of the seven global institutions manufacturing the vaccine. “Our team has been working closely with Dr Hill from Oxford University, and we are expecting to initiate production of the vaccine in 2-3 weeks and produce 5 million doses per month for the first 6 months, following which, we hope to scale up production to 10 million doses per month,” Serum Institute India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said. SII has collaborated with scientists at Oxford University for a malaria vaccine project in the past and can say with certainty that they are some of the best scientists, he added. “We expect the (COVID-19) vaccine to be out in the market by September - October, only if the trials are successful with the requisite safety and assured efficacy. We will be starting trials in India for this vaccine hopefully over the next 2-3 weeks’ time,” Poonawalla said. SII will be manufacturing the vaccine in anticipation of clinical trials succeeding by September - October in the UK, he added. “Following that, we have undertaken the decision to initiate manufacturing at our own risk. The decision has been solely taken to have a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials prove successful,” Poonawalla said.  The company plans to initiate the trials in India for the vaccine with necessary regulatory approvals, which are underway presently. “Keeping the current situation in mind, we have funded this endeavour at a personal capacity and hopefully will be able to enlist the support of other partners to further scale-up the vaccine production,” Poonawalla said. The vaccines will be manufactured at the company’s facility in Pune. Building a new facility for COVID-19 vaccine would have taken around 2-3 years, he added. The Indian regulatory authorities are working with the company to ensure smooth procedural functioning. “We are in touch with the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and ICMR,” Poonawalla said. The company had earlier said it will not patent any COVID-19 vaccine which it develops. Asked about the decision, Poonawalla reiterated, “We will not patent Serum’s vaccine for COVID-19 and will make it available for all to produce and sell, not just in India but across the world.” Whosoever makes and develops the vaccine will need multiple partners to manufacture the vaccine, he added. “I hope that whichever company develops the vaccine does not get it patented and makes it available based on royalties or a commercial understanding to as many manufacturers across the world to make billions of dosages at a fast pace,” Poonawalla said. Death toll due to COVID-19 has crossed 200,000 globally, with the number of infections at over 2.8 million. In India, the coronavirus has claimed over 800 lives and the number of cases has crossed the 26,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pune-s-serum-institute-to-start-producing-oxford-vaccine-in-3-weeks/story-3ZbMxhbPm9Gga97hpphWfO.html
27-04-2020||India||India should look to convert world’s ‘hatred’ for China into economic opportunity: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said India should look at converting the world’s “hatred” for China amid the coronavirus pandemic into an economic opportunity for itself by attracting large scale foreign investments.Interacting with overseas Indian students via video conferencing, the minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways said, “All the world now, they have hatred for China. Is it possible for us to convert it into an opportunity for India.” Referring to the economic package announced by Japan for its businesses exiting China, Gadkari said, “I feel that we should think on that and we will concentrate on it. We will open the Indian scenario for that. We will give the clearances and everything to them and attract foreign investment.” Asked if India can take any action against China incase it is found to have deliberately “suppressed” information on coronavirus, the minister said this was a sensitive subject related with the Ministry of External Affairs and the prime minister, and therefore it will not be appropriate for him to comment on it.Gadkari said all government departments, particularly the Finance Ministry as well as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), are formulating policies to win the “economic war” post the Covid-19 pandemic and fulfil the prime minister’s dream of making India a USD 5 trillion economy. “At the same time, we can make infrastructure of Rs 100 lakh crore,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-look-to-convert-world-s-hatred-for-china-into-economic-opportunity-nitin-gadkari/story-dYbh3qAargLbBMlJ8XR8wK.html
27-04-2020||India||There’ll be clarity on future course of action on Covid-19 after PM’s video conference with CMs: KCR||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has expressed satisfaction that COVID-19 spread has been decreasing in the state due to total implementation of the lockdown.“The Prime Minister has a video conference with all the Chief Ministers in the country. The Chief Ministers will explain the situation in their respective states at the conference. There will be some estimate on the situation in the country and in the states. Opinions on how the next plan of action will also figure in Monday’s conference. Hence, there will be clarity on the future course of action,” Rao said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on March 24 announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown was later extended till May 3.Rao said that if people extend their support to the lockdown for some more days and follow the guidelines provided by the government on containment of the virus, the situation would further improve.The Chief Minister held a high-level review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Sunday on the implementation of lockdown, measures taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 and other issues.Health Minister Eatala Rajendra, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma, Principal Secretaries Narsing Rao, Shanta Kumari, Ramakrishna Rao and others participated in the meeting.The Chief Minister reviewed the situation in Hyderabad and other areas. He enquired about the assistance given in the containment centres and instructed that the essential commodities should be supplied at the centres so that people are not put to suffering.Rao also enquired about the treatment given to those admitted with COVID-19 in the Gandhi Hospital. He said that if the present lockdown continues for some time and people maintain their personal hygiene and take precautions, the virus spread will come down soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-ll-be-clarity-on-future-course-of-action-on-covid-19-after-pm-s-video-conference-with-cms-kcr/story-puXp0DvpB8i3qPhSvCbm6L.html
27-04-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in J&K encounter||Four terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said.An encounter broke out between security forces and militants after the ultras fired upon a patrolling party of the security forces at Guddar in the Devsar area of the south Kashmir district Sunday evening, a police official said. He added that the security forces retaliated and in the ensuing encounter, four militants were killed.The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants is being ascertained,he said. The number of militants killed in April this year has reached 26, the Army said. The total count of the militants killed this year is 58.“The Army has consistently dominated the Line of Control as well as the hinterland, eliminating the terrorist cadres and their leadership... The Army has therefore been successful in developing a positive security environment and the Awaam (people) feels assured about their safety...,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-encounter/story-j9N0KCvtFJqir8snl1kCYM.html
27-04-2020||India||Asymptomatic three-month-old survives Covid; mother tests –ve||It was a double victory against Covid-19 for a three-month-old child and his 30-year-old mother in Gorakhpur. First, the baby was cured of the deadly disease. Second, the mother managed to keep herself infection-free despite staying with the child in hospital for two weeks, breastfeeding and cleaning him regularly. Doctors said the child’s natural immunity, boosted by breastfeeding, helped him win the battle. Except for an initial dose of paracetamol for fever, no medicine was given to the baby, they said. Doctors and officials greeted the mother with cheers and applause, hailing her as a winner, as she stepped out of the Baba Raghav Das Medical College hospital’s isolation ward with the child in her lap on Sunday. Gorakhpur district magistrate K Vijyendra Pandian, divisional commissioner Jayant Narlikar and BRD Medical College principal Dr Ganesh Kumar were among those who hailed the woman’s courage in winning the Covid-19 battle for the baby and keeping herself safe by avoiding infection despite regularly breastfeeding the child. The baby belongs to the family of a 25-year-old Basti grocer, who was the first patient from UP to die of coronavirus on March 30. Thirteen contacts of the grocer, including the baby, tested positive. The mother and baby were tested twice on arrival in hospital on April 12. The woman tested negative while the infant was found asymptomatic but Covid-19 positive. He had no serious complications, except fever. “The baby tested positive while the mother was negative when they came to hospital on April 12. The major challenge before the doctors was to cure the baby while ensuring that the mother does not contract the infection. Breastfeeding posed a high risk of infection to her. Thankfully, she remains (Covid-19) negative as she took every preventive measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asymptomatic-three-month-old-survives-covid-mother-tests-ve/story-jjutxFP6lB1hHm4iEskFdN.html
27-04-2020||India||Govt tells states to not use rapid kits for now||Field tests to determine the reliability of the new, quick-result blood tests bought by India have been inconclusive, according to an official from India’s top medical research body who said that these kits should not be used to detect whether a person has had a Covid-19 infection for now. The development deals a blow to plans of many states to ramp up testing by deploying the kits that were imported less than a fortnight ago. Their use was halted within a couple of days after they returned wildly varying results, often giving false negatives. “The use of rapid test kits continues to remain prohibited as the result of field tests has been inconclusive. The experts are working to find out the cause of such huge variations in test results, and until they reach any conclusion, it is advised to the states to not use rapid test kits for Covid-19 testing,” said an Indian Council for Medical Research official, requesting anonymity.“Once our experts reach a conclusion, we will come out with a fresh advisory on its use, until then the status quo remains,” the official added.On April 16, the ICMR received a consignment of 550,000 of these test kits from two companies in China. On April 21, the ICMR put on hold the use of rapid testing kits after complains from several states. The first came from West Bengal, which said the kits returned ‘inconclusive results’. Soon, Rajasthan found that patients already confirmed through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were reported as negative by the rapid test kits.“After one state complained of faulty results, we checked with three other states and they had similar feedback to share. There was a variation between 6% and 71% in the test results...this was abnormal, and needed to be investigated further. So, we have decided to halt the rapid testing for a day,” Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, had said while asking states to discontinue its use earlier this week. After India halted its use, both the Chinese companies that exported the kits issued a statement saying their testing kits were of optimum quality and they would cooperate with the Indian authorities to get to the cause behind the inaccurate test results. “…we will fully cooperate with the ICMR review and any re-testing arrangements. Safety and product quality are our highest priorities…,” said Wondfo in a statement on Saturday.Experts say it is high time India stops relying on China for its essential medical supplies. “...we should encourage Indian manufacturers by protecting their investments and creating a market. India has the capability ... ,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, CMC Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tells-states-to-not-use-rapid-kits-for-now/story-XJErQ7kXCTIZkvzq3KrF2I.html
27-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: India should open up now||Hindustan Times reported on Friday, citing people familiar with the matter in Delhi and several state capitals, that on Monday, in their third video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a month, at least some chief ministers are going to recommend that the lockdown be lifted on May 3, when it comes to an end. This is very different from how all chief ministers felt ahead of April 14, when the lockdown, enforced to slow the spread of Covid-19, was originally supposed to end — there was unanimity that it be extended.That unanimity is likely to be missing on Monday.The chairman of the Delhi government’s Covid-19 committee, Dr SK Sarin, has recommended extending the lockdown in the city-state till mid-May; Telangana has already extended it till May 7; and a few other states are reported to be thinking of an extension.The easy option would be to just continue with the lockdown, but it is also an option that should not be exercised easily — the Indian economy would have been mostly inactive for 40 days by the time the lockdown ends on May 3. That’s already done enough damage — 2020 (calendar year) and 2020-21 (financial year) will be a year of recession in India, irrespective of how optimistic the International Monetary Fund or the Indian government choose to be.The country is better prepared on almost every front — testing, protective equipment, hospitals — than it was on March 25, when the first lockdown kicked in, and on April 14, but it isn’t clear whether this is enough should the number of cases rise when the lockdown ends. To use phrases from epidemiology that have now entered popular lexicon, the curve has been flattened, the peak has been pushed but whether this will prevent the health system from being overwhelmed when India reopens is anybody’s guess.Which is what makes the decision to be taken by the chief ministers and, most importantly, the Prime Minister a very difficult one. A calibrated and restricted lifting of lockdown curbs to permit manufacturing in safe areas has not taken off the way it was expected to — in one part because of the states mandating stringent norms on top of the guidelines announced by the home ministry, and in other part because of collateral issues such as lack of labour or broken supply chains. That the Centre wants an opening up is clear from the home ministry’s notification, over the weekend, on shops, although the stuttering way in which it went about this suggests that it still entertains some doubts about opening up.It shouldn’t.Testing is up — Hindustan Times reported last week that India will be carrying out up to 50,000 tests a day by the end of the month — and the protocols for screening, quarantining, and treatment are established (as well as they can be in the absence of a cure). Globally, 97% of the infections remain mild, according to worldometers.info, and in India, as many as 69% of the infected (till last week) are asymptomatic.Which is why the government should now start toting up the economic costs.People will lose jobs (some already have); many small businesses will go under; many big businesses will default on debt; consumption demand could take months to recover, as will supply chains; global merchandise trade will suffer; and all of this, and everything else that happens, will do so with the fear of a second wave looming large.The damage to the economy calls for a relief and stimulus package — one that is already long-overdue — but also a lifting of the lockdown, at least in districts with few cases or none at all.This should be accompanied by a proactive and aggressive containment protocol — neighbourhoods, cities, districts, even states where the infection rate seems to be accelerating should be locked down. And if things really spiral out of control, a national lockdown can be considered, but for now, the need is to open up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-open-up-now/story-SGjlQqph9l42Q4jogsx9QO.html
27-04-2020||India||Lawyer seeks restraint on Netflix series Hasmukh for ‘maligning’ legal fraternity||A plea has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking directions to entertainment service provider Netflix to stop airing the series Hasmukh especially episode 4 of the web series for allegedly maligning the image of lawyers. The plea filed advocate Ashutosh Dubey said in the particular episode of the web series lawyers have been referred to as thieves, scoundrels, goons and rapists.The petition said that not only the advocates, who have been demeaned and disgraced in the show but the defendants have not left the police especially UP police and the politicians, to which the plaintiffs are not concerned in the present plea. The plea said the statements used in the web series were highly disparaging, defamatory and brought disrepute to the law profession and lawyers,advocates in the eyes of the general public. “The said remarks have caused utmost damage to the legal profession and impugn the image of lawyers in the eyes of millions of viewers/subscribers who visit the streaming website where the show is being streamed, “ the plea said.The matter is likely to be heard on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-seeks-restraint-on-netflix-series-for-maligning-legal-fraternity/story-aKDZKY2Tu2OLE4UsFPVNaL.html
27-04-2020||India||Unseasonal rains damage crops as farmers battle multiple setbacks||Heavy unseasonal rains have caused damage to standing crops in a setback to farmers bracing for the busy agricultural season amid the coronavirus disease pandemic and lockdown that have already reduced the availability of farm labour and transport of their produce in parts of India.An exact estimate of the damage caused by the rain in six states – Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal --- would be available only after surveys are conducted, government officials said, expressing concern that the damage could result in less-than-expected procurement of foodgrains.Food Corporation of India had expected to procure 35 million tonnes of foodgrains from the rabi season harvest, compared to 34 million tonnes last year because of an anticipated bumper crop. It may now have to revise its procurement estimate. According to officials, the worst hit appear to be the food bowl states of Punjab and Haryana, where the harvest season was in full swing when heavy rains pounded the ripe standing wheat crop.In Bihar and West Bengal, the rain has damaged the maize crop and the soon-to-be harvested litchi and mango crops. “Around 10-15% of the wheat crop has been damaged in Seemanchal, Kosi and north Bihar,” a state government official said.Moisture worsens the quality of wheat and maize, which could mean lower price sat the wholesale markets and delays in procurement.“Moisture more than permissible limits of 12% leads to delay in procurement as the crop has to be dried first. It damages the grain, leading to its discolouration,” said Punjab’s principal secretary( food and civil supplies) KAP Sinha.Sinha said procurement had to be stalled in two districts – Moga and Ferozpur -- because the discolouration exceeded permissible limits. In neighbouring Haryana, crop loss has been reported from districts such as Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Kaithal, leading to the government stopping the procurement on Sunday, officials said.“Like several other farmers, I could not sell my produce as there were no buyers due to rains,” said wheat farmer Raghubir Singh of Karnal district. Officials said the procurement had been tardy because no arrangements had been made to protect the grains from rain.Mukesh Tiwari, a farmer from Bundelkhand’s Dhana village in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, said the traders were not offering more than Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,100 for sharbati (sweet) wheat as against the 2019 price of Rs 2,700 per quintal because of discolouration caused by the rains. “Even the government refused to buy, citing the poor quality of wheat,” he said.Farmer Devaki Nandan Pandey of Janakpur village in Sagar district said he had not even visited any government procurement market because he knew they would reject the wheat he had grown because of the moisture content. “This year’s work is gone. I don’t know the price I will get for the wheat now,” said Mohan Lal Nagda, a farmer from Rewali village in Neemuch district of southern MP. Sanjeev Singh, director of MP’s directorate of farmer welfare and agriculture, said: “We are collecting the information from the entire state about the impact of unseasonal rains on wheat and procurement. It’s only after the reports {come in} that I will be able to make any comment.”Most states have delayed procurement of foodgrains because of the lockdown that started on March 25. Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh started procurement on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unseasonal-rains-damage-crops-as-farmers-battle-multiple-setbacks/story-XQZx6Qshzv0tKRJIaU5KML.html
27-04-2020||India||Tree loss to be reimbursed with plantations in Dibang Valley||For the 270,000 trees that will be felled to make way for the 3,097 megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, compensatory plantations will be raised in 25 different fragmented lots of land n the Valley’s Anini town, according to the project proposal. The rest will be taken up on land that’s over 400 kilometres away in Tawang district.Under the Forest Conservation Act 1980, every time forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes such as mining or industry, the project developer is supposed to identify non-forest land of an equal area and also pay for planting forests over this, or when that is not available, on twice the area of degraded forest land. The project is being developed by—M/s Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited with Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is approximately Rs 25,296.95 crores according to the fact sheet.The proposed project, which is yet to get approval from the environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC), is located in “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” and is home to outstanding biodiversity, according to the FAC’s own documents. Environmentalists and local residents are now concerned that the same ecological value cannot be recreated through artificial plantations in fragmented patches of land.Compensatory afforestation for the project has been proposed over 1,074.329 hectares at a cost of Rs 19.6 crores, according to an FAC factsheet on the project reviewed by Hindustan Times .“So far in India we haven’t seen compensatory afforestation plots providing ecosystem and biodiversity services. There is also a concern that in many places monocultures have sprung up in the name of afforestation. There is no land to do such large-scale plantations either, so often public or forest lands are used. The spirit of compensatory afforestation is missing,” said NH Ravindranath, climate and forestry expert at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.He added that the acreage earmarked for the afforestation appears too small for plantations of the scale required to compensate for the trees to be felled to make for the Etalin project. “The forests that will be diverted appear to be dense as they have thousands of trees over 60 cm in girth. A lot may be lost,” he added.FAC’s factsheet, dated April 21, states that around 141,854 trees that are above 60 cm in girth which will have to be cleared.Local people of the Idu Mishmi community are concerned about the loss of native forests and wildlife and say they may end up losing grazing land for compensatory afforestation too.“There are two dams {proposed} in this region—the Dibang multipurpose project and the Etalin hydropower project -- which will together submerge a very large area. Most families in the project affected area don’t want to speak against the project because they want to get compensation for their land,” Aito Miwu, a resident of Anini, said over the phone“People in other parts of Dibang valley are not consulted and not allowed to speak up about the ecological loss in public hearings. The vegetation and biodiversity through compensatory afforestation cannot be the same. I have seen them planting pine which has no fertiliser value and nothing grows underneath pine trees,” he said.“These patches of land selected by the government are Mithun grazing land. One of the patches is in our village and none of us has been consulted about converting common grazing land. Many villages will oppose this,” he added.There is no mention in the FAC factsheet whether locals have been consulted on carrying out compensatory afforestation on grazing lands.“The FAC’s investigations have taken at face value the process of compensatory afforestation in a landscape like Arunachal Pradesh. This project will not only submerge old growth forests on mountain slopes, the compensatory afforestation measures proposed will governmentalize forest areas that are socially and economically accessible to communities as village forest reserves.Why have they not assessed how community access will be affected by these measures,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research.According to FAC’s factsheet, the project falls under the richest biogeographical province of the Himalayan zone and under one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions, having luxuriant forests and a plethora of flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”One of the FAC’s members, responding to a query from HT, said over the phone: “I am only a member. It will not be appropriate for me to comment on this matter. The FAC minutes will be published soon.” FAC discussed the issue of forest clearance to the project on April 23, but a decision hasn’t yet been taken, according to FAC members. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view because its a clean energy project, so did the subcommittee that visited the site,” said FAC member. Both FAC members requested anonymity. A sub-committee of the FAC has recommended in their report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area.“We have been eagerly waiting for this clearance which is a must for grant of forest clearance for the project. The proposal for grant of FC to Etalin project was submitted to environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the EAC meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on grant of FC to the project. We are hopeful that FAC will finally be recommending the proposal for grant of FC,” Bharat Rohra, MD & CEO, Jindal Power Limited had said on April 22 responding to HT’s queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tree-loss-to-be-reimbursed-with-plantations-in-dibang-valley/story-I3EldUENtAlPTL9x9WXooJ.html
27-04-2020||India||IRS officers pitch 40% tax rate plus cess, under probe||The government on Sunday rejected an “ill-conceived” suggestions by a group of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers to increase the top income tax rate to 40%, impose a levy on the so-called super-rich tax and a 4% Covid-19 relief cess to rebuild the nation’s economy, reeling under the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown.The suggestions were made in a report titled Fiscal Options & Response to Covid-19 Epidemic (FORCE) and released to the media on the IRS Association’s Twitter handle and website. The government deemed it an “irresponsible act” by a few officers, said two finance ministry officials with direct knowledge of the development. “A departmental enquiry will be initiated against people responsible for creating panic among the public by uploading this unauthorised report on social media that could have a serious consequence for both the economy and the market. Thankfully, the market was closed,” one of the officials said. ALSO WATCH | Covid-19: Union minister denies plans to reduce pensionsThe two officials, who both requested anonymity, said the government had “summarily” dismissed the suggestions which it judged as ill-conceived.Some of the key recommendations of the FORCE report were raising the income-tax rate up to 40% from 30% for those with income of ~1 core per year, reimposing a wealth tax on those with a net wealth of ~5 crore, deemed to be super-rich, and levy of a one-time Covid-19 relief cess of 4% on those with a taxable income of ~10 lakh and above.“The proposals are against the government’s existing policy on taxation,” a second official said.In the budget this year, the government offered individuals the option of paying lower income-tax rates provided they forgo tax exemptions. It had earlier reduced corporate tax rates drastically in September, sacrificing ~1.45 lakh crore in revenue. Companies were given the choice of opting for a lower corporate tax rate of 22% (15% for newly incorporated companies) provided they didn’t seek exemptions. Those seeking exemptions would pay income tax at the rate of 30% (25% for new entities).While forwarding the FORCE report, the IRS Association on April 23 wrote to the chairman and members of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that it had been prepared jointly by a group of 50 IRS officers. “Working from home, they have come together to leverage their combined knowledge, experiences, and commitment to building a healthy, strong and prosperous India,” the letter that was posted on its Twitter handle late on Saturday said.One executive functionary of the association, requesting anonymity, said on Sunday that this was “only recommendatory in nature”.On Sunday evening, the association tweeted, “The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRSA to CBDT for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the IT Dept.”A CBDT spokesperson said the board always sought direct feedback from its field formations to improve its systems and processes, but does not entertain unsolicited suggestions from the association.“Neither the IRS Association nor any group of officers, mentioned in the said report, were ever asked by the government to give any report on the subject,” the first official said.It is, on the face of it, an act of indiscipline and violation of conduct rules which specifically prohibit officers to go to media with their personal views on official matters without taking prior sanction or permission of the government, the official said.“The Chairman, CBDT, has been directed to seek explanation from these officers for writing such ‘ill-conceived views’ in public without having any authority to do so,” he said.The official added: “People should completely disregard such reports. In fact, the finance ministry is doing its best to provide relief and liquidity into the system and ease the lives of people in these trying times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irs-officers-pitch-40-tax-rate-plus-cess-under-probe/story-dF46ZMuaHbolGIe9ZOm2iN.html
27-04-2020||India||India leading fight, must keep guard up, says PM Modi||While warning against any complacency over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed citizens for going beyond their call of duty and leading the battle against the disease as he underlined that the health crisis will bring about radical changes in the way people live their lives and work.In his Mann ki Baat address, the Prime Minister emphasised that masks will now become an indispensable tool that everyone must use and called for restraint during festivals, including the ongoing Ramzan, and hoped that by Eid, the world would be rid of the pandemic.The PM also strongly defended India’s decision to provide medical supply to other countries at this time, in what appeared to be a reference to the export of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and other drugs, and underscored how India’s traditional strengths – from yoga to ayurveda – were important pillars in building immunity against the disease.While delivering the radio address on Sunday morning, PM Modi also praised the role of state governments and all other official agencies, and once again underscored the importance of “corona warriors” in the efforts to combat the disease. The remarks came a day before the PM’s meeting with chief ministers to decide on India’s strategy in dealing with the pandemic. India is under lockdown till May 3 to break the chain of infections even as top government officials weigh the option of easing some restrictions to kick-start some economic activity.Sunday marked the second time the PM spoke almost entirely on the pandemic in his monthly radio interaction; he has also directly addressed the nation four other times on the issue.The PM began his address by speaking about the role of the citizens in the national effort against Covid-19. “In India, it is the people who are fighting the Corona; it is you who are putting up a fight. Along with the people, the government and the administration are fighting as well.”He said that in the future, when the ways of battling the pandemic were studied, India’s model of a people-driven fight would find a prominent place. Tracing the instances of this effort, the PM spoke of, among others, farmers working in the field to ensure food security; citizens arranging food and ration for the poor; home owners waiving off rents; individuals donating to the PM-Cares fund; and construction workers whitewashing school buildings where they are quarantined. This, he said, tied in with the “altruistic bent of mind” increasingly visible in society.This entire effort, the PM said, will lead to fundamental changes, both at the individual and organisational level. “Our businesses, offices, educational institutions, our medical sector are rapidly advancing towards new operational changes.” There were other positive changes in work culture, daily habits, and lifestyles. In particular, the PM pointed to two important changes, which he hoped would be long-lasting.The first was with regard to masks. “In the changed paradigm due to Corona, masks are becoming a part of our lives... it does not mean that all those wearing a mask are sick… Mark my words, masks will now become a symbol of cultured society. If you want to save yourself and others from disease, you will have to wear a mask.” The second was with regard to spitting. “People now understand the damage that can be caused by spitting in public places. It had been a part of our bad habits that we would spit just about anywhere. This presents a serious challenge both to cleanliness and to health.” He hoped that this moment would lead to the total eradication of this habit.The people-led effort was also visible in the way people were celebrating festivals, by staying indoors and with simplicity. The PM tied this in with Ramzan, and while greeting citizens on the occasion, said that this was a moment to mark it as an icon of “restraint, goodwill, sensitivity and service”. Ramzan has traditionally seen congregations of the devout in mosques. The PM praised the role of community leaders in making people aware of the need for social distancing; he said he hoped administrative guidelines will be followed and that everyone prayed that before Eid, the world was rid of the disease.But this, PM Modi said, was not the time for complacency. “Let us not at all get caught in the trap of overconfidence. Let us not harbour a feeling that if Corona has not yet reached our city, our village, our street or our office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. There should be no negligence at the local level or elsewhere.” This, the PM said, demanded that a distance of two yards – do gaj ki doori – was consistently maintained.India’s decision to export HCQ, following requests by a range of countries, including the United States, had come in for criticism from the opposition. The PM used his monthly address to speak of Indian culture, where there is empathy for the needs of others, and justified the decision within that ethos. “We took a decision in keeping with our culture. While we stepped up efforts to fulfil India’s needs, we also paid heed to the cry of help that came from other parts of the world to save humanity.” World leaders had expressed their gratitude to the PM, which he said was a matter of pride for all of India.Reiterating a theme that he has focused on in each of his address, the PM once again spoke of the role of front-line “corona warriors” as well as those in essential services. He spoke of a government website – covidwarriors.gov.in – that linked civil society volunteers, local administrations and health care workers for better coordination. The PM also underlined the importance of a recent ordinance which provides for more stringent punishment against attacks on health care workers, and how the pandemic has made citizens recognise the importance of many workers whose work otherwise went unnoticed, from domestic help to labour, from auto rickshaw drivers to those delivering goods. He also emphasised the role of different government and private sector players in the effort against the disease, from those in the aviation sector transporting essential medical supplies to railways to ensure the supply of essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-leading-fight-must-keep-guard-up-says-modi/story-rsejmB8NS04xTfRWakMWkI.html
27-04-2020||India||PM, CMs to discuss graded lockdown exit on video call||Several states want restrictions under the national lockdown to be eased in regions that have not witnessed local outbreaks of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an issue that will likely be deliberated at a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers on Monday, even as calls grew for curbs to remain in place in hot spots of the disease.The Prime Minister will on Monday interact with chief ministers in a video conference that is expected to focus on the next move in India’s battle plan against Covid-19, a highly contagious disease that has killed at least 205,000 people across the world. At the meeting, which could discuss a graded exit from the 40-day lockdown, the states are likely to ask for restrictions to be extended in the Covid-19 containment zones, officials from about a dozen states indicated.There is also a growing consensus among these states that notwithstanding the easing of restrictions, there should be a continued ban on mass gatherings; educational institutions must remain closed; interstate transport prohibited — except in cases of enabling the movement of migrant workers – and social distancing must be strictly observed.This is broadly the view that state chief ministers will likely present in Monday’s meeting with PM Modi. There are however exceptions, with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal indicating that ending the lockdown will not be easy and a top medical expert advising the Delhi government arguing for the extension of the lockdown beyond May 3.Monday’s will be the fourth meeting the PM and the CMs will hold on the pandemic — and possibly the last before the extended lockdown ends. All CMs are expected to be present at the meeting, in which nine of them will get to speak due to time constraints. These are chief ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat and Haryana. Others, however, can send their submissions in writing. At an earlier meeting, the PM pointed to the limitation of time, but urged the CMs to feel free to either write to him or call him, and promised to take into consideration their views.While the Centre has not officially offered its view on the extension of the lockdown, officials have indicated that there will be a re-examination, with an eye on opening up some sectors to revive crucial economic activity.On Saturday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting with state chief secretaries, in which he indicated that there is a need to focus on containment, even while relaxing restrictions further, hinting at the Centre’s broad strategy after the lockdown. A top central government official said on condition of anonymity that the sweeping national lockdown is unlikely to be extended beyond May 3. There have already been relaxations, notified by the Union home ministry, over the last 10 days — this includes allowing resumption of agriculture, construction and industrial activities in non-hot spot districts, and the opening up of neighbourhood shops in non-containment zones. The official said: “The priority is now consolidating health gains from the lockdown but also providing relief to three segments — daily wage workers, small businesses, and manufacturing districts.” A second official added that the key issue to be determined at the meeting is the extent of relaxations in Covid-19-free zones and in districts where there are no cases.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday there were 300 disease-free districts in the country and another 297 districts did not have any hot spots — defined as small areas having more than five cases. He said only 127 districts in the country have Covid-19 hot spots or red zones. “In the last one week, there are 66 districts from where no case has been reported and 56 districts from where no case reported in the past 14 days,” he said. He said this indicated that the disease has been contained largely to hot spots.This is the distinction the state governments are expected to emphasise, with a call for a hard lockdown in hot spot districts in general, and containment zones in particular. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will like to continue with the lockdown in containment zones in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Thane – the major hubs of the disease. “If required, we will extend the lockdown for 15 more days after May 3 only for the containment zones, if not for the entire Mumbai and Pune,” he said.In Madhya Pradesh, officials said there was no likelihood of an immediate relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the 22 hot spot districts out of total 52 in the state — it could, in fact, see more strict enforcement, given the feedback of central teams that it had been lax in cities such as Bhopal and Indore. “Although the disease has not spread to new regions, there were no signs of improvement in the situation in the state particularly in the hot spot districts,” said health minister Narottam Mishra. He added that the state will abide by the Centre’s directions after the meeting on Monday.Uttar Pradesh has already banned public meetings till the end of June. Gujarat has called for stricter lockdown enforcement in 180 containment zones in the state. Bihar will take a call on lockdown after the PM’s meeting with chief ministers on Monday, a Bihar government official said on condition of anonymity.Congress chief ministers, according to party leaders, will urge the Prime Minister to divide the county into red zones, which are severely affected by the disease, and green zones, which are unaffected. They are expected to demand that the government consider a transition from a complete lockdown to lockdown only in disease hot spots and commencement of more activities in green zones with safeguards.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has maintained that the situation in districts, including the number of hot spots and the number of positive cases, needs to be assessed before taking a decision on the lockdown. A state government official said: “We cannot go back to life as it existed before March 24. Even in non-Covid-19 districts, we will have to learn to live more in isolation and in more hygienic ways. Social distancing is a new way of life and we have to alter all public places for this.”Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said he will go by the advice of an expert committee, set up to formulate the lockdown exit strategy. A committee member, who is familiar with the discussions and spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “The lockdown restrictions should continue in all hot spots districts till at least mid-May, by when the Covid curve would witness some flattening.”Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who had sought autonomy for states in resuming economic activities during meetings with the Centre, will once again seek relaxation in economic activities related to revenue generation in the state, according to a person familiar with the state’s approach. “He will demand exemptions in the operation of sweets shops; showrooms of vehicles, air conditioners, coolers and fridges; opening up of shops doing repair work and of all types of retail stores in all green zones with precautions,” the official said. Baghel is expected to argue that out of 28 districts in the state, not a single person has been found infected in 23 districts, while in four districts, only eight have tested positive.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his Andhra Pradesh counterpart, YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, want the lockdown to be restricted to the containment areas and their buffer zones, and not entire districts, said concerned state government officials.Delhi and Telangana, however, appear to see greater benefits in extending the lockdown. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao last Thursday extended the lockdown till May 7. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said lifting the lockdown restrictions in Delhi will not be easy.News agencies quoted SK Sarin, chairman of the Delhi government’s committee on combating Covid-19, as saying that it would be wise to extend the lockdown in Delhi, as the number of containment zones was still high. “The lockdown will have to be extended till May 16 as that is when the epidemic curve is likely to start declining, which happens after the flattening of the curve,” he said. All of Delhi’s 11 revenue districts are currently categorised as hot spots by the central government. Another key issue expected to be discussed at the meeting is a clearer policy on migrant workers and the use of public transport to enable their movement. The chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded migrant labourers to return home. At cabinet secretary Gauba’s meeting, too, the theme of migrant workers came up. Several states, including Bihar, had maintained that the state can’t negotiate such tricky matters on their own and the Centre needed to come up with a clearer protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cms-to-discuss-graded-lockdown-exit-on-video-call/story-NBmc7ewMsDNB0dEonNqtCJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Food grain distribution more than doubles since lockdown||Indian Railways has transported 5.2 million tonnes of foodgrains in the month since the country went under a lockdown on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, more than double the quantity the national transporter carried in the same time a year ago, as the Centre tried to avert the spectre of hunger by making sure every region had plentiful food stock.With barely seven of India’s 2,067 large wholesale food markets functioning in the initial days of the lockdown, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and Indian Railways went into overdrive to ferry grain stocks from food-surplus states to deficient ones. “The railways’ transportation of food stocks has played the single most important role in combating hunger during the lockdown,” acknowledged K. Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.India’s farm output has grown consistently, helping it reach food self-suffiency. Up from barely 50 million tonnes in 1950-51 to over 257 million tonnes in 2018-19, increasing foodgrain output has helped India avoid a situation in which the pace of growth in food output lags behind population. Yet, according to economists such as Amartya Sen, it is not the lack of food output, but bad distribution that has caused previous crises in India such as the last major famine of 1943 that killed an estimated 3 million people.Indian Railways has proved to be a lifeline during the coronavirus crisis, filling the large gap left by frayed private sector supply chains and a near-collapse of the wholesale markets. “Maintaining continuity in supply chain was stiffer on account of tough working conditions due to lockdown. A constant coordination for terminal release/labour availability with DMs {district magistrates} at district level, state coordinating officers, and at apex level with MHA {ministry of home affairs} is being done by operating officers of Indian Railways,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.Meticulous prior planning with FCI on destinations to which the foodgrains must be carried had also paid off, the spokesperson said.To be sure, Indian Railways has suffered considerable losses because of the suspension of passenger trains during the lockdown as well as a decline in transport of commodities like coal and coke, the primary commodities it ferries, earnings from which dropped 48.91% to Rs 2,336.4 crore in April from a year ago.Earnings from transport of foodgrains, flour and pulses shot up by more than 90% during the same period Rs 817.96 crore, according to railway ministry data reviewed by Hindustan Times. “The first task for us was to identify surplus depots. Some depots already had railheads. Those were the first ones to be serviced,” said a food ministry official, requesting anonymity.Punjab and Haryana account for 80% of outbound freight for wheat while 60% of rice reserves came from Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, according to official data. Interestingly, with no passenger trains plying on its network, Indian Railways has for the first time in decades found the tracks decongested enough to run its freight trains at record speeds; it has also begun joining two goods trains for the transportation of foodgrains. Under this concept, two freight trains loaded from two different originating stations are clubbed at the nearest junction point and proceed to a common destination.Over 1,000 train trips have been undertaken to carry grains, pulses and horticulture produce from state to state since the lockdown. On April 22, the network saw total cargo traffic of 102 trainloads carrying about 280,000 tonnes of grains, the highest single-day movement so far. The FCI moved 158 trainloads carrying 442,000 tonnes of foodgrains (22,000 tonne of wheat and 420,000 tonnes of rice) during the first 25-day period of the countrywide lockdown to the mountainous northeastern states, double its normal average of about 80 trainloads per month.One of the landmarks was to reach over 22,000 grains to the farthest depot on the Indian side in Manipur’s Ukrul, which borders Myanmar. The northeast’s hilly terrain means states in the region have few railheads. To ferry food to Arunchal Pradesh, which shares a boundary with China, food trains have been chugging on a meter-gauge track till Mukukchaleng in Assam’s Dhemaji district, an outback from where trucks make an onward journey to the higher reaches of Pasighat, a tribal town in Arunchal. “These truck movements were undertaken in extremely challenging conditions,”said Lalrothang, an FCI official in Nagaland, who goes by one name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-grain-distribution-more-than-doubles-since-lockdown/story-JJN7ATFd5KKlY1CXsZhQ7J.html
27-04-2020||India||Indian firm ready to begin producing possible vaccine||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Sunday it will likely begin the production of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by Oxford University in the next two-three weeks and hopes to bring it to the market by October if human clinical trials of the same are successful. The company has partnered with Oxford University as one of the seven global institutions manufacturing the vaccine.“SII will be manufacturing the vaccine in anticipation of clinical trials succeeding by September-October in the UK… Following that, SII has undertaken the decision to initiate the manufacture at their own risk. The decision has been solely taken to have a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials work,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Indian vaccine major, said in a statement.The vaccines will be manufactured at the company’s facility in Pune as building a new facility for Covid-19 vaccines would have taken around two-three years, he added.The human safety trial of the vaccine began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of the 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.If the trials are a success, scientists hope to have one million doses ready by September, and to dramatically scale up manufacturing after that.“Our team has been working closely with Dr Hill ( professor Adrian Hill) from Oxford University, and we are expecting to initiate production of the vaccine in two-three weeks and produce five million doses per month for the first 6 months, following which, we hope to scale up production to 10 million doses per month,” Poonawalla said, according to PTI.The company plans to initiate the trials in India for the vaccine with necessary regulatory approvals, which are underway presently, the news agency reported.“Keeping the current situation in mind, we have funded this endeavor at a personal capacity and hopefully will be able to enlist the support of other partners to further scale-up the vaccine production,” Poonawalla said.The trial will study whether the new vaccine is safe and can generate strong immune responses against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and protect healthy people from infection.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans.To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection.Regulatory authorities are working with SII to ensure smooth procedural functioning. “We are in touch with the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research),” Poonawalla said.The company earlier said it will not patent any Covid-19 vaccine which it develops. Asked about that stand, Poonawalla reiterated: “We will not patent Serum’s vaccine for Covid-19 and will make it available for all to produce and sell, not just in India but across the world.”Whosoever makes and develops the vaccine will need multiple partners to manufacture it, he added. “I hope that whichever company develops the vaccine does not get it patented and makes it available based on royalties or a commercial understanding to as many manufacturers across the world to make billions of dosages at a fast pace,” Poonawalla said. (With agency inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-firm-ready-to-beginproducing-possible-vaccine/story-P6muJdn2p2mtzna7jh40SI.html
27-04-2020||India||No hike in tuition fee of IITs, IIITs this year: Govt||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) will not increase tuition fees for the academic year 2020-21 because of the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said in New Delhi on Sunday. “After consultation with the chairman of the standing committee of the IIT Council and directors of IITs, it has been decided that these institutes will not increase the tuition fee for academic year 2020-21 for any course,” the minister said.IIT-Delhi has already said it has decided not to hike the fees for its post graduate courses. Sunday’s decision meant that all 23 IITs will stick to their fee structure followed for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the 2019-2020 academic session. “There is a view in the HRD ministry that premier institutions can step forward and take decisions which will benefit the student community as a whole...,” said a government official.A decision on the fees of undergraduate courses are taken jointly in the IIT Council, which is headed by the HRD minister, while individual IITs take a call on the fee structure of other courses such as M.Tech or MBA. For most courses, the fee structures are decided before the commencement of the academic session in June-July.Also, the centrally funded IIITs, or triple ITs as they are popularly known, will not implement a standard 10% tuition fee hike for undergraduate courses, the HRD minister said, adding that he requested these institutes not to increase fees for other courses as well. “On similar lines, I have requested the IIITs run in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode not to increase the tuition fee for the coming academic year for any of their courses,” he added.The IIIT Coordination Forum is the apex body for deciding policy and directions for 20 such institutes established under PPP. These IIITs are partially supported by government. Separately, the IIIT Council takes decisions related to the centrally funded IIITs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hike-in-tuition-fee-of-iits-iiits-this-yr-govt/story-rQAbKp5UiY9XbUchGh3WlJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Is virulent strain a worry for Indore?||With Indore in Madhya Pradesh emerging as a major hot spot for Covid-19 in the country, hospitals dedicated to fight the disease in the city sought to know whether they are up against a more virulent strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. It claimed that Indore, with its top-notch medical facilities and awareness, should not be in the crisis that it is facing currently. The MGM Medical College, which has two hospitals dedicated to fight the disease, has requested the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to study the virus recovered from the region.As per the health department’s bulletin released on Sunday, the state’s tally of cases rose to 2,090 with 145 new cases reported in the past 24 hours; the total death toll is 103. Of the new cases, 91 were reported from Indore, which has total 1176 cases. It also accounts for more than 55% of the deaths in the state and its death rate of 4.84% is higher than the national rate of 3.06%.Dean and CEO of MGM medical college, Indore Dr. Jyoti Bindal said, “There are certain reasons to apprehend that the virus strain in Indore is deadlier. However, it’s our apprehension given the situation... The Indore belt has seen significant positive cases and fatality too. In certain parts of the world that have also seen higher fatality rate, the genetic make up of the virus too was found different, and so more virulent. That’s why we want to see if it’s a similar case in Indore belt too.””Indore has the best medical facility in the state. I don’t see any reason related to medical services behind the situation,” she added.Scientists had already flagged a mutation in the virus from a case in Kerala in a pre-print study, although it was thought that the mutation made it less efficient in transmission. Independent experts had then said that more evidence was required.Monitoring the mutation dynamics of Sars-CoV-2 is critical for the development of effective approaches to develop drugs and vaccines to contain the pathogen.Dr. Bindal said, “The NIV wants samples from other parts of the state too to compare the same with Indore’s samples. We are trying to get samples from the labs in other parts of the state before sending the same.”Dr. Salil Bhargava, professor of respiratory medicine and head of Manorama Raje TB hospital, Indore said, “Geographically, Indore in Malwa region presents a different picture. It is well connected to Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan and here there a significant presence of such people who travel abroad like the US, Sri Lanka, China and several other countries as I have seen such people in OPD (Out Patient Department).”He said, “In Indore, people are extraordinarily alert about their health. Comorbidity and lifestyle may be some issues but gravity of the situation is quite alarming. Hence, we should find out scientifically if the virus strain here is more virulent. This will help us control the situation more effectively.”Dr. Ravi Dosi , head of department of chest diseases at Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), a dedicated Covid-19 hospital said, “We are giving the same treatment to Covid-19 patients that such patients are getting in other places in the country. But the results here are not as impressive as it should be. Hence, a proper study of the genome of the virus may help us find out in what direction we are going.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “If this (virus mutation) is true, then I think the World Health Organization, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and expert groups should immediately do an independent analysis of all cases not only in Indore but Ujjain, Bhopal and other divisions too.”“The MGM medical college should follow the WHO guidelines and take experts opinion on this also. Public health system is the backbone which is managing the entire pandemic in Indore but shifting patients to private hospitals more and less in government hospitals is a matter of concern and it also needs investigation. A team of doctors should decide which patient will be treated where,” said NidhiHealth minister, Madhya Pradesh Narottam Mishra said, “If the medical college is going ahead with any study it’s a welcome step. The government is for all the possible steps to control the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-virulent-strain-a-worry-for-indore/story-5VHBZi5oNmHEhAg1iCXCgM.html
27-04-2020||India||70% of Indian citizens abroad are in 6 W Asian nations, shows data||In the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic affecting Indians abroad, the government’s focus will be on six West Asian countries, which are home to seventy percent of India’s citizens who live abroad, according to data on overseas Indians maintained by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). There are 12.6 million non-resident Indians (NRIs), those holding an Indian passport but ordinarily residing outside the country, spread across more than 200 nations, according to the MEA. But 8.9 million of them live in just six countries. Among them, the largest number of Indians, 3.4 million, live in the United Arab Emirates, which is approximately 27% of all NRIs around the world. Another 2.6 million are in Saudi Arabia while Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain were home to another 2.9 million NRIs. For now, stranded Indians around the world, including workers and students, have been asked to stay where they are. A person familiar with the decision-making behind this position said, “This approach was adopted because of the suspension of international flights and the lack of adequate quarantine facilities in India following the coronavirus outbreak.”But there have been mounting calls from stranded Indians to be allowed for various reasons. Some are students facing problems with food and accommodation because their hostels have been closed; others are workers who have lost their jobs; and others who simply wanted to be with their families in these challenging times.By the third week of April, some 2,500 Indians had approached the Indian missions in Abu Dhabi and Dubai alone to seek help to return home, according to reports in local media. Authorities in Delhi have not made public the number of Indians who have sought to return from the Middle East, saying the situation is dynamic and changing rapidly.The UAE government has been pressing governments in South Asia to allow the repatriation of workers who want to return home and has even offered to fly them out. This includes workers who have been laid off because the economic downturn caused by the Covid-19 crisis. Indians in the West Asian countries also account for annual remittances of over $40 billion, though most experts feel the figure will be far lower this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic coupled with the steep fall in crude oil prices. The World Bank has already estimated that remittances will shrink by 20% globally in 2020, while India, the biggest receiver of remittances, could witness a decline of 23%.Talmiz Ahmad, who served as India’s envoy to Saudi Arabia, said at the moment, it was not clear how many Indians will return. He said it was also heartening that the West Asian states such as the UAE had shown understanding for India’s inability to bring back its expatriates. “We didn’t have facilities to quarantine people in large numbers and the West Asian states agreed to our request to look after our workers,” he said. “It was also significant that external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to several of his counterparts in West Asia and spoke out joint efforts against Covid-19. India also assured there would be no disruptions in food supplies – we are major suppliers of items such as rice and vegetables to these countries,” Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-indian-citizens-abroad-are-in-6-w-asian-nations-shows-data/story-DEy4vc6U8g0tFtHLrkwOoN.html
27-04-2020||India||WhatsApp forwards drop by 70% after curbs||The number of times messages are forwarded on WhatsApp fell by 70% in three weeks after the private messaging app introduced curbs on “highly-forwarded messages” on April 4 to curb the spread of misinformation amid the coronavirus disease pandemic. The reduction was registered globally among the 2 billion users on the platform. The messaging platform released the statistics in a communication to officials of the Union ministry of information and technology this week, HT has learnt. The volume of messages on the platform, however, remains unknown. A senior IT ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the communication was in response to the ministry’s query to WhatsApp on the steps it has taken to combat the spread of misinformation during the pandemic. “We send routine queries to social media platforms, and WhatsApp wrote to us specifying that their virality of highly-forwarded has gone down by 70% after they reduced forwarding of highly-forwarded messages from five to one,” said the official. In India, too, the reduction was 70%, as per the communication. A WhatsApp spokesperson said that this new change was brought in to keep the platform secure. “WhatsApp is committed to doing our part to tackle viral messages. We recently introduced a limit to sharing ‘highly forwarded messages’ to just one chat. Since putting into place this new limit, globally there has been a 70% reduction in the number of highly forwarded messages sent on WhatsApp. This change is helping keep WhatsApp a place for personal and private conversations,” the spokesperson said.WhatsApp had announced on April 4 that highly-forwarded messages -- messages which have been forwarded five times -- can be forwarded to only one recipient. “Today we are announcing a new limit so that frequently forwarded messages can only be forwarded to one chat at a time. This limit kicks in once a message has been previously forwarded 5 times or more,” the company had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-forwards-drop-by-70-after-curbs/story-FVwd4eX5nrEtkxZWbbIMnJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 102 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 2,185||Three persons, including a 16-year-old from Agra, died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Sunday and three more who died two days ago tested positive for the virus, taking the state’s casualty toll to 41, officials said.Meanwhile, 102 cases were reported in the state on Sunday, taking the total cases to 2,185.Out of the six deaths, three were reported from Jodhpur’s MG Hospital and the remaining from Jaipur’s SMS Hospital, officials said.SMS Hospital’s superintendent Dr DS Meena said a 16-year-old boy from Agra, who had Guillain-Barré syndrome, a rare autoimmune disorder, was admitted to Jaipur hospital on March 25. He died at 3.45pm Sunday. “He tested positive two days ago. He is likely to have got the infection from hospital,” Dr Meena said. The boy also had polyneuropathy, a general degeneration of peripheral nerves that spreads towards the centre of the body.Follow HT coronavirus coverage here.Additional chief secretary of health department Rohit Kumar Singh said two people from Ghat Gate area of Jaipur were brought dead to hospital on April 24 and 25. “Their samples were taken for Covid-19 test and they tested positive on Sunday,” he said. One of them was 50-year-old male and the other, 55-year-old female.Singh said a 29-year-old male resident of Patan in Sikar district, who died on Friday, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. “He was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 21 and died on April 24. His test report came today,” the ACS said.In Jodhpur, a 60-year-old woman died on Sunday morning. “She had hypertension and diabetes with nephropathy,” he said. The woman from Pratap Nagar was admitted to the hospital on April 24 and tested positive the next morning.Singh said the second death in Jodhpur was that of a 65-year-old woman from Bamba Mohalla. She was admitted on April 25 and died 5pm Sunday. She had hypertension and cardiovascular disease.Out of the 102 new cases on Sunday, 38 were from Jodhpur, 20 are from Nagaur, 16 from Jaipur, 11 from Ajmer, 9 from Kota, 2 from Dholpur and 1 each from Banswara, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh, Jhalawar, Sikar and Udaipur. As of Sunday afternoon, seven districts in the state had more than 100 Covid-19 cases.Singh said 629 people have recovered from Covid-19 and tested negative, and 263 of them discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-102-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-2-185/story-gJhzhDqmtjUSQehp9hs6CN.html
27-04-2020||India||New rules to improve PPE quality issued after medics flag concerns||The ministry of textiles has rolled out a slew of new rules meant to improve the standards of coverall suits – one of the most key components of the personal protective equipment that health care workers use, announcing that manufacturers will need to declare that they are not producing for commercial gains and that the fabric used will need to meet certain specifications.The move comes after health care workers reported problems with quality, and ministry officials were alerted to instances of how their certification was misused by traders to sell untested products. The ministry has now recalled all previously issued certificates. “These changes are interim measures only and newer restrictions will be put in place. We are evolving as we go, as there was no norm earlier. Testing norms, however, do not change, only the certification process does,” said an official of the ministry, asking not to be named. The new norms, issued on April 22 for coveralls and April 24 for the fabric, say that any domestic manufacturer of a coverall or fabric applying for approval certifications will have to attach a notarised affidavit declaring they are not traders. They need to state that they are manufacturers and they will not get into commercial production of the material. The ministry has also asked the manufacturer to declare whether the fabric used is non-woven, woven or knitted, its GSM and thickness, whether it is laminated or coated, and where are they sourcing the fabric from. The ministry also issues certifications for the fabric produced.Domestic production of coveralls started in March, after India stared at a huge deficit for personal protective equipment (PPE) as the Covid-19 outbreak grew wider. Testing for new samples of coveralls is conducted by four agencies for the textile ministry, which is responsible for the supply of PPEs that require textiles. Tests such as synthetic blood penetration are conducted on these. The new norms were sent on Wednesday by the ministry to the four testing agencies: Coimbatore-based South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), the Gwalior-based Defence Research & Development Establishment, and the two Ordnance Factory Board outlets at Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur and Tami Nadu’s Avani. Officials said that the move was prompted after reports of a shopkeeper using a SITRA certification to manufacture and sell coverall made from grocery bags instead of the approved fabric. SITRA officials said that the quality control measures remain a challenge. “To make sure that there is no misuse, the certifications that we are issuing now will only be applicable for six months after which a manufacturer reapplies,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-rules-to-improve-ppe-quality-issued-after-medics-flag-concerns/story-hbEBQOCxLFyRhqv9prxaUN.html
27-04-2020||India||AK Antony writes to PM for relief to students, farmers amid Covid-19 pandemic||Senior Congress leader AK Antony has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for a more comprehensive economic relief package that shields vulnerable sections such as students and farmers from the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A moratorium on loan payments recently announced by the government should be extended for a longer period of at least a year, he said.In a letter dated April 26, the Rajya Sabha member from Kerala suggested that interest rates on these loans be waived off during the time when the moratorium is in place. “The moratorium on existing loans would have to be extended to a longer period (at least one year) till we see signs of economic normalization especially for the ones most vulnerable during the Covid crisis like our farmers and students,” Antony’s letter said.Most of the students, especially those abroad, rely on part-time employment while they pursue their studies for their sustenance. As incomes have stopped, and exchange rates are rising, the student community abroad is facing difficulties, he said.“It would be appropriate that the credit line is offered through our Embassies and High Commission abroad without interest along with the provision of any other possible support through our foreign missions which will allow them to meet their basic living expenses,” Antony added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ak-antony-writes-to-pm-for-relief-to-students-farmers/story-nonSNk3APauRJEg0jaicNK.html
27-04-2020||India||Remove bottlenecks to ramp up Covid-19 testing: Cong||The Congress has asked the government to ramp up testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to 100,000 individuals every day, and accused it of testing at much lower numbers than capacity — either because it wants to under-report numbers or is unsure of its implications. After an hour-long meeting of the party’s taskforce on Covid-19, chaired by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, met, the party’s former president and Member of Parliament, Rahul Gandhi, tweeted, “ Experts agree that mass random testing is the key to beating Corona. In India, a bottleneck is stopping us from scaling testing from the current 40,000 per day to 1 lakh tests a day, for which test kits are already in stock. PM needs to act fast and clear the bottleneck.”Singh too suggested testing and tracing as key tools in the battle against the pandemic. “There are problems with respect to the inadequacy of testing facilities and without more aggressive facilities of testing, we are not going to conquer this menace,” Singh said during the meeting, according to a short video clip released by the party. Besides Singh and Gandhi, senior leaders P Chidambaram, KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala, Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari, and younger leaders such as Praveen Chakravarty, Rohan Gupta, Gourav Vallabh, and Supriya Shrinate were present at the meeting. Briefing reporters after the meet, Tewari accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata party of testing much lesser than its capacity. He said that testing right now are as low as 39,000 while India has the capacity of one lakh tests per day. “Is the government attempting to play down the magnitude of the problem or is it unsure of dealing with implications of random testing,” said the Anandpur Sahib Lok Sabha MP.The government has repeatedly pointed out that it has increased testing. In an interview, health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the government plans to increase the tests up to 100,000 by the end of May. Another theme that dominated the Congress meeting was the plight of migrant workers. Members agreed that the Centre should step aside and let the states work out a mechanism among themselves to help migrants move from one state to another. In the past two days, several states have attempted to coordinate among themselves, and arrange transport to bring migrants from their states back home. Gandhi suggested that India should have a broad framework to protect migrants, and that states must be allowed to do their bit in retrieving migrants. “We must also acknowledge that state governments are actively responsible for driving this, and that different state governments might choose different methodologies to solve this problem,” Gandhi said. Former finance minister, Chidambaram, while agreeing that states will have to be at the centre of any work related to their repatriation, emphasised that a protectionist mechanism was needed for migrant workers as most of them will be stranded where they are. “The bulk will remain where they are. And they must be given immediate cash and grain,” he said, according to the same video clip. In the context of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with chief ministers, scheduled for Monday, the taskforce also discussed the lockdown, which ends on May 3. Tiwari said states can only formulate a strategy until there is a national plan to deal with the crisis. “We hope the PM puts out a comprehensive, holistic strategy in dealing with lockout exit during the meeting with Chief Ministers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-bottlenecks-to-ramp-up-testing-cong/story-d9C5vrj1EIvsXD5aHrgFGJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Possible post-lockdown labour shortage worries BJP in Bihar||As more and more state governments bring back migrant workers stranded in other states owing to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have expressed concern that their return may set back efforts to restart the economy when the restrictions are eased after May 3.Party functionaries in Bihar, for instance, have apprised the central leadership that if migrant workers from the state are allowed to return home in large numbers, it may spell trouble for industry in the western region.“There are lakhs of workers from Bihar who are employed in the industrial, agriculture and construction sectors in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan. If all of them are brought back, they may not return for three or four months, and then the festive season begins post-October; so that might add to the delay in their return {to places of work},” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity.Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have announced they are chalking out plans to bring back their migrant workers stuck in other states and Chhattisgarh said it had sought permission to carry out a similar exercise, entailing the return of tens of thousands of workers who left their places of work in distress after the lockdown.took force. In Bihar, the authorities have cited the lockdown protocol as a reason for not making provisions to bring back workers.A second BJP functionary from Bihar, where state assembly elections are due later this year, said the party unit had urged the government to ensure that economic activity picks up in areas that are not classified as Covid-19 hotspots so that the workers get an incentive to stay back instead of heading home.“Once there is engagement and activity a lot of workers who are currently under stress will not push for going back to their native places. Of course, all the work will have to be undertaken after following the required protocol,” the second functionary said, also requesting anonymity.Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) leader Nitish Kumar has been critical of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath when he sent buses to bring back students of coaching centres stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, earlier this month. An ally of the BJP, the JD(U), which has been criticised for not taking steps to bring back its own migrant workers, believes that once the workers are back in the state, a substantial number will stay on. A large number of workers from Bihar are in Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and West Bengal.“There are many opportunities for earning in Bihar in the irrigation sector, in agriculture, road and bridge construction under MGNREGA. We are actually not facing labour shortfall in Bihar this time,” said Sanjay Kumar Jha, minister of water resources and the national general secretary of JD(U).He said that contrary to the perception that the state has not done enough for migrant workers from the state, the Bihar administration has made arrangements for providing food and shelter to the workers who had returned from other states and transferred Rs 1,000 each to the accounts of 1.4 million people.Bihar has been following the lockdown protocol specified by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Jha said, and took a swipe at other states for neglecting the safety of migrant workers and not making adequate provisions for them. “We have been following the protocol in letter and in spirit. It is ironic that people who were seen a wealth creators and were active participants in building roads and infrastructure became a liability overnight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-post-lockdown-labour-shortage-worries-bjp-in-bihar/story-Bd1VidbBm3PBUcgdE2bnPI.html
27-04-2020||India||Don’t blame an entire community for mistakes of a few: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Asserting that an entire community cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a few, the Rashtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has said that the pandemic calls for national unity, and asked citizens to be aware of those who want to exploit the opportunity to “break the nation” and create tensions between communities. Bhagwat also said that the pandemic has also shown the need to create a new development model, which should have Swadeshi at its core. The RSS has long-held swadeshi, which refers to boosting domestic capabilities and production and reducing external economic dependence and inter-linkages, as a core ideological belief. He also underlined the necessity of following the government’s protocol on social distancing. “If anyone out of anger or fear does something wrong, we cannot blame the whole community and distance from them,” Bhagwat said in a televised address. This is widely being interpreted as a reference to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where thousands got infected. At the same time, Bhagwat warned against any attempt to disintegrate the country. He said it is incumbent on community leaders to ensure that people are not provoked by those who are “anti-India” to react with “anger or fear” to government’s instructions on physical distancing. “People don’t want any restrictions. We (RSS) stopped all programmes till June end. Some others might feel the government is trying to put restrictions ... some are creating a problem that leads to anger. The ones who will benefit from this will keep provoking” he said.The RSS chief also made a renewed pitch for encouraging Swadeshi or indigenous production and said the pandemic has given India the opportunity to become self reliant and cut dependence on other nations. He however cautioned that indigenous production will have to meet quality standards. “The PM (Narendra Modi) recently told the Sarpanches that this problem is teaching us self-reliance. We need to focus on employment. Will those who went (to their villages) come back, will people have jobs, will people be able to pay? We need to start preparing and think of self reliance,” he said. Political analyst Hari Desai said, “Bhagwat’s comments on not demonising a community and pushing for swadeshi are welcome. However it remains to be seen whether it will be followed by Swayamsevaks and BJP leaders who have been blaming a particular community for the spread of Covid-19.”Bhagwat also criticised the lynching of two Hindu religious leaders in Maharashtra’s Palgarh and said such instances should not be allowed.“…Should this (lynching) have happened, should law be disrupted, what role should the police have played? The sanyasis were beaten to death. They were people who served others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-blame-an-entire-community-for-mistakes-of-a-few-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat/story-VrtQYk3vxiG2Z8EUfKdGqM.html
27-04-2020||India||Trace, test, isolate, treat will remain our strategy: Union health min Harsh Vardhan||As India puts up a resolute fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan, in a phone conversation with Hindustan Times, spoke about what lies ahead in the battle against the pandemic that has infected at least 2.92 million people and killed 200,000 globally. There will be no-let up in the fight, the minister said. Edited excerpts: There is a sense that India has managed to flatten the curve as far as Covid-19 is concerned. What will be India’s strategy now?The numbers say it all for us; as compared to other countries, we are in a better position. As for the strategy to manage the disease, it will not change. Just because things are getting better for us, it does not mean we will show laxity in our approach towards managing the situation. The strategy will continue to remain what it has been till now — to aggressively look within the community for all those who have been infected by the virus. Look for them, test them, isolate them, and treat them.What are the key areas in managing Covid-19 that need focus?Our focus largely is on actively tracing positive cases; and to do whatever it takes to successfully identify those infected. We have significantly increased our testing capacity, and are in the process of taking it to 100,000 tests in a day likely by May-end. This will help us reach out to maximum undetected cases. Logistics is not an issue at all for us as we are adequately prepared. Be it hospital beds to isolate people, ventilators for critically ill patients, personal protection gear for healthcare workers, N95 masks, medicines, oxygen supply etc., there is no shortage of anything. In fact, our preparations have been made keeping in mind the extreme situation that we could have landed in if certain measures were not taken. We are prepared to handle any situation in future also. Will you continue with rapid testing given the inaccuracies in results?The Indian Council of Medical Research is looking into the matter. It is currently in the process of studying what the problem has been, and will be validating the kits. The matter was not discussed in the group of ministers meeting as it is a technical issue that is handled by experts in the ICMR. It will be too premature to say anything right now; let them find out the cause, and then see what they advise.What are the challenges that you face?India is a huge country but we have drafted a comprehensive plan based on which we are constantly assessing the situation even till the block level. The zones have been segregated based on their risk factor; hotspots have been earmarked; and containment zones have been created to implement the containment plan. The centre is literally handholding the states to ensure all gaps are filled. Import of certain items was an issue so we built capacity to indigenously manufacture items such as personal protective equipment, masks, etc. and today we have more than 100 domestic manufacturers who have started production. Are you ensuring there are no shortages of medicines or other essential supplies?While lockdown and social distancing is an important measure in our fight against coronavirus disease, the government is working hard to ensure there is no shortage of any essential supplies, be it medicines or other items. There was an extensive review of the situation in the recent meeting of the group of ministers, and apart from talking about strengthening the contingency measures, it was also seen as a priority to ensure people did not face any inconvenience, and all essential supplies were available to them. There is no need to panic. There is a lot of misinformation doing rounds regarding the disease because of which healthcare workers and Covid-19 survivors are being stigmatised. How do you counter that?The only way to counter misinformation is by referring only to the source of information that the government is providing. We are making a lot of effort to disseminate authentic information to public; there are helpline numbers, email IDs, and fact check portals created specifically to answer queries from public, which should be made use of rather than consulting unconfirmed sources of information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trace-test-isolate-treat-will-remain-our-strategy-union-health-min-harsh-vardhan/story-QlD9UAWDPjLRprFC6GCFtJ.html
27-04-2020||India||IRS officers pitch 40% tax rate plus Covid relief cess, under probe||The government on Sunday rejected an “ill-conceived” suggestions by a group of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers to increase the top income tax rate to 40%, impose a levy on the so-called super-rich tax and a 4% Covid-19 relief cess to rebuild the nation’s economy, reeling under the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown.The suggestions were made in a report titled Fiscal Options & Response to Covid-19 Epidemic (FORCE) and released to the media on the IRS Association’s Twitter handle and website. The government deemed it an “irresponsible act” by a few officers, said two finance ministry officials with direct knowledge of the development.“A departmental enquiry will be initiated against people responsible for creating panic among the public by uploading this unauthorised report on social media that could have a serious consequence for both the economy and the market. Thankfully, the market was closed,” one of the officials said.The two officials, who both requested anonymity, said the government had “summarily” dismissed the suggestions which it judged as ill-conceived.Some of the key recommendations of the FORCE report were raising the income-tax rate up to 40% for those with income of Rs 1 core per year, reimposing a wealth tax on those with a net wealth of Rs 5 crore, deemed to be super-rich, and levy of a one-time Covid relief cess of 4% on those with a taxable income of Rs 10 lakh and above.“The proposals are against the government’s existing policy on taxation,” a second official said.In the budget this year, the government offered individuals the option of paying lower income-tax rates provided they forgo tax exemptions. It had earlier reduced corporate tax rates drastically in September, sacrificing Rs 1.45 lakh crore in revenue. Companies were given the choice of opting for a lower corporate tax rate of 22% (15% for newly incorporated companies) provided they didn’t seek exemptions. Those seeking exemptions would pay income tax at the rate of 30% (25% for new entities).While forwarding the FORCE report, the IRS Association on April 23 wrote to the chairman and members of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that it had been prepared jointly by a group of 50 IRS officers.“Working from home, they have come together to leverage their combined knowledge, experiences, and commitment to building a healthy, strong and prosperous India,” the letter that was posted on its Twitter late on Saturday said.One executive functionary of the association, requesting anonymity, said on Sunday that the was “only recommendatory in nature.”On Sunday evening, the association tweeted, “The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRSA to CBDT for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the IT Dept.”A CBDT spokesperson said the board always sought direct feedback from its field formations to improve its systems and processes, but does not entertain unsolicited suggestions from the association.“Neither the IRS Association nor any group of officers, mentioned in the said report, were ever asked by the government to give any report on the subject,” the first official said.It is, on the face of it, an act of indiscipline and violation of conduct rules which specifically prohibit officers to go to media with their personal views on official matters without taking prior sanction or permission of the government, the official said.“The Chairman, CBDT has been directed to seek explanation from these officers for writing such ‘ill-conceived views’ in public without having any authority to do so,” he said.The official added:, “People should completely disregard such reports. In fact, the finance ministry is doing its best to provide relief and liquidity into the system and ease the lives of people in these trying times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rejects-irs-officers-report-suggesting-covid-19-cess-40-tax-on-super-rich-calls-it-irresponsible-act/story-MrFyPkmNEUkwEIqk6S37DJ.html
27-04-2020||India||Slum dwellings pose challenge as Mumbai fights coronavirus outbreak||As coronavirus situation spirals, slum dwellings in Mumbai, where more than half of the city’s 12 million population live in crammed space and unhygienic conditions, seem to be posing a daunting challenge in efforts to curb infections. Known as the ‘City of Dreams’, Mumbai is home to the largest number of billionaires as well as Asia’s largest slum Dharavi -- one of the coronavirus hotspots. While area-wise it measures just about 2.4 square kilometres (sq kms), Dharavi alone has more than one million people. Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata’s remarks, earlier this week, that developers and architects are treating slums as residue” of the city and that was one of the reasons for the rapid spread of the pandemic highlighted the current situation. These so-called planners and builders should be ashamed of themselves for forcing a large majority of the people to live in sub-human conditions, he had said. The megacity has reported 4,870 coronavirus cases and 191 deaths. The octogenarian industrialist, also a long time resident of Mumbai, had lambasted realtors for neglecting the poor and creating vertical slums for big gains from high value housing that come up in the areas where slums stood once. Lack of proper planning, flouting of norms, land cartelisation and rising property prices, are among the factors, that have contributed to the present situation of large number of people living in slums, experts opined. The Maharashtra government and local authorities are taking measures to contain the spread of coronavirus infections and are appealing the citizens to stay home. However, with rooms measuring barely 100-200 sq ft housing 8-10 people in slums, and scores of families sharing common toilets and water taps, the possibility of coronavirus cases going up is always high, they added. “Blame it on policy paralysis and unending aspirations of both politicians as well as developers’ community for the city not becoming slum-free. And today, these slums have turned into a haven for coronavirus,” MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) former chief town planner V K Pathak told PTI. Further, he said housing policies that were developed by the competent authorities did not solve the issues of ‘public housing’ but were construed as policies for real estate development. “Nearly 65-70 per cent of Mumbai’s population stays in slums. Policies like the Urban Land Ceiling Act, free housing for slum dwellers and extension of cut off dates for regularising slums led to land cartelisation and increasing property rates,” Pathak said. Over the years, Mumbai has witnessed a large influx of migrants in search of jobs. They settled in clusters by building small hutments as they could not afford to buy homes and those areas later became illegal slums. “Affordable housing and slum elimination are two surprisingly conflicting issues. We’re trying to remove slums from seemingly unsuitable living conditions by relocating them to other locations which are 20-30 miles away and where there are no jobs for these uprooted people,” Ratan Tata said earlier this week. In 1995, as part of his pre-election promises, late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray floated the idea of ‘free housing’ for slum dwellers. When the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance came to power the same year, their government launched the slum rehabilitation scheme. Under the scheme, slums were proposed to be replaced with ‘pukka’ houses on the same plot of land, construction of which was to be cross-funded by a ‘free sale component’. The latter was aimed at attracting investments from home buyers from slightly affluent financial background. However, the scheme could not address the problems in its entirety and slums kept proliferating across the city. Real estate developers’ body Naredco’s National President Niranjan Hiranandani also acknowledged that proper urban planning has “not” been done. “One acknowledges that the situation has been one where proper urban planning has not been done. The need to ensure fiscal viability of real estate projects creates a situation where over the years, we have seen real estate development happen in ways that weren’t examples of ‘sustainable living’ or in sync with the environment. According to him, a mix of acute scarcity of open spaces, restrictions on vertical growth and difficulties relating to slum rehabilitation policy confounds Mumbai’s planned development. An expert in real estate regulations, who did not wish to be identified, said faulty Floor Space Index (FSI) norms have also led to haphazard development in the city and skewed property prices. FSI is a development tool that defines the extent to which construction is permitted on a plot. For long, the permissible FSI for residential development in the island city has been 1.33 and it is 1 in the suburbs. In 2019, then state government led by BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis increased the FSI for slum rehabilitation projects across the city to 4 from the earlier 3. The index is based on a ratio between the area of a covered floor or the built up area to the area of that plot on which a building stands. The new development plan 2034 for Mumbai has proposed to increase the FSI to 2.7. “While the developers used this as a tool to build costly aspirational homes, local authorities used it as a means to generate revenues. In between, the interest of the public was ignored,” the expert quoted above said. Over the past several years, Maharashtra government has been planning to redevelop the most congested areas in the city like Dharavi and Kamathipura. The ambitious Dharavi redevelopment plan, which was conceptualised more than a decade ago in 2004, has not found takers yet as developers have found the proposal “financially unviable”. “Haphazard and in some instances, unplanned development just enhances the difficulty quotient. The slum proliferation challenge begins with open spaces reserved by authorities for future development or kept vacant as no development zones. “Given the constant pressure from new migrants looking for homes, it opens up the pathway to proliferation of slums. This is a problem not unique only to Mumbai, but certainly more acute as compared to other cities,” Hiranandani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slum-dwellings-pose-challenge-as-mumbai-fights-coronavirus-outbreak/story-gzsdRS6fT1jvkZQZoX0R5N.html
