28-04-2020||India||Guidelines issued for virtual customs hearings to maintain social distance amidst Covid-19||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has issued guidelines for its offices to conduct hearings on customs-related matters via video conference with the consent of the appellant or respondent to accelerate the disposal of pending cases and at the same time follow social distancing norms to check the spread of Covid-19.“With an aim to create a virtual Customs working environment, ensuring #SocialDistancing, reduce physical presence & usage of ICT systems, CBIC issues guidelines for conduct of personal hearings in virtual mode under Customs Act, 1962,” CBIC tweeted on Tuesday. ICT is short for information and communications technology.According to the guidelines, the new system would help importers, exporters, international passengers, advocates, tax practitioners and authorised representatives interacting with officials the Customs department to maintain social distancing while performing their work from a place of their choice.Participants in video conferences should be “appropriately dressed and maintain the required decorum,” the guidelines said.These steps reinforce the “turant” (instant) scheme including answers to online queries, eSanchit (paperless processing, uploading of supporting documents), web-based goods registration, electronic processing of licenses, machine -based release of imported goods based on customs compliance verification, and electronic transmission of PDF-based first copy of bill of entry (BoE) to customs brokers and registered importers.“Shift to virtual environment for hearings, etc. by CBIC is a welcome move not only from Cvid-19 response perspective but one more step towards a faceless Customs {department}. Hopefully, this will help expeditious clearances of pending matters with minimal glitches,” said Rahul Shukla, executive director--indirect tax at consulting firm PwC, Chartered accountant Kapil Rana said conducting personal hearings in the virtual mode is in sync with the changed way of doing business. “During the pandemic, the business is not happening or happening at a very slow pace; utilising this time to clear all the pending cases is a fantastic move.”He said the it would speed up the disposal of pending cases and clearance of refunds “which will help business during this crunch time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-issued-for-virtual-customs-hearings-to-maintain-social-distance-amidst-covid-19/story-teh3kBzq5KeuLer4N6BYyI.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Delhi containment zones reach 100||The Delhi government added another containment zone taking the total number of hotspots in the national capital to 100. House no- 152 to 162 in Block D of Shaheen Bagh was added to the list, reported news agency ANI.On Monday, two more localities – one in south Delhi the other in New Delhi were added to the list of containment zones.The containment zones are also known as Red Zones and are sealed completely barring entry and exit from the locality in order to cut off any chance of transmission of the virus. Even essential services are supplied to these zones by the administration.Read full list here of Delhi’s containment zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shop No. J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki Village, New Delhi.5. Jain Moholla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi6. Boundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of humayupur lane includes, Ashiana complex & B-4/206 Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi7. H. No. 50, Hauz Rani, New Delhi, from Mother Dairy to back corner of Raja Ram Mohan School, Hauz Rani, New Delhi.8. Entire effected area around H. No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar, New Delhi9. H.No. 153/B, 4th Floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi10. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi11. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari, New Delhi12. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi13. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 14. Entire affected area including-Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali in South Delhi15. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.16. Dinpur Village17. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi18. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 19. Plot No.-1294, Sonu Yadav Ka Makkan, Theke Wali Gali, Opposite DC Office Kapashera, Delhi20. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi21. South-East Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti22. South-East Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.23. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar ( Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone24. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, Delhi25. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, New Delhi26. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi27. MehelaMohalla, MadanpurKhadar, Delhi28. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi29. South-East E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi30. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash, Delhi31. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 32. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash, Delhi33. Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, SangamVihar, House No. 112B, Gali No.2, New Delhi34. Entire Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, Delhi35. South-East Gali No. 6, A Block, Abul Fazal Enclave, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi36. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi37. (Whole Gali H. No. 48 to Chaupal), A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony, Delhi38. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area){Added in Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi} 39. H. No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 40. Whole Kumhar Gali (H.No. 1751 to 1815) to Chaupal Chowkm Kotla Mubarakpur Delhi41. B Block Jhangirpuri42. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri43. 1100 WaliGali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 WaliGali (H. No. 12381268), 1300 WaliGali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi44. G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town, Delhi45. H.No.716 to 785, H. No. 786 to 860, H. No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jhangir Puri, Delhi46. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 47. Flat No.-265 to 500 Sanjay Enclave, Jahangirpuri, Delhi48. Gali No. 3, 4 & 5 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar, Delhi49. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi50. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi51. East Gali No 9, PandavNagar , Delhi 11009252. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension, Delhi53. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi54. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), KishanKunj Extension, Delhi 55. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi. 56. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092. 57. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 110091. 58. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi59. Shahdara E-Pocket, GTB Enclave, Delhi60. Shahdara J & K , L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri 61. Shahdara F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony62. Shahdara Pratapkhand ,Jhilmil Colony63. Shahdara Gali no 3,4 and 5 East Ram Nagar, Shahdara64. Shahdara H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9265. Shahdara Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi66. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh 67. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi. 68. Israel Camp, Rangpuri Pahari, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone69. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone70. EA Block, Inderpuri, New Delhi71. H. No. P-65 and H. No. P-184, Pillanji Village, New Delhi72. Sadar Bazaar, Central District73. Chandni Mahal, Central District74. l Nabi Karim, Central District. 75. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi76. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 77. NawabGanj Area, Delhi 78. Oberoi Apartments79. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar New Delhi 110015 80. n and around area of B- 1/2, PaschimVihar , New DelhiFor Coronavirus Live Updates81. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar , New Delhi 82. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden , New Delhi 11.04.2020 83. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, PaschimVihar , Delhi84. In and around area of A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur, Delhi 110063. 85. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi86. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar, New Delhi87. West In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar, New Delhi. 88. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No. 2, Nangloi, Delhi89. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar, Delhi90. In and around area of G-1, 2nd Floor, Mansarover Garden, Delhi91. Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar, Delhi92. Entire AF Block, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi93. Entire Street No. 9, Shalimar Village, Delhi94. Entire Gali No. 3, Shalimar Village, Delhi95. H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 96 E-51, Main Road, Shastri Park, Delhi & E-21, Gali No.-8, Shastri Park, Delhi97. T-606, Gali No. 18, Gautampuri, Delhi98. A-97, 98 & 99 Near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park, Delhi99. Block No. X, from H. No. 303/6, Gali N. 1 to H.No. 289 Gali No. 3, Yadav Villa, Delhi 100. House no- 152 to 162 in Block D of Shaheen Bagh The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-delhi-containment-zones-reach-100-with-shaheen-bagh-locality-making-the-list/story-PNyajCMaYpYlZfwgHZ7wMI.html
28-04-2020||India||Salaries of Meghalaya ministers, bureaucrats deferred by 50% due Covid-19||The Meghalaya government on Tuesday ordered deferment of salaries of ministers and bureaucrats by 50% in view of the Covid-19 crisis.“The current unprecedented situation due to Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown is likely to slow down the national and state economies,” said an office memorandum issued by Meghalaya chief secretary MS Rao.“It is therefore necessary to put in place expenditure control and cash management systems so that resources are available for effective management of Covid-19 situation,” it added.There shall be a deferment of 50% in the gross salary for the months of April and May for the Chief Minister and all ministers in the state.There will be similar deferment in the salary of All India Service officers like IAS, IPS, IFS and central service officers on deputation to the state government.Deferment in salary of Group A and Group B officers will be 35% and 25% for Group C officers except for officers and staff of the department of health and family welfare and Group C employees of police, civil defence and home guards.There will be no deferment in the salaries payable to Group D employees and in the payment of pensions, the memorandum stated.Meghalaya has reported 12 cases of Covid-19, all from Shillong. The first patient who tested positive for the virus, died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salaries-of-meghalaya-ministers-bureaucrats-deferred-by-50-due-covid-19/story-xOUJAa5fPU4gKtaWl1lY4N.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid patient No 61 may be Odisha’s super-spreader||With Odisha government on Tuesday releasing the infection-history of five Covid cases in Balasore district-- one of the three districts where cases are rising rapidly-- a 58-year-old man who had first tested positive 10 days ago, was being seen as the super-spreader in the state having infected 11 people so far, said health officials.The man, tagged case no. 61 in state health department records since April 18, is a 58-year-old from Neliabag area in coastal Balasore town and runs a private technical school. While six of his contacts including his son-in-law, daughter and grandson tested positive last week, today five others in Neliabag area who came in contact with one of his family members tested positive, said officials. The Neliabag area has been declared a containment zone since April 19 after the man tested positive.“Among the 118 persons who have tested positive so far, case no 61 has infected the most. Many of the persons he infected may not have known about the infection as they did not show any symptoms for more than 14 days,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.The term super-spreader was first-time used for Patient number 31 in South Korea, a 61-year-old woman who attended church while being infected and triggered a surge in infection.Health department officials are amazed that the man transmitted the virus to only 11 people, considering that he had come in contact with 56 persons, a fortnight before he tested positive. “It’s quite possible that other people had more immunity and some of them may have been cured after mild infection. A detailed study would reveal it,” said the official.Early this month, three brothers living in a housing complex in Bhubaneswar’s Bomikhal area had infected 15 people.Apart from these individual super-spreaders, the migrants who returned from Bengal have proved to be an effective group of super spreaders. Of the 118 positive cases so far, 42 persons had returned from Bengal over last 10 days forcing the government to seal 50-odd routes connecting the neighbouring State.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe task of health officials in Odisha has been made difficult by cases that have remained asymptomatic for a long time, some even more than 14 days.“In 90 per cent of the cases, the patients showed no symptoms. As this is a completely new virus of the coronavirus family and little is known about its physiology, social distancing and avoiding group gatherings effectively is the only way we can reduce the spread of the virus,” said Bijoy Mohapatra, director of health services.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patient-no-61-may-be-odisha-s-super-spreader/story-75X39vM58PfVwB9SETRNWL.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi records 206 new Covid-19 cases but no casualty for 4th straight day||Two hundred and six new cases on Tuesday took the count of Covid-19 cases in Delhi to 3,314 but the national capital held the casualties at bay for the fourth straight day at 54, the health department said.A total of 1,078 people have recovered while the number of active cases is 2,182.Delhi had recorded 190 positive cases on Monday and 293 on Sunday. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Authorities in Delhi conducted 3,459 tests on Tuesday. A total of 43,370have been tested so far out of which 3,314 have tested positive. A total of 36,196 people have tested negative and the results of 3,295 samples are pending. The rate of testing has now gone up to 2,147 per million of the population.India’s total number Covid-19 cases stood at 29,453 on Tuesday. The Delhi government which is fighting to slow down the rate of infection in the city, has designated almost a hundred containment zones to check the spread of coronavirus.The state government had been banking on plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients but the Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering plasma therapy as regular treatment until there is robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-206-new-covid-19-cases-but-no-casualty-for-four-days-in-a-row/story-BWi0YDj0L4EUpO8bGfqmdI.html
28-04-2020||India||More than 100 labourers stranded in Murshidabad within kilometres of their homes||More than a hundred labourers from different parts of West Bengal got stranded near Farakka barrage in Murshidabad district on Tuesday as police stopped them from moving towards Malda which has been declared a Covid-19 ‘orange zone’ (districts that have not seen any new case in the last 14 days). The barrage connects south Bengal to the north.Many of these labourers had gone to work in Jharkhand and are returning home. While some are moving on foot, many are riding bicycles.The labourers alleged that they were stopped by personnel from Baishnabnagar police station in Malda. They alleged that police did not allow anyone to move towards north Bengal from Murshidabad district since Monday evening. The tired labourers said they did not have food and water and were sitting beside NH 34. On Tuesday afternoon the Murshidabad district administration provided food and water to the stranded people.Kartik Das, one of the stranded workers who hails from Toofanganj in Cooch Behar district, said, “In February, 14 people from our area went to Fulia in Nadia district to work in looms where sarees are made. The loom was shut down after the lockdown was declared.”“A few days ago we sold our mobile phones and bought some second-hand bicycles to return home. The Malda police are not allowing us to cross the barrage,” he said.Another labourer, Gholam Jilani, said, “I used to work for a private firm at Durgapur in West Burdwan district. I am from Purnia in Bihar. I repeatedly requested the police to let me go to Malda so that I can cross over to Bihar. They are not cooperating. I am sitting in the open since Monday evening.”Jayanta Mondal, a resident of Chanchol in Malda, said, “I used to work in a garment factory near Kolkata. The factory is now closed. My home is only 40 km away from Farakka but police are not allowing us to go.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe said, “We told the police that we are ready for a health checkup and to stay in-home quarantine. But they don’t want to listen. More than 100 labourers are stranded at Farakka.”A senior Malda district police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “Common people will not be allowed to move from one district to another during the lockdown. We are following the instruction of senior officers.” Malda superintendent of police Alok Rajoria did not receive calls.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19An administrative officer said a couple of days ago a migrant labourer from the Manikchak police station area of Malda tested positive for Covid-19. The patient had returned to Malda from Barasat in North 24 Parganas district on 23rd April. This prompted the administration to act.Deputy medical officer of health (Farakka) Sajal Pandit said, “More than 100 people are stranded but none are ill. Some police officers have been informed about this.”Sub-divisional police officer (Jangipur) Prasenjit Banerjee said, “We are aware of the problem. The Murshidabad police have not imposed any restriction. The Malda police are not allowing a single person to enter from Murshidabad. We are trying to find a solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-100-labourers-stranded-in-murshidabad-within-kilometres-of-their-homes/story-zXNfMUzNqpxfztfFs32WsK.html
28-04-2020||India||Foreign secretary meets CII on Covid-19 crisis, spotlights India’s efforts to help global community||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Tuesday that Indian missions across the globe are helping exporters look for opportunities in other countries and facilitating the diversification of imports.During a virtual interactive session organised at the request of the CII, Shringla also highlighted the external affairs ministry’s efforts to facilitate exports of essential medicines and health supplies to friendly countries to enable them to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.The CII had sought the meeting to discuss engagements in the industry and business related aspects of G20 and B20, and how the lobby could actively engage as India assumes the chair of the G20 in 2022.Shringla outlined the government’s initiatives to protect vulnerable sections of the population, provide relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and ensure adequate liquidity in the system, according to a statement.Referring to the video conference of Saarc leaders on March 15, which was organised at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative, Shringla said a Covid-19 Emergency Fund was announced, under which India has supplied hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other medical assistance to members of the South Asian grouping.Shringla also outlined the G20’s role in addressing the Covid-19 crisis and the outcomes of the extraordinary virtual G20 leaders’ summit on March 26. He said the G20 represents two-thirds of the global population and has agreed on a plan of action for tackling public health, economic and livelihood impact of the pandemic.The session was attended by CII president Vikram Kirloskar, director general Chandrajit Banerjee and past presidents, including Venu Srinivasan, Dhruv M Sawhney, Hari S Bhartia, R Seshasayee and Naushad Forbes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-meets-cii-on-covid-19-crisis-spotlights-india-s-efforts-to-help-global-community/story-TLKh8IKQbFP8nQm6GtolhM.html
28-04-2020||India||PM Modi thanks Canadian PM Trudeau for taking good care of Indians during Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Tuesday that he had an exchange with his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau over coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister said he thanked Trudeau for looking after Indian citizens in Canada well and stressed on the need for collaboration with Canada for fighting the pandemic.w“Had a warm exchange with PM @JustinTrudeau. Thanked him for looking after Indian citizens in Canada in these difficult times. Collaboration and partnership between India and Canada is vital to fighting the pandemic including through medical research and supply chain management,” PM Modi tweeted.Canada is home to leading global pharmaceutical companies and is also known for advance medical research. It has close to 50,000 cases of Covid-19 infections and nearly 2,800 have died there. Positive cases in India have crossed the 29,000-mark with under 1000 deaths.Modi has been holding discussions with several heads of states as the world grapples with the pandemic that has infected over 3 million people across the globe. Earlier today, he tweeted about discussing the progress of coroanvirus containment efforts with President Joko Widodo of Indonesia, who had thanked Prime Minister Modi for sending essential pharma supplies in the times of crisis.“Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with good friend President @Jokowi. As close maritime neighbours and Compreshensive Strategic Partners, close cooperation between India and Indonesia will be important to deal with the health and economic challenges posed by this crisis,” PM said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn April 22, he had spoken to Ireland’s PM Leo Varadkar. Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with Ireland’s PM, Mr. @LeoVaradkar. India and Ireland share similar approaches on many global issues. We will work together to further strengthen our partnership in health, science & technology, to jointly address challenges of the post-COVID world,” PM had said.India has helped several friendly countries and its neighbours with medical supplies and other assistance including expertise and manpower to fight coronavirus and the prime minister’s leadership and outreach has been appreciated widely.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-thanks-canadian-pm-trudeau-for-taking-good-care-of-indians-during-covid-crisis/story-14JdaR6tDueJ8bYdgcKI8H.html
28-04-2020||India||MVA urges Governor Koshyari to nominate Uddhav Thackeray to upper house||Mumbai: A delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari Tuesday evening at Raj Bhavan and urged him to take a decision on nominating chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council.The meeting is seen as an attempt to build pressure on the Governor to take a decision on the recommendation of the state cabinet.With under a month left for Thackeray to fulfil the constitutional requirement of becoming a member of either house of the state legislature, the alleged delay by the Governor has kept the proverbial sword of Damocles hanging over Thackeray and the state government.On Monday, the Maharashtra cabinet, in a meeting presided over by Pawar, decided to write to the Governor, reiterating its earlier recommendation to process the nomination of chief minister Thackeray to the legislative Council at the earliest.On April 9, the state Cabinet had cleared a proposal recommending the nomination of Thackeray to Governor on the vacant seats of the upper house of the state legislature. The recommendation was sent to the governor but even after 19 days, the Raj Bhavan has not taken a decision.“The Cabinet has again recommended Uddhav Thackeray [to be nominated]; a letter pertaining to it was submitted to the Governor. The group leaders of the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, deputy chief minister and Chhagan Bhujbal met the governor and yet again requested him to take a decision at the earliest on the recommendations that have made by the Cabinet twice,” said Jayant Patil, state minister and Maharashtra president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Besides Pawar, Patil, and Bhujbal, Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab and Congress’ Balasaheb Thorat were also part of the MVA delegation to the Raj Bhawan. Patil also declined to comment if the delay could be politically motivated to create instability in the state.Thackeray, who is not a member of either of the House of the state legislature, took oath as the chief minister on November 28. According to Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, “a minister, who for any period of six consecutive months, is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister”. The six-month period in Thackeray’s case will end on May 27. As the MLC polls, scheduled for April 24, were pushed back due to the pandemic, the Maharashtra cabinet recommended Governor Koshyari to appoint Thackeray as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC) to avoid a constitutional crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-urges-governor-koshyari-to-nominate-uddhav-thackeray-to-upper-house/story-NCh8LwlOYX3fr3iQlAlUDJ.html
28-04-2020||India||CRPF sub-inspector succumbs to Covid-19, 1st death in paramilitary forces||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sub-inspector, who was admitted at Safdarjung Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 five days back, succumbed on Tuesday, officials said.This is the first death due to the Covid-19 pandemic among the 10 lakh personnel strong central paramilitary forces that are deployed for border security, counter-insurgency and law and order duties across the country.Officials cited above said the sub-Inspector, who was posted with the 31st battalion of the forces in New Delhi, was suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. Patients with these conditions are more vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection.At least 31 other personnel of this battalion have been admitted at different hospitals after they were suspected to have contracted the virus from another colleague found positive in their camp.There have been over 60 positive cases of Covid-19 in all the central paramilitary forces till now. Earlier, cases have been reported in the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Some of them have been cured too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-sub-inspector-succumbs-to-covid-19-1st-death-in-paramilitary-forces/story-z6q0gAtyJmDcXTximjtlXK.html
28-04-2020||India||Odisha preps for return of 6 lakh migrant workers post-lockdown||The Odisha government said on Tuesday that the safety, dignity and privacy of the six lakh migrant people, set to return after lockdown is lifted on May 3, will be the state’s guiding principle. The state government has so far made arrangements for 1.72 lakh beds in 7,120 temporary medical centres in gram panchayats and urban local bodies. With more than double the number likely to turn up after the end of lockdown, the government is worried about maintaining social distancing, one of the most important means to stop the spread of Covid-19. About 6 lakh migrant workers of Odisha have registered with the state government portal for staying in official quarantine after their return.“The officials have been asked to keep in mind three crucial aspects such as privacy, safety and dignity. As far as privacy is concerned, separate rooms, baths and toilets must be arranged for men and women. In case there are people from LGBT community, separate provisions should be made,” the revenue and disaster management department said in a notification. The government also made it clear that no discrimination of any sort would be practised, promoted or tolerated.For people who would be housed at the quarantine centres, two bed sheets and as many pillow covers would be procured for each bed. “Procurement of beds (cots and mattresses, pillows) may be made through hiring and the cost can be charged to SDRF. If these have to be procured, funds under other schemes of the concerned department may be utilised,” the government order said.An amount of Rs 120 would be spent on food of each adult per day and Rs 100 for each child below 14 years per day during their quarantine period of 14 days. They would get a personal hygiene kit of Rs 300 that would include a toothbrush, paste, tongue cleaner, soaps, oil, razor, masks, sanitary pad, mug, bottle, bucket. The cleaning, sanitation and security cost per centre should not exceed Rs 2,000 per day, said Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed senior officials to double the mandays under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme from 5 lakh to 10 lakh daily in next one week. The chief minister also asked the officials to ensure that none of migrant labourers face any difficulties in getting foodgrains. Patnaik also asked the officials to take steps to increase the daily testing of Covid-19 at ICMR-approved labs and to test 15,000 samples daily from the 2,500-odd now. Three more fully automated Cobas 6800 RT-PCR would be installed in the three government medical colleges of Koraput, Bolangir and Balasore in the next two months. At present, there is only one Cobas 6800 machine at the Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar that tests 800 samples. The Covid-19 testing is being done at Regional Medical Research Centre(Bhubaneswar), SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur, Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela and VIMSAR in Burla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-preps-for-return-of-6-lakh-migrant-workers-post-lockdown/story-VJjjJuUkbADgupZH2p5L1O.html
28-04-2020||India||BRO faces challenge of inducting 40,000 workers in forward areas for key projects||One of the biggest challenges for the Border Roads Organisation is to arrange a large labour force to carry out construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sweeps through the country, BRO chief Lieutenant General Harpal Singh told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.“The foremost challenge facing the BRO is to induct up to 40,000 workers into sites in forward areas after the recent opening of passes. We are talking about migrant workers who play an important role in our construction projects. We are looking at how to make this workforce available at the earliest keeping the challenges posed by the pandemic in mind,” Singh said.The BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the BRO’s workforce involved in building strategic roads, along the country’s northern border with China, scattered across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The BRO plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022. The roads are being built to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.Singh said the BRO was on course to meeting the December 2022 deadline for building the strategic roads but admitted that accomplishing targets was “extremely challenging” because of the restrictions imposed to slow down the spread of the disease.“The challenges get compounded by the limited working season before the onset of snow. We also have to deal with the monsoon. However, we have institutionalised measures to work through the pandemic so that out plans are not affected,” Singh said.The BRO employs a labour force of around 100,000 workers for its various construction projects. Of this, around 60,000 workers are employed locally and the rest of the requirement is met through hiring migrant labour. With less than a few hours of notice, thousands of migrant workers were caught in a countrywide lockdown enforced on March 24 and extended until May 3. “One of the top priorities is to ensure that the virus does not infect the workforce and in case it does, we should be able to mitigate its spread,” the BRO chief said.Despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the BRO completed some important projects this month. It opened the Rohtang Pass three weeks in advance, constructed the strategic Daporijo bridge over Subansiri river in Arunachal Pradesh and also built a permanent bridge on Ravi river connecting Kasowal enclave in Punjab to the rest of the country.“It’s a challenge to keep lines of communication open and to continue work on strategically important projects in these times. We worked closely with the state governments and were able to mobilise labour and also move stores and equipment to open the Rohtang pass and build the Daporijo and Kasowal bridges,” Singh said. He said the BRO also cleared snow on 149 roads amounting to a length of 3,965 km.Singh said one of the top priorities for the BRO was to speed up work on the Sela tunnel. The tunnel --- announced by the government in the 2018 Budget --- forms part of a strategic road project that will reduce travel time to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh by at least two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bro-faces-challenge-of-inducting-40-000-workers-in-forward-areas-for-key-projects/story-TewM9GlFFjshsCj7HhvLbI.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On Muslim vegetable seller remark, Nadda warns BJP members against making irresponsible comments and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Muslim vegetable seller remark, Nadda warns BJP members against making irresponsible commentsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has asked party members not to make “irresponsible” comments, a directive that came in the wake of an Uttar Pradesh legislator’s remarks on Muslim vegetable sellers. Read more here. Irrfan Khan admitted to ICU at Mumbai’s Kokilaben hospitalActor Irrfan Khan has been admitted to the ICU at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai, his representatives have said. The actor is currently under observation for a colon infection. Read more here. Shake a tree to win an iPhone 11 Pro on PUBG Mobile: Here’s howPUBG Mobile is in its last week for Season 12 and the developers are making it memorable with some great rewards. You basically need to shake a tree to win, we aren’t even kidding. Read more here.WATCH| Anxiety and chaos mar Chandigarh’s grain distribution with tokensA new tactic to ensure social distancing while distributing ration has been adopted in Chandigarh. The administration has started distributing food tokens to slum dwellers. Watch. Arnold Schwarzenegger celebrating his pet donkey Lulu’s birthday may be the best thing you’ll see on Twitter todayThe beloved action star and former Governor of California posted this almost one-minute-long video on Twitter on April 28. Read more here. Go back and bowl again as I’m still here: How Sachin Tendulkar countered Glenn McGrath in 1999Tendulkar sometimes tried to unsettle McGrath by taking the attack to him, McGrath a few times bowled only on side of the wicket to block Tendulkar’s famous flick shots. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-muslim-vegetable-seller-remark-nadda-warns-bjp-members-against-making-irresponsible-comments-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZHhnVVz2DEeB9ERnoYYI1H.html
28-04-2020||India||Cancer patient dies during ambulance journey from Chennai to Tripura amidst lockdown||Amidst lockdown, a 72-year-old Tripura man died while returning home from Chennai, where he was being treated for cancer.Victim Mukul Chandra Dhar was a resident of Kamalpur in Dhalai District of the state, about 80 kilometres from Agartala. He, along with his son Subrata Dhar and one of his relatives, went to Chennai on February 17 this year for treatment at a private hospital. As the lockdown was extended after April 14, they decided to return to Tripura and booked an ambulance for the travel home. On April 25, when they were crossing over to Andhra Pradesh, Mukul Dhar died, said a government official, who was not willing to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. Distance between Chennai and Agartala is about 3,000 kilometres.Subrata returned home with his father’s body on the night of April 27, where his last rites were performed.“We have asked the two of them, who went to Chennai, to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” said Kamalpur sub-divisional magistrate Sushanta Sarkar. The Tripura government has decided to bring back people of the state, stranded in different parts of the country. As of now, 167 persons have returned back. A few days ago, a couple, too, journeyed over 3,000 kilometres from Chennai to their hometown at Udaipur in Gomati district, 50 kilometres from Agartala. Currently, Tripura has no coronavirus patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-patient-dies-during-ambulance-journey-from-chennai-to-tripura-amidst-lockdown/story-bp6gXvep1ZMrraITP19P6I.html
28-04-2020||India||An entire building need not be sealed if a Covid-19 case is found: Govt||There is no need to seal an entire building if a person living or working there tests positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because disinfecting the affected floor and common areas could be enough to stop the spread of the infection, according to the Union health ministry directive.“The health ministry has issued a detailed advisory on dos and don’ts in case a non-Covid hospital reports a Covid-19 case. The same rules apply for office premises or any other building from where a case is reported. There is no need to shut the entire premises; rather one can just do proper disinfection of the main area and other common areas,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.According to the health ministry guidelines for non-Covid hospitals (facilities not exclusively dedicated to the treatment of the deadly infection), when a Covid-19 patient is identified in a building, local health authorities need to be immediately informed, and disinfection procedures at the affected areas should follow.All contacts of the patient should be home-quarantined for 14 days, and authorities should check on their health. Their details must also be shared with the local health authorities.The building will continue to function if local health authorities are able to identify the source of the infection; if all contacts of the patients can be traced and quarantined; and if adequate sanitisation is done. But if the building still continues reporting new cases, it would be advisable to temporarily close the specific section of the building from where the maximum numbers are being reported. After thorough cleaning and disinfection it can be put to use again.However, experts said, whether a building needs to be shut or not depends on its design.“If the structure has multiple flats or different floors, then there is no need to seal the entire building as per the infection control guidelines. However, all the flats or floor got to remain under observation, and people should watch out for symptoms,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College.Despite these measures, if the primary source of infection could not be established and/or the building continues reporting large number of cases, then a decision needs to be taken on whether the building would need to be shut down under intimation to the local health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-entire-building-need-not-be-sealed-if-a-covid-19-case-is-found-govt/story-7qMOGeDERoqNibWnyD2mJK.html
28-04-2020||India||Nadda warns BJP members after MLA asked people to avoid Muslim vegetable sellers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has asked party members not to make “irresponsible” comments, a directive that came in the wake of an Uttar Pradesh legislator’s remarks on Muslim vegetable sellers. Suresh Tiwari, the BJP MLA from Barhaj constituency in Deoria district, stirred a controversy after he was purportedly heard telling people not to buy vegetables from Muslims in a video clip.As a row raged, the BJP issued a show cause notice to Tiwari and sought his reply within seven days, according to people aware of the matter.“The party president (Nadda) was extremely upset by the remarks of the MLA; he spoke to the Uttar Pradesh unit chief and said immediate action should be taken,” said a person privy to the details.The person quoted above said Nadda told office bearers to convey the message that the BJP will not tolerate any irresponsible remarks and that members should not violate the code of conduct.In the video, Tiwari is heard saying: “One thing you all should keep in mind. I am telling you openly. Do not buy vegetables from mias (Muslim vendors).”When contacted, Tiwari admitted that he made the remark. He tried defending himself by saying that he did so as a precautionary measure in order to protect people from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after apprehensions that the infection was spreading due to those associated with the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers.A global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat in defiance of official restrictions in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area, has emerged as a hot spot of the fast-spreading infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-warns-bjp-members-against-making-irresponsible-remarks/story-BdMszGZ40PVVgr38fFFycM.html
28-04-2020||India||Bengal tells hospitals to draw SOP blueprint if lockdown is extended||With no clear sign that the lockdown will be lifted soon in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday asked hospitals and medical colleges in the state to draw up blueprints to normalize services in a phased manner and cope with the evolving situation.As a part of the blueprint, all patients planning to undergo any kind of surgeries will now be first tested for Covid-19, a top official of the state health department said.“While there is lack of clarity on when and how the lockdown will be lifted, it is certain that we will have to normalize hospital services in a phased manner, commensurate with the evolving situation. In view of the above, all principals, medical superintendents cum vice principals (MSVPs) of government medical colleges and hospitals, CMOHs and superintendents of government hospitals are hereby advised to draw up a blue print for the normalisation of hospital services,” said an order issued by the state health department.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The lockdown is scheduled to end on May 3.The flow of patients in the state-run hospitals and medical colleges has dwindled drastically during the lockdown and because of the increased flow of Covid-19 patients.At the Infectious Diseases hospital in Kolkata, the first hospital in south Bengal which started treating Covid-19 patients during the initial stages, the number of cases with serious dog bites (category II and III) has dropped from around 150 per day before the lockdown to around 10 to 15 at present.“Earlier on an average we used to get around 5,000 patients at the OPD every day. Now we are getting around 600. Before lockdown at least 1,500–2,000 patients used to stay in the hospital. Now there are only around 250 patients,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, after attending the video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, had hinted that the Union government could extend the lockdown. “As a part of the blueprint, all patients coming for surgeries will now have to undergo Covid-19 tests. If it is a planned surgery and the patient tests positive, the surgery will be delayed. In case of emergency the surgery will have to be done with full protection gear following all protocols,” said a senior official of the state health department.This becomes all the more important because already two senior doctors have died while scores of frontline health care workers have either been detected with the virus or have been asked to go into quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients.“This is a welcome move, because we need to test even asymptomatic patients. Many health care workers have been detected with the virus or have been quarantined. The state has not released any figures,” said Dr S Mukherjee, a member of Joint Platform of Doctors in West Bengal.Bengal reported 28 new cases on Tuesday to take the total number of infections to 697. A total of 119 people have recovered while 22 have died so far. Authorities in Bengal have so far tested 13,223 people for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-tells-hospitals-to-draw-sop-blueprint-if-lockdown-is-extended/story-X5eo2VbNzj3Y3G74EqeReM.html
28-04-2020||India||Lockdown prompts wild animals to emerge from hiding in Bengal; two leopards killed||The 35-day lockdown is not just helping in the containment of Covid-19 cases in Bengal but has also come as a blessing for the flora and fauna in the hills of north Bengal districts.Wildlife experts and forest officials said while man-animal conflict has reduced to zero, there’s also no report of poaching from the several sanctuaries and wildlife parks in the region. The blessing in disguise has also taken its toll with two leopards being run over in the last one week.The sighting of a fishing cat---an endangered species and Bengal’s state animal-- after a long time has enthused wildlife experts. It was rescued on April 25 near Dasdargah in Jalpaiguri district and released in the wild.Ganga Prasad Chettri, chief conservator of forest (north Bengal circle) said, “The fishing cat was sighted in this region after many years.”Sanjay Dutta, the ranger of Belacoba forest, said, “I never spotted a fishing cat in North Bengal.” The sighting of the animal, which was around three feet tall, initially panicked local people.Experts said leopards have started crossing from both sides of the India-Bangladesh border.“Some days ago leopards were sighted by local people at Chalhati village along the India-Bangladesh border in the Rajganj police station of Jalpaiguri district. These big cats also created panic. A cage has been set up to capture these,” said Dutta.Forest officials said that negligible human movement along the international border has prompted the leopards to move freely. Two leopards sneaked out of the forests and were killed after being hit by vehicles in the Alipurduar area over the last one week.Talking of the impact of the lockdown on wild animals and human behaviour, Dutta said, “A few days ago a deer was rescued from Bhandiguri Tea Estate in Jalpaiguri district. The deer was caught by local people who informed the forest department. Had it been normal time the villagers might have killed and eaten the deer.”Chettri, who is one of the senior-most forest officers posted in Jalpaiguri, said there has been no report of elephants encroaching into human habitations. No human interference in elephant corridors can be the reason behind this, he added.The lockdown also has some negative effect, experts said. Chettri said since many migrant labourers have returned home, incidents of people entering the forest to collect firewood or chop down trees have increased.V K Sood, the additional principal chief conservator of forest, said, “Illegal lumbering has increased. Some people are taking undue advantage of the lockdown and felling trees. It is very difficult to carry out raids at this time,” said Sood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-prompts-wild-animals-to-emerge-from-hiding-in-bengal-two-leopards-killed/story-5AYDuFdrwc7iIVzT8xSgyO.html
28-04-2020||India||Karnataka allows shops in green zones to open, but conditions apply||The Karnataka government issued a notification which permitted the reopening of shops in green zone districts registered under Shops and Establishments Act, including those in residential areas and market complexes, except those in multi-brand and single brand malls with 50% strength of workers wearing masks and practising social distancing.The order was issued by chief secretary, TM Vijay Bhaskar, who is also the chairman, state executive committee, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. The order also permitted industries to operate in rural areas outside the limits of municipal corporations. The order also allowed the reopening of manufacturing and other industrial establishments in industrial estates and townships apart from SEZs.The move to grant permission to all shops, including those selling non-essential items, comes close on the heels of the Union home ministry allowing the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets. The central order allowed the operation of neighbourhood and stand-alone shops, including those located in residential complexes, but did not include shopping malls, liquor and cigarette shops and sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms. The Centre, however, allowed markets in rural areas.Karnataka’s order is applicable to Chamrajnagar, Koppal, Chikmagaluru, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Hassan, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Udupi and Kodagu.However, the Karnataka government made it clear that the lockdown will continue to be strictly enforced in Bengaluru Urban, Belgavi, Mysuru, Vijaypurua, Bagalkot, Kalburgi, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada districts, which are in red zones accounting for bulk of the 523 Covid-19 positive cases in the state.In the other districts of Bellary, Mandya, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Tumkuru, Chikkaballapur, Uttar Kannada, and Dharwad which are orange zones, the decision regarding the opening of shops and industries in taluks where there are no active Covid-19 cases will be taken by the district-in-charge minister in question.Even in the green zones (with no cases) where they are allowed to operate, establishments must make arrangements for workers to stay on the premises or ensure transportation to the place of work in dedicated transport and ensure social distancing while travelling.According to a government assessment in mid-April, 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) were identified as red zones (which are home to clusters of cases). Additionally, there were 207 orange zones (with fewer cases than that in red zones) in the country, and the rest of India’s 730-odd districts were classified as green zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-shops-in-green-zones-to-open-but-conditions-apply/story-xHBOnLAgzfgTVYVJTo1K9H.html
28-04-2020||India||Panaji mayor sparks outrage after he buys new car amid lockdown||The mayor of the Panaji has landed himself in hot water for purchasing a new car at a time when the state government is grappling with the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Mayor Uday Madkaikar sparked outrage after he bought a Toyota Innova Crysta on Monday despite Chief Minister Pramod Sawant saying that no new purchases of vehicles would be sanctioned. On Tuesday, Madkaikar offered a public apology for his purchase that came from the funds of the municipal corporation. “I apologise to the people of Panaji. I should not have bought a car in this crisis,” Madkaikar said but hastened to add that a new car for the Panaji mayor was long overdue since the current car was “already seven years old”. “The car I was using was seven years old. I had requested the government for permission to buy a new car. The cost for a new Toyota Innova base model is Rs. 16.70 lakh. The government at that time had sanctioned the Corporation up to Rs. 14 lakh for a new car for an incumbent mayor,” Madkaikar told reporters.Also read: With tourism down, clamour to restart mining in Goa gets louderThe Mayor took delivery of the car on Monday but claimed that he had booked it before the lockdown stared last month.“The vehicle was booked earlier and it is just that the delivery has been taken yesterday,” Madkaikar said.Car dealerships are yet to open in Goa. Several dealerships have said that they are hopeful that they will open on May 3 subject to guidelines from the state and central government.In a circular issued earlier this month, the Goa administration had said officers and government functionaries were eligible for more expensive cars. But the chief minister had claimed that the circular was a routine matter and while officers and departments will be eligible to purchase more expensive cars, no cars would actually be bought. “The circular was a routine administrative matter. The prices of vehicles were last revised more than eight years ago. No new vehicles will be bought or sanctioned,” Sawant had said when asked about the circular. Under the new circular the Panaji mayor was eligible to buy a car costing Rs 20-lakh up from the earlier limit of Rs 14 lakh.The mayor’s decision to buy a new car evoked some stinging reactions.“Congratulations to our BJP Goa’s #CCP mayor for #LockdownPurchase of [a] luxury car out of [the] huge profits in home distribution of essentials as well as illegal #ReopeningTax collected from business establishments of #Panaji. I am sure with remaining profit, the energies will now be concentrated on paying pending two months salaries of #SafaiKarmacharies who have toiled hard during the lockdown period to maintain hygiene in the city,” Sidharth, a former MLA of Panaji and a member of the BJP, said. During the lockdown the corporation had organized doorstep delivery of essentials, which Sidharth had alleged was a money-making racket, a charge the mayor denied. The Corporation of the City of Panaji also earned the ire of the city’s business community after it began charging Rs 500 to grant shopkeepers permission to reopen their standalone shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panaji-mayor-sparks-outrage-after-he-buys-new-car-amid-lockdown/story-xesRkuMGQ5bDeuiET34MSO.html
28-04-2020||India||28 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Bengal, 287 containment zones in Kolkata||Twenty eight new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in West Bengal, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 522, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Tuesday. There are 697 total coronavirus cases in West Bengal, including 20 deaths, according to health ministry data.Among the casualties, a senior orthopaedic surgeon succumbed to the highly infectious disease in Kolkata on Monday. The 69-year-old doctor had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.On Monday, the West Bengal government had released a list, saying four districts, including capital city Kolkata, have been declared as red zones with a maximum number of coronavirus cases amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In Kolkata, at least 287 areas have been identified as containment zones.Besides the capital city, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur districts have all been declared red zones.In West Bengal, 11 districts have been identified as orange zones with fewer coronavirus cases, while eight are in the green zone and have no Covid-19 patients, according to a list released by the state government.South 24 Parganas, Hooghly, West Medinipur, East Bardhaman, West Bardhaman, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Murshidabad and Malda are the Bengal districts which are in the orange zone.The eight districts in the green zone are Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakhin Dinajpur, Birbhum, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram.Sinha further said that in Howrah district there were 56 containment zones, and from 13 of them there has been no new case of the coronavirus infection.He said if no new case is reported from a zone for at least 21 days, the West Bengal government would announce relaxation of curbs there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-bengal-287-containment-zones-in-kolkata/story-BzPI9FiTrbjbUdZPV6A5zM.html
28-04-2020||India||Pregnant woman from Covid-19 red zone made to switch hospitals, dies||A 20-year old woman died in Hyderabad on Monday night, a day after delivering a baby boy, as she was forced to move from one hospital to another in three days to rule out the possibility of her being Covid-19 infected, her relatives said.The woman’s new-born baby also died of respiratory disorders, a day before she died fighting anaemia and hypertension. The deceased was identified as Jenila, from Yapadinne village of Gadwal district in Telangana.Mahendar, the woman’s husband, told reporters that she went into labour on April 24 and was rushed to district hospital at Gadwal, where doctors referred her to a bigger hospital at Kurnool in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh state, which is around 50 km away, as she was suffering from severe anaemia and blood pressure.However, Mahender could not take her to Kurnool, which was under complete lockdown as it has highest number of positive cases for Covid-19 (332 cases and nine deaths till Tuesday) in the state and the only government hospital in the town has been converted into a Covid-19 speciality hospital.Having no other option, he managed to move her to Mahabubnagar government hospital, about 60 km away, thanks to the ambulance arranged by the Gadwal police.But the doctors at Mahabubnagar also did not want to take risk, as the couple hails from Gadwal, which also has a high incidence of Covid-19 (45 positive cases and one death) cases. They asked him to shift her to Government Maternity Hospital, Koti, in Hyderabad.On April 25, Jenila was brought to Hyderabad and taken to Koti hospital, where the doctor suggested that she be first tested for Covid-19 virus, as she had come from Gadwal, declared as a red zone. She was rushed to Gandhi Hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19 in Secunderabad, for the test.A day later, Jenila tested negative and from Gandhi, she was shifted to the government maternity hospital, Petla Burz, where she gave birth to a baby boy. Since the child was also weak and had some respiratory problems, he was shifted to Niloufer Children’s Hospital, but died later that evening.As Jenila’s condition also became critical, she was shifted to Osmania General Hospital, where she died at around 8.30 pm on Monday.“Had the doctors treated her as an emergency case and given her the best treatment in time, she would have survived. It was because of their negligence and delay in treating her on suspicion of Covid-19, she died,” Mahender told reporters.Osmania Hospital superintendent Dr Nagender and Petla Burz maternity hospital superintendent Md Osman could not be reached for reaction.Meanwhile, Telangana state human rights commission ordered an inquiry into the death of the woman after she was forced to move from one hospital to another because she hailed from Covid-19 affected zone in Gadwal.It directed the state government and superintendents of all the hospitals to submit a report on the incident by June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-woman-from-covid-19-red-zone-made-to-switch-hospitals-dies/story-nyFAlRks8PAzsOmdnP8yEL.html
28-04-2020||India||Nation still awaits a clear lockdown exit strategy: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said the nation was waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out a clear lockdown exit strategy after May 3, when curbs imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) come to an end.“We once again appeal to the Prime Minister to come out with a clear exit strategy for the lockdown, to state the road map for economic revival, and to deal with the health pandemic post May 3, as also restrict the lockdown only to hot spot zones,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, addressing reporters through video-conferencing.The Prime Minister on Monday held a meeting with chief ministers through video-conferencing and sought their views on tackling Covid-19 and also on lifting the lockdown being enforced across the country since March 25.Surjewala said the Congress chief ministers requested the Prime Minister to tell the nation what the exit strategy from the lockdown will be.“What is the government’s strategy on the health front and the economic front in terms of post lockdown period? What is the road map for the future course after May 3?” he asked.“How is the Prime Minister going to come out with financial action plan as demanded by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and many other experts to address the issues of starvation, stranded migrant workers, or...small and medium enterprises?”Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-still-awaits-a-clear-lockdown-exit-strategy-congress/story-dfOMhexbMBOsDsweWw8IIL.html
28-04-2020||India||Aadhaar cards can now also be updated at 20,000 CSCs in a major relief to rural citizens||The Indian government on Tuesday enlisted the 20,000 common service centres (CSCs) in rural areas across the country for Aadhaar updates which is likely to provide relief to the population in the hinterlands that are located close to CSCs but are far from banks and post offices.The facility to update one’s Aadhaar record at 20,000 CSCs is likely to start by June end, which is the deadline set for the centres to upgrade their services. CSCs are a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that operate as banking correspondents in the rural parts of the country and come under the ministry of IT and electronics.Union Minister for Communications, MEITY and Law and Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted to convey the development.Prasad requested the CSCs to handle Aadhaar work with responsibility and as per the instructions issued by UIDAI. He added that this move will help a large number of rural citizens to get Aadhar services closer to their homes.UIDAI or Unique Identification Authority of India has set a June deadline for the CSCs to begin handling Aadhar work after an upgrade to their existing infrastructure and other necessary approvals.CSC CEO Dr Dinesh Tyagi has asked CSCs to immediately undertake technical and other up-gradation required for starting Aadhaar updates.Dr Tyagi said it would further strengthen the efforts of achieving the goals of “Digital India” as envisaged by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.So far Aaadhar enrolment and updation facility was available at select banks, post offices and other centres specially set up for this purpose by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-cards-can-now-also-be-updated-at-20-000-cscs-in-a-major-relief-to-rural-citizens/story-dYBgzxchMxqdPbO3hIbtQP.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad among 15 high Covid load places: Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has identified 15 places including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad as “high case load” and said India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. Out of these 15, seven districts show particularly high case volumes, like Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi. Other high case load places that are “critical” in the battle against Covid-19 include -- Vadodara (Gujarat), Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Thane (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Surat (Gujarat). “These 15 districts are critical in our battle against #Covid_19 Of them 7 show particularly high case volumes. India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here,” Kant said in a tweet. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 29,000  people in the country. More than 900 people have died due to the deadly virus. The government had on March 29 constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people as quickly as possible post the 21-day lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Kant, heads the Empowered Group (EG 6) on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-ahmedabad-among-15-high-covid-load-places-niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant/story-PLuIPvlCJ0yy67mxjELVLO.html
28-04-2020||India||PM Modi gets a SOS message from UAE for Indian healthcare personnel||The United Arab Emirates has requested the government to send Indian doctors and nurses to help the Emirates fight the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior government official said on Tuesday.The UAE, a federation of seven emirates with a population of less than 10 million people, has already reported 11,000 Covid-19 cases and has been adding an average of 500 patients every day.It relies heavily on foreign-educated doctors and paramedics including those from India to staff its hospitals.Some of them were on leave when governments in Delhi and Abu Dhabi cancelled all commercial flights to stop the coronavirus diseases from spreading their respective countries.“We have received two requests. One, to allow the healthcare providers who were travelling to India when commercial flights were cancelled to return to UAE to resume their duties,” a top government functionary told Hindustan Times.The second, is permission to hire or avail the services of doctors and nurses for a shorter duration to tide over the immediate crisis.“The requests are being considered of the government,” the official said.Officials said Abu Dhabi had offered to send a special plane to fly the Indian healthcare professionals employed by its hospitals.Also Watch: Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explainedConsidering the nature of the relationship between the two countries, the first request is likely to be processed first, another official said.The request for additional doctors and paramedical staff, however, requires wider consultations within the government, the official said. The decision would be made after evaluating India’s requirements at this stage.But the effort is to find a way out to help UAE at this crucial juncture.Just a fortnight back, India had sent a 15-member team of military doctors and paramedics to Kuwait and promised to deploy more personnel should the need arise.These gestures, a foreign ministry official said, should be seen against the backdrop of how ties between India and the Gulf countries had deepened over the last five-six years.Right from the beginning of the NDA government’s first term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his key advisers have invested diplomatic energy in improving ties with countries in West Asia, particularly Saudi Arabia, UAE, Jordan, Bahrain, Qatar and OmanIn 2015, Narendra Modi was the first Indian PM to visit the UAE - also home to 3.4 million Indian workers - in over three decades. In all, the six Gulf countries - Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain - have about 12.6 million Indians.The personal relations started paying off within a few years when National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was able to persuade the Gulf countries to either push out anti-Indian elements or send them over to India.It was a reflection of this high-octane diplomacy at work that Dubai handed over Dawood Ibrahim associate and 1993 Mumbai blasts accused, Mohammed Farooq and Saudi Arabia deported Lashkar-e-Taiba operative Habibur Rahman. In all, over a 100 wanted persons have been deported to India by the Gulf countries over the last six years. Last year, UAE allowed Indian agencies to fly out AgustaWestland case accused Rajiv Saxena and prominent aviation lobbyist Deepak Talwar in a special plane.More recently, UAE made an exception for Indians when it started packing off foreign nationals from nearly every other country including Pakistan after the outbreak of coronavirus disease. Since state governments in India weren’t geared up to accommodate the Indian citizens abroad, the Indian government had requested to take care of them for some more time. India, on its part, had assured the Gulf countries that New Delhi would maintain uninterrupted supply of food and essential items from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-gets-a-sos-message-from-uae-for-indian-healthcare-personnel/story-puMmZC60VJR7MWP0sYMtOK.html
28-04-2020||India||Supreme Court tells Centre to examine providing PPE to healthcare workers in non-Covid areas||The Supreme Court has cited a rise in asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and asked the Centre whether it was feasible to arrange protective gears for all medical personnel regardless of whether they are involved in dealing with the pandemic.Various states have reported a growing number of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said 80% of coronavirus patients were asymptomatic in his state, which is the worst-hit by the pandemic in the country.“We direct the Union of India to examine this issue and make necessary suggestions in the ‘Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)’ Guidelines so that PPEs are provided to all health officials who are working in non-Covid treatment areas,” a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S K Kaul and B R Gavai said in an order on Monday.The court had on April 8 directed the Centre to ensure PPEs are made available to doctors, nurses, ward boys and paramedical staff treating Covid-19 patients or those who come in contact with them at the designated isolation/quarantine wards.The court’s fresh direction come in response to Nagpur-based medical practitioner Sameer Paltewar’s plea that highlighted that all health care workers were at the risk of contracting the infection.Advocate Shreeyash Uday Lalit, who appeared for Paltewar, said a hospital functions like an ecosystem. “Even if one health care professional is compromised with Covid-19, any hospital administration will have no choice but to cordon off the whole area.”The plea cited examples of two Mumbai hospitals, where medical personnel got infected by patients being treated for non-Covid-19 illnesses. Over 300 staffers of these hospitals had to be quarantined after around 30 nurses and doctors tested positive for Covid-19. A similar situation forced authorities to quarantine 100 health care professionals at a Delhi hospital.The plea said health workers in Covid-19 wards are required to visit non-Covid-19 areas and added this puts the entire ecosystem at serious risk.“Infection from asymptomatic patients is reported to be on the rise in the country. We find substance in the suggestions made by the applicant,” the court said.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, assured the court that the suggestions will be considered if not included in the revised guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-centre-to-examine-providing-ppe-to-healthcare-workers-in-non-covid-areas/story-xqqLToJSywV8U5mV07hF7H.html
28-04-2020||India||Goa techie launches tool that helps people find jobs amid Covid-19 outbreak||Panaji: A Goa-based tech developer, Prajyot Mainkar, has launched a basic online editable tool to help people find jobs, including work from home, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, as recession, reminiscent of the 1930s Great Depression, threatens to roil the global economy.The web-based tool has struck a chord with job seekers, as over 600 people have registered since it was launched on March 24. The tool was launched just a day ahead of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The tool seeks job aspirants to sign up – from around 60 categories of skill sets, including business process outsourcing (BPO) and the farm sector – an online Google form. Then, the aspirants’ data are shared with potential employers, including those engaged in information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITes).Mainkar has been trying to emulate the success of an earlier online tool -- a live Google datasheet -- that he had launched to help locals in Goa find cash in functional automated teller machines (ATMs) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation of around 85% of old currency notes on November 8, 2016.“Developing an online editable tool sounded like a cool concept in a post-demonetisation world. But there were practical challenges such as making people aware of it and then getting them to download it till it’s utility was over after 10-15 days,” he said.“The tool worked well because of massive word-of-mouth publicity. Besides, it was a dynamic tool, as many users updated the ATMs’ status live by using its datasheet’s editing option,” he added.Mainkar is back in business four years on in his altruistic zeal and sees the ongoing pandemic an opportunity for both job seekers and job givers.“I’m playing a small part in helping people find the right employer in a bleak job market, where layoffs are the order of the day,” he said.Many are expected to lose their jobs, as the pandemic is triggering an all-round redundancy, but some sectors, albeit temporarily, are likely to hire amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which have been in place since March 25 till May 3, he reasoned.Mainkar is looking beyond IT and ITes sectors, as the job aspirants who signed up for the tool belonged to diverse professional backgrounds. “Digital marketing, sales and marketing professionals, content writers, financial consultants, graphic designers, video editors, interior designers, etc. all showed keen interest amid these uncertain times,” he said.“Around 40 companies, mostly start-ups, have got in touch with us. We’ve also started coordinating with other networks who have been collating data of start-ups that are looking to hire,” he added.Can Mainkar cater to the job aspirants’ needs amid a looming global recession triggered by Covid-19 and also compete with professional networking sites such as LinkedIn and Dysco?Perhaps, time will tell whether he has succeeded with his new tool like he did four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-techie-launches-tool-that-helps-people-find-jobs-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-zxZHgzjpxgabf3ZqoZZ04J.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi, Mumbai among 15 places that account for over 60% of India’s Covid-19 cases||Delhi and 14 districts across the country account for over 60% of all Covid-19 cases reported in India, according to data from the federal think tank NITI Aayog, whose chief executive officer Amitabh Kant says diligent monitoring, and aggressive testing, treating and containment are required to check the spread of the disease. Delhi, which has 11 districts, account for 12.62% of all cases in the country as of Monday. Mumbai and Indore feature among the list of the 14 other districts.“Our job is to present the nationwide picture, but it is the state governments that have to take strong, ruthless containment measures, more testing, isolation, and treatment in order to bring the number of cases down,” Kant said. “These are the 15 places that have reported more than 1% of India’s cases and it is here that we have to flatten the curve to win the fight against the virus,” said Kant. There are 33 other districts that have reported over 100 cases each so far, he said.Along with the data, NITI Aayog also presented a weekly trend of the number of cases, which shows that most of the states with these 15 high-case burden areas have started showing a decline other than Maharashtra and Delhi.“However, it is not enough to show a decline over one week, this has to be consistent for three to four weeks to be a correct indication of a downward trend. This is the reason I have also put up Kerala’s trends, which has shown week on week constant decline. We must learn from what Kerala did,” said Kant.Most of the 15 places referred to by the NITI Aayog are big cities such Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Ahmedabad. Experts believe this is mainly due to density of the population in these cities and testing bias.These cities account for a big chunk of cases reported from their respective states – Mumbai accounts for 33% of cases in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad accounts for 66% of the cases from Gujarat, Indore accounts for 49.5% cases in Madhya Pradesh, and Hyderabad accounts for 55.6% of the cases in Telangana.“If you see the bigger cities, the population is dense leading to a faster spread of infectious diseases like Covid-19. Also, when it comes to testing, we have a track record of testing more in the urban areas – it was true for H1N1 pandemic, it happens for routine infections like typhoid and even lifestyle diseases like diabetes. Unless the sample has been selected statistically to represent both rural and urban population, we cannot say that the infection is not being reported from rural areas,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.In Delhi too, the district with the highest number of cases are those with a high proportion of slums and resettlement colonies.“The analysis by NITI Aayog is wrong in considering Delhi as one whole. It is not that entire Delhi is reporting high number of cases, but certain districts are. And, if you closely look at the districts where this is happening, there are slums and resettlement colonies where maintaining social distancing is not possible,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of public health at Safdarjung Hospital.Experts say that it is community engagement rather than enforced lockdowns that can help bring down the number of Covid-19 cases.“Just locking down a street or a colony when positive cases are reported is not the solution. If people continue meet each other within the containment areas, the number of cases will rise. What we need to do is engage with the community, make them stakeholders, make them responsible for ensuring social distancing and other measures,” said Dr Kishore.Dr John cited the example of Kerala, where health authorities were quarantining all those who travelled to the state, whether from abroad or other parts of the country. “Maybe the government should have gone into communities like Dharavi in Mumbai and explained about the disease, asked them to start wearing masks a month ago. This would have slowed down transmission in the communities where social distancing might not always be possible. Cities like Ahmedabad where the population density is lower can still implement these measures, but for bigger cities like Delhi and Mumbai, all the government can do is fire-fight now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-places-account-for-over-60-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-india/story-34kENwyqCRHiTdSKiXQfBM.html
28-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 situation 84 times better than top 20 infected countries: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday cited WHO data to reiterate the point that India was faring much better than the worst coronavirus affected countries in the world because of ‘timely’ and ‘cohesive’ containment efforts, including the two-phased 40-day-long nationwide lockdown and other curbs.The health ministry official present at the regular briefing by a joint panel of government officials on the status of Covid-19 in the country on Tuesday said that the combined data of top 20 coronavirus affected countries (excluding China and India) in the world gave a good measure of India’s success in relatively keeping the disease under a check.The health ministry official threw light on the logic behind the comparison by pointing out that the combined population of these 20 countries-- United States, Spain, Italy, UK, Russia, Turkey, Germany, France, Iran, Brasil, Belgium, Canada, Netherlands, Switzerland, Peru, Portugal, Ecuador, Sweden, Ireland and Saudi Arabia-- was close to India’s population, and therefore, offered some perspective on India’s virus-fighting efforts.“According to the WHO data from yesterday, confirmed cases in those 20 countries are 84 times more than the positive cases in India. Similarly, the number of coronavirus deaths in these countries are 200 times more than the number of deaths reported in India,” Agarwal said.As on Tuesday afternoon, the top 20 infected countries, China excluded, listed on the WHO dashboard have a combined tally in excess of two million at 2,402,403 while India’s total tally was at 27,892. According to the latest data offered by the government, India had a total of 29,435 confirmed positive cases on Tuesday, including 21,632, who were under active medical supervision and 6,868 people, who have been cured so far. India’s recovery rate of patients had increased by a few notches to reach 23.3%, Agarwal said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He provided more statistics in support of government’s claim of faring better than the worst and said the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases now stood at 10.2 days.He added further that no new cases were reported from 17 districts in the last 28 days.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-situation-84-times-better-than-top-20-infected-countries-govt/story-bBQlHhxJRPjUlu7TsGwmqL.html
28-04-2020||India||Central Railway comes to the help of two people who wanted medicines from Mumbai||The Central Railway authorities have emerged as a saviour for two patients --- one suffering from cancer and another from heart condition --- as they organised critical medical supplies for them in distant Gorakhpur and relatively closer Chiplun.Amruta Chaurasia, a cancer patient and a Mumbai resident, who had gone to attend a family wedding at a village in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district, was stuck with limited medicine supply after the central government announced the nationwide lockdown restrictions on March 24. Initially, the lockdown was enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Her son Sandeep, a Thane resident, unsuccessfully tried to courier her the life-saving drugs. Then, he reached out to India Post, a subsidiary of Union Ministry of Communications, via Twitter and he was told to contact Indian Railways. This led Sandeep to contact Central Railway authorities, and soon an officer, who lives in Mulund, collected the medicines from him.“On April 18, the medicines were brought to Kalyan station and sent to Gorakhpur via Nagpur in two separate parcel trains because there is no direct rail link between the two places,” said a Central Railway official. Amruta received the medicines on April 21, and now she has adequate supply to see her through the rest of the ongoing lockdown restrictions, which are likely to be lifted after May 3.Similarly, on Monday, the Central Railway made an unscheduled halt of a parcel train at Chiplun station under the Konkan Railway to deliver medicines to a patient, who is suffering from a heart condition and originally a resident of Vikhroli, Mumbai.The railway personnel had collected the medicines from his Vikroli residence and the drugs were sent from Panvel station to Chiplun.On Sunday, the zonal railway assisted in transporting camel milk from Falna in Rajasthan to Secunderabad, Telangana, for a two-year-old child, via Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). “There is no direct rail link between Falna and Secunderabad, leading to a 28-hour detour via CMST. On Sunday morning, the milk arrived at Bandra Terminus in Mumbai from Rajasthan and was loaded at CSMT for Secunderabad,” the official added.Earlier, the railways had launched a helpline portal SETU (Swift & Efficient Transport of Utilities) to assist people in booking the supply of essential commodities via parcel trains during the ongoing lockdown restrictions.“We’re transporting essential items such as medicines for patients across the country via parcel trains. Personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, other emergency healthcare items, etc; are being delivered to strengthen the government’s efforts to rein in the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-railway-comes-to-the-help-of-two-people-who-wanted-medicines-from-mumbai/story-dUkdkyUvC3eoT8BheHSsoO.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Don’t delay or create hurdles in inter-state movement of goods’: Gadkari tells states||States must take urgent action to remove blockades for the movement of trucks at inter-state borders Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari told state transport ministers on Tuesday. The union minister pulled up state governments for creating delays in clearance of goods transport adding that nearly 3.5 lakh trucks were stranded at present due to delays in inter-state clearance and screening, officials aware of the development said adding that there was no discussion on inter-state public transport. “States also reiterated that decision on public transport will be taken following the ministry of home affairs’ order post May 3,” the official said. In a video conference with state transport ministers on Tuesday, Gadkari said states need to take urgent action so that blockades for trucks and lorries at inter-state borders are cleared at the earliest possible for smooth movement of essential goods to various parts of the country. “Ministers need to intervene in such matters and ensure resolutions through the local/district administrations. At the same time, adhere to health advisories and other guidelines like proper distance, wearing of masks, use of sanitizers, both by the driver/cleaners and also at the dhabaas,” Gadkari said.The meeting was also attended by the chief Ministers of Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh. “There were several issues on movement of goods and transportation that needed to be resolved. There is delay in supply movement and hence the meeting was called to discuss the hurdles. There was no discussion on public transport yet, that will only take place on May 3,” Himachal Pradesh transport minister, Govind Thakur said. Gadkari also told states to provide transportation for labour to factories and ensure food and shelter for labourers. Transport associations have demanded an economic package and relief from the Centre since the lockdown. “Across segments there is an issue of shortage of drivers, money and load. Lack of labour is leaving vehicles stranded and has already led to shortage of supplies. Movement of vehicles is still a major issue despite MHA advisories. E-pass system is not working properly and movement of staff apart from drivers is still a tedious task. Local restrictions are not helping the transport fraternity as there is no fresh load, no unloading at the factories, go-downs or warehouses and the our vehicles get stuck for days together, apart from harassment by local administration,” All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) president Kultaran Singh Atwal said. “Screening process at inter-state borders has left several trucks stranded. There is screening process at interstate borders, e.g. Barobhisha Border (Bengal–Assam Border). There are long queues up to 6-7 kilometres and the drivers and crew are stranded without food and water,” he added. The Centre has also told states that top priority will be according to construction of national highways during the lockdown period. In a presentation made on the status of work being undertaken since the lockdown during the transport ministers’ conference it was stated stated that 1315 projects covering 49,238 km worth Rs 5.8 trillion (Rs 5,89,648 crore) were under progress, of which 819 projects covering 30,301 km costing as high as Rs 3.06 trillion (Rs 3,06,250 crore) were delayed. It also showed state-specific issues like pending land acquisition, environment clearance etc which have been delaying the project implementation. The participating states were suggested to take definitive steps towards mitigating the difficulties.Gadkari informed that he was according top priority for National Highway construction by 2 to 3 times of the present pace in the next couple of years. He urged the states to expedite land acquisition and asked them to utilize funds which are remaining unused with them, which have been estimated at about Rs 25,000 crore, according to the transport ministry. States also requested the Centre to expedite highway projects. Responding to a suggestion by a state minister, Gadkari said the ministry will start a helpline to resolve the transportation issues. Gadkari also suggested that states should explore operationalising app-based two-wheeler taxis especially in rural areas which will assist farming communities with smoother movement. This will also provide new employment opportunities, Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-delay-or-create-hurdles-in-inter-state-movement-of-goods-gadkari-tells-states/story-n4OJchhw0KIMBcXgRDP8TM.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand seeks Centre’s nod to resume work on Char Dham road project||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday sought permission from the Union ministry of road transport and highways to bring skilled labourers from other states and raw material from outside to resume the construction of Char Dham all-weather road in the state.Work on the 880-km Char Dham project which will connect Badrinath Dham, Kedarnath Dham, Gangotri, Yamunotri, and part of the route leading to Kailash Mansarovar yatra had stopped because of the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The permission was sought by the state cabinet ministers Madan Kaushik and Yashpal Arya representing the state government during a video conference meeting with Union minister road transport and highways Nitin Gadkar.“We raised several issues pertaining to our state before the Union minister among which one was permission to bring back the skilled labourers who had gone to their respective states due to the lockdown. We already have our non-skilled labourers and if we get the permission to o bring back the skilled ones then we would be able to speed up the construction work of Char-Dham highway project and other road construction works in the state,” Kaushik told reporters after the video conference.“We also sought permission to allow the transport of heavy raw materials like steel and iron rods used in highway construction from other states which were stopped due to the lockdown.”Kaushik did not say when the state intends to resume highway construction work.He said Gadkari also discussed a special package for the states considering the losses incurred by them due to the lockdown. “There are certain issues like payment of salaries to drivers and other staff of the transport corporation in this lockdown. To facilitate that, we discussed a special package on which the Central minister said that based on the evaluation of the state’s situation, a special package would soon be announced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-resume-work-on-char-dham-road-project/story-RmAh6kJLAjNQYERplrkktJ.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Interference with free speech’: BJP MP Hegde complains to PM against Twitter||Anant Kumar Hegde, a former Union minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Uttara Kannada parliamentarian, has complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against Twitter, alleging that the microblogging site was interfering with “free speech”. India needs to develop an Indian version of Twitter to ensure “sovereignty”, Hegde, whose account was blocked earlier this week allegedly over communal content, said in a letter to Modi. HT has seen the letter dated April 25.Hegde, known for his controversial comments, said there has been “selective targeting” of several pro-India handles, which have been suspended or locked in the past few months.“Pro-Indian, national interest think tanks run by decorated veterans who never indulge in any mudslinging but speak about subjects like data sovereignty are silenced by suspending accounts. Handle belonging to elected public representatives are suspended without notice,” the letter said.Hegde alleged that handles “spewing poison and passing objectionable comments about Prime Minister of India, home minister of India, chief ministers and other Indian establishment are promoted via paid advertisements”.Attaching screen shots of various tweets, he also alleged that handles spreading discontent and fake news about Indian religions or elected representatives are not warned or blocked even after repeated complaints. Hegde’s letter called for a probe into what he called motives behind such acts by Twitter. When contacted, Twitter said: “We don’t comment on individual accounts for privacy and security reasons. At Twitter, no one is above our rules. We enforce our policies judiciously and impartially for all users — regardless of one’s political beliefs. If we receive reports of potential rule violations, we will take action, as appropriate and pursuant with our enforcement approach, as detailed here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interference-with-free-speech-hegde-complains-to-pm-against-twitter/story-hrFbUCBlaFWxUnFyJes9EP.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Congress gets 60k responses on MSMEs, set to invite tips on other key issues||Buoyed by the public response to its request for suggestions on the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector, the Congress is all set to invite the views of the people on other key issues confronting the country due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.A senior Congress functionary said the party received around 60,000 responses from the people on its different social media platforms for an economic stimulus package for MSMEs hit hard by the nationwide lockdown being implemented to contain the coronavirus pandemic.“This was a very successful experiment and we are going to replicate it on other issues. This overwhelming response to our initiative also reflects that the people who don’t want to speak in public space wrote to us in private,” he added. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had launched the party’s online campaign for the revival of MSMEs on April 22.“Covid-19 has devastated our micro, small and medium businesses (MSME). The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions and ideas for what a MSME economic stimulus package should cover on voiceofmsme.in or in our social media platforms,” Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag “HelpSaveSmallBusinesses”.The suggestions were then assessed by the Congress’ newly formed consultative group, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and some of those were included in party chief Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 25.In her letter, she urged the Prime Minister to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package and a credit guarantee fund of an equivalent amount for the revival of MSMEs, warning that if problems of the sector are not addressed it could have a devastating effect on the country’s economy.MSMEs contributed close to one third of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) and accounted for almost 50% of exports and employed over 11 crore people, she said, adding that at this moment, without appropriate support, more than 6.3 crore MSMEs stand on the verge of economic ruin.“It was Rahul Gandhi’s idea and he is actually driving this initiative himself,” said the Congress functionary quoted above.“We are now seeking public suggestions through our social media properties on other important issues confronting the nation in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis – be it the freeze on dearness allowance of central government employees and pensioners or the problems faced by stranded migrant workers,” he added.The Congress is also planning to seek legal recourse to the government’s move to freeze the dearness allowance of Central government employees and pensioners, and is currently in the process of drafting a petition on the issue.Terming it an “insensitive and inhumane” decision, the Congress insisted that the government should have instead suspended the bullet train and Central Vista beautification projects costing “lakhs of crores of rupees” to the state exchequer.The government on April 23 froze from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, the inflation-linked allowance for its 1.1 crore employees and pensioners, a move states are likely to replicate, helping save around Rs 1.2 lakh crore that could be used to fight the pandemic.“If the government cuts its own wasteful expenses by 30%, it could yield around Rs 2.5 lakh crore and that amount could be used in paying the dearness allowance and relief for employees, pensioners and defence personnel who are at the forefront in the fight against deadly coronavirus,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cong-gets-60k-responses-on-msmes-set-to-invite-tips-on-other-key-issues/story-RFwsWou6lq1DyZhDOpKF0O.html
28-04-2020||India||Mumbai’s Mantralaya to be disinfected after 4 cleaning staff test positive for Covid-19||A day after four housekeeping staff tested positive for Covid-19, the Maharashtra government has decided to disinfect Mantralaya, the state secretariat. It has decided to disinfect the Mantralaya building at Nariman Point and the new administrative building, situated next to it on April 29 and 30. Consequently, both the buildings and all the government offices there will remain closed for both the days.“Following the directives issued by the Central government, it has become necessary to disinfect both Mantralaya and the new administrative building as a result they will remain closed on April 29 and 30,” states the order issued by Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, general administration department (GAD).Kunte also confirmed that they had decided to disinfect the buildings after cleaning staff tested positive. “We decided to disinfect the buildings as a precautionary measure. We cannot take any risk,” he said.According to BMC officials, four employees from the cleaning team of Mantralaya have tested positive in the last two days. One staffer tested positive on Sunday while the other three tested positive on Monday.The cleaning personnel are employees of a private firm that has been appointed for housekeeping activities.Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, public works department (PWD) said they are taking all possible preventive measures. “We have also traced 17-18 people who have come in contact with the cleaning staff and all of them have been tested for Covid-19. Fortunately, no one from those contacts have tested positive,” Saunik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-mantralaya-to-be-disinfected-after-4-cleaning-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-9XqiQFRXSyUm5wwijJd9AM.html
28-04-2020||India||33 doctors in over 4% Delhi health workers affected by coronavirus, situation ‘worrying’||Over four per cent of health workers in Delhi including 33 doctors have become affected due to coronavirus said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and added that this situation as “worrying”. Harsh Vardhan’s comments reported by a news agency were made on Tuesday when the minister held a review meeting via video conference with top officials of the state, including the lieutenant governor (LG), health minister, Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) commissioners and DCPs of all districts of the national capital along with surveillance officers and heads of government hospitals.“13 paramedics, 26 nurses, 24 field workers, 33 doctors are COVID19 affected. This is worrying,” Harsh Vardhan is reported to have said.A dashboard of medical care professionals and volunteers deployed across the country prepared by the health ministry as part of the containment efforts says Delhi has nearly 18,000 MBBS doctors involved in fighting coronavirus, 2530 MBBS students, 43,865 Nurses, 12,011 Dentists, 11,213 Ayush workers, 350 lab volunteers, 5809 ex-Servicemen, 10,628 NYKS volunteers, 4478 trained health professionals among other categories of manpower. The health ministry had recently written to all states asking them to take utmost care of their health care professionals while listing out measures taken for their safety.It recommended that states used Hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis of Sars-Cov-2 infection for high risk population including all asymptomatic health care workers who were involved in the care of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 cases. It also states that nearly 5.11 lakh additional PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) had been supplied by the Centre to the states to augment the existing stock of 2.75 lakhs of PPE available with the states. Delhi has 4039 cases of coronavirus as per the latest figures released by the ministry of health and nearly 100 containment zones—areas with positive cases that present a threat of further transmissions. Dr Harsh Vardhan said that this number should come down before adding that the existing periphery of the containment zones could be increased to fight the disease better. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“According to experts, we need to increase the periphery of sealed areas in Delhi to fight Covid-19 better,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said while talking about the containment efforts in Delhi. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-doctors-in-over-4-delhi-health-workers-affected-by-coronavirus-situation-worrying/story-LlunK3JYS8W09xbJZQiEZK.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand to distribute special kits to care for over 30,000 pregnant women||The Uttarakhand Women and Child development (WCD) department in an effort to take better care of pregnant women will soon distribute special kits comprising items ranging from sanitary pads for mothers to warm clothes for babies, officials said. The WCD department has already worked out the plan and will initiate it once the lockdown ends in the state, according to officials. Rekha Arya, minister of WCD department Uttarakhand said, “The initiative would largely help the government to take better care of pregnant women. We have already identified about 30,000-40,000 pregnant women in the state who will be given the kit made by the department.”Arya said the funds for the initiative have already been passed in this year’s budget. “The kit which costs about Rs 900 each will have eight or nine essential items meant for the care of pregnant women and their babies. It will have sanitary pads for women, baby lotion, warm clothes for babies, baby shampoo, soaps, blanket, and a disinfectant,” she said. The minister said the department would have distributed the kits in April only but “the lockdown got it delayed”.“As soon as the lockdown ends, our department will deliver the kits to women at their homes which have already been identified under the initiative,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-distribute-special-kits-to-care-for-over-30-000-pregnant-women/story-XgsguHcG9t1t9LJ4EHG69M.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says CentreThe Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering the plasma therapy to be a regular treatment for coronavirus and added that it should only be used for research and trial purposes till the time there’s robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy. Read more. In PM Modi’s plan to evacuate Indians, blue-collar workers have the first rightAs the foreign and civil aviation ministries start work on a plan to fly back tens of thousands of Indians stuck abroad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation plan. India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home. Read more. Covid-19 lockdown: Pollution in Ganga declines as factories in UP, Uttarakhand remain shutAuthorities in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have said the quality of water in the Ganga has improved during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with samples collected by a research facility in Varanasi recording a nearly 30% decrease in pollution levels. Read more. Where is North Korea’s Kim Jong Un? Here’s what is possibleThe Day of the Sun -- the April 15 holiday celebrating Kim Jong Un’s late grandfather, Kim Il Sung -- has long been the most important date on North Korea’s political calendar. This year, the supreme leader failed to show. Read more. Can assume Dhoni might not play for India again: Aakash ChopraFormer India opener and now a successful commentator Aakash Chopra doesn’t believe MS Dhoni’s comeback to the Indian side was depended on IPL 2020. Defying the thought process of a host of former cricketers and reports, Chopra said India’s two-time World Cup-winning captain’s fate cannot be judged on the basis of one IPL.Read more. All aboard the virtual express: Throwback pictures and travel series fill up the void amid lockdownThe trains might stop, flying not an option anymore and roads barricaded. However, you can’t take the love of travel away from someone who’s wanderlust surpasses any other desire. Read more. Pentagon officially releases 3 ‘UFO’ videos, alien-related posts take over Twitter. They’re hilariousOn Monday, the Pentagon released three declassified videos which have now created a stir online. The videos of the “unidentified aerial phenomena” capture the rapid movements of what appear to be unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Read more. HRD Minister urges students to explore UGC MOOCs for various UG and PG coursesUnion HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday invited students to explore UG and PG courses offered on UGC MOOCs, a vertical of SWAYAM, or the Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds. Read more. ‘Difficult to hold 2020 Tokyo Olympics without vaccines’: Japan medical chiefHead of Japan’s medical association said holding 2020 Olympics without vaccines would be difficult. Yoshitake Yokokura said games are possible only if infections are under control globally. He said, “In my view, it would be difficult to hold the Olympics unless effective vaccines are developed. I’m not saying it should not be held, but my prediction is that it will be difficult (to hold the 2020 Summer Olympics unless effective vaccines are developed).” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plasma-therapy-not-approved-treatment-for-covid-19-can-be-dangerous-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XjEOJkXbhTgBFZkVaf35uI.html
28-04-2020||India||Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says Centre||The Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering the plasma therapy to be a regular treatment for coronavirus and added that it should only be used for research and trial purposes till the time there’s robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.The government added further that plasma therapy could lead to life-threatening complications if not administered properly.“There is no approved therapy for Covid-19 in the country including Plasma therapy. Plasma therapy is being experimented with and there is no evidence to support it as a treatment. It is only at an experimental stage. If not used properly, it can create life-threatening complications,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary health ministry.The health ministry official said that the country’s top medical research body was conducting a study to find out the efficacy of plasma therapy and till then, doctors are advised to use it only for trial purposes. “Plasma therapy is only to be used for research and trial purposes until an ICMR study on its efficacy is completed. ICMR is conducting a nation-wide research to study the efficacy of Plasma therapy,” he added.Government’s word of caution on plasma therapy comes at a time when several instances of it helping in virus-infected patients’ recovery have been reported. The Plasma therapy has been used selectively so far, mostly in severe cases where patients were on ventilator support.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Use of plasma therapy involves injecting blood-component plasma extracted from a cured coronavirus patient into a positive case. The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19Several Covid-19 fighting medical care centres in India are reported to have started banking plasma from coronavirus recovered patients after its use was said to have shown positive results.A few days ago, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain had reported that six critical coronavirus patients had “nearly recovered” after administration of the plasma therapy. On April 26, it was reported that Mumbai’s Lilavati hospital, too, had identified Maharashtra’s first patient to be given the therapy.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOne of Delhi’s designated coronavirus hospital, Lok Nayak hospital is already using the plasma therapy and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is reported is to getting ready to start it for those with severe Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-not-approved-treatment-for-covid-19-can-be-dangerous-says-centre/story-vTeSdM43Q7ND3lUiThCAZK.html
28-04-2020||India||Rajnath Singh asks OFB, DPSUs to ramp up production post-lockdown||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday asked the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) to draw up contingency plans for resuming operations after the lockdown to combat the coronavirus disease is lifted, the ministry said in a statement.Singh said such plans were necessary to ramp up production and compensate for the time lost due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Singh spoke to top officials of the OFB and DPSUs, via video conference, and reviewed operational plans as well as their contribution to the fight against the pandemic.Several units of the OFB and DPSUs located in non-red zones have already kicked off operations and drawn up plans for post-lockdown operations, the ministry statement said. Defence ministry officials said the units of the OFB and DPSUs plan to work in three shifts six days a week (against the usual five) to speed up production. Work will be carried out by observing social distancing and other relevant health guidelines, the officials said.The defence ministry statement said that Singh referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plans to revive the economy post-lockdown and said that the DPSUs along with the private defence industry could play a major role in the revival.Singh praised the efforts of DPSUs in coming out with new products to fight Covid-19 and also the assistance provided by them to the local administration.The OFB’s contribution in fighting Covid- 19 includes the repair of more than 100 ventilators, manufacture 12,800 coveralls, development of specialised machines for testing of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and supply of 6.35 lakh masks to local authorities, the statement said.The OFB has also earmarked 280 isolation beds at hospitals spread across 10 locations.The statement said Bharat Electronics Ltd is ready to manufacture 12,000 ventilators in May and another 18,000 in June to support the national effort to tackle the disease. Around 3,000 engineers will help train health professionals in operationalising the ventilators, the ministry said.The statement said Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has manufactured and supplied 300 aerosol cabinets to various hospitals and also distributed 56,000 masks and extended support to migrant labourers. HAL has also earmarked 93 isolation beds in Bangalore for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-asks-ofb-dpsus-to-ramp-up-production-post-lockdown/story-1kiXCcNRQnmf5LWX2sDIDK.html
28-04-2020||India||Cong slams Centre, asks how it can afford to waive bad debts worth Rs 68,607 crore||The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre after a RTI query a couple of days ago revealed that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had written off a staggering amount of Rs 68,607 crore due from 50 defaulters, including absconding jeweller Nirav Modi and his partner Mehul Choksi.Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala who was interacting with the media via a video conference cited the RTI query and demanded to know how the government had the money to waive bad loans when the entire country was facing financial instability due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Waiving off bad loans of huge amounts for willful defaulters has become the mantra of the BJP. On March 16, 2020, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had demanded to know the names of 50 loan defaulters from the Union government on the floor of the house. The government had refused to divulge those names. On April 24, these bad loans were written off. When the entire country is fighting the coronavirus pandemic and at least 14 crore people have lost their livelihood, how can the government possibly waive Rs 68,607 crore in bad loans?” Surjewala questioned.“The Modi government has been unmasked and the fact that it is working towards writing off such bad debts shows that the government is hand in glove with the defaulters. In the list of 50 defaulters, absconding diamantaire Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi are on top. We demand answers,” the Congress leader said.“Can the Modi government afford to waive such bad debts and if it manages to do so, the government needs to inform citizens how that is possible,” Surjewala said. Simultaneously, Surjewala reiterated the Congress party’s pledge to fight the Covid-19 health crisis along with the government and provide every possible support that the Centre may need. Indian banks have technically written off a staggering amount of Rs 68,607 crore due from 50 top defaulters, according to a reply under RTI from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-centre-asks-how-it-can-afford-to-waive-bad-debts-worth-rs-68-607-crore/story-9bcqiCZx7vgMbnQw6cPRbK.html
28-04-2020||India||In Thackeray’s phone call after 2 sadhus killed, a stinging jibe at Adityanath||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over the killing of two sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr and expressed concern over it. Thackeray called for strict punishment for the perpetrators of the “heinous” crime and said that the incident should not be given a communal colour.“I spoke to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji over the phone and expressed concern over the heinous murder of two sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr. I told him that we are with you. Just the way we acted strongly in such a case, I wish you would do the same and bring the accused to justice. However, I appeal to you that the incident should not be given a communal colour,” Thackeray said.Adityanath had spoken to Thackeray after two sadhus were lynched in Maharashtra’s Palghar district earlier this month. The Maharashtra home department had subsequently booked over 100 people in connection with the case.While the BJP leaders suggested that the killing was intentional, the state government dismissed any communal angle in the Palghar lynching incident.Sena leader Sanjay Raut had earlier tweeted on the killings, warning against giving it a communal twist. “Terrible! Killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar, UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incident,” Raut said.The bodies of the two sadhus were found inside a temple in a village in Bulandshahr on Monday night. The police arrested Murari alias Raju in connection with the murder of Jagdish or Rangidas, 55, and his 46-year-old disciple Sher Singh. The man told the police that it was “God’s will”.“The accused claimed during interrogation that it was the will of God meaning there was no personal enmity,” a senior government official said while speaking to reporters.Officials said Raju allegedly had an altercation with the sadhus over stealing their ‘chimta’ or tong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulandshahr-killing-uddhav-thackeray-speaks-to-yogi-adityanath-calls-for-strict-punishment/story-nxngqislG20K0iQM7NrRaJ.html
28-04-2020||India||High Court directs Nagaland to set up Covid-19 testing labs in 10 days||The Kohima bench of the Gauhati High Court on Tuesday directed the Nagaland government to set up two Covid-19 testing labs within 10 days.Acting on a PIL filed by V Suokhrie, a division bench of Justice Songkhupchung Serto and Justice S. Hukato Swu ordered the Nagaland government to “make at least two testing labs of Covid-19 functional within 10 days”.The court also directed the government to “make every effort to establish other labs at strategic places in the state to facilitate free testing in the future”.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Nagaland doesn’t have a single testing lab for Covid-19 and all its samples are sent to labs in Assam. Till Monday, 629 samples from the state had been tested.The lone Covid-19 case from the state, a 33-year businessman from Dimapur is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). He has also been counted among the Covid-19 patients of Assam by the Union health and family welfare ministry.“The PIL was filed seeking the court’s indulgence on certain gaps which the respondents might have overlooked while dealing with Covid-19 preparedness in Nagaland,” said Neiteo Koza, counsel for the petitioner.Though an IAF aircraft landed in Dimapur on April 16 with equipment needed to set up bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3) lab in Nagaland to test samples of suspected Covid-19 patients, the facility has not yet started functioning.In its order, the HC asked the state government to provide sufficient PPE kits to all persons involved in treatment of Covid-19 patients and looking after persons in quarantine centres.Till Monday 31 people were in quarantine in the state and 1,090 people had been screened, Nagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom said.The bench also directed that the state government should increase the number of ICU facilities and ventilators, provide ambulances to Covid-19 patients at the earliest and ensure that there is no shortage of trained personnel.“The state received another batch of equipment to set up a BSL-3 testing lab at Dimapur and some additional equipment for the BSL-2 lab in Kohima on Monday. The health department also received 10 new ambulances on Tuesday which will cater exclusively to Covid-19 patients and those in quarantine,” Phom said.The bench asked the government to ensure that the two hospitals - one in Dimapur and one in Kohima – are dedicated for treatment of Covid-19 patients are fully equipped and functional within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-directs-nagaland-to-set-up-covid-19-testing-labs-in-10-days/story-3P3Da5SJ6T5tvaPe6qIxlO.html
28-04-2020||India||2 minor girls raped in Rajasthan in separate incidents: Police||Rajasthan reported two separate incidents of suspected rape of minors from Ajmer and Sirohi districts o n Monday, according to the police.In Ajmer, an unidentified person abducted an 11-year-old girl at around 4 am on Monday from the courtyard of the house, where she was sleeping with her parents. “Her mother woke her father when she found that their daughter was missing on Monday early morning,” said Mahaveer Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Kekri police station, Ajmer district.“An hour later, her parents found her in a field about a kilometre away from their home and her clothes were stained in blood. The parents lodged a first information report (FIR) on Monday and a case was registered against the unknown accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Sections 376 (rape), and 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” SHO Sharma said.In Sirohi district, a 15-year-old minor girl was allegedly abducted and raped for three consecutive days by a person known to her. On Monday, the accused dropped the rape survivor at her home after which she shared the ordeal with her parents.Sumer Singh, station house officer (SHO), Pindwara police station, Sirohi district, said that on April 23 after the family finished their dinner, the teenager’s mother told her to lock the entrance gate of the house.“When she went near the entrance gate, one of her friends in the neighbourhood called her. While she going to her friend’s house, the accused, who is known her, kidnapped her by gagging her mouth. She was taken to a nearby government-run school, which is closed because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and raped her for three consecutive days,” said SHO Singh.“On Monday, her family members filed an FIR. A case was registered under the POCSO Act and Section 376 (rape) and other relevant sections of the IPC. The rape survivor’s statement has been recorded. Her medical reports are awaited, but further investigations are on,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-minor-girls-raped-in-rajasthan-in-separate-incidents-police/story-Bfvd7IAN9oNDUU1zdxZlUO.html
28-04-2020||India||Another scientist writes to govt, warns about climate change impact in Dibang Valley over hydro projects||Another scientist studying rivers in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley has warned the government about climate change-induced natural hazards that hydropower dams may not be able to withstand.Chintan Sheth’s letter to the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the Union ministry of environment has come after several scientists issued a similar warning to the government over granting forest clearance for the 3,097 megawatt (MW) Etalin hydroelectric project in an area rich in subtropical evergreen and rain forests and rare flora and fauna.Dibang Valley has close to 300 glaciers in an area of 200 sqkm and there are about 350 glacial lakes covering an area of 50 sqkm. Glacial lakes indicate these areas had much larger glaciers that have now completely melted due to warming, Sheth has said in his three-page letter. Suggesting a cautious approach to siting hydropower projects in the region, the former research fellow with National Centre for Biological Sciences said Arunachal Pradesh has a vast elevation gradient and is drained by Tibetan rivers such as the Subansiri, Lohit and Siang.It is well known that these rivers are primarily fed by melting glaciers, snow cover and monsoon rainfall so are the rivers in Dibang Valley, he said.“I have currently mapped and detected rapid melting of glaciers since 2009 on the Mathũ (Mathun), Dri and Talõ (Tangon) rivers as well as recent emergence and expansion of glacial lakes,” he wrote.“The Etalin hydroelectric power project proposes two dams on these rivers. The risk of such projects upstream closer to glaciers and glacial lakes is extremely high due to the unpredictable nature of the volume and flow rate during glacial lake outburst floods,” he said.Though Sheth has flagged concerns for all projects in the region, FAC is currently considering granting forest clearance to the Etalin hydropower project. The risk of hydropower projects upstream closer to glaciers and glacial lakes is extremely high due to the unpredictable nature of the volume and flow rate during glacial lake outburst floods. Dam breach model studies for hydropower projects account for only extreme rainfall floods.“Even if the dam structures do withstand a glacial lake outburst flood, the dam itself acts as a barrier effectively creating a lake that drains after overtopping. In effect, a dam creates a second lake that floods further downstream, after it over-topples, rapidly increasing the energy and flow rate of water,” Sheth said.“In contrast the natural topography of a river allows the water to spread and dissipate energy across the length and width of the river channel decreasing the flow rates as the flood propagates downstream,” he added.Anil Kulkarni, a glaciologist at Indian Institute of Science, said: “The glaciers there are relatively small and they have not been studied enough.” “We have to understand that the climate is changing and will change significantly in the coming years. First, we need to understand how climate will change in the region and how the pattern of stream runoff will be influenced,” Kulkarni said over the phone from Bengaluru.“Another study needed is will there be a change in the volume of water in future? Also in case of a run of the river projects, the distance between the dam and the outlet is usually dry which causes irreversible changes to aquatic life and water availability for local people. We need to critically study these impacts,” he said.HT had reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of FAC, which visited the Etalin hydropower project site in February, has recommended in their report on April 21 that the project of 3097MW can be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area. The project will involve diversion of 1150.08 ha of forest land and felling of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in FAC’s documents.“A decision on the Etalin Hydropower project will be announced when the minutes of the FAC meeting is released,” a committee member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-scientist-writes-to-govt-warns-about-climate-change-impact-in-dibang-valley-over-hydro-projects/story-fZa3k6Dzba585Mq5C8UzkL.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman admitted in AIIMS Rishikesh tests positive for Covid-19, tally increases to 52||A 56-year-old woman from Nainital district tested positive for Covid-19 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Tuesday, informed officials. With this, the tally of Coronavirus positive patients in Uttarakhand has increased to 52 with 33 patients recovering successfully.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the 56-year-old woman had been admitted to the hospital due to an ailment in her brain and she tested positive before the procedure on Tuesday.“The lady, a resident of Nainital was first admitted to a hospital there and then referred to a hospital in Bareilly before being admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh on April 22. We took her samples yesterday evening for a precautionary test before conducting any medical procedure on her and she tested positive today. The next course of action is being decided by the doctors,” said Thapliyal.He added that the woman had tested negative twice earlier when she was tested in Nainital and Bareilly.“As the woman had tested negative twice, we are trying to find out her source of contracting the virus. Here, she was first kept in an emergency ward and we are tracing out her contacts, but as a primary measure we will be keeping around 70 staff members of ours under quarantine and testing them,” added the official.On Sunday, a nursing officer from AIIMS Rishikesh had tested positive for coronavirus.UB Mishra, dean of AIIMS Rishikesh said that a nursing officer working with the urology department tested positive on Sunday after first showing symptoms on April 24.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-admitted-in-aiims-rishikesh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tally-increases-to-52/story-rNQ4t9Gi88o7opQLC4RlxJ.html
28-04-2020||India||80 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Nagpur in hardest-hit Maharashtra; 750 people quarantined||There was a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Nagpur on Tuesday, after which the authorities quarantined 750 people.“We have quarantined 750 people from Satranjipura in Nagpur and will quarantine 500 more persons from there. We took this step as 80 cases were reported from the area and we found missing links in contact tracing,” news agency ANI quoted Nagpur Municipal Corporation Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe as saying.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The state reported 522 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of the infected people to 8,590, a health department official said.With 27 more fatalities, the overall Covid-19 death toll mounted to 369, he said.Of the 522 new cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai alone accounted for 39 cases and 15 fatalities, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release.The total number of coronavirus positive people in the country’s financial capital now stands at 5,589 and the overall death toll at 219, the release further said.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the Pune division stood at 1,193 with 87 deaths, followed by Nashik division with 244 cases and 23 deaths, the official said.Maharashtra has so far tested 1,21,562 samples of which 1,12,552 came negative for the novel coronavirus whereas 8,590 are positive.The number of the people discharged after recovering from the Covid-19 disease is 1,282.A total of 1,45,677 people are currently in home quarantine across the state while 9,399 others in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-nagpur-in-hardest-hit-maharashtra-750-people-quarantined/story-jE3IZOs2gN1MPxtFyknWUM.html
28-04-2020||India||In PM Modi’s plan to evacuate Indians, blue-collar workers have the first right||As the foreign and civil aviation ministries start work on a plan to fly back tens of thousands of Indians stuck abroad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation plan. India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home.Students stranded in different countries will be next. Then, everyone else including Indians who were travelling for work, or pleasure.“The prime minister was very clear… That the Indian expatriate workforce should get the first choice to return,” a top government official told Hindustan Times.At one meeting, PM Modi pointed out how the poorest of Indian immigrant workers - mostly in the Gulf countries - had helped India tide over the economic crisis. Like in 1998, PM Modi told them, when the United States and other western countries imposed economic sanctions on India after the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee detonated five underground nuclear bombs in Pokhran in May 1998.The Resurgent India Bond floated by the State Bank of India was targeted to raise $2 billion; it netted more than $4 billion.Two decades later, India’s massive diaspora is still sending money home. In 2019, according to the World Bank, India was still the world’s top recipient of remittances. The diaspora sent $82 billion; nearly half came from migrant workers in West Asia.But the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the Indian workers in West Asian countries hard. Many have lost their jobs due to suspension of projects and are stuck.Also Watch: Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explainedGiven that the states did not have the capacity to accommodate the large number of workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar had worked the phones to reach out to the Gulf countries to ask them to take care of the Indians.Indian workers in six Gulf countries account for 70 percent of 12.6 million Indians abroad. The United Arab Emirates is home to 3.4 million Indians. Another 2.6 million are in Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain are home to another 2.9 million NRIs.Apart from workers in the Gulf countries, officials said, Indian missions had received requests from thousands of students who were stuck in countries across the world, ranging from the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States of America to Russia, Singapore and Philippines. In Russia alone, an official said, the total strength of Indian students is about 15,000.Also Read: 70% of Indian citizens abroad are in 6 W Asian nations, shows data“It will be a complicated exercise. Indian missions abroad will compile a list of people who want to return to India, prioritise them and then coordinate with the states concerned. When they eventually land in India, everyone would have to be screened to figure if the person should be sent to a quarantine centre or straight to the hospital,” a government official said.The foreign ministry will have to set up a dedicated control room for this mammoth exercise, he said.The Centre hasn’t yet decided when to start the evacuation flights but the timing, and the pace of the evacuation would be heavily dependent on governments in the home state of the workers.If the home state of a worker is not ready to take the responsibility to house them in quarantine facilities, it may not be possible to evacuate them. It is for this reason that Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had told chief secretaries at his last virtual meeting to quickly set up quarantine facilities and hospital beds.Kerala has been first off the block, announcing that they were prepared to accommodate at least two lakh expatriates, mainly blue-collar workers, at its special quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-plan-to-evacuate-indians-blue-collar-workers-have-the-first-right/story-PpAIqYhtwX8m9JTEH2oKaO.html
28-04-2020||India||BJP MLA says stop buying vegetables from Muslim sellers, defends remark||A Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district kicked off a political row when he suggested to people of his constituency not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors to avoid contracting the coronavirus infection.In a video, now gone viral, Suresh Tiwari is seen appealing to people: “You all should keep one thing in mind, I am telling you openly: do not buy vegetables from Mia ( Muslims).” When contacted, Tiwari confirmed to have made the remark and clarified that he suggested it as a precautionary measure to check the spread of infection after people complained to him about the role of Tablighi Jamaatis in spreading the deadly virus.There have been several instances of the people from the minority community complaining of discrimination and harassment after a global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers, turned into a hotspot of Covid-19 cases.“On April 18, I was distributing masks among people in Deoria when I came across general complaints from people who expressed fear that Tablighi Jamaatis are spreading the infection in Deoria. Many of them were worried that Muslim vendors are infecting vegetable with saliva. As a responsible MLA, I asked them not to take law in their hand, but simply stop buying vegetables from them. Tell me, what wrong have I done by saying such things,” said the Barhaj MLA.Tiwari’s remark drew sharp reaction from the opposition parties.UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu blamed the legislator’s party for spreading hatred even at the time of a pandemic .“At a time when the country and state are facing the coronavirus crisis, BJP leaders are busy fanning hatred .It’s a shameful act which has exposed the real face of the BJP. The Tablighi Jamaatis who were under attack and blamed for spreading the coronavirus have set an example by donating their plasma to cure patients. I am confident that the countrymen will put up a united fight against Covid-19 by neglecting such comments,” said the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-says-stop-buying-vegetables-from-muslim-sellers-defends-remark/story-X0SQ9kLEmmk4LCpbyUTYGM.html
28-04-2020||India||Govt planning for evacuation of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters, abroad: Union minister||Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday held discussions with seafarers unions and Shipping Line Co via video conferencing and asked ship liners to provide the details of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters and abroad.Speaking to ANI, Mandaviya said, “I discussed with seafarers unions and Shipping Lines Co via video conferencing and clearly told ship liners to provide the details of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters and abroad.”“The Ministry of Shipping is charting out the plan for the evacuation of Indian seafarers and drawing the SOP for the easing out of sign on or sign off process at Indian ports,” he added.During COVID-19 lockdown, several decisions have been taken by the shipping ministry for the smooth functioning of ports. At all small and majors ports, all precautionary measures have been taken to fight COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-planning-for-evacuation-of-stranded-indian-seafarers-in-international-waters-abroad-union-minister/story-vMMOxDavoLXPTZmM16OqKL.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Pollution in Ganga declines as factories in UP, Uttarakhand remain shut||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have said the quality of water in the Ganga has improved during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with samples collected by a research facility in Varanasi recording a nearly 30% decrease in pollution levels.A study of Ganga water samples collected on March 24, before the lockdown was imposed, and those collected on April 20 showed pollution had decreased by 25% to 30%, said BD Tripathi, chairman of the Mahamana Malviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development and Water Resource Management at Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Composite samples of the river water were collected from five locations – Shooltankeshwar Ghat, Samne Ghat, Asi Ghat, Dashashwamedh Ghat and Raj Ghat – on the two dates, he said. He explained that the term composite samples means an average of five samples were collected from different spots of every site to ensure accurate results.“We tested biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and the dissolved oxygen (DO) level in the samples. We found the concentration of DO increased by 20% to 30% and the concentration of BOD decreased by 35% to 40%. In total, the Ganga pollution load has decreased by 25% to 30%,” Tripathi said.“There has been a very positive effect on the Ganga and the river shows it can rejuvenate itself,” he added.Tripathi attributed the decrease in pollution to many reasons, including a decrease of around 40% in the number of bodies cremated at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat, and a check on immersion of remains of cremated bodies in the river.The discharge of toxic effluents from more than 1,000 small-scale and cottage industries and motor workshops too has completely stopped at Varanasi, he said.The “highest transparency” was observed during the sampling of water because fish were seen swimming up to a depth of one metre from the surface of the Ganga, Tripathi said.In Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun, authorities said a comparison of water quality of the Ganga at different locations from Devaprayag, done between March and April, showed the quality had improved significantly. The water at Har Ki Pauri was found fit for drinking in April, and the state government now plans to work on measures to keep the quality consistent and pollution-free.State forest and environment minister Harak Singh Rawat said: “With the latest data on improved water quality of the Ganga, we are going to study it with experts and decide on short-term measures which will help us maintain this quality even after the lockdown.“Clearly, nature has cleaned the river on its own due to fewer anthropological activities.”Tripathi too said authorities need to take a cue from the lockdown to improve the water quality in future. Data released amid the lockdown by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) showed there was a 47% reduction in fecal coliform at Lakshmanjhula.At the barrage in Rishikesh, there was a 46% reduction in fecal coliform and 25% reduction in total coliform. Similarly, at Bindughat Dudhiavan, there was a 25% and 11% reduction in fecal coliform and total coliform, respectively.At Har Ki Pauri, there was a 20% reduction in BOD, 34% reduction in fecal coliform and 17% reduction in total coliform, whereas at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar, officials observed a 17% reduction in BOD and fecal coliform and a 27% reduction in total coliform.UEPPCB officials said there was a significant improvement in water quality at Har ki Pauri during the lockdown. UEPPCB member secretary SP Subudhi said fewer pollutants are entering the river as factories are closed. “We studied data from March and April and saw significant changes in water quality after the lockdown. This is mostly due to factories being shut, hotels being closed, and less mobile population in and around Haridwar,” said Subudhi.“We will be taking samples from the same spots again to reconfirm the findings, based on which suggestion can be made to the state and Central government on how to keep the water quality of the Ganga consistent.”Sewage treatment plants in the state are working according to norms and without extra load because of the lockdown, reducing pollutants in rivers.BD Joshi, an environmental scientist and founder of the Indian Academy of Environmental Sciences, said the water quality has improved due to reduced anthropological pressures on the Ganga but this will be very difficult to maintain once the lockdown ends. “In the past five to six weeks, the Ganga has cleansed itself but it is very difficult to say how much of this will continue after the lockdown. There is definitely a psychological impact on people due to the pandemic, on how people should respect nature and the environment, which can help us keep the river clean. The government and law enforcement agencies can use this to spread awareness among more people, which gives us hope the water quality might be maintained,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-pollution-in-ganga-declines-as-factories-in-up-uttarakhand-remain-shut/story-ZKGahS4TVfIQqLAOQyHSxM.html
28-04-2020||India||16-yr-old is Assam’s youngest Covid-19 patient, state tally at 37||Assam recorded one new Covid-19 case on Tuesday afternoon when a 16-year-old girl tested positive for the virus. She is a secondary contact of a person who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. The patient is youngest among the 36 positive cases reported in the state till date. Assam had recorded its first case on March 31 with a 52-year-old from Badarpur testing positive.“A 16-year-old girl from Salmara, Bongaigaon, a secondary contact of a (Nizamuddin) Markaz attendee, has tested Covid positive,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Alert ~ A 16-year-old girl from Salmara Bongaingaon, secondary contact of a Markaz attendee, has tested #COVID positive.The number of #COVID19 patients in Assam now stands at 36. However active hospital cases are 8.Update at 12:20 pm / April 28#AssamCovidCountSarma said that the patient was already under home quarantine.The latest case come five days after a person from Bilasipara in Dhubri district tested positive on April 23. Also Read: Assam allows rural stand-alone shops to open, to continue inter-district travelWhile 27 patients have recovered from Covid-19 and been discharged from hospitals, nine others are still under treatment. The state has recorded one fatality thus far with a 65-year-old dying at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) on April 10.Also Read: ‘Feels great’: 391 Assam students get back home from Rajasthan’s Kota amid lockdownOne positive patient from Nagaland is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH).While most patients have recovered and have been discharged, the state’s first patient who also suffers from cancer and diabetes is still under treatment at SMCH since March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-yr-old-is-assam-s-youngest-covid-19-patient-state-tally-at-36/story-5rfz46LGhGa9CZqjyqh1kJ.html
28-04-2020||India||‘It was God’s will’: Man who killed sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr tells police||The man arrested in connection with the murder of two sadhus inside a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night has said there was no personal enmity with the victims, a senior official said on Tuesday.Police have arrested Murari alias Raju in connection with the murder of Jagdish or Rangidas, 55, and his 46-year-old disciple Sher Singh. Officials said Raju allegedly had an altercation with the sadhus over stealing their chimta or tong.“The accused claimed during interrogation that it was the will of God meaning there was no personal enmity,” a senior government official said while speaking to reporters.“When asked how did he kill them, he said he ate bhang and then came into the temple and attacked the sadhus with lathis (wooden rods) lying there,” he said.Watch: 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe The official said the issue of stolen tongs is being explored as a cause behind the murders.Santosh Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police, had said earlier that Raju had a fight with the sadhus two days ago, who had charged him with stealing their chimta.Villagers, he said, saw Raju going out of the village with a sword and was searched on the basis of that information.“He was found in a highly intoxicated and half-naked state two kilometres from the village,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-was-god-s-will-man-who-killed-sadhus-in-up-s-bulandshahr-tells-police/story-xQyJ72yBH4QMH4k6NP5dnM.html
28-04-2020||India||Pakistan Army shells three sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Tuesday fired mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in three sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, a defence spokesman said. Indian troops effectively retaliated.“About 1100 hours on Tuesday, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors”, the spokesman said.On Monday, the Pakistan Army had targeted Mankote area of Poonch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-army-shells-three-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch/story-bCuzXVEmtcpAOV4VidpjjJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Treat Covid-19 as opportunity, prepare for boom in electronics manufacturing: IT Min Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Union Minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad has asked state governments to treat the Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity and prepare for the forthcoming boom in the electronics manufacturing sector.The comments of the minister came at a meeting with his state counterparts where he said that “anger against China can be used towards benefit for India’s manufacturing sector”.During his interaction with state Chief Ministers, IT ministers and officials, Prasad claimed that major opportunity in the electronic manufacturing sector is likely to open up for India soon.The minister, while addressing the participants, said that time has come when this calamity should be turned into an opportunity and praised various departments for their services during the lockdown.“I want to make an appeal to Chief Ministers, Deputy Chief Ministers and Ministers that age for electronic manufacturing is set to come in India. The condition in China is such and considering people’s anger against China, I am sure the opportunity of India is going to come. The ministry has given incentives and I would like to state that cooperation by states will play a crucial role in it,” stated the minister.The minister also said that a lot of relaxations were given for work from home and IT Secretary, Communication Secretary and Postal Secretary gave presentations of their departments citing requirements and expectations by the Centre from the state departments.Norms for work from home have been relaxed. “We will aspire that work from home should become a new norm,” said Prasad while asking the participants to encourage young entrepreneurs investing in new startups. The Minister praised the department for making Arogya Setu app a success. “Arogya Setu app has become very popular as well,” the minister added.He also lauded the Postal Department for undertaking social service and digital services like digital payments and wished that states would use the vast network of our postal department in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-covid-19-as-opportunity-prepare-for-boom-in-electronics-manufacturing-it-min-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-JJiX2h3NN2jSlrHyepM38J.html
28-04-2020||India||Alien fish species pose threat to Manipur’s indigenous breeds: Experts||A fish from the Amazon River basin in South America has been found in Manipur, raising concerns among experts of an invasion of the northeastern state’s aquatic ecosystem by alien species.This came to light when Amazon Sailfin Catfish, also known as suckermouth catfish, was caught by a fisherman from the Waishel canal in Manipur’s Bishnupur district probably for the first time on April 22. Bishnupur district has the largest freshwater lake in the northeast region.Experts said the Amazon Sailfin Catfish was found in the Ganga in Bihar’s Patna some years ago and also in the Brahmaputra in lower Assam. But this species was not reported from any other northeastern states yet.“Report of catching of such alien species from the water bodies of the state is not a good sign because their presence may demolish the aquatic diversity of the region,” Dr Ch Basudha Devi, a senior scientist of the Manipur centre’s Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), said.“Subsequently it will affect the region’s biodiversity,” she added.The one-foot long fish is said to be a fast-spreading species. As per reports, this alga eating fish, which can grow up to 49 centimetres and weigh up to 310gm, has become a local pest to eliminate fish in a few countries. “Above all, they will start expanding and try to occupy the entire habitat and start competing with our native species, which are in low fecundity rate as there is no native predator to control them,” Yumnam Lokeshwor, an associate professor with Assam Don Bosco University’s department of zoology, said.Manipur’s water bodies are increasingly becoming populated by alien fish species. Some of them have been let out for commercial purposes by the state while some have been released accidentally from captivity due to lack of necessary regulations.Yumnam said more than a dozen alien species, including seven authorised exotic food fish, two authorised larvicidal fish, three unauthorised exotic food fish and five other freshwater ornamental fish, were found in the state’s water bodies after their introduction. “Some of them have already established a good breeding population and have emerged as a threat to the native species,” he said.The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) had listed seven native fish of Manipur as endangered freshwater species. Even the state fish, Pengba, has vanished from wild and is only bred in farm ponds.“Therefore the state fishery authority must adopt new policy to monitor the introduction of new species including the aquarium species (exotic) as this hobby has been increasing day by day,” Yumnam added. Sharing a similar sentiment, ICAR scientist Basudha also expressed the need to form a state-level assessment committee to monitor the aquarium fish trade and introduction of exotic species. N Gojendro, the newly-appointed director of the fisheries department, acknowledged the recent development. Gojendro said they have appraised the matter to his seniors to formulate a comprehensive guideline for importing, culture and marketing of fishes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alien-fish-species-pose-threat-to-manipur-s-indigenous-breeds-experts/story-VPifoE7r15EsMCe3JTnqRP.html
28-04-2020||India||4.0 magnitude earthquake hits Chamba in Himachal Pradesh||An earthquake of magnitude 4.0 hit Chamba region in Himachal Pradesh this afternoon.The quake occurred 22 kilometres West-Northwest of Dharamshala in the territorial limits of Chamba at 12:17 pm. The epicentre of the quake was at a depth of 19 kilometres.The jolt was also felt in parts of Kangra district. However, no loss of life or damage to property has been reported from Chamba or Kangra.On April 6, a 3.1 magnitude earthquake was reported in Chamba.The state witnesses dozens of mild earthquakes every year due to its geographical location.Chamba and Kangra region witness more tremors due to a main boundary fault that runs up to Mandi. Apart from it, there are scores of smaller faults which cause some seismic activity beneath the surface.The national capital experienced an earthquake of magnitude 2.7 on April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-measuring-4-0-on-richter-scale-hits-chamba-in-himachal-pradesh/story-NVdIDg0OOas5uiPYRVdxeL.html
28-04-2020||India||New guidelines for Covid-19 mild-symptom patients at home: What do they say?||The Union ministry of health has issued detailed guidelines for home isolation of people, who either have very mild symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or are in the pre-symptomatic phase.“As per existing guidelines, during the containment phase, the patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to COVID Care Centre, Dedicated COVID Health Centre or Dedicated COVID Hospital, respectively,” the ministry said its new guidelines.“However, very mild/pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at his/her residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation,” it said.The present guidelines are in addition to the one issued on April 7, which says all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Here are the new guidelines:Who is eligible for home isolation?* The person should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer.* Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts.* A caregiver should be available to provide care around the clock. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation.Click here for live updates on coronavirus outbreak* The caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer.* Aarogya Setu mobile app must be downloaded and it should remain active at all times through Bluetooth and wi-fi* The patient shall agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams.* The patient will fill in an undertaking on self-isolation and shall follow home quarantine guidelines. Such individual shall be eligible for home isolation.Click here for complete coverage on coronavirus crisisWhen must one seek medical attention? Immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop: * Difficulty in breathing* Persistent pain/pressure in the chest* Mental confusion or inability to arouse* Developing bluish discolourations of lips/face * As advised by treating medical officerWhen can one discontinue home isolation?Patients will end home isolation if symptoms are clinically resolved and the surveillance medical officer certifies them to be free of infection after laboratory testing What are the instructions for care-givers? * The caregiver should wear a triple layer medical mask appropriately when in the same room with the ill person. Front portion of the mask should not be touched or handled during use. If the mask gets wet or dirty with secretions, it must be changed immediately. Discard the mask after use and perform hand hygiene after disposal of the mask. * They should avoid touching own face, nose or mouth.* Hand hygiene must be ensured following contact with ill person or his immediate environment. * Hand hygiene should also be practised before and after preparing food, before eating, after using the toilet, and whenever hands look dirty. Use soap and water for handwashing at least for 40 seconds. Alcohol-based hand rub can be used if hands are not visibly soiled. * After using soap and water, use of disposable paper towels to dry hands is desirable. If not available, use dedicated clean cloth towels and replace them when they become wet. * Exposure to the patient: Avoid direct contact with body fluids of the patient, particularly oral or respiratory secretions. Use disposable gloves while handling the patient. Perform hand hygiene before and after removing gloves. * Avoid exposure to potentially contaminated items in his immediate environment (eg avoid sharing cigarettes, eating utensils, dishes, drinks, used towels or bed linen). * Food must be provided to the patient in his room * Utensils and dishes used by the patient should be cleaned with soap/detergent and water wearing gloves. The utensils and dishes may be re-used. Clean hands after taking off gloves or handling used items. * Use a triple-layer medical mask and disposable gloves while cleaning or handling surfaces, clothing or linen used by the patient. Perform hand hygiene before and after removing gloves. * The caregiver will make sure that the patient follows the prescribed treatment.* The caregiver and all close contact will self-monitor their health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if they develop any symptom suggestive of COVID-19 (fever/cough/difficulty in breathing) What are the instructions for patients? * A patient should wear a triple layer medical mask all the time and discard it after eight hours or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. * Mask should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1% Sodium Hypo-chlorite. * A patient must stay in the identified room and away from other people in the home, especially elderlies and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease, renal disease etc. * A patient must take rest and drink a lot of fluids to maintain adequate hydration* A patient must follow respiratory etiquettes all the time. * They must wash their hands often with soap and water for at least 40 seconds or clean with alcohol-based sanitiser.* They must not share personal items with other people. * Surfaces in the room that are touched often—tabletops, doorknobs, handles, etc—must be cleaned with 1% hypochlorite solution.* A patient must strictly follow the physician’s instructions and medication advice.* A patient will self-monitor their health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if develops any deterioration of symptom as detailed below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-guidelines-for-mild-symptom-patients-at-home-what-do-they-say/story-f6bIfuCnC9oC9rQxQqp4lI.html
28-04-2020||India||‘As we battle Covid-19, India engaged with other nations including US’: Envoy||India remains engaged with other countries including the US and Israel for a coordinated response to the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian envoy here has said.India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, in a conversation with the influential American Jewish Committee (AJC), said that the Indian leadership is in a close contact with its friends and ready to step forward to help them.“As we battle this pandemic, India remains engaged with other countries including the United States and Israel in an effort to partner towards a coordinated response.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Whether it is the form of ensuring supply of essential medicines or sharing expertise and knowhow or joint scientific collaborations, India stands ready to battle this pandemic shoulder to shoulder with our friends,” Sandhu said in his interaction with the AJC.As a country of 1.3 billion people, India faces unique challenges in combating this common enemy, he said.India has so far managed to slow the initial spread of the contagion since the first confirmed case in the country on January, 30.India, he said, has taken preemptive measures under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enforce a total lockdown.Sandhu said that India and the US are global strategic partners with a multifaceted relationship which encompasses almost every aspect of human endeavor.“Our defence and energy partnership has grown over the years as has our scientific collaboration. As democracies with shared values and global strategic partners, we are in a unique position today, walking together to combat the COVID-19 crisis,” he said.Also read: 10 countries with highest number of Covid-19 cases and fatalitiesJason Isaacson, AJC Associate Executive Director for Policy and Managing Director of Government, said that the US is deeply indebted to the Indian healthcare workers who are such an important part of the health system of the country.The Indian medical device industry, the pharmaceutical industry continue to be essential, not only in India, but to the world, he said.The world, he noted, has come to rely on these devices and protective equipment and pharmaceuticals from India, he said.Sandhu said India has assumed the leadership role in “this very, very deadly” crisis.“We took not only proactive measures in India, but we also took active measures in the region and the world at large,” the Indian envoy added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The deadly coronavirus, which originated in China late last year, has so far killed more than two lakh people and infected over three million globally. The largest number of them are in the US: more than 56,000 deaths and over one million infections.In India, mainly because of the early and aggressive preventive measures, the fatalities have remained comparatively low at 934 and infections at 29,435.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-we-battle-covid-19-india-engaged-with-other-nations-including-us-envoy/story-ldbAFnMJq0SH0SdcDR88vJ.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 areas in Delhi may come out of red zone by May 3, three more by May 10 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.4 areas in Delhi may come out of red zone by May 3, three more by May 10At least four areas in Delhi are likely to come out of the containment zone categorisation by May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 is scheduled to end. Read more. Niti Aayog staffer tests Covid-19 positive, building to be sealed for 2 daysApex government think-tank Niti Aayog on Tuesday sealed its office headquartered at Niti Bhawan after an employee tested positive for coronavirus. This is the second government building to be sealed a week after the ministry of civil aviation sealed its office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh. Read more. Shiv Sena calls Bulandshahr killings ‘terrible’, Congress demands thorough probeShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has called the killing of two sadhus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr “terrible” and appealed people to not give it a communal colour. The bodies of the two sadhus were found in a temple in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night. Read more. Can’t control when we could go home, so we don’t think about it: Sjoerd Marijne on life in lockdownBeing at the camp for nearly nine weeks now, Marijne says he is eagerly waiting for the lockdown to lift so that he and the players can visit their families.In an exclusive chat with Hindustan Times, the Dutchman opens up on how the team is keeping themselves positive away from families amid lockdown. Read more. Soon after MIUI 12 announcement, Xiaomi says MIUI 13 is underworksAnnouncing the next version of smartphone software is not new for Xiaomi. The company, soon after rolling out MIUI 11, confirmed that it is working on MIUI 12.Meanwhile, MIUI 12 has been announced in China alongside the Mi 10 Youth 5G Edition smartphone. Read more. Call this cat Regina George because it is done with people trying to make fetch happenThis 10-second-long clip was posted to Reddit on April 27. Descriptively captioned, “After 10 minutes of fetch, the new kitten decided she had had enough”; the video was shared to the subreddit ‘Startled Cats’. Read more. Quarantine closet detox: 5 rules to let go of the clothes you no longer need but keepWhen you open your wardrobe, is it bursting at the seams? It’s a possibility that it may take one more than an hour to scour through the hundred pieces and pick that one white shirt. Read more. Bombay HC strikes down UGC Regulation that restricted tenure of college principalsCollege principals can now continue to hold their posts till their retirement, as the Bombay High Court on Monday struck down a clause in University Grant Commission (UGC) Regulations, 2010 that converted their permanent posts into term posts. Read more. Donald Trump on Kim Jong Un’s health: ‘Have a very good idea but can’t talk about it’US President Donald Trump said he has a ‘very good idea’ about Kim Jong Un’s health. However, Trump said that he couldn’t talk about it. Trump also said that if he weren’t president, US would have gone to war against Kim. Trump said, “Kim Jong Un? I can’t tell you exactly. Yes, I do have a very good idea, but I can’t talk about it now. I just wish him well.” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-areas-in-delhi-may-come-out-of-red-zone-by-may-3-three-more-by-may-10-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BrTO8kyzN87PTdnxHsVffJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Two minors kidnapped, allegedly raped in Rajasthan; cases registered under POCSO act||Two minors were allegedly raped in separate incidents in Rajasthan’s Ajmer and Sirohi districts. Both the incidents came to light on Monday.The incident in Ajmer involves an 11-year-old girl who was abducted by an unidentified person when she was sleeping with her parents in the yard of their home early on Monday morning.“Around 4 am, the mother of the victim woke up and when she looked around her daughter was missing after which she informed her husband. The couple then started searching for their daughter,” said Mahaveer Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Kekri police station.The SHO further added that the couple found the lock of the main gate broken. “The couple started searching for the girl near their house. An hour later, the minor was found one kilometre away from their homes in a field. Her clothes were stained in blood after which the couple informed the police and FIR was registered under POCSO Act, Section 376 (rape), 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code against unknown accused,” said Sharma.A team of senior officials from the police and forensics departments, and dog squad reached the spot on Monday for inspection and collected evidence. The girl’s clothes too were seized. However, the statement of the minor is yet to be recorded as she is undergoing treatment at a government hospital.“The minor was taken to government hospital after the incident for treatment and medical examination. She underwent a minor surgery yesterday. Most probably she would be discharged today after which her statements would be recorded,” said Sharma. In Sirohi district, a 15-year-old minor was allegedly abducted and raped by a person known to her. And her ordeal continued for three days.SHO of Pindwara police station Sumer Singh said that on the night of April 23, after the family had dinner, the mother of the victim told her to lock the main door of the house.“When victim went near the gate, a friend of the victim who lives in her neighbourhood called her. When the girl was going to meet her neighbour, the accused who is known of the victim wrapped the minor’s mouth with her hand so that she can’t shout loud and took her to a government school and raped her for three consecutive days,” said Singh.On Monday, the accused dropped the girl outside her home and fled. She then shared her ordeal with the family members after which a FIR under relevant sections of POCSO Act, 376 (rape) and other relevant section of IPC was registered.“The statement of the victim has been recorded. Her medical reports are awaited. Further investigation is on,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minors-kidnapped-allegedly-raped-in-rajasthan-cases-registered-under-pocso-act/story-5Zuxdc7AvjvfElG1iKC4EJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Shiv Sena calls Bulandshahr killings ‘terrible’, Congress demands thorough probe||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has called the killing of two sadhus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr “terrible” and appealed people to not give it a communal colour.“Terrible! killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar, UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incident,” Raut said on Twitter on Tuesday in Hindi. भयानक! बुलंदशहर, यूपी के एक मंदिर में दो साधुओं की हत्या, लेकिन मैं सभी से अपील करता हूं कि वे इसे सांप्रदायिक न बनाएं, जिस तरह से कुछ लोगों ने पालघर मामले में करने की कोशिश की।Watch | 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe The bodies of the two sadhus were found in a temple in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night.The police said they were killed by a sharp-edged object. They have arrested a man who, according to the police, told them it was “God’s will”. They sadhus have been identified as Jagdish or Rangidas (55) and his disciple Sher Singh (46). “As per initial probe, it has been found that few days back, the youth had taken away a belonging (chimta) of priests after which they had scolded him. Following which, he murdered 2 priests today,” BulandShahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said.Also read: UP cop dies after hit by bullet fired from colleague’s pistolChief Minister Yogi Adityanath took a serious view of the incident and directed senior officials to take strict action against the culprit and submit a detailed report.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded that the truth should come out and that the issue should not be politicised. “Today in Bulandshahr, two sadhus were murdered while they were sleeping. The truth must come out after investigation in this heinous crime and at this stage no body should politicise this issue,” she tweeted in Hindi. ..ऐसे जघन्य अपराधों की गहराई से जाँच होनी चाहिए और इस समय किसी को भी इस मामले का राजनीतिकरण नहीं करना चाहिए। निष्पक्ष जाँच करके पूरा सच प्रदेश के समक्ष लाना चाहिए। यह सरकार की ज़िम्मेदारी है।2/2The incident comes almost a fortnight after lunching of two sadhus and their driver in Maharashtra’s Palghar. They were on their way from from Nashik in Maharashtra to Surat in Gujarat, when a 200-strong mob attacked them near Gadchinchle village on April 16.Also read: Covid-19 free Pilibhit in UP reports fresh case, total number nears 2,000Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-calls-bulandshahr-killings-terrible-congress-demands-thorough-probe/story-vwSg3EuymeL0KZwXtKjeaL.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: UP prepares to bring back over a million migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government is preparing to bring back over a million people from the state stranded across the country due to ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which are likely to be lifted in a phased manner after May 3.Earlier, the state government had successfully transported several hundred thousands of migrant workers back home after the first phase of nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed for 21 days from March 25. The curbs, announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, were extended by 19 days.The state government transported around 270,000 UP migrants, who had gathered on the state borders, adjoining Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), soon after the lockdown was imposed. In an overnight operation, the government brought them back to the state by running 1,000 buses and quarantined them in shelter homes across UP.Last week, the state government brought back 10,500 UP students from Rajasthan’s Kota, the coaching hub of the country for medical and engineering aspirants, on UPSRTC buses in an exercise spread over three days.Now, the process has begun to transport more UP migrant workers from other states.“UPSRTC ferried a total of 9,992 UP migrant labourers from Haryana on 328 buses over the weekend,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, UP.On Monday, the state government started transporting 10,000 students, who study at various coaching centres in Prayagraj, to their respective districts in UP. The UPSRTC authorities have deployed 300 buses to ferry them.“However, the operation that’s about to start would surpass all the previous ones combined. We’ll use buses at almost all depots to go to different states and ferry people from UP back home. It’s going to be a long haul lasting several days, and may extend up to a few weeks,” said a UPSRTC officer.Another state government official said nodal officers would coordinate with the respective states to ferry the migrants stranded in different states.The state revenue department has been entrusted with the responsibility to quarantine them for 14 days at shelter homes and quarantine facilities in the respective districts.The department is executing the task through the district administrations that have been apprised of the guidelines.In a circular to all the district administrations, additional chief secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar, said, “Because we’re expecting nearly 10 lakh migrants from other states, each district must create the capacity to accommodate at least 15,000 of them. Some eastern UP districts may have over 15,000 migrants coming in. Earlier, the migrants were largely lodged in schools or panchayat buildings, but now, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the district administration should acquire larger premises with an adequate number of rooms, washrooms and bathrooms. The migrants will have to be quarantined at these centres for 14 days to prevent the spread of Covid-19.”In guidelines to the district administration, Kumar said shelter homes and quarantine facilities, kitchens and community kitchens have to be sanitised twice a day. Washrooms must be sanitised thrice a day and wearing a mask or wrapping a cloth around one’s face is compulsory, the guidelines added. On Monday, Awasthi said that the number of inbound migrants could go up to 15 lakh and arrangements have to be made accordingly.“On arrival, each migrant will have to undergo a medical checkup. Only those without symptoms should be lodged at shelter homes and quarantine centres. Anyone who is showing Covid-19 like symptoms must be quarantined in a healthcare facility in the district,” said Sanjay Goyal, relief commissioner, Uttar Pradesh.Like the community kitchens, these shelter homes and quarantine facilities will also be geo-tagged.The kitchen staff must wear caps, masks and gloves. Social distancing has to be strictly maintained while serving food. When the migrants finish the 14-day quarantine in their home district, they will be sent home with ration kits, as per the instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-up-prepares-to-bring-back-over-10-lakh-migrants/story-vZ8mOuKVYDppGzlTA6x6VP.html
28-04-2020||India||Niti Aayog office sealed after employee tests Covid-19 positive||Government think-tank Niti Aayog sealed its office in New Delhi on Tuesday after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to officials.“Niti Aayog is following all protocols as per the ministry of health guidelines. The building has been sealed…sanitisation of the building is underway,” a senior Niti Aayog official who did not want to be named said.Contacts of the person, a director-level official who got his report around 9am on Tuesday morning, have been asked to go on self-quarantine. The Niti Aayog office will be sealed for a couple of days.“All officers of NITI Aayog are functional, available and currently working from home. As per the protocol of the Ministry of Health, the NITI Bhavan will resume normal operations after 48 hours,” Niti Aayog tweeted later in the dayAlso Watch: Covid-19 | Niti Aayog office sealed after employee tests positive  The body is tasked with leading some of the 11 empowered groups formed by the Union government to deal with the pandemic. On April 22, the ministry of ministry of civil aviation sealed its headquarters at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh after an employee tested positive for Covid-19. The civil aviation ministry staffer was the first person in a central ministry to have contracted the infection. The office reopened on Monday. “TThe @MoCA_GoI office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan is sanitized, safe, up & reopened. It was sealed after one of our colleagues tested positive for #COVID19 on 21st April. After operating from Nirman Bhawan & Udhyog Bhawan for a while, I worked out of my Civil Aviation office today,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted on Monday. According to home ministry guidelines issued after the extension of the national lockdown until May 3, the government has ordered a phased return to office of central government ministry officials. The new guidelines call for 100% attendance by officers above the deputy secretary level and 33% attendance by junior staff.The sweeping curbs were first imposed on March 25 for 21 days, and then extended by 19 days till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-building-to-be-sealed-for-two-days/story-xdM40PC62U5z71EvlviPRL.html
28-04-2020||India||Indian national is first case in US border protection custody to have Covid-19||A 31-year-old Indian man, who was apprehended on the suspicion of illegally crossing into America through the US-Mexico border, has tested positive for the Covid-19, becoming the first individual in the border protection agency’s custody to be infected with the virus.The US Customs and Border Protection (USCBP) said that on April 23, a border patrol agent apprehended three Mexicans and the Indian national suspected of having illegally crossed the US-Mexico border near California.While the three Mexican nationals were returned to their country, the Indian was transported to a border patrol facility for processing, CBP Acting Commissioner Mark Morgan said.The Indian national, who was not identified, displayed flu like symptoms, following which he was evaluated by medical personnel and placed in quarantine. He was tested for the COVID-19 and his evaluation came back positive.“This is the first individual in CBP custody to test positive for COVID-19,” the agency said.The CBP said it is currently conducting contact tracing with those he may have been in contact with and closely monitoring his symptoms.The man has been transferred to the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement where he will continue to be treated based on medical personnel’s recommendations.“The potential for the introduction and spread of COVID-19 in CBP stations and processing centres presents a danger to migrants, our frontline agents and officers, and the American people. Our agents and officers continue to protect our country from this invisible enemy, risking their own lives for the health of our nation,” Morgan said.He added that this is precisely the reason the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has given CBP the authority to return individuals that could potentially be infected with COVID-19.“Can you imagine if we were navigating this pandemic during this time last year, when we had more than 20,000 migrants in our custody? It would have overwhelmed our processing centres and stations, and crippled the healthcare system along the border,” Morgan added.Indians are among the thousands of Africans and Asian migrants crossing US borders from Mexico, led by smuggling cartels.According to the Johns Hopkins University data, the coronavirus has infected over 980,000 people and claimed over 56,000 lives in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-national-is-first-case-in-us-border-protection-custody-to-have-covid-19/story-5BM8iXWYHtVMQ3R5RxNoBJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Wall built along Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border demolished after protest||Tamil Nadu’s (TN) Vellore district administration on Monday evening ordered the demolition of the two concrete walls constructed on an interstate highway connecting Andhra Pradesh’s (AP) Chittoor district a day before, hours after the pictures went viral and the AP authorities took exception to the unilateral move.Vellore district collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said that the walls constructed on the highway --- in a bid to prevent interstate movement between TN and AP amid the growing concerns over the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak --- had been demolished.“We’ve pulled down the walls that were erected on two places on the state highway connecting Vellore with Chittoor districts,” Sundaram told HT over the phone. “The Vellore district administration ordered the demolition of the walls after Chittoor district collector N Bharat Gupta took up the matter with Sundaram, citing the immediate need to restore emergency transport services,” Chittoor joint collector D Markandeyulu said.The wall, measuring three feet in width and five feet tall, was constructed at Gudiyattam village in Vellore district, which shares its border with Chittoor district’s Palamaner block.Another wall was erected at Kondappanaickenpalayam check-post near Ponnai in a bid to stop “unauthorised movement of vehicles and people between both the states” amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to rein in the pandemic.The Palamaner-Gudiyattam stretch is used by people from both TN and AP for the movement of essential commodities such as vegetables, flowers, and groceries to the villages that are located on both sides of the interstate highway.Besides, the Vellore-based Christian Medical College (CMC) caters to thousands of patients from AP, who go there for treatment every year. Similarly, the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) is another favourite educational institution for Telugu-speaking students from the state.Earlier on Monday morning, Sundaram had told HT that the Vellore district administration had constructed makeshift walls only in two places of the highway of the six borders that they share with Chittoor district.“There are also a few other rural routes between the two states, which have been closed with boulders,” he had said.“We’ve sealed these areas in a bid to prevent unauthorised movement of people amid the lockdown restrictions. However, both the transport of goods and the movement of people on emergency situations are allowed through alternative routes,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-wall-built-along-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-border-demolished-after-outrage/story-7NTSIoyia9whdyA2WgZjJL.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan’s tally of Covid-19 mounts to 2,328, death toll at 51||There were 66 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), most from Kota, and one death in Rajasthan, news agency ANI reported citing state health department officials.The coaching hub of Kota had 19 Covid-19 cases, the state capital of Jaipur 16, Jodhpur 13 and Ajmer 11, ANI said. The tally Covid-19 cases in the desert state stands at 2328 now.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here One death was also recorded in Kota, taking the number of fatalities due to the respiratory disease to 51 across the state.Jaipur has the highest cases in the state (850) followed by Jodhpur (388), Kota (184), Tonk (126), Ajmer (135), Nagaur (116) and Bharatpur (110).The Rajasthan government has said it will bring back migrant workers from other states and send workers from other states back home ahead of the possible easing of the nationwide lockdown.“After much effort by the state government, migrants of Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during the lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them with all help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Monday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “My appeal to all is please give moral support to our brothers and sisters returning home after a very hard period. Following the culture of Rajasthan that we never leave our people in distress, take proper care of the migrants,” he said.Rajasthan has selected 19 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to coordinate with the governments of 14 states, district authorities and other agencies on the issue of migrant workers.The state officials will liaise with Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.Several guidelines have been issued for authorities in districts where returning workers are expected to enter the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-s-tally-of-covid-19-mounts-to-2-328-death-toll-at-51/story-Hv8rKrrjhOyIXZKFKGKreO.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Can opt to stay home’: Mumbai cops over 55-yrs-old told after 3 die of Covid-19||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has sent a communiqué to all the 94 police stations in the city stating that police personnel, who are above 55 years in age, don’t need to report to work till the second phase of the ongoing nationwide restrictions, which were imposed on April 15 for another 19 days to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The second phase of the lockdown ends on May 3.The communiqué has been sent after three Mumbai Police personnel died and 55 others contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The order stipulates that police personnel, who are above 50 years and are suffering from multiple ailments such as hypertension, diabetes or any other major disease, can feel free to go on leave.“The decision has been taken in light of the fact that people above 50 years are one of the most susceptible to get infected. Hence, they don’t have the compulsion to report to work till May 3,” said an assistant commissioner of police, requesting anonymity.Also read: Here’s list of 16 districts in India with no new Covid-19 case in last 28 days“If any police personnel, who is above 55 years comes for work, then that person won’t be given a field duty because he has a higher chance of getting infected,” said a senior police inspector.Singh’s directive seeks to protect 45,000-strong Mumbai Police from the raging Covid-19 outbreak.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “A vast section of the personnel has been deployed across the city to ensure Mumbaikars are strictly enforcing social distancing norms and lockdown restrictions. They’re also involved in the management of containment zones across the city,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.“If we feel there is a shortage of manpower, additional forces will be sought from local arms (LA). They will be deployed in Covid-19-hit areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-3-colleagues-die-of-covid-19-mumbai-cops-over-55-years-told-they-can-opt-to-stay-at-home/story-37xpEPRT0MxnUwIGumwodJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra doubled in just 1 week, total number at 8,590||Though officials have claim there have been a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, official figures shows that the state’s count doubled in just one week.On April 19, the total number of cases in the state was 4,200 but in the last seven days, it has doubled to 8,590 (till April 27).The state has recorded 4,390 cases in the seven days - from April 20 to 27.This is because the state is seeing an average of 500 new Covid-19 cases on daily a basis since more than a week.On Monday, it recorded 522 new cases. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1,000 cases, after the first patient was reported on March 9. It crossed 2,000-mark in six days on April 13. It took six days to reach 4,000 casea and just four more days to cross the 6,000-mark, an analysis of the state data shows.The trend also showed that Monday was the 24th consecutive day the number of new cases has been in three digits, which is why 8,292 cases were registered in April alone.In Mumbai, the case count has gone up to 5,776 as 369 new cases were reported.However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts.“We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced, following detection of Covid 19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).“It is true that we were expecting a decline in cases from April 21, which is not happening, but the rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching to any conclusion,” Dr Lahane said. Two 14-day incubation cycles were completed on April 20, since March 22 when international traffic was stopped.As the number of Covid-19 cases rise, the number of cases recovered so far also jumped to 1,282 as 94 patients recovered on Monday.Meanwhile, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 1,12,552 people tested negative. The death toll of the state also went up to 369 as 27 fatalities were registered on Monday. Of them, 15 were in Mumbai, six in Amravati, four in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad. With the total number of 219, Mumbai has the highest Covid-19 deaths.Of the 27 deaths, 22 patients had co-morbidities. One of the deceased had contracted HIV and another was suffering with cancer, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24 per cent from 7.41 per cent on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13 per cent till Sunday, stated the data of the state medical education department.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, where 1,76,357 isolation beds and 7,248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories - for asymptomatic, mild and serious cases. We also have around 3,000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N-95 masks,” he said.The state currently has 572 active containment zones. Around 7,861 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 32.28 lakh people.It has also kept 9,399 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 1,45,677 are home quarantined, stated health officials.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday appointed four IAS officers Anil Kawade as cooperation commissioner; Saurabh Rao as sugar commissioner; Sachindra Pratap Singh as animal husbandry commissioner and Kaustubh Diwegaonkar as director, Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA). These officers will help in planning preventive measures and their implementation to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Pune, where 1,027 cases has been registered till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-doubled-in-just-1-week-total-number-at-8-590/story-fEkAIz9587SDuBIuBjMIDM.html
28-04-2020||India||Foreign minister S Jaishankar to attend BRICS meet on Covid-19||India will participate in a key meeting of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) foreign ministers on Tuesday to discuss the fallout of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The Sars-Cov-2, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city late last year, has killed more than 200,000 people worldwide and infected over 3 million others, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.The meeting, to be held by the rotating chair Russia, will be convened via video conference.Foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi will be among those to take part in the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ Extraordinary Conference on the coronavirus pandemic.Wang’s presence was confirmed by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang in a statement on Monday.The statement said Wang will discuss with his counterparts the impact of the Covid-19 on international relations, concerted efforts to address global challenges, deepening BRICS cooperation and other topics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-to-attend-brics-meet-on-covid-19/story-Rjb6IxGHaU3v2uNDNQOg3M.html
28-04-2020||India||2 sadhus killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr; 1 man arrested||Two sadhus were killed in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night.The police have arrested a youth in connection with the case. According to police, the youth had altercation with sadhus over stealing their ‘chimta’ (tongs).“The youth Raju had altercation with sadhu two days ago who charged him of stealing their chimta. He has been arrested from a neighbouring village and has confessed to his crime,” said Santosh Singh, SSP, Bulandshahr.Watch: 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe “The arrested man was under influence of some toxic substance therefore further interrogation would be conducted soon after he resumes his senses,” Singh added.The priests were attacked with a sharp-edged object. Their bodies were found by the villages inside the local templeThey have been identified as Jagdish or Rangidas (55) and his disciple Sher Singh (46). Police have been deployed in the area around the temple, Live Hindustan reported.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed senior officials to visit the village and send him a detail report on the incident.The incident comes more than a week after two sadhus and their driver were lynched by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110 kilometre from Palghar in Maharashtra. They were attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.The incident in Palghar took place on April 16.It later emerged that the sadhus - 70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri - belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rite of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri.Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-sadhus-killed-in-uttar-pradesh-s-bulandshahr-1-man-arrested/story-vK9PrGYXvTd8d6KYEIeLoJ.html
28-04-2020||India||6 cases from Patna among 68 from Bihar, tally up to 345||Six new cases of coronavirus were reported from Patna, as Bihar registered 68 cases Monday, its biggest single day spike so far, pushing its total tally of cases to 345, with two deaths so far.Munger reported the most number of cases after 22 people tested positive Monday from Sadar Bazar in Jamalpur sub-division, which has been listed under ‘red zone’. Rohtas reported 16 cases, forcing the district administration to enforce containment measures. The other cases during the day were reported from Bhojpur (7), Madhubani (5), Aurangabad (5), Lakhisarai (3), and one each from Saran, Nawada, Darbhanga and Purnia.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFour of the six cases in Patna were tracked to a contact from Khajpura, said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi.“The four belong to a private firm, which is engaged in housekeeping and sanitary work at the Patna airport. They were tracked as contacts of an executive of a firm, which handles operations of ATMs,” said Ravi.The person, who tested positive for the virus around two days back, worked at the airport and resided as a tenant in the house of the CMS executive at Khajpura.“We had collected samples of 39 people on Saturday after a cleaning staff at the airport was detected to be positive. Four of those samples have now tested positive,” added Ravi.Besides, a two-year-old male child from Naubatpur, undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), has also tested positive for the virus during a routine check-up there. The child was admitted to the hospital for eye ailment, the DM said.The sixth case from Patna was of a 23-year-old male, studying at Manipal in Karnataka.The young student had travelled from Manipal to Jaipur and then to New Delhi, before boarding the Rajdhani Express on March 16 to reach Patna. The fact that the young man had tested positive after 45 days of his travel to New Delhi, has baffled health officials now.His location was tracked to Nizamuddin in New Delhi as part of around 4,000 mobile numbers sent by the home ministry to the health department. These were numbers picked up through mobile tower location of those having visited anywhere near 3-5 kms of the Nizamuddin Markaz.Meanwhile, authorities would now collect samples of officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) as well after five staff of an outsourced firm, tasked with housekeeping work, had tested positive.Though the government denied community transmission of the virus, state health authorities had not been able to ascertain the source of infection in any of the 68 cases detected on Monday.In his tweets, principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, said, “We are ascertaining their infection trail.”It has been more than a fortnight he shared data on contact tracing of Covid-19 patients.As per the last data Kumar shared through a tweet, 60% cases were contracted by patients who came in contact with infected person; 27% had international travel history; 9% had domestic travel history from infected areas while contact tracing was pending in 4% cases. The number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar then was 70.The health department, however, had neither updated that data nor was updating on daily basis information about new red or containment zones in the state after the number of cases had shown a sudden spike in the past couple of days. The state had reported 53 cases on April 24. As per government data, Bihar had reported 164 cases in the last five days till Sunday.Darbhanga and Purnia were the new districts which reported positive cases of the virus.Of Bihar’s 345 cases, Munger reported 90, followed by Patna (39), Nalanda (34), Siwan (30), Buxar (25), Rohtas (31), Kaimur (14), Gopalganj (12), Begusarai (9), Bhojpur (9), Aurangabad (7), Gaya (6), Bhagalpur, East Chamapran, Madhubani (5 each), Arwal, Saran, Nawada, Lakhisarai (4 each), Banka, Vaishali, (2 each), Madhepura, Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Purnea (1 each).Fifty-seven people had so far recovered from the disease and discharged from government facilities so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cases-from-patna-among-68-from-bihar-tally-up-to-345/story-BaD59pVqwvvHvr3VFwbtLM.html
28-04-2020||India||Mohali records fresh Covid-19 case after 5 days, total number reaches 64||Mohali in Punjab recorded a fresh case of coronavirus disease Covid-19 after a gap of five days. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached 64.The fresh cases has been reported from village Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi of Mohali. The 42-year-old is the brother of village sarpanch, who was already tested positive of coronavirus.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon of Mohali said, “We took his sample earlier, and he tested negative. But we were little doubtful and took his sample again and this time, he was tested positive.”He is a habitual drinker and now admitted at Gian Sagar hospital in Banur, Dr Singh added.In Mohali, the active cases are 35, as 27 patients have recovered and two died. Village Jawaharpur, which has been declared as hotspot and containment zone, now has 39 patients. Fifteen patients from the village have recovered so far.Health department will also take the samples of 34 people, who returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra in Mohali on Monday evening. They have kept in a school in Sector 70 of Mohali.With these pilgrims testing positive for Covid-19, the infection count in the state has gone up to 330.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman in Patiala died of coronavirus, taking the death tally to 19 in Punjab, an official said.Jalandhar district continued to lead the COVID-19 tally in the state with 78 coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohali-records-fresh-covid-19-case-after-5-days-total-number-reaches-64/story-1TK6ELyUYcyAB35ESw9GSM.html
28-04-2020||India||Here’s list of 16 districts in India with no new Covid-19 case in last 28 days||The government has said that 16 districts which had earlier reported cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have not reported any new case in the last 28 days. Three new districts have been added since April 24 in the list. However, Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar in Punjab were removed due to fresh cases.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country mounted to 29,435 on Tuesday morning, with 1543 new infections and 62 deaths in the 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.The districts include:1. Lakhisarai (Bihar)2. Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh)3. Durg (Chhattisgarh)4. Rajnandgaon (Chhattisgarh)5. South Goa (Goa)6. Kodagu (Karnataka)7. Chitradurga (Karnataka)8. Davanagere (Karnataka)9. Imphal West (Manipur) 10. Aizawl (Mizoram)11. Gondia (Maharashtra) 12. Mahe (Puducherry)13. Pratapgarh (Rajasthan)14. Bhadradri Kothagudem (Telangana)15. Pauri Garhwal (Uttarakhand)16. Shivpuri (Madhya Pradesh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-here-s-list-of-16-districts-in-india-with-no-new-covid-19-case-in-last-28-days/story-1AHmQl2hcv8JeYBQ8N2X5J.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 2,700 labourers in 60 buses to reach Punjab from Rajasthan today||As many as 2,700 labourers hailing from Punjab will reach their respective districts from various parts of Rajasthan on Tuesday in 60 buses.These labourer, belonging to different districts of Punjab, were being ferried from Ratangarh, Mohangarh and Jaisalmer districts of Rajasthan by the state government.So far, 12 buses have arrived at Gumjal, an inter-state border checkpost in Abohar, a sub-division of Fazilka district. The local health authorities are scanning these labourers before they move forward.“These labourers includes 1,150 from Fazilka district who along with others were working in various spheres of live but got struck up following imposition of lockdown to fight novel coronavirus in entire nation,” said Arwind Pal Singh Sandhu, deputy commissioner, Fazilka.“All 60 buses will reach here today only and after due medical screening, their will be allowed to continue their journey till final destinations,” said Sandhu.Thirty students from Punjab, studying in Rajasthan’s Kota, had arrived in Fazilka on Monday night. Out of these, 13 students who belonged to Fazilka, were allowed to go with an order to follow mandatory “home quarantine” after proper medical screening by the health authorities while rest moved further for their respective destinations.Eight of the Sikh pilgrims who had recently returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, prompting a decision to quarantine and test all those who are brought to Punjab from there. With this, the infection count in the state has gone up to 330.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman in Patiala died of coronavirus, taking the death tally to 19 in Punjab, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-700-labourers-in-60-buses-to-reach-punjab-from-rajasthan-today/story-ZfP0FAO7lHpCmaFHw8rHKN.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi Police pay siren tribute to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, good gesture says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted his appreciation for Delhi Police’s tribute to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, which has been feeding thousands of people every day during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.The Prime Minister shared the video of Delhi Police performing a ‘parikrama’ or circumambulation of the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, which is in the heart of the national capital, on Monday. Good gesture by the @DelhiPolice.Our Gurudwaras have been doing exceptional work in serving people. Their compassion is appreciable. https://t.co/hdTn6vDFtj“Good gesture by the Delhi Police. Our Gurudwaras have been doing exceptional work in serving people. Their compassion is appreciable,” PM Modi tweeted on Monday.Eish Singhal, the deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), led the cavalcade of 35 police vans and 60 motorcycles in the ‘parikrama’.Senior police officers also paid obeisance at the gurdwara and did ‘seva’ or service by helping in the preparation of langar, a free community kitchen.“In the present times when Covid-19 is taking its toll on our society, there are a few individuals and organisations who have risen to the occasion and went beyond the calls of their duty to help the larger populace,” Singhal said, according to PTI.“I wish to place the sincere appreciation of the humanitarian work being done by Gurudwara Bangla Sahib and all its sevadars who are offering food to around 75,000 people every day from Gurdwara Bangla Sahib,” Singhal added.Delhi on Monday became the third state after Maharashtra and Gujarat to cross the grim 3000-mark after 190 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were recorded. The tally was at 3108 out of which 877 people have recovered and 54 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-pay-siren-tribute-to-gurdwara-bangla-sahib-good-gesture-says-pm-modi/story-xEIJG5D1q243RxVGL07kHN.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh update: Covid-19 free Pilibhit reports fresh case, total number nears 2,000||The number of Covid-19 positive cases inched towards 2,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. According to the data released by the Union health ministry, the number of infected people in Uttar Pradesh stands at 1,955.The state has reported 31 deaths due to the infection, the health ministry data showed. There were 113 fresh cases in the state on Monday.The sole death on Monday was reported from Shravasti district.The highest 10 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by six in Moradabad, five in Meerut, three in Kanpur and one each in Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahar, Lucknow, Firozabad, Aligarh and Shravasti, according to state health officials and reported by agencies.Of the 113 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the maximum 27 were reported from Kanpur, 17 from Firozabad, 16 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 12 each from Agra and Bulandshahr and 10 from Aligrah.Among the other cases, three each were reported from Meerut and Moradabad; two each from Lucknow, Bijnaur and Badaun; and one each from Pilibhit, Hapur, Bareilly,Rampur, Jalaun, Pratapgarh and Jhansi.Pilibhit, which was earlier declared Covid-free, reported a fresh case.Till now, 1,089 people belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts have tested positive for Covid-19.Briefing the reporters in state capital Lucknow on Monday, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “To strengthen the infection control protocol, district-level committees will be formed under the respective additional chief medical officers. These committees will have representatives from the district hospital, women’s hospital, Indian Medical Association, WHO, UNICEF and Pollution Control Board.”The mandate of these committees will be to train doctors about the infection control protocol, Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-update-covid-19-free-pilibhit-reports-fresh-case-total-number-nears-2-000/story-TaoRNOo4gJWjgjpuBnmiDI.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: 9 states have more than 1,000 cases; Maharashtra on top||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 29,435 on Tuesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 21,632 active coronavirus cases in the country, 6,868 patients have been cured or discharged while 934 people have died from the deadly contagion. Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 8,500-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases are over 3,000. Gujarat continues to be the state with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 8,590 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 369 deaths so far while 1,282 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 3,548 coronavirus cases and 394 recoveries so far. One hundred sixty two people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 3,108 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Fifty four people have died from the infection while 877 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,262 on Tuesday. The state has reported 46 fatalities, and 669 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,168 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred ten people have died from Covid-19 here while 302 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1,937 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1,101 recoveries and 24 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar PradeshClose to 2,000 people (1,955 to be exact) have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 335 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 31 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,183 positive Covid-19 patients and 235 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.TelanganaOver 1,000 (1,004 to be exact) positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. Three hundred twenty one people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 697 on Tuesday. There have been 20 deaths and 109 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 546. Seven people have died from the infection while 164 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 512 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths. One hundred ninety three people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 481 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 355 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 296 and 313 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 18 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. One hundred eighty three people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 71 in Punjab.In Bihar, 345 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 57 patients have recovered. Odisha has 118 Covid-19 positive patients, 37 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 82 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 13 have recovered. Uttarakhand has 51 coronavirus patients, 33 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 22 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 27 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 37 cases of coronavirus and 32 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 40 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-9-states-have-more-than-1-000-cases-maharashtra-on-top/story-fKJftgCl81EqfN2pLejikM.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: AIIMS set to begin plasma therapy, Tablighi Jamaat members donate plasma and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AIIMS set to begin plasma therapy, Tablighi Jamaat members donate plasmaIn Delhi, after Lok Nayak hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is set to begin plasma therapy for those with severe Covid-19 infections. The collection of plasma from over 350 eligible members of the Tablighi Jamaat started on Monday at the Covid Care Centres in Sultanpuri and Narela. Twenty-five donations have already been received.Read MoreDelhi review complete, govt allows vets, plumbers, electricians to start workThe Delhi government on Monday finally lifted the bar on veterinarians, plumbers and electricians after a complete review of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital. In a 7-point order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority also allowed inter-state travel of health workers, lab technicians and scientists that had been prohibited in the city.Read MoreOn Kim Jong Un’s health, Donald Trump says ‘have a very good idea, but can’t talk’US President Donald Trump on Monday appeared to confirm that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is alive, saying he wished him well after days of speculation over the dictator’s whereabouts.Read MoreDon’t quite trust this guy: AB de Villiers narrates story of first meeting with KohliApart from being one of the best batsmen of the current generation, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers are also close friends. The duo, ever since brought together by Royal Challengers Bangalore in IPL, have relished each other’s company. In an Instagram live session recently, De Villiers revealed that he was sceptical about Kohli when he first met him.Read MoreHappy Birthday Samantha: Five films that are proof of her underrated versatilityLike most of her contemporaries, Samantha Akkineni rose to stardom by taking the quintessential heroine roles in star-studded projects before going on to experimenting with roles that were a proof of her untapped talent. On the occasion of her 33rd birthday, a look at five films from her illustrious career.Read MoreWhatsApp’s latest update for iPhones brings support for 8 people on group callsWhatsApp has officially rolled out support for more people on group calls. WhatsApp users can now make group video and voice calls with up to eight people. This is currently available only for iPhone users as of now. WhatsApp’s latest update on iOS comes with this feature along with visual improvements for iOS 13. Read MoreLockdown Fashion: Pyjamas are the new jeansThe coronavirus pandemic has utterly transformed the way most of us dressed, because now shirts have been replaced with oversized, boyfriend tees and jeans have been replaced with PJs. Designers and stylists tell us how they will influence our post-pandemic fashion as well.Read MoreWhy jump-starting car factories in India is no easy rideA week after the Centre announced allowing of partial resumption of production by industries, automobile companies including Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Toyota, Tata Motors, Ford and Mercedes-Benz are yet to resume production stating supply chain, not just component suppliers but also dealers, needs to start operating to re-start production. The companies said in most parts of the country most of the auto dealers and suppliers continue to be in a lockdown condition.Read More‘Covid-19 has made it difficult to manage cancer care’Dr Abhishek Shankar, assistant professor in the department of radiation oncology at Lady Hardinge Medical College said that coronavirus has made it difficult to manage the cancer care delivery system. A recent report ‘Cancer Care Delivery Challenges Amidst Coronavirus Disease Outbreak’ published in the journal of Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention has pointed out that cancer patients are more susceptible to coronavirus. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-as-aiims-set-to-begin-plasma-therapy-tablighi-jamaat-members-donate-plasma-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TobbJVZIlEfPmkhcO5bBhK.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: With 1,543 new Covid-19 cases, India breaches 29,000 mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country mounted to 29,435 on Tuesday morning, with 1543 new infections and 62 deaths in the 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.There are 21,631 active cases and 934 people have died because of the respiratory disease till date, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the country was a little more than 23% as 6,868 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. The Union health ministry had said on Monday that the recovery rate was 22.17%.Luv Agarwal, a joint secretary with the health ministry also said that 16 districts in the country have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. Also read: China ‘concerned’ as India decides to stop use of Chinese Covid-19 test kits“The three new districts which got added to this list are — Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar. A total of 85 districts from 25 states and UTs have not reported any fresh coronavirus case in last 14 days,” Agarwal said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Agarwal said no community or area should be labelled for Covid-19 spread. He also urged that healthcare and sanitary workers or police should not be targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-with-1543-new-covid-19-cases-india-breaches-29-000-mark/story-LrZhnAZiaKTJDnxXaKU1qN.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Inappropriate’: Kerala BJP on CM Vijayan skipping PM Modi’s video meeting||The Kerala unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday criticised Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for not taking part in the video conference called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country.BJP state chief K Surendran said while the whole country was fighting the pandemic together, it was “inappropriate” on part of the Kerala chief minister to miss the meeting.“Kerala chief minister said he had attended the last meeting and hence he did not attend today’s meeting. However, most of the chief ministers, who attended the last meeting, had attended Monday’s meeting. While the whole country is fighting the pandemic together, his absence cannot be justified,” Surendran said in a statement.However, Vijayan, in his daily Covid-19 evaluation press meet, said the Union cabinet secretary had on Sunday informed that only a few chief ministers will have a chance to speak at the video conference.Several issues were discussed by the Prime Minister and the heads of states at the digital meeting, and Kerala was the only state not represented by its chief minister.Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose participated in the conference.In the meeting, the southern state sought a staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid-19 package. Another issue Kerala raised was the return of the migrant population from the Middle Eastern countries. It wants the Centre to expedite the evacuation.As the nationwide lockdown is about to end on May 3, PM Modi underlined the key challenge of balancing lives and livelihood in the country.The Prime Minister has already held three such meetings with chief ministers to discuss the situation in the country as it tackles a rising number of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inappropriate-kerala-bjp-on-cm-vijayan-skipping-pm-modi-s-video-meeting/story-nGB9Xjhv927NBpbTimhLqL.html
28-04-2020||India||PM stresses two-pronged strategy, states told to return rapid test kits: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told chief ministers to carefully study the situation in each district and zone, and assess the kind of activities that can be permitted without the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreading. He also said the key is to balance life and livelihood. The Indian Council of Medical Research asks all states to return rapid test kits sourced from China.Need to save lives, spur economy: PMIndia is focusing on a two-pronged strategy aimed at saving lives of its citizens while also restarting economic activities that have come to a virtual standstill due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers in a video conference on Monday.Read MoreFive Oppn-ruled states seek Rs 2.25L cr to tide over crisisFive opposition ruled states have sought close to Rs 2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on state finances due to the national lockdown, which some chief ministers want to extend beyond May 3 in close to 330 Covid-19 affected districts.Read MoreCMs call for extension of curbs in hot spot districtsMost state governments recommended an extension of the lockdown in Covid-19 hot spots, a relaxation of rules to bring back stranded workers, and financial help to cope with a debilitating economic crisis in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe death toll around the world has crossed 200,000 but there’s a growing opinion that the actual number could be higher.Read MoreICMR tells states not to deploy rapid kits of China firmsSix days after it decided to evaluate rapid test kits (RTKs) used to test for Covid-19 antibodies after states reported huge variations in results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked all states to which it sent the kits, sourced from China, to return them .Read MoreNeed for refined rapid kits, better staff training for accurate resultsInaccuracy in results from China-made rapid kits led India to suspend antibody testing for coronavirus disease last week. On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked for states to return the kits, citing problems with them highlighted in its own assessment.Read MoreGovt appeals against discrimination, says recovered patients don’t spread infectionPatients who recover from Covid-19 do not transmit the infection, the health ministry clarified on Monday, appealing to the people to stop discriminating against those who have fought off the disease as health-care workers engaged in treating cases.Read More‘Mild-symptom patients can be isolated at home’Covid-19 patients who are pre-symptomatic or show mild symptoms can be isolated at home as long as they have enough space to avoid contact with other residents, according to a new Union health ministry guidelines issued on Monday. Whether a person can is fit for home isolation will be decided by the treating doctor and surveillance officer. According to existing guidelines, all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Read MoreAction against 3 IRS officers for tax hike reportThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) initiated an inquiry on Monday and moved to punish three Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers for their roles and complicity in preparing and circulating a report that suggested raising the income-tax rate up to 40% to fund economic revival in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic,a finance ministry official said.Read MoreOnce lockdown ends, govt plans Make in India boostAfter the extended 40-day Covid-19 lockdown that ends May 3, the government plans to aggressively push its Make in India programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally even as it increases import duty to make imports expensive, two government officials familiar with the plan said.Read MoreStates gear up to bring back stranded migrants Days after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh started taking back stranded workers, the Rajasthan government issued guidelines to bring back stranded workers from other states and Odisha announced that it will have similar guidelines in place by the end of April.Read MoreIn touch with those from state stranded elsewhere: Bihar CM Nitish KumarEnsuring the relief and rehabilitation of hundreds of thousands of migrants from Bihar employed in other states is high on the list of priorities of chief minister Nitish Kumar. On the prospects of the workers returning home, Kumar said that when curbs on public movement are lifted after the extended lockdown ends on May 3, the host governments in other states must undertake health screening of Bihar migrants before letting them travel.Read MoreThis Pune medical officer stays by the deceased in their final journeyWhat is it like to oversee and ensure the burial and cremation of those dead from Covid-19? Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Assistant medical officer, Dr Kalpana Baliwant has been doing in these unprecedented times in a city besieged by the pandemic.Read MoreChina warns Australia of total boycott if it pursues virus probeChinese citizens could avoid Australian products and universities if Prime Minister Scott Morrison doesn’t stop calling for an international enquiry into the coronavirus origins, a top Chinese official has said in what is fast developing into a testy diplomatic exchange between the two countries.Read MoreVaccine could be ready in 12 months: Bill GatesBillionaire philanthropist Bill Gates is funding production of the seven most promising ideas for a vaccine as he refocuses his work on the coronavirus.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-stresses-two-pronged-strategy-states-told-to-return-rapid-test-kits-covid-19-news-today/story-z8f8pTuFXfhQ0qvKVn7F2M.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Guests too have some dignity’: Man stuck in bride’s village due to Covid-19 lockdown sends SOS to CM Nitish Kumar||Stranded at his newly-wed bride’s village in Bihar along with other family members, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday made a fervent appeal to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to come to his rescue and save them from embarrassment as his father-in-law has come under a lot of debt to feed them during the lockdown.“Guests too have some dignity and decorum to follow. In all fairness to the Indian culture, it is beneath the dignity to overstay our welcome at the host’s house. CM Nitish Kumar may understand the helpless situation we have been facing. We are in a dharmsankat sir,” said bridegroom Mohammed Abid, echoing the common sentiment of other baaratis.The bridegroom, along with nine family members, reached Mathiya village under Rajepur Tumkariya panchayat in Narkatiganj sub-division on March 19. His nikaah with Salma Khatoon was, however, solemnised on March 24. But the baaratis from Uttar Pradesh got stuck in the village as the nationwide lockdown was announced.The bride’s family are leaving no stone unturned to make the stranded guests feel comfortable in their house.Bridegroom’s father Akhbar Miyan, 51, his samdhi (bride’s father) Anrul Miyan’s dharmsankat (ordeal) would continue as long as he, along with other baaratis, would stay as forced guests at his house in the given circumstances.“If my words are reaching the leaders and especially chief minister Nitish Kumar sir, I’d like to request them to treat our case as an exception. My samdhi is in a bad state. He has taken a loan to feed us and provide the comfort. It is embarrassing for us to see him like this,” said Akhabar Miyan.Meanwhile, bride Salma Khatoon’s father Anrul Miyan is in a different dharmsankant. “They are my samdhan- samdhi and son-in-law’s relatives. For us, making them compromise means our respect gone,” said Anrul Miyan.His ordeal began before the wedding day itself. “We did not have enough to feed ourselves for the first 14 days of the lockdown. Sensing the imminent crisis, we approached our village headman but no help came through. I had no option but to borrow money from my co-villagers,” said Anrul Miyan.Lockdown extension added to the worries of Anrul Miyan. He approached the block officials in a hope to find any assistance.“Entertaining his request, we are looking forward to help him by providing food grains,” said Raghvendra Tripathi, block development officer (BDO), Narkatiganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guests-too-have-some-dignity-man-stuck-in-bride-s-village-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-sends-sos-to-cm-nitish-kumar/story-POrr0Icd7Dh2QHspQx63UP.html
28-04-2020||India||Family in Kota Covid-19 hotspot carries man in cart to hospital, patient dies||A 65-year-old man died in Rajasthan’s Kota allegedly after his family had to ferry him in a cart from a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot for around 2km after failing to get an ambulance.The incident occurred in the curfew imposed Fatehgari in Rampura Kotwali area of Kota city on Monday when asthmatic patient, Satish Agarwal, fell down in his bathroom and got injured. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here His wife Gayatri Agarwal and son Manish Agarwal tried to get an ambulance but did not get any for allegedly more than an hour. They put Satish on a cart arranged by their neighbours and ferried him for around 2km till Ladpura.Satish Agarwal was taken to the government-run Maharao Bhim Singh Hospital where he died. He is reported to have suffered cardiac arrest.The family members also accused the hospital administration of negligence in treating him when they brought him to the hospital. Satish Agarwal’s son alleged that doctors kept sending them from one room to the other.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySince the deceased loved in a hotspot, the hospital administration has kept his dead body in the mortuary of the New Medical College Hospital where his samples will be taken.When asked about the incident, Dr BS Tanwar, Kota’s chief medical and health officer, said there is no dearth of ambulances and there was one in the affected area.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The matter will be probed, Dr Tanwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-family-in-kota-covid-19-hotspot-carries-man-in-cart-to-hospital-patient-dies/story-lcfbBteuOQsG1dQ0epbh5N.html
28-04-2020||India||All cops on Covid-19 lockdown duty to be tested, says Chhattisgarh Police chief||All police personnel on duty during the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak in Chhattisgarh will be tested in a phased manner, the state’s police chief has said.Chhattisgarh’s Director General of Police DM Awasthi issued a letter on Monday in this regard to all the concerned officers of the state.As per the police chief’s instructions to Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs), the tests should be done in a phased manner and those above the age of 45, with diabetes, heart ailments etc, should be tested first.“Police have been in the frontline enforcing the lockdown in the state and hence they should be tested as a precautionary measure after consulting the respective district health officer,” an official posted in police headquarters said about the contents of the letter.Some 72,000 police personnel have been deployed across the state to enforce the lockdown.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 28,380 on Monday and the death toll rose to 886, registering a record increase of 60 deaths in 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry.There has been a spike of 1,463 cases since Sunday evening. Chhattisgarh has 37 Covid-19 cases.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 21,132, while 6,361 people have recovered, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-cops-on-covid-19-lockdown-duty-to-be-tested-says-chhattisgarh-police-chief/story-XSD3wGYdY1qSyCSyNOdTJK.html
28-04-2020||India||China ‘concerned’ as India decides to stop use of Chinese Covid-19 test kits||China on Tuesday expressed concern about an Indian medical body’s decision to stop using rapid antibody testing kits made by two Chinese firms, saying their products meet quality standards and are exported to many other countries.“The quality of medical products exported from China is prioritised. It is unfair and irresponsible for certain individuals to label Chinese products as ‘faulty’ and look at issues with pre-emptive prejudice,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement issued early on Tuesday.The statement came hours after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which plays a key role in advising authorities engaged in the fight against Covid-19, said state governments should stop using the rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics after several states questioned the efficacy of the kits.Ji said: “We are deeply concerned with the evaluation results and the decision made by ICMR.”Also Watch l Covid-19: Chinese test kits sold to India allegedly overpriced; Govt reactsBoth Wondfo and Livzon, she said, had clarified that their testing kits had been certified by China’s National Medical Products Administration (NMPA), meet the quality standards China and importing countries, and had also been validated and approved by ICMR through the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.“The Covid-19 antibody rapid test kits produced by these two Chinese companies have been exported to and well recognised in many countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America,” she added.Ji further said Beijing hopes New Delhi “could respect China’s goodwill and sincerity, strengthen communication timely with relevant Chinese companies based on facts, and resolve [the matter] reasonably and properly”.She said there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of rapid antibody testing kits. “Any operation which is not carried out by professionals in accordance with the product specifications will lead to the testing accuracy variations,” she said.Ji described viruses as a common enemy of mankind and said China will continue to support India’s efforts in fighting Covid-19, strengthen medical and health cooperation, and jointly work to overcome difficulties to safeguard the safety of people in both countries.India has placed orders for hundreds of thousands of testing kits and millions of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits with Chinese firms. However, several state governments reported wide variations in the results produced by kits from Wondfo and Livzon.The ICMR stressed in a statement issued on Monday that rapid antibody testing kits should be used only for surveillance, and said it had evaluated the kits from Wondfo and Livzon in field conditions.“The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes,” the statement said.“In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits procured from the above-mentioned companies and return them to be sent back to the suppliers,” the statement added.A separate Indian government statement said orders from the two Chinese firms had been cancelled as their kits were “under-performing”. This statement added that ICMR had not made any payments so far for the supplies and the government wouldn’t incur any losses from the cancellation of the orders.Wondfo reacted to ICMR’s decision by it was “surprised and disappointed” as its “SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Test (Lateral Flow Method) is one of the first tests to receive an import licence from India, and has been validated and approved by ICMR through National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune”.“We are currently investigating the ICMR’s concerns with our products and will share more information when it becomes available,” Wondfo said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-concerned-as-india-decides-to-stop-use-of-chinese-covid-19-test-kits/story-3xFHLLdqCTSTFSIDJirGbI.html
28-04-2020||India||With polls not held amid lockdown, BTC areas in Assam come under Governor’s rule||Areas falling under the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam came under Governor’s Rule from Monday after the state election commission failed to hold polls due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“In view of the expiry of the term of the Bodoland Territorital General Council today, Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi has resolved to assume the administration of BTC with immediate effect in public interest,” said a Raj Bhawan release.Four districts in Assam - Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri - come under the administration of BTC and are collectively called Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD).Election to the 40 constituencies of the council was scheduled on April 4, according to news agency PTI. However, the state election commission deferred it indefinitely on March 20 because of the Covid-19 scenario.But with the lockdown continuing, the state election commission informed the governor of its inability to conduct polls to the BTC general council while adhering to social distancing and other restrictions in place due to coronavirus outbreak.The governor decided to assume control of BTC in exercise of powers vested in him under sub-paragraph 2 and Para 16th of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. He has appointed Rajesh Prasad, IAS, principal secretary to the Assam government as the administrator of BTC areas.The Assam Cabinet, in its meeting on Monday, decided to request the State Election Commissioner to conduct the elections as soon as possible with some innovative ideas to avoid large gatherings, reports PTI.Addressing the media after the Cabinet meeting, Assam Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said, “There can be door-to-door campaigns.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodoland-territorial-council-areas-in-assam-come-under-governor-s-rule/story-dltkigdxIg0UZSOMWCR5DL.html
28-04-2020||India||Supreme Court staffer tests positive for Covid-19||A staffer of the Supreme Court tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, triggering alarm bells in the highest court of the country.The employee, working with the judicial section of the apex court, was on duty on April 16 and had come in contact with two apex court registrars, who have been advised self-quarantine as a precautionary measure, a source said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe suffered fever for two days after coming for work on April 16 and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He has been admitted to a government hospital and is undergoing treatment, the source said, adding that as per the standard protocol, contact tracing of the staffer will be done.It is the first such case of a Supreme Court staffer testing positive. The apex court had restricted its functioning since March 23 and is hearing matters involving extreme urgency through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-xyfN6WjPBrj5FcIXwQ6V8N.html
28-04-2020||India||Kolkata among 4 Bengal districts declared as red zones as Covid-19 cases spike||The West Bengal government on Monday released a list, saying four districts, including Kolkata, have been declared as red zones in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, and 287 areas in the metropolis identified as containment zones.Howrah, North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts have been declared as red zones, besides Kolkata.Eleven districts have been identified as orange zones, while eight are in the green zone, as per the list released by the state government.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Those in the orange zone are South 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Paschim Medinipur, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Murshidabad and Malda.The eight districts in the green zone are Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakhin Dinajpur, Birbhum, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram.As many as 287 areas in Kolkata, the majority of which are in north and central parts of the city, have been identified as containment zones.Also read: Covid-19 cases spike in West Bengal, docs say testing rate too low There were eight containment zones in Purba Medinipur district, out of which there are five zones from where there has been no report of any new Covid-19 infection since April 9, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said.In the North 24 Parganas district, there has been no report of any Covid-19 positive cases from 13 zones out of the total 57 containment zones, he said.He said that out of the 287 containment zones in Kolkata, there have been no cases from 18 zones in the last two weeks.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Sinha further said that in Howrah district there were 56 containment zones, and from 13 of them there has been no new case of coronavirus infection.He said if no new case is reported from a zone for at least 21 days, the government will announce relaxation there.West Bengal till Monday registered 20 Covid-19 deaths, and a total of 633 cases. Of them, 504 are active cases and 109 people have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered.According to the Union Health Ministry, the number of Covid-19-stricken patients in the state stands at 649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-kolkata-among-4-bengal-districts-declared-as-red-zones-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-DvvK70oj31iuEsEUGqHGOM.html
28-04-2020||India||Celebrations amid lockdown: Cops make birthdays and anniversaries unforgettable||Those born in the month of April and May must be feeling a little odd this year considering the Covid-19 lockdown would have spoiled their plans of celebrating their special day. Neither can these people — who have their birthday or anniversary or any other occasion — can go out and party nor can they meet their friends. But, in times like these, it’s the cops who are helping the families of birthday girls and boys or couples, to celebrate their special day. And in GK, @DelhiPolice wishing people Happy Birthday 🥳 ... pic.twitter.com/hjalNbeZifApparently, the trend started from USA, where a bunch of police vehicles halted on the street in front of a house and cops sang happy birthday for a youngster. Soon cops in India followed suit. Bollywood actor Riteish Deshmukh shared a video on his Facebook, and wrote, “What a good gesture. In USA, a father called police and told it was his son’s birthday and no one came due to Covid-19. See the amazing response for police.”  What a good gesture.In USA, a father called Police and told it was his son's Birthday and no one came due to Covid-19. See the amazing response from Police! pic.twitter.com/CFmsD9TNVJThe kindness act was soon followed by Punjab Police, too. Punjab Police cops drove their bikes, and paused to sing the birthday song while handing a gift pack to the mother of the birthday boy. Their coordinated act was quite well performed, and drew much applause from social media users the world over.  Kindness, home-delivered! #IndiaFightsCorona Policemen in Mansa, #Punjab surprised baby Maira and her family by delivering a birthday cake. Share stories of champions near you, using #CoronaWarriorsIndia. 📽️- @PunjabPoliceInd pic.twitter.com/py66wagVogWhen a number of forces, worldwide, have been doing their bit to make people feel happy on their special days, how can Delhi Police be left behind. The men in khakhi not only celebrated the birthday and cut a cake for a couple, but also wished them a very happy marriage anniversary in a unique way — they offered the couple a plant and wished them a happy life ahead. Well, it certainly takes some strength to maintain the law and order in a city while practising kindness and mindfulness in the fight against coronavirus pandemic. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/celebrations-amid-lockdown-cops-make-birthdays-and-anniversaries-unforgettable/story-BVxrlJXxdDIsJudmFWB5qM.html
28-04-2020||India||Villagers in Ambala protest suspected Covid-19 patient’s cremation, throw stones at cops||Violence broke out in Ambala’s Chandpura village when villagers objected to the cremation of a suspected coronavirus patient and later pelted stones at police and health officials on Monday afternoon. Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said an FIR has been registered in the matter. “The dead woman was a suspected corona patient and as per protocols, she was to be cremated at the designated cremation ground identified by the administration. The villagers raised objection, citing that she was not a resident of their village and started pelting stones as the area SDM and DSP reached the spot. To control the mob, the police had to lathicharge and also fire a couple of rounds in the air,” he added. Ambala Cantonment DSP Ram Kumar is among the cops injured in the violence. The mob attacked the ambulance and shattered its windshield and side glasses, DSP Kumar said.“The mob attacked the police and health officials. We’ve booked 200 people, 55 by name and others unknown under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the amended Epidemic Diseases Act. We’ve detained 15 of them and will arrest the remaining ones soon,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violence-in-ambala-over-corona-patient-s-cremation/story-DZZphdUZ5zaC3Ky09cBlJM.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 3,000 mark, no casualty on Monday||Delhi recorded 190 new Covid cases on Monday to take its tally to 3,108, the state’s health department said. It became the third state after Maharashtra and Gujarat to cross the 3,000 mark.Out of the 3,108 out of which 877 have recovered. There are currently 2,177 active cases. There were no casualties on Monday which remained static at 54.A total of 39,911 people have been tested so far out of which 3,108 have tested positive. A total of 34,145 tested negative and 2,401 results are pending, the health department said.The government conducted 2,298 tests on Monday and the number of tests per million of population has gone up to 1,976.Earlier Monday, the Delhi government on Monday added two more localities – one in south Delhi the other in New Delhi to the list of containment zones in the fight against Covid-19 to take the total number of such zones to 99. The government insists that the sealing of the containment zones is an effective way of checking the spread of coronavirus.On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ruled out any more lockdown relaxations in Delhi until May 3, except for those suggested by the Union home ministry.The government is also banking upon plasma therapy to reduce the mortality rate among Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal had also appealed to people who have recovered from Covid-19, to donate their plasma for those fighting for their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-3-000-mark-no-casualty-on-monday/story-5leOdWFEH9zsTynqRoycTI.html
28-04-2020||India||Unusually cool and wet April takes weather office by surprise||It is the end of April but it is unusually pleasant in Delhi. The maximum temperature has touched 40 degrees C here only once compared to eight days by this time last year. Even in other parts of the country, maximum temperatures are mostly below normal or normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). No heat waves have been recorded so far except in isolated pockets of Gujarat and Marathwada (and only for a day in both), which is unusual for this time of the year.IMD scientists are also surprised by intermittent wet spells that have kept maximum temperatures down when the rest of the world is recording above normal temperatures. In northwest India, this pattern is linked to back-to-back active western disturbances (WDs), which are not supposed to be around in April. By this time, these disturbances which start as low-pressure systems in the Mediterranean weaken and move to northern latitudes. Scientists said such changes may be due to weather anomalies in Europe. They could also be linked to favourable sea temperatures over the Pacific.The WDs brought a lot of rain to northwest India; there is also moisture incursion in east and northeast India from the Bay of Bengal, which has been bringing good rains in the pre-monsoon season. According to IMD’s rainfall data, between March 1 and April 26, 13 states have recorded “large excess” of rains (60% above normal).“Our models show that wind patterns will not support the development of heat waves till the end of the first week of May. There has been a lot of rain in the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains region. Rains will not subside immediately. There will be another strong wet spell in northwest India from May 4 to 6. We have not recorded any heat waves yet, except in isolated patches for a day,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.In Delhi and the National Capital Region, the below normal temperature has meant pleasant days and mildly cool nights. The maximum temperature on Saturday in Delhi was 7 degrees C below normal and minimum 5 degrees C below normal. “We had six WDs in March and six in April. Not all WDs brought rain but it has been mostly cloudy and winds are good which doesn’t allow maximum temperature to spike. In 2013 and 2014, we saw similar weather in April,” explained Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.“In April or May, the intensity of WDs reduce. There could be many reasons for this unusual pattern of active WDs this year. It could be linked to European climate anomalies,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, agreed with Rajeevan, saying: “WDs are low pressure systems that generally originate over the Mediterranean region, propagate eastward with the help of the fast moving winds in the upper atmosphere — the westerly jet. This year we had a larger than usual number of WDs active over India. However, these short-lived WDs may not be the only factor that is regulating the temperatures. The ocean temperatures over the Pacific are also favourable since El Niño conditions have not developed. Usually if El Niño conditions (anomalously warm ocean temperatures) are present in the central-east Pacific, it can drive heat waves over India during April-May months. It seems that both these factors have been favourable for below normal temperatures over north India.”While this could mean bearable weather in cities, continuous unseasonal rains in other parts of the country have led to crop damage. “We haven’t seen any heat waves yet except 40+ temperatures in some isolated pockets. Temperature has been below normal to normal in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi-NCR, North Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh. There has been a lot of rain in the second half of April. Because of intense rains it has become cooler. Another WD is expected to affect northwestern India on April 30, which will again bring rain. Usually by April, WDs travel in upper latitudes. There is a lot of moisture incursion also. For the last two days, there has been a trough (region of low pressure) from Vidarbha to interior Tamil Nadu,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.India in March recorded a mean temperature of 24.92 degrees C ( 0.29 below normal), a maximum average of 31.08 degrees C (0.769 degree C below normal) and an average minimum temperature of 18.75 degree C ( 0.2 degree C below normal), according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusually-cool-and-wet-april-takes-weather-office-by-surprise/story-1M7hswjWupRf4sf3p1HPmL.html
28-04-2020||India||ICMR tells states not to deploy rapid kits of China firms||Six days after it decided to evaluate rapid test kits (RTKs) used to test for Covid-19 antibodies after states reported huge variations in results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked all states to which it sent the kits, sourced from China, to return them — a move that comes even as one of the companies that supplied the kits revised prices sharply down following the Delhi high court’s observation on Sunday that there appeared to be significant profiteering going on. “ICMR evaluated the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics in field conditions. The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes. In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits procured from the above mentioned companies and return them to be sent back to the suppliers,” said ICMR’s fresh advisory on rapid test kits issued on Monday.Sensitivity is the ability of the test to identify a so-called true-positive -- it gives a positive result when someone is infected. On April 16, the first batch of 5.5 lakh rapid testing kits arrived in Delhi from China, after missing two deadlines. The kits were part of ICMR’s plans and those of several states to aggressively expand testing. Of these, 300,000 were from Guangzhou Wondfo, and 250,000 from Zhuhai Livzon. They were dispatched to the states over the following few days. But with states reporting variations between 6% and 71% in sensitivity, ICMR, on April 21, asked for the kits to not be used for two days. “Since performance of these kits has been different in field settings from what the companies had submitted, these kits will be returned, and no money shall be paid. Rapid tests anyway have a limited role to play; the gold standard for identifying infection remains the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday. Meanwhile, importers of the RTKs have begun selling at revised rates after the Delhi high court capped the price of a test kit at ₹400 on Sunday. The court had observed there was heavy profiteering in the import and distribution of Covid-19 rapid testing kits with a kit costing ₹245 being sold for as high as ₹600.The court observed that 500,000 kits that were supplied to ICMR for ₹30 crore cost ₹12.25 crore. Suresh K, proprietor, Matrix Labs, an importer of the Guangzhou Wondfo rapid test kits, said: “We have started selling the kits at ₹400 plus GST per unit. Whoever places an order will be given kits at this price from now on.”ICMR’s response on overpricing was that the price approved was based on the tender quotations received.“Price range approved by ICMR is ₹740-1,150 for RT-PCR, and ₹528-795 for rapid test. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR…,” the body said in an official statement. It added that “…this was the first ever effort by any Indian agency to procure such kits and the rate quoted by the bidders was the only reference point.” ICMR spokesperson Dr Rajnikant Srivastava said: “ICMR bought kits on pre-decided rates based on the tender quotation; now ICMR can’t keep a tab on who gets it for how much and how much profit or loss the companies are making. ICMR is not in the picture here.”“These kits are not for early diagnosis as for that RT-PCR test is the gold standard; it can only be used for surveillance purposes, to periodically spot disease trends. To collect data on whether there is an old infection in a section of population or it is a recent infection; whether the spread is increasing or being successfully contained in places that are termed as hot spots, etc,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, in the briefing before deploying kits in the field. Suresh however, refused to admit that the kits have problems. “The kit is not faulty. It was made very clear from the start that these rapid kits are not meant to do confirmatory tests to detect infection. The states have got it all wrong,” he said.To be sure, researchers in the US too have found issues with first generation antibody test kits for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-tells-states-not-to-deploy-rapid-kits-of-china-firms/story-xQOrN2o5izTXovMWuIX6sI.html
28-04-2020||India||Need to focus on economy in battle against Covid: PM Modi||Suggesting that India will need to focus on a two-pronged approach — preserving public health and reviving economic activity — Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday placed particular emphasis on green zones (which include districts and regions which are free of the coronavirus disease) as the hub of future activity and a model to be aspired for.This is widely being interpreted as a sign that after May 3, the lockdown will continue in red zones — which are home to clusters of cases — while there can be further relaxations in the less affected zones. In an interaction with chief ministers on the pandemic on Monday — the fourth such meeting on the subject in just over a month — the PM emphasised the need for continued adherence to social distancing norms; spoke out against stigmatising people with the disease; told states that a high number of cases is not a matter to be ashamed about or fear, but to be dealt with through concerted action; and called for an intensive study of the situation in each district and zone to then assess the kind of activities which can be permitted without the disease spreading. In the meeting, most state chief ministers called for a continued lockdown in the red zones while easing restrictions in non-Covid districts. They also demanded a clearer protocol on the return of migrant workers, and asked the Centre for comprehensive financial support given the plummeting revenues and fragile fiscal situation in states. A participant at the meeting, directly quoting the PM, said, “He emphasised that on the one hand, we are challenged by how to save lives and on the other, we also have to equally focus on the financial aspect. Focusing on one more than the other is not possible. That’s why, the PM underlined, we have to strengthen economic activities and increase our strength to combat the virus.” To implement this formulation in practice, the PM said that each state must study the impact of the lockdown in red zones, orange zones and green zones, where a range of activities have been permitted since April 20, and carefully consider where it is possible to lift restrictions, allow private transport, permit the elderly to move, and resume more economic activity without the disease spreading. The meeting participant said, “The PM emphasised that there must be extra caution in red zones and hotspots, which are high-risk, with special teams assigned for them. The objective is to ensure that the infection does not move beyond the red zones and safe regions remain safe.” In this backdrop, the PM called the green zones sacred, and emphasised that while practising social distancing, these regions will contribute to economic activity. “The 300 districts which are safe/ green zones , I believe, should be treated as sacred, like our tirthsthans (pilgrimage sites). Our focus will be how to expand the green zone. How our life will be in the coming days will be determined by the model in the green zone, not in the orange and definitely not the red zone.” It will also help ensure, the PM said, according to the participant quoted above, that the lockdown stayed — but life continued as well. “The mantra he gave to states was to convert red zones to orange, and orange to green zones.” According to a government assessment in mid-April, 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) were identified as red zones. Additionally, there were 207 orange zones in the country, and the rest of India’s 730-odd districts were classified as green zones. A district is considered a red zone if it has large outbreaks, multiple clusters or if the infection doubling rate is less than four days. If such an area does not report any new case for 14 days, it turns into an orange zone. With no cases for another 14 days, the region is then classified as green, or Covid-free. Commenting on the balancing act between health and the economy, Suyash Rai of Carnegie India said, “India has now ramped up testing and got beds ready. But eventually, to fight Covid-19, you need revenue. Or fiscal resources will dry up this year. So economic activity has to start carefully with all precautions in place.”The PM also repeatedly invoked a phrase he first used in a meeting with gram panchayat heads — of the need to maintain do gaj doori, or a distance of two yards. He spoke, for the second time after his Mann ki Baat address on Sunday, on the indispensability of masks. The PM also said it was important not to treat those who had tested positive as criminals, while remaining vigilant. To states, he said, “I want to, with all humility, say to all the CMs that if there are a spurt of cases, then your state won’t be seen as guilty. If cases are low in your state, it won’t be seen as great. We don’t want this sentiment. We will just try to tackle it. If numbers increase in your state, don’t be scared.” Nine chief ministers spoke at the meeting — while some others gave their inputs in writing due to constraints of time. They provided an appraisal of the situation in their respective states, while making specific demands from the Centre. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said it would not be possible to bring migrants back home unless the Centre issued clear directives in this regard. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked for enhanced testing facilities, and a screening of migrant workers for the disease before they were sent home. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, in a communiqué to the Centre, asked for opening of all small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except the containment zones. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar asked the Central government to provide clarity on the schedules of various entrance examinations for medical and engineering college as well as for the armed forces, in the backdrop of the disruption in the academic calendar. He also provided details on the economic activities that have been resumed in the state. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not speak at the meeting, but a senior state government official said that the decision on the lockdown will be taken later in the week — in accordance with the guidelines laid out by the Centre. Kerala, which was represented by chief secretary Tom Jose in the meeting, has sought staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid financial package. Kerala has also asked the Centre to expedite return of 1.8 million migrants from the state, currently in West Asian countries. Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren has sought relaxation on the ban on inter-state travel so that arrangements could be made to bring back students and migrant workers stuck in other states. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma of Meghalaya said he proposed extension of lockdown. “We have mooted to continue with the lockdown post May 3rd with relaxation on activities in green zones or non-Covid affected districts in Meghalaya,” Sangma tweeted after the meeting. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said that the only Covid patient in the state was recovering slowly. “Since we are surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and neighbouring states, which also have Covid-19 patients, we can’t be complacent,” he said, adding that the state will relax the lockdown slightly after May 3 and allow some economic activity slowly. Another key issue in the intervention of states was that of finances. Five opposition ruled states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, West Bengal and a Rajasthan — have sought close to ₹2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on the state finances due to the national lockdown. This is in addition to demand of the state governments asking the Centre to pay the pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation immediately, increase the borrowing limit from 3% of the state GDP to 5%, suspend repayment of all state development loans for a period of three months and allow flexi funds under Centrally sponsored schemes for Covid management. Former chief statistician of India, Pronab Sen, said the Centre will have to strike a balance between the financial needs of the states and the central government departments. “There may be a need to re-look at the way the money is shared between the Centre and the states. The Reserve Bank of India has taken several steps to help the states but more could be needed if the lockdown continues for long. It is not time to worry about fiscal slippages and we should relax the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management norms to reduce human suffering,” he said.(With inputs from HT Correspondents)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-focus-on-economy-in-battle-against-covid-pm/story-zwPL7jySKD14nXmejffw2K.html
28-04-2020||India||Bombay HC directs BMC to reopen Bandra cemetery for burial of Covid-19 victims||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to remove locks put up by some local residents on the gates of Navpada Kokani Muslim Kabrastan at Bandra west and to make the cemetery, closed by locals who were opposed to burial of bodies of Covid-19 patients there, available for burial.Justice BP Colabawalla on Monday refused to interfere with the April 9 order of the BMC, which identified the private Muslim burial ground as one of the sites for burial of Covid-19 patients. Four local residents had filed a petition challenging the civic order.The directive came after advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, who represented the Navpada Masjid, Bandra and Santacruz Golibar Dargah Trust, which manages the private Muslim cemetery, pointed out that some local residents had put up locks on the gate of the cemetery.Nimbalkar pointed out that on April 13 some locals created a ruckus over the civic body’s order of April 9 identifying the cemetery as one of the sites for burial of Covid-19 victims, when the body of a 63-year-old Muslim who died due to Covid-19 infection, was brought for burial at the ground. Some senior police officers tried to intervene, but failed to pacify the locals and eventually the body was buried somewhere else.Nimbalkar added that the trust had taken all precautions and identified isolated and secluded spots for burial of Covid-19 patients, but despite that the locals were not allowing burial at the site and therefore urged the court to direct BMC to reopen the burial ground. Justice Colabawalla accordingly directed the civic body to reopen the cemetery and granted it liberty to take the help of the local police, if necessary.The four petitioners said that there are three interconnected Muslim cemeteries at the site and all of them are at the heart of Bandra West and are surrounded by thickly populated residential areas.The petitioners said that on March 30, BMC had decided to cremate bodies of all Covid-19 patients at the nearest crematorium, irrespective of their religion. “The decision was taken as the burial grounds in Mumbai are in densely populated localities with high chances of contamination in the residential areas nearby,” said their petition.They added that the order dated April 9 was completely contrary to the March 30 decision and therefore prayed for an order restraining the civic body from burying any Covid-19 patients at the three Muslim cemeteries.Justice Colabawalla, however, refused to interfere with the latest civic body order on burial of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-directs-bmc-to-reopen-bandra-cemetery-for-burial-of-covid-19-victims/story-fmDTyDQaWldJNvXxERL9WM.html
28-04-2020||India||Kashmir key part in Pak army book||New Delhi: Kashmir appears to be the focus of the 2020 edition of an internal publication of the Pakistan Army, with its chief Gen Qamar Bajwa describing last year’s Balakot air strike and the nullification of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status as events that impacted regional geo-politics.A majority of articles in the latest edition of the publication by army officers, former diplomats, academics and journalists reference the Kashmir issue, and offer suggestions ranging from creating a Kashmir Fund to support people in the Indian Union territory, and adopting information and cyber warfare by establishing communications links inside the Kashmir Valley.The Green Book 2020, a biennial publication of the Pakistan Army with essays by both serving and retired officers that reflect the military’s overall strategy and objectives, also has a message by Bajwa that describes Kashmir as a “nuclear flashpoint”.In his message in Green Book 2020, posted on the website of Pakistan's National Defence University (NDU), Bajwa says the environment in South Asia continues to be complex, with the lines getting blurred between different types of warfare.“Year 2019 witnessed two significant events which will have lasting imprint on the geopolitics of this region; first, the unwarranted Balakot Strike by Indian Air Force on 26th February and second, the unilateral annexation of Indian Occupied Jammu & Kashmir by [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi on 5th August, through abrogation of Article 370 and 35A,” Bajwa wrote in the message issued as patron-in-chief of the publication.“Former was a coercive attempt to carve out space for war under nuclear overhang and enforce compellence; adroitly denied by Pakistan Air Force the very next day, through a calibrated and proportionate response – Indian craving for establishing a New Normal was stymied comprehensively. The latter, despite condemnation by the world at large, continues to haunt the lives of over eight million Muslims of [Kashmir]…,” he added.“Kashmir is a nuclear flashpoint and in total disregard to international norms, Mr Modi has not only endangered the immediate neighbourhood, but has also raised the ante for the entire World. The scholarly discourse in current edition of Pakistan Army Green Book has accordingly spotlighted the implications of these events from diverse perspectives and dimensions,” Bajwa further wrote.Some recent editions of the Green Book had focused on the internal threat posed by terrorist groups but this year’s edition marks a return to the traditional focus on India as Pakistan’s greatest threat. Several articles in the Green Book dwell at length on the Pulwama terror attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in February last year that triggered a fresh stand-off between India and Pakistan, the Indian Air Force strike on a JeM facility at Balakot and the retaliatory action by the Pakistan Air Force.The articles make references to other events such as the 1999 Kargil conflict and the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, which led to face-offs between the two countries, but make no mention of the role of Pakistan-based elements in triggering these events.Lt Gen (retired) Raza Muhammad Khan, a former Corps Commander and former president of NDU, in his article “The prospects and panacea of peace in South Asia”, recommended the creation of a “domestic and international Kashmir Fund”, saying it could crowd sourced and the Pakistan government “should provide tax incentives for donations”.The federal government, in the absence of resources, “must encourage the provinces to allocate at least one percent of their NFC [National Finance Corporation] shares and earnings” and the Kashmir Fund should be controlled by the prime minister to prevent human rights violations in Kashmir, “informing the Indian masses and liberal intellectuals about the colossal cost…of enslaving nine million Kashmiris…and exposing the lies of the Indian government,” Khan wrote.Khan also recommends that Pakistan must make any dialogue with India “conditional with the reversal of all illegal measures taken by it in August, and inclusion of third party, preferably UN mediators in the process”.Journalist Farzana Shah, who focuses on defence issues, wrote in her article “National security & emerging geopolitical scenario: Post Article 370 obliteration”, that Pakistan should adopt an out of the box solution by taking “the war into non-kinetic domains” such as information and cyber warfare and electronic warfare.Pakistan’s establishment “must provide support to diplomatic efforts being done by government through operations in these two domains with focused goal of extracting authentic information from stakeholders in [Kashmir], most importantly from general public…Once information [is] gathered, FO [Foreign Office] must disseminate it with proper narrative of the state of Pakistan,” she wrote.“A single video clip or picture can change the perception of India, which it has built so painstakingly over the years. Pakistan needs to keep world attention on [Kashmir] and in order to do that communication links inside the [Kashmir] valley must be established…Pakistan’s response in these two domains will be purely non-kinetic, denying any involvement of arms. If executed properly and a local uprising occurs inside [Kashmir], it will make it extremely difficult for India to keep selling the terrorism card….”“Only a native uprising will be just and politically defendable for Pakistan on international forums. Even such an uprising will need support in the information domain,” she added.Lawmaker Mushahid Hussain, chairman of the parliamentary committee on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), wrote that Pakistan needs to pursue a multi-pronged strategy with regard to India and Kashmir with the “kind of clarity and commitment that Pakistani policy-makers demonstrated while building the Nuclear Bomb”.“Such a strategy should target Modi and his RSS Gang, and separate them from the broader Indian society and polity that opposes Modi, along with a united front of all Kashmiris and the linkup of the Kashmiri resistance with other insurgencies inside India,” he added.Former foreign secretary Shamshad Ahmad Khan, in his article “India-Pakistan relations in perspective”, wrote that “India’s continued ascendancy in Afghanistan will remain a danger of no less gravity to the already volatile security environment of this nuclearised region” than the Soviet presence in Cuba in the early 1960s.“Our main concern has always been to offset India’s superior conventional strength. The only credible response has to be a counter force which in the dreary India-Pakistan scenario could only be tactical warheads,” he added.The former diplomat wrote that US President Donald Trump’s offer during Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Washington in July 2019 to play a “facilitating role in resolving the Kashmir issue” was the “best-ever position taken by an American president in recent history on India-Pakistan issues”.While continuing to support the Kashmiris’ “freedom movement”, Pakistan should resume the composite dialogue with India to build trust and develop mutually beneficial cooperation, he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-key-part-in-pak-army-book/story-xoq9WkGXhod4lZCASflKZO.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was nearing three million and that in the US, a million when this article was being written — and will likely be over those numbers when it is read.In India, the number of cases was 29,422 on Monday night, according to Hindustan Times’ tracker, with 933 deaths. The number of cases added between Sunday night and Monday night was 1,573.On Sunday, India added 1,611 cases for a total of 27,849; on Saturday, it added 1,834; and on Friday, it did 1,408. There’s not much of a pattern to be seen in those numbers — beyond the obvious fact that the growth is definitely not exponential like it was in Wuhan in China, Italy, the US (especially New York), the UK, Spain, and France.By Sunday night, the number of tests carried out in India was 665,819. That’s 512 people per million — still low, but higher than what it was in mid-April. It was only 233 per million population on April 16. Indeed, more than half (54%) of all tests in India have happened in the 11 days from April 16 to April 26, and more than a third (35%) in the week between April 20 and April 27.The death toll around the world has crossed 200,000 but there’s a growing opinion that the actual number could be higher.It’s easy to calculate the numbers if the data is available. Reported Covid-19 death tolls across nations are known; and the average number of people who died in a particular month (or even week) on average over the past five years is also known. The difference, if it is significant, is clearly a spike that can only be explained by Covid-19 — unless there is another mystery illness stalking people (there isn’t) or a sharp increase in deaths from accidents and murders (there isn’t).Late last week, The New York Times estimated that deaths were underreported by around 36,000 in 12 countries. On Sunday, the Financial Times reported that in 14 countries it studied, the deaths were underreported by around 60%, or 45,000. That doesn’t seem to be the case in India — a fact pointed out by Hindustan Times’ Mumbai bureau on April 14 using data for Mumbai, the city worst affected by Covid-19 in the country. According to that report, in March, Mumbai saw 5,669 non-Covid deaths, down from 7,155 deaths reported in March 2019 and 7,436 in March 2018. The story quoted the additional municipal commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation as saying that in general people are following better hygiene practices, taking care of themselves, and eating healthier. More importantly, with most vehicles and all suburban trains not running, there were almost no deaths from road and rail accidents.It isn’t just Mumbai, even in Delhi, deaths from murders and accidents are down, according to a report by Hindustan Times’ Delhi bureau on April 19. In the entire first phase of the lockdown (and the two days preceding it — March 23-April 14) only nine people died in road accidents in Delhi; on average, four people die every day because of road accidents in the city.If this trend holds up across cities and states, it will be another way in which the pattern of Covid-19 in India is different from that in many other parts of the world. Here’s hoping it stays that way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-TZnyJzJHqPw1QE6vZrObSJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Some foreign nationals who came to adopt kids stranded||New Delhi: For Georgia residents Whitney and Mike Saville, their trip to India in March was a realisation of a long-time dream of adopting a child. They came to India on March 6, after a two year wait. The paperwork for a passport and a US visa for their adopted daughter was pending when India announced a three-week lockdown starting March 25. The Savilles were stuck in India. The couple’s three sons, all between the ages of 4 and 7, were back home in Atlanta. Mike tried to fly back while Whitney stayed in India but the plan, early in the lockdown, went nowhere. The couple then made a video, asking for help. “We are grateful that we have Grace (the name they have given their daughter) in our care now. We are grateful we came, we just wish the circumstances were a little bite different,” Whitney said in the video. The Savilles weren’t alone. Foreign nationals who came to India to adopt children from countries such as the US, Italy and Malta were stranded.Col (retd) Deepak Kumar of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) said that in April alone, the agency they helped four such couples. According to Kumar, foreign nationals usually come to India after a court order on the adoption has been pronounced. After this, the passport of the child is processed, and CARA sends a confirmation to aid the process. Finally, for an exit visa, the local Foreigners Regional Registration Office needs to issue a permit. In many cases, he said, the paperwork for the passport and the FRRO certificate were pending. As passports need biometrics, processing new ones has been a challenge, he added. “In all the cases we processed in April, we wrote to the FRRO after we got requests from foreign embassies. The FRRO processed these requests in less than a day, and in one case, in less than an hour,” Kumar saidIn the case of the Savilles, Georgia Senator David Perdue worked with the US state department and the American Embassy in New Delhi to process their safe return. They finally returned on a special flights that the American government had arranged for US nationals who were stuck in India. Kumar said that while there is no estimate of how many prospective parents came to India from abroad, in a typical year, CARA processes over 500 inter-country adoptions. “On an average we process about 40 cases involving foreign nationals. In half of these cases, the prospective parents are of Indian origin or non-resident Indians with extended family here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-foreign-nationals-who-came-to-adopt-kids-stranded/story-JGjxax6wtLQwA7ytsmSXAJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra likely to touch 10,000 mark by April 30; state count climbs to 8,590||Going by the rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is likely to touch the 10,000 mark by Thursday (April 30). The case count has already breached the 8000 mark and on Monday it mounted to 8,590 after 522 new cases were registered.On an average, the state is getting almost 500 new cases on a daily basis since April 19. In the last nine days (since April 19), it has recorded 4,946 new cases, which indicates that there has been a steady rise in the total number, officials said. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1000 cases on April 7, but going by the average number of fresh cases it is likely to reach the 10,000 mark in only 23 days. It crossed the 2,000 mark in six days on April 13. From 2000 to 4000 cases it took six days on April 19 and from 4000 to 6000 cases it took only four days (April 23).The trend shows that Monday was also the 24th consecutive day when the number of new cases in the state was in three digits. This is the reason most of the cases - 8292 – have been registered in April alone.On Monday, the state also completed 35 days of lockdown that was imposed on midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there are no cases or cases are minimal in number.In Mumbai, the case count went up to 5,776 as 369 new cases registered in a day.However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts. “We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced following detection of positive Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “It is true that we were expecting a decline in cases from April 21 which is not happening but the rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching any conclusion,” Dr Lahane said.The two 14-day cycles of incubation period of infection was completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22 when international traffic was stopped. So far, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them 1,12,552 people tested negative. The death toll in the state also touched 369 as 27 deaths were registered on Monday. Of them, 15 are in Mumbai, six in Amravati, four in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad. With this, the death toll in Mumbai also increased to 219.Of the 27 deaths, 22 patients had co-morbidity conditions. Of them, one was affected with HIV and another was suffering with cancer, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24% (342 deaths till Sunday) from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continues to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13% till Sunday, states the data of the state medical education department.As Covid-19 cases are rising, the number of patients who have recovered so far also jumped to 1,282 as 94 positive patients recovered on Monday.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals where 1,76,357 isolated beds and 7,248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories between asymptotic, mild and serious cases. We have around 3000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N95 masks,” he said..Maharashtra, currently, has 572 active containment zones. Around 7,861 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 32.28 lakh people for the coronavirus infection. It has also kept 9399 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities while 1,45,677 are home quarantined, state health officials said.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday appointed four IAS officers - Anil Kawade, cooperation commissioner, Saurabh Rao, sugar commissioner, Sachindra Pratap Singh, animal husbandry commissioner and Kaustubh Diwegaonkar, director, Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA), who will help in planning preventive measures and their implementation to contain the coronavirus cases in Pune, where 1027 cases have been registered so far.The state government has also allocated a sum of Rs 1275.25 crore to distribute among the poor, weak, deprived, widows and handicapped section of society who are beneficiaries under many government welfare schemes. The beneficiaries will get advance pay of three months considering lockdown restrictions which led to loss of income. Rs 130 crore has been received from the Centre whereas the rest of the amount will be paid from the state exchequer, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-likely-to-touch-10-000-mark-by-april-30-state-count-climbs-to-8-590/story-5DDhjpSyS1gYcvECPWUAwL.html
28-04-2020||India||For effective Covid-19 messaging, I&B secy looks at local languages||To ensure that the message of social distancing and the need to protect everyone from the coronavirus disease reaches each Indian in his or her own dialect and language will be the immediate priority of the information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry, I&B secretary Amit Khare said on Monday. The senior Indian Administrative Service officer took charge of the post at a time when the government is focusing increasingly on getting its communication strategy right in the midst of the pandemic before the 40-day lockdown to stop the spread of the disease ends on May 3. “Our strategy is that the communication should reach the last person in their own local dialect and language,” Khare told HT in a phone conversation after taking charge.This is the second time that the 1985 batch IAS officer of the Jharkhand cadre would be working as secretary in the I&B ministry. He held the position before being made secretary (school education) in the ministry of human resource development (HRD) in October 2019. Khare is also holding charge as secretary (higher education) in the HRD ministry.The veteran civil servant returns to the I&B ministry, which decides the Union government’s communication outreach, at a time the government is trying to increase public awareness of Covid-19, and explain the need for the people to strictly follow lockdown measures it has put in place to curb the spread of the disease.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been at the forefront of this information outreach, addressing the nation on television and holding interactions to communicate the government’s perspective on the situation. On Sunday, in his Mann Ki Baat radio address, Modi again focused on the coronavirus and warned against any sense complacence in the battle against the pandemic.With the government focusing on Covid-19 hotspots and devising different strategies for different districts depending on the extent of the spread of the virus, the I&B ministry is seeking to tailor its communication strategy to local needs and address the people in the dialect and language they understand best -- a challenge given India’s diversity.Another challenge the ministry faces is misinformation about the coronavirus disease being spread on social media.The traditional media -- newspapers and broadcasters-- have, meanwhile, been hit by the adverse impact of the virus in the form of a drop in advertising and circulation.“Print, digital and electronic media are playing an important role in the battle against the pandemic Covid-19. They are also facing challenges, both in terms of outreach and in terms of their business model. We will try to resolve these issues,” Khare said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-effective-covid-19-messaging-i-b-secy-looks-at-local-languages/story-R0MlvbVYyqxWI1JeVZUlCJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Opposition-ruled states fear financial emergency amid Covid-19 lockdown||Finance ministers of opposition- ruled states and senior leaders of opposition parties said on Monday that they feared the country was moving towards a financial emergency amid the coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) and accused the Centre of failing to address their mounting troubles.The opposition figures were participating in a webinar hosted by the Thiruvananthapuram-based Gulati Institute for Finance and Taxation (GIFT) Participants in the webinar demanded that the Centre take an immediate loan from the Reserve Bank of India and transfer the money to the states to help them tide over the coronavirus crisis. If the situation is allowed to worsen and people begin to suspect that the country is headed for a financial emergency, they can’t be blamed, the participants said. With their revenues falling by up to 80% during the Covid-19 lockdown that came into effect on March 25, several states have informed the Centre that they are almost broke and can’t even afford to pay salaries unless they borrow heavily and receive interim compensation from the Centre, Hindustan Times reported on Monday.“There is an undeclared emergency in the country. The country is going through a difficult situation and the economy is in the doldrums. We don’t want mere slogans now. The Centre is yet to come up with a concrete plan to revive the economy,” said senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh.Participants in the webinar urged all states to come together and fight what they called “unilateral decisions” being taken by the central government. Despite a dire situation, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is yet to call a meeting of state finance ministers at a time when the states are confronting a a major fiscal crisis, they said. Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac, who took the initiative in arranging the webinar, accused the Centre of discriminating against the states even in the midst of the pandemic. As an example, he cited the fact that company contributions to the newly launched PM-CARES fund were counted as corporate social responsibility spending, but not donations made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in the states. “We have been asking for the state FMs’ meeting for quite some time. But it is yet to take place. We have been hearing only monologues. We don’t need mere self-praise or kudos. We need ...money to tide over the crisis,” said Issac.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, former Jammu and Kashmir finance minister Haseeb Drabu, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, and Communist Party of India secretary D Raja attended the webinar.“Delhi is in dire straits. If the situation continues like this, even the health sector will also be affected. Being a consumerist state, we are suffering heavily due to loss of economic activities. We need immediate help,” said Sisodia. Badal said Rs 1,000 crore was due to be paid to by the Centre as its share of the Goods and Services Tax , but the Centre was not willing to part with the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-ruled-states-fear-financial-emergency-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Vi40jk1Y99AB6O0Hm0ucpJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Have asked govt to allow economic activity in the pandemic-free areas: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||NEW DELHI: Uttarakhand has not lost any lives so far to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state is taking measures to ensure that the rural areas are insulated from the pandemic. In an email interview to Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the state has sought the Centre’s permission to gradually scale up economic activity.Edited excerpts:Apart from suggesting an increase in the number of days under MNREGA, what other suggestions did you put forth at the meeting with the Prime Minister today? The country today finds itself in a very secure position, thanks to the historic and the timely decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He is considered as a parent or a guardian and he’s taking along the whole country.At the video conference with the Prime Minister [on Monday], I suggested that the duration of work days under MNREGA should be increased from 100 days to 250 days as this will provide immense relief to people in the rural areas. Some relaxations have already been offered post April 20. We have also requested that it should be considered which other sectors can resume economic activity after following the necessary medical protocol. And we believe we must follow Prime Minister Modi’s Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi mantra. There is a need to maintain strict vigil in the sensitive areas and at the same time there is a need to increase economic activity in those areas that are free from the pandemic and are not in the hot spots.How is Uttarakhand preparing for relaxation after the lockdown? Are there any specific areas where you want activity to resume? We are ready for any situation. After May 3, when the lockdown is relaxed, whatever guidelines are issued by the Centre will be followed by us and complied with. There are many people who want the lockdown to be further extended. However, we also feel that economic activity in the rural areas and in those hilly areas of the state that are free from the pandemic should gradually be scaled up.We have requested the Central government to allow us to do this. In several sectors, such as pharma, food processing and agriculture related sectors we have begun to allow activity, but this is being done after following the guidelines issued by the Centre.The economy of Uttarakhand is heavily dependent on tourism, how will the state cope with the loss caused by the pandemic? Uttarakhand is a major tourist destination and it also gets a lot of traffic from religious tourism; but because of the global pandemic these sectors have come to a complete standstill. However, for us, the country and humanity are more important.On the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya we open the gates of Gangotri and Yamunotri, but ensured physical distancing protocols and made the wearing of masks mandatory. People in Uttarakhand have a steely resolve. We suffered nature’s fury in 2013 [when the state suffered devastating flash floods], yet we were able to restart the Char Dham yatra and organise it the way it was held before the floods.We are very confident that we will be able to defeat this pandemic and Uttarakhand will again emerge as a tourist destination.What are your expectations from the Centre for bringing the state back on track after the pandemic? Are there any specific demands that you have made? Right now our full focus is on defeating the corona pandemic. Everyone across the world is fighting to contain this virus from spreading. And it is our good fortune that our Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading from the front and has emerged as a strong leader who took the right decision at the right time. He has been consulting and speaking to chief ministers on a regular basis; he is aware of all the ground realities and we are confident that when the time is right, not only Uttarakhand, but all other states will get whatever is needed to help revive the economy. But I want to say this is not the time for such things, our focus has to be only on fighting the coronavirus pandemic. There is a concern among environmentalists on the proposal to use some portions of the Rajaji National Park for the upcoming Mahakumbh. Will this decision be revisited? Environment protection is a key part of our life in Uttarakhand. We are aware and sensitised about the need for environmental protection. What we have suggested is to seek permission for parking during the MahaKumbh in a part of the Rajaji National Park where the river has dried up and there are no trees. And this is not going to adversely affect the environment in any way.The state has over 50 cases so far and no deaths. What is being done to ensure that the numbers do not go up?So far we have had 51 people testing positive for Covid-19. More than half of these cases have been discharged from hospital and are back home. Nine other districts are free from the pandemic and we have been largely successful in controlling the spread of virus in the state. To ensure there is no slip up, we are taking the help of the ordinary people. So far we have got the support of people in helping curb the spread of the virus as everyone has been conscientious in adhering to the protocol of the lockdown, whether it’s maintaining physical distance or what is known as do gaz doori, bohot zaroori. We have taken special care to ensure that the virus does not spread to the rural areas.We have been very strict in ensuring that intra district movement is allowed. Our doctors deserve appreciation for the fact that so far the state does not have a single death from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-asked-govt-to-allow-economic-activity-in-the-pandemic-free-areas-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-Z6nA6L6AJUkzMbbmNuLL9H.html
28-04-2020||India||Rahul alleges scam in supply of rapid kits, urges PM to take action||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged a scam in the supply of rapid Covid-19 testing kits to the government, saying it was beyond belief that some people were indulging in profiteering from the immeasurable suffering of millions. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate action to bring “the corrupt to justice.“That any human being would try and profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers and sisters is beyond belief and comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM [Prime Minister] to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” Gandhi tweeted.“When the entire country is fighting against the Covid-19 disaster, some people are still profiteering. Shame and disgust at this corrupt mentality. One detests and feels ashamed of such a corrupt mindset. The country will never pardon them. We demand from the Prime Minister strict action against these profiteers,” he said in another tweet in Hindi.The Congress separately cited media reports about the kits being sold at around 150% profits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and asked the Prime Minister to fix the responsibility for it.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said it was “shameful and inhuman” that people were supplying test kits bought for Rs 225 each at Rs 600 each to the state exchequer.“Corruption in Corona Testing Kits OR Profiteering by duping the Exchequer. Import Price of 1 Testing Kit= Rs 225! Purchase Price of Testing Kit= Rs 600! Profit Margin = 166.66 pc! Shameful and Inhuman! Will PM fix responsibility,” he tweeted.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Aman Sinha said the government has announced that strict action will be taken against those found profiteering under the Disaster Management Act. He called Gandhi’s comments self- contradictory. “On April 14, in a tweet he [Rahul Gandhi] had alleged that the government is delaying the purchase of the kits. Now when the kits were brought, he is making misleading statements.” Congress leader Ahmed Patel too demanded a clarification from the government. “The recent Delhi HC [high court] judgement has raised a pertinent question - Why was ICMR purchasing antibody test kits for Rs 600 per piece, which was imported for Rs 245?” he asked on Twitter.The high court last week fixed the price of the antibody test kits at Rs 400 each as against Rs 600 approved by the ICMR. The ruling came on a plea by two companies, which had entered into an agreement for distribution of the kits in India. The two companies approached the court after the importer sought full payment for the kits before delivering them, according to details submitted in the court.In a fact sheet on the issue, the government said it had conducted a tender process to procure the kits and the evaluation committee received four bids of Rs 1,204, Rs 1,200, Rs 844 and Rs 600. Accordingly, bid offer of Rs 600 was considered as it was the lowest.Later, addressing reporters through video-conferencing, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari demanded that the government should make public details of all purchases made in the last one month to fight Covid-19.He said the government should put an immediate end to the huge profiteering in the procurement of equipment.“What is happening? There seems to be an absolute anarchy in the procurement of equipment for fighting Covid-19. We would like to demand from the government to make public all details made with regard to procuring equipment for testing, PPEs [personal protection equipment], and ventilators. All those transactions must be transparently placed in the public domain,” added Tewari.Referring to a company engaged in the supply of testing kits acquired from China, he alleged that kits purchased at Rs 245 each were being sold by the same company to ICMR at Rs 600 each while the same to Tamil Nadu government were sold at Rs 400 each.“The price of one testing kit was Rs 245, thus 5 lakh kits amount to Rs 12.25 crore. However, the firm sold the kits to another company at Rs 21 crore and the ICMR procured these kits at Rs 30 crore, which is a profit margin of more than 100%,” Tewari said.The Congress leader said the matter came to light in a petition before the Delhi high court by a company supplying such equipment.“This is an extremely serious matter which hurts the fight of India against Covid-19. Our country’s resources are scarce and we have to optimise them and not allow companies to make arbitrage of over 60% in these transactions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-alleges-scam-in-supply-of-rapid-kits-urges-pm-to-take-action/story-9QjfZMfoqxZlppboyZXsJN.html
28-04-2020||India||Mild-symptom patients can be isolated at home: Govt||Covid-19 patients who are pre-symptomatic or show mild symptoms can be isolated at home as long as they have enough space to avoid contact with other residents, according to a new Union health ministry guidelines issued on Monday. Whether a person can is fit for home isolation will be decided by the treating doctor and surveillance officer. According to existing guidelines, all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Once examined by a doctor, a patient is categorised as very mild or mild, moderate or severe, and accordingly admitted to a Covid care centre, a dedicated Covid health center or a dedicated covid hospital respectively. A Covid care centre, for mild or asymptomatic patients, is not a hospital but a facility created in hotels, hostels, lodges and, in some areas, even make-shift structures.“Since in about 80% of the cases, symptoms are mild, these people can stay in their own house. However, there are detailed do’s and don’ts that these people would need to follow to be allowed to stay at home, which includes being close to a hospital in case symptoms worsen and they need medical care,” said a senior health ministry official, asking not to be named.“These people will be constantly be under observation of a district surveillance officer among other things,” the official added.The caregiver of the patient, and close family contacts, will also have to take the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic as per protocol and be strictly under the supervision of a medical officer.The Aarogya Setu mobile application, which monitors the location of a person, must be installed on the patient’s phone and the device should be kept active at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-symptom-patients-can-be-isolated-at-home-govt/story-ZsazJ7ruS976ubZ8xvGveK.html
28-04-2020||India||Need for refined rapid kits, better staff training for accurate results||Inaccuracy in results from China-made rapid kits led India to suspend antibody testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week. On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research asked for states to return the kits, citing problems with them highlighted in its own assessment. Rapid tests do not assess current infection but are used to detect antibodies produced by the body to detect and neutralise Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Unlike reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests that detect shards of the viral genetic material (RNA) to confirm current infection, antibody tests indicate past infection that may have been missed because it was mild or asymptomatic. Antibody tests are a crucial public health tool for surveillance, epidemic forecasting, and prevalence.They can also (at least on paper) detect infections after around 10 days of a person being infected, although experts strongly recommend against their use for diagnosis. “India so far uses basic lateral flow immunoassay (LFA) for antibody testing, which give yes and no results if the testing is done seven to 10 days after symptoms appearing. We don’t have data on how long Indians take to produce antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 ,” said Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, director, Indian Institute of Liver and Biliary and Sciences, and the Chair of Delhi government’s five-member panel on coronavirus disease.The development of immunity to an invading virus is a multi-step process that takes place over one to two weeks. The body responds to a viral infection immediately with a non-specific innate response in which macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells slow infection, and this non-specific response is followed by an adaptive response, where the body makes immunoglobulin M (IgM) and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies that specifically bind to the virus to neutralise it.The first wave of antibodies that fight infection are IgM, which are detectable around eight days after symptoms appear and indicate recent infection, and IgG bodies appear around three weeks after infection, indicating the person was infected and has since, recovered.“We need kits that test for both IgM and IgG, so that both results can be combined . Detection rate is highest when IgM and IgG results are combined, but few vendors are making kits with strips for both types of antibodies,” said Dr Sarin, whose team was among the first to begin antibody testing at ILBS. The technology behind antibody tests requires knowledge of viral protein against which the human immune system produces antibodies that flag or kill the virus. To make the kits, sections of the viral protein coat that triggers an immune reaction are produced in the lab using cell lines for inclusion in the serological test to detect antibodies. First-generation antibody tests need to be refined and need at least six months to get the correct sensitivity and specificity to rule out false positives and false negatives. “Quality serological tests take around six months to be developed with ample data and validation. There’s a flood of tests with unproven quality, which cannot be depended on for diagnosis,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation.Test sensitivity indicates the capacity to correctly diagnose those with the disease (true positive rate), while specificity indicates correctly identifying those without the disease (true negative rate). Studies show that positivity rises with time after symptoms appear, with rates of positive results rising after two weeks and peaking after 20 days of illness.Training people when to do the antibody tests and how to read the results is critical for reliable diagnosis. “For accurate results, antibody tests must be done eight-10 days after the symptoms appear, and must be interpreted by highly-trained staff, with results with weak bands being reviewed by at least two to three trained people,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“International studies show IgM and IgG antibodies sometimes takes two to three weeks, which makes the IgM test less reliable than IgG test. Both should be combined for interpretation. The persons reading it should be well trained since a weak band needs to be interpreted correctly,” added Dr Ganguly. Quality assessment done at ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research in Delhi before the antibody kits manufactured by Guangzhou Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon in China were sent to states found the efficacy, or capacity for correct diagnosis, to be 71% , against the declared sensitivity of 80% and specificity 84%. “This is a first-generation test developed in just three-and-a-half months and needs refinement, the variations cannot be ignored,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.“Indian scientists have the capacity to develop these tests, so the focus should now be on domestic development and manufacturing of serological assays and training people when to do tests and how to read results. They have good enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) and chemiluminescence-linked immunoassay (Clia) being used in the US; there’s nothing holding us back from making them,” said Dr Ganguly. Interestingly, even in the US, the reliability of antibody tests have come under question. A test performance evaluation of 10 LFAs and two Elisa tests to detect Sars-CoV-2 antibodies showed heterogeneous assay performance, according to a yet to be peer-reviewed paper from multiple departments at University of California and Harvard Medical School, Boston. IgM detection was more variable than IgG, and detection was highest when IgM and IgG results were combined, with agreement between Elisas and LFAs results ranging from 75.8-94.8%, found researchers.“There is no “gold standard” to identify true seropositive blood samples. The extent and time-course of antibody development are not fully understood as yet, and may vary between different populations, even among RT-PCR-confirmed cases... Our study also reinforces the need for assay validation using standardised sample sets,” researchers noted in the evaluation paper.There is also an urgent need for good data from India. “Testing at the right time is critical but we still don’t have data on when antibodies appear in response to Sars-CoV-2. We assume its two weeks. It varies widely with infections -- IgM are detectable after 5-7 days in dengue, and 12 days for chicken pox. Until we have highly accurate tests, it’s better to err on the side of caution, as a false positive would mean a person who is not protected will believe he is. Serological tests are not meant for diagnosis,” said Dr Naveen Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dangs Lab. To increase specificity, serological tests must select sections of the spike protein that are particularly distinct across coronaviruses, according to The Lancet. “For accuracy, you need both sensitivity and specificity. Lowering specificity increases the odds of cross-reactivity with other coronaviruses – there are seven that cause disease in humans -- so you may have false positives resulting from immunity to the four coronaviruses that cause mild cold-like symptoms,” said Dr Dang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-for-refined-rapid-kits-better-staff-training-for-accurate-results/story-NETaytwNRBfOCKS7Kwc8dN.html
28-04-2020||India||Ahmedabad records second highest Covid-19 deaths in country||Ahmedabad, is second on two Covid-19 death counts --- the most people who have died because of the coronavirus disease after Mumbai and highest death rate after Pune.State health department officials are attributing the higher number of deaths to dominance of L-type of Covid-19 strain, which was found in Wuhan in China, from where the world’s first Covid cases were reported in December 2019.A scientist at the State-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), said the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing conducted by it was found to contain the L-type strain.“The coronavirus sample we collected from a patient for genome sequence contained the L-type strain. This strain has a much higher virulence as compared to the S-strain,” CG Joshi, director of GBRC. “The L-type strain has been dominant where more mortality is reported among coronavirus patients. This strain was found to be more prevalent in Wuhan.” Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) said “scientists and medical experts are carrying out more research on this issue.” Till Monday evening, Gujarat reported 3548 Covid-19 positive cases and 162 deaths, of which 109 are from Ahmedabad alone. In Ahmedabad, from April 21 to April 27, there was a rise of 89.79% in the total Covid-19 positive cases. In the same period, the number of deaths in the city increased by 186.84%. The mortality rate in Ahmedabad is 4.8%, second highest after Pune and at par with that in another Covid hotspot, Indore in Madhya Pradesh.Ravi said 89% of the total COVID-19 cases are from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, even though 30 of the 33 districts are affected. “Ahmedabad accounts for 65%, Surat accounts for 16% and 8% are from Vadodara. The remaining 27 districts account for 11% of the total positive cases. Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka remain unaffected.” An official of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation(AMC) said the city has adopted the so-called EPIC approach -- enhanced testing, intensive surveillance, proactive detection and corona checkposts.“As a corollary to this approach, it was all but natural that reported cases would go up as we proactively discover more. But at the same time, utility of this strategy must be appreciated in that it helps us in locating the cases before they do large scale damage through community spread. Just to give a perspective, we have done 3,250 plus tests per million so far which is more than double what the next highest figure in city like Delhi has done at around 1500 per million,” said Vijay Nehra, commissioner, AMC.Director General of Police (DGP), Shivanand Jha, said that with the number of Covid cases increasing in Ahmedabad , a near-total curfew has been imposed in hotspots. “It is necessary for the citizens to cooperate with the police and maintain social distance. Citizens can go out every two or three days to buy essential items but not every day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-records-second-highest-deaths-in-country/story-H5hbOFdjOcEAzClZdXVeNP.html
28-04-2020||India||Recovered Covid-19 patients not carriers: Govt||Patients who recover from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) do not transmit the infection, the health ministry clarified on Monday, appealing to the people to stop discriminating against those who have fought off the disease as health-care workers engaged in treating active cases.“The recovered people do not infect others; in fact, they can be a potential source for healing..,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry.The official cited the fact the antibody-rich blood plasma of recovered patients was being used in experimental plasma therapy which, if it proves to be successful, can be used to treat more people ill with Covid-19. “Sometimes lack of awareness or proper understanding can result in people experiencing fear or panic against Covid-19 patients, or frontline healthcare workers, and we start stigmatizing them. We discriminate against them; however, we must understand we have to fight the infection, not the infected or those working to protect us from getting infected,” said Agarwal.Many people with Covid-19- like symptoms are not coming forward to access treatment because of the stigma attached to the highly infectious disease, according to doctors, while there have been reports of health-care workers being abused and shunned because they are engaged in treating patients of the disease. Some people with flu-like symptoms are reporting to hospital when they reach a stage where they are actually gasping for breath, Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, had earlier said.“It is unfortunate that instead of sympathizing with these patients, we have created an environment of panic and stigma...This is a worrisome trend as it would affect the mortality rate in the long run,” Dr Guleria said..“In the initial stages of the disease we can save lives by merely providing oxygen support; there is no need for intensive care in at least 95% of the Covid-19 cases,” he added.Agarwal said such an attitude does not only harm the patients, but their family and even society at large.“What is required is that we stand by these patients, and provide them adequate support. We should not fall prey to misinformation and panic. We cannot label a community or an area for spread of Covid-19. We must not target patients, healthcare or sanitary workers or police as they are working tirelessly for us. This deep-rooted issue of stigma needs to be addressed with intensive awareness campaigns,” he said.On the high case-load in Maharashtra, the Indian state worst hit by the pandemic, Agarwal said it was {partly} because of the population density in the state. “If you look at Mumbai or Pune from where more cases are being reported, these are all densely populated areas; and we are trying our best to implement our containment strategy both in clusters and hot spots by making use of sufficient manpower for door-to-door-survey,” he said.As of now, 6,184 people have been cured in India, making for a recovery rate of 22.17%. At least 16 districts that had cases of Covid-19 have not reported any new cases in the past 28 days. Three new districts that have been added to the list are Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovered-patients-not-carriers-govt/story-XXiIJYuhPllV8lArNNUpBK.html
28-04-2020||India||As UGC looks to end session, multiple options on its table||Conducting viva exams on webcam, giving more weightage to online modules completed by students and holding internet-based tests are some of the suggestions before the University Grants Commission (UGC), which is deliberating how to navigate the disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and stick to an academic calendar.UGC, the higher education regulator, held a video conference on Monday and discussed holding exams in the time of social distancing. The commission, according to people aware of the developments, is of the view that a single option would not be enough for colleges and universities across the country.“...members gave different suggestions. The commission has felt the views of more stakeholders can be taken into account....the UGC chairman (DP Singh) has been authorised to issue the guidelines to varsities,” said a member who did not want to be named.Fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.Universities in green zones (districts with no Covid-19 cases) may be allowed to hold pen-and-paper exams, though they will have top strictly follow social-distancing norms, according to a members. Others in affected areas may be asked to conduct exams online or even assess students based on their assignments already submitted to the institutes.There is also a view that viva exams can be conducted through Skype for MPhil or PhD students. Another suggestion is asking varsities to develop mobile apps.“The next academic year can start from June or July in some universities, and in August and September in others depending on the situation. It is largely felt that the academic year would end in July 2021,” said a second commission member who too spoke on the condition of anonymity.The commission is also deliberating two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“We cannot choose one-size-fits all approach. So we are going to allow freedom to universities,” said the second UGC member.“We are aware that large number of students may have difficulty in taking digital exams. Others may be at a disadvantage if another random criterion is adopted. The universities will have the freedom to take the call, these guidelines will not be binding,” this official said.Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas with poor internet access or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.Asked if a grievance mechanism would be created for those who face difficulties, the second member said UGC already has a grievance mechanism system, but a concerned university can also be directed to take suitable action if complaints are too many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-ugc-looks-to-end-session-multiple-options-on-its-table/story-9tZY6rGAr62nhNrT9lRf3J.html
28-04-2020||India||CMs call for extension of curbs in Covid-19 hotspot districts||Most state governments recommended an extension of the lockdown in Covid-19 hot spots, a relaxation of rules to bring back stranded workers, and financial help to cope with a debilitating economic crisis in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.The states have urged the Centre to ensure that the new guidelines that will come in after the current lockdown ends on May 3, provide for much more economic activity in non-Covid districts, termed green zones, and stricter norms for Covid hot spots, described as red zones. The Centre is expected to take a call on the lockdown, scheduled to be in pace till May 3, in the next few days after taking into consideration views of different empowered groups and the key Central ministries. On Monday it received feedback from the states. Here is what some of the key states suggested.BiharChief minister Nitish Kumar told the PM that it will not be possible to bring back anybody, including students from places such as Kota in Rajasthan and migrant workers stranded elsewhere, till the Central government amended or issued fresh directive in this regard. Bihar is one of the few state to follow the rules. Others, such as Uttar Pradesh have gone ahead and bussed students out of Kota. Kumar reiterated his earlier stand that a move to transfer people from one place to other defeated the very spirit of implementing a lockdown even as the opposition accused him of failing to bring back the stranded students. On the lockdown, he said Bihar will comply with Centre’s decisions. Kumar said the state government has received over one lakh phone calls and messages from migrant workers and efforts were being made to “redress their problems”. “7.5 million families have been screened,” the CM said, while giving details of the efforts to prevent the spread of the disease.OdishaChief minister, Naveen Patnaik sought a safe passage for migrant workers from the state stuck in other states and requested other states to test the migrants for Covid-19 and only send back workers who test negative. Around five lakh workers from Odisha are stranded in different states. “During today’s meeting we stressed on the safe passage of Odia migrants stuck in other states,” said Odisha health minister Naba Das.PunjabChief minister Amarinder Singh wrote to home minister Amit Shah, asking for the opening of all small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except the containment zones. In a letter to Shah, in response to the Centre’s request for a written submission of issues faced by the state, the CM highlighted the issues that need the urgent attention of the Centre. He also sought special insurance cover for police personnel and sanitary workers, universal basic income of Rs 6,000 per month to industrial and migrant workers and 15 days’ wages as unemployment allowance to MGNREGA workers for the next three months.HaryanaCM ML Khattar asked the Central government to provide clarity on the schedules of various entrance examinations like JEE and NEET for medical and engineering colleges as well as NDA exam for the armed forces. Speaking at a meeting with the PM, Khattar said a large number of students preparing for the competitive exams were anxious because of ambiguity over the exam schedules.MaharashtraChief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to raise the issue of financial assistance from the Centre, the shortage in supply of the PPE kits and issue of stranded workers in a letter to home minister Amit Shah, according to Maharashtra government officials. Maharashtra wants only partial lifting of lockdown from non-Covid districts. The state will announce its decision later this week, the officials said. KeralaChief secretary Tom Jose attended the meeting. In his letter, CM Pinarayi Vijayan sought staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid-19 financial package. Kerala has asked the Centre to expedite the return of 1.8 million migrants from the state from countries in West Asia. Kerala has also asked the Centre to send back around 3 lakh migrant workers housed in 10,000 camps to their respective states.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh has not made any submission to the Centre. “We keep on exchanging views and hold consultations with the Union government. But chief minister Yogi Adityanath did not make any demand at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.ChhattisgarhChief minister Bhupesh Baghel, in the past week, has demanded that states should be allowed to decide on which economic activities should be allowed . He also wanted a scheme for giving food grains in place of money for work done under MGNREGA. He has also sought financial assistance worth Rs 30,000 crore.JharkhandChief minister, Hemant Soren, has sought a relaxation of the interstate travel ban so that arrangements can be made to bring back students and migrant workers stuck in other states. Over 9 lakh migrant workers from Jharkhand are stuck in other states. Soren said the state government will explore legal options if the Centre fails to provide financial assistance to the state to deal with the pandemic. North-EastMizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said the state’s only Covid-19 patient was recovering slowly. “Since we are surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and neighbouring states, which also have Covid-19 patients, we can’t be complacent,” he said, adding that the state will relax the lockdown slightly after May 3 and allow some economic activity slowly. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma said he proposed an extension of the lockdown beyond May 3. “We have mooted to continue with the lockdown post May 3rd with relaxation on activities in green zones or non-Covid affected districts in Meghalaya,” Sangma tweeted after the meeting. Meghalaya has recorded 12 Covid-19 positive cases, of which one has died. All the cases are from the state capital, Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-call-for-extension-of-curbs-in-hot-spot-districts/story-twL9j4l2O08SSKRtcJCZBL.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi review complete, govt allows vets, plumbers, electricians to start work||The Delhi government on Monday finally lifted the bar on veterinarians, plumbers and electricians after a complete review of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital. In a 7-point order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority also allowed inter-state travel of health workers, lab technicians and scientists that had been prohibited in the city.The relaxation comes into effect from Tuesday.The Union home ministry had earlier cleared these activities but the city government had decided against allowing them for the time being. It had declared on April 19 that a decision on allowing these activities would be taken on April 27 after a thorough review of the ground situation.Delhi reported 190 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, pushing the total number of cases in the city to 3,108. This includes 54 people who lost their lives as well as over 850 patients who have recovered. The city has reported Covid-19 cases from all its 11 districts, which have been categorised as red zones.According to the late evening order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, services provided by self-employed persons - electrician, plumbers and repairing of water purifiers would be allowed in the capital.The home ministry’s guidelines had also allowed carpenters and motor mechanics. There was no reference to them in Monday’s order.It, however, explicitly allowed interstate (by air or road) and intrastate movement of all medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives, and other hospital support services, including ambulances.Veterinary hospitals, dispensaries, clinics, pathology labs, sale and supply of vaccines and medicines have also been allowed under the new order.Besides, the government order formally allowed shops of electric fans, educational books for students, shelter homes for persons with disabilities, children, elderly people, widows, etc.Some of these relaxations, such as the ones that allow shops selling stationary shops and electric fans, had already been covered by the Union home ministry’s decision last week to allow standalone shops to open.That relaxation had caught the Delhi government by surprise. It did not want to allow the neighbourhood shops to reopen over fear that it could give people an opportunity to step out of their house. But it had to give in after hundreds of shopkeepers in many parts of the capital opened their shutters before the city government could message that this restriction didn’t apply to the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-review-complete-govt-allows-vets-plumbers-electricians-to-start-work/story-n94mKfHUW9g8b1yu1byUHI.html
28-04-2020||India||Five Oppn-ruled states seek ₹2.25L cr to tide over crisis||Five opposition ruled states have sought close to Rs 2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on state finances due to the national lockdown, which some chief ministers want to extend beyond May 3 in close to 330 Covid-19 affected districts.Maharashtra has sought Rs 50,000 crore ; Chhattisgarh, Rs 30,000 crore; Kerala, Rs 80,000 crore; Rajasthan, Rs 40,000 crore and West Bengal Rs 25,000 crore -- as immediate compensation to the revenue loss suffered because of the national lockdown. Tamil Nadu, governed by BJP-ally the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has sought Rs 9,000 crore.This is in addition to demands from states that the Centre pay the pending GST compensation immediately, increase the borrowing limit from 3% of the state GDP to 5%, suspend repayment of all state development loans for a period of three months, and allow flexi-funds under Centrally sponsored schemes for Covid-19 management. The states also want a further increase (it has already been increased twice, by a total of 60%) in their Ways and Means limit, which helps them borrow more. Many states, such as Punjab, Kerala and Maharashtra, have said that they will not be able to pay salaries of employees for the month of April, if the Centre fails to provide financial assistance. The Centre has given financial help to states through release of first instalment of money for the Centrally funded schemes, its share to states of the Central taxes, money for disaster relief and some part of the pending GST compensation.On Monday, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren threatened to take the Centre to the court, if it failed to compensate the state for its huge revenue loss. “We have no money. We need the Centre’s help. If that does not come, we will have to look for legal options,” Soren told reporters. Kerala chief secretary Tom Jose sought an exclusive Covid-19 financial package of Rs 80,000 crore from the Centre for the losses suffered during the lockdown in a letter to home ministry. “Our cumulative loss is over Rs 80,000 crore. Micro and small and medium enterprises alone lost over Rs 14,000. Hotel, tourism, fisheries, IT, self-employment and other sectors also lost badly. So we want an exclusive package to revive these sectors,” said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.Maharashtra government officials said the state has demanded financial assistance of Rs 50,000 crore to be released over next five months in the context of the drop in the state revenue due to the lockdown. A finance department official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already sought financial aid from the Centre.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to home minister asking for Rs 30,000 in the next three years as compensation for revenue loss. Apart from seeking 40,000 crore immediate relief, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also suggested a Rs one lakh crore national Covid-19 management fund.“From this fund, the states can get money as and when needed,” Gehlot said. West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, backed the demand for the creation of a national Covid-19 fund and said Rs 10,000 be transferred to the bank account of every worker from the unorganised sector and MSMEs, farmers, and tea garden employees and that the 100-day rural job guarantee scheme be extended to 150 days. She has already sought Rs 25,000 crore from the Centre. In a letter to the home ministry, the Tamil Nadu government has sought to increase the fiscal deficit limits from 3% of state GDP to 4.5% and allowing borrowing of 33% more for the current financial year. This is other than Rs 9,000 crore compensation sought, officials said.“The GST compensation for December-January should be released now and 50% of the 2020-21 Finance Commission grants to the urban and rural local bodies should be given immediately,” the letter said. The state has sought an ad-hoc grant of Rs 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Relief Fund to procure medical and protective equipment . It has also asked for special financial aid for medium and small scale units, which have suffered the most during the lockdown period. “Payment of GST Advance Tax and IT may be deferred for six months to help the MSMEs,” the letter said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has demanded the immediate release of Punjab’s GST arrears of Rs 4,386.37 crore. He also asked for a bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat, as well as direct cash assistance to daily wage industrial and agricultural labourers.“A revenue grant for the next three months, with flexibility to spend as per local conditions, would help tide over the acute fiscal crisis faced due to revenue shortfall,” he wrote to the home ministry, repeating his suggestion that the 15th finance commission recommendation should come into force from the next financial year instead of April 1 this year. He has suggested that the commission re-evaluate its GDP estimate of 7% on the basis of which it submitted its recommendations. Singh demanded allowing the use of 25% flexi funds under CSSs for Covid-19 and to enhance it to 50%. States are allowed to customise central schemes to local needs and spend up to 25% of the total allocation for such schemes for this. He also demanded allowing contributions to CM relief fund as a fit charge under CSR on the lines of PM Relief Fund and the PM Cares fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-oppn-ruled-states-seek-2-25l-cr-to-tide-over-crisis/story-1rQ5FRTz1JCP3Owjm89PvK.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Bihar may be a poor state but…’: Nitish Kumar explains his Covid-19 strategy||Ensuring relief and rehabilitation of lakhs of Bihari migrants is high on the list of priorities of chief minister Nitish Kumar. On the prospects of them returning home, he told Vinod Sharma that when curbs on their movement are lifted, the host governments in other states must undertake their “health screening’ before letting them travel. Excerpts: The incidence of Covid-19 cases aren’t as alarming in Bihar as in states such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. But your administration cannot be complacent as the disease has footprints in 13 of the state’s 38 districts. How well prepared are you? As on 27th April (5pm), there are 329 Covid positive cases from 25 districts. However, 57 patients have been cured and discharged. So far there are 270 active cases. The chain of contacts was quickly indentified by the administration and tests were done. We have started door-to-door active health screening on the lines of Pulse Polio Campaign. This is a huge exercise and till date we have screened more than 40 millon people in 7.5 million households. We have six testing facilities at present and sufficient number of Covid hospitals, health centres and Covid Care centres. We also have sufficient isolation and quarantine facilities. We are aware of the ground realities and trying our best to fight the pandemic. We have also requested the central government to provide ventilator and help us enhance our capacity and testing facilities.Siwan and Munger have the reported 120-odd cases. Are there any particular reasons for that in terms of the topography and population mix of these districts?Initial Covid positive cases started from the foreign travellers and the infection spread through their contacts. Some cases were found in people who came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat. However, a new trend has been observed wherein new cases have been detected in migrant population who individually have returned from other states. At present, Munger has 90 and Siwan has 30 cases. In fact Patna has 38, Nalanda has 34, Buxar 25, Rohtas 15 and Kaimur 14 cases. These are among the districts having more cases. Siwan has only 12 active cases as on date and 18 patients have been cured and discharged.As of now, your bigger challenge apparently is in being true to your social justice plank by ensuring relief and sustenance for Bihari workers stranded in other parts of India, notably Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab. What is your message for them? Can you reach out to them with help directly or do you have to depend on the Centre and the host governments?We always say that disaster-affected people have first right on state’s exchequer. A lot of our people are working in other states and are stranded there. We have developed a system of taking feedback from these Bihari people stranded outside Bihar. The disaster management department control room and help lines are fully geared up to get their feedback and coordinate with the concerned state governments and district administration for proper arrangement of food, shelter and medical facility for them. I have appealed to them to follow the lockdown norms and stay wherever they are. We may be a poor state, but we are leaving no stone unturned to help our people who are in distress.I directed CM secretariat officials to contact these people and get their feedback. Over 3,000 calls were made to talk to these people. Based on their feedback, I decided to give a special assistance of Rs 1,000 to all migrants stranded outside Bihar from Chief Minister Relief Fund and through the disaster management department. We have already released Rs 250 crore from Chief Minister Relief Fund. Nearly 2.5 million people have applied for it. Rs 1,000 has been transferred in the account of around 1.6 million people. I asked Bihar Foundation to provide meals, dry ration and shelter to the extent possible to our stranded people in other states. Bihar Foundation is running 55 relief camps in 12 cities of nine states and have served food to more than 1.2 million people and provided shelter to many.We have not left anybody. Many of these stranded people have families in Bihar. We have a commitment to help those distressed families in Bihar and for this all possible steps are being taken. We decided to give Rs. 1,000 rupees to all the ration card holder families in the state. We have also directed the district administration to revisit all pending cases of ration card applications to find out eligible beneficiaries. Besides, we are getting the survey done by Jeevika (self -help group) in rural areas and NULM (National Urban Livelihood Mission) in urban areas to find out eligible non-ration card holder families. We shall also help them and provide ration card thereafter.The disaster management department is operating more than 200 Aapada Rahat Kendra in different districts for labourers, rickshaw-pullers, daily-wagers and other needy people. More than 70,000 people are being given food, shelter and medical facilities at these centres every day. Many of these beneficiaries are people from other states but are stranded in Bihar.What’s the estimated count of the migrant Bihari population in India?The numbers of Bihari migrants are high compared to any other state in India. We don’t have the exact number of migrant Bihari population, but you will get an idea from this: during the crisis, with a view to facilitate and help migrant workers from Bihar, the government of Bihar started operating two 24x7helpline/call centres in the office of resident commissioner, New Delhi, and the department of disaster management, Patna, beside a dedicated centre in the Chief Minister’s Office. We have received more than one lakh phone calls and messages of migrants stranded outside Bihar, and as per real time information, more than 2.5 million migrants have applied for immediate relief of Rs 1,000, which is being provided from the Chief Minister Relief Fund through the disaster management department. We expect this number to rise to more than 3 million.The proposed lifting of curbs in some states might find them jobs but the remaining could return home. Have you drawn up plans for their temporary or permanent rehabilitation as leaving them to their devices could be dangerous and short sighted?At present, Bihari migrant workers who are engaged across the country in construction, garment manufacturing, mining and agriculture sectors contribute to the local economy in a big way. After the lifting of the curbs, presence of these migrant workers would be essential to kick-start factories and enterprises in these sectors. We have already started working on it and are creating job opportunities for them in Bihar. We have emphasised employment creation in rural areas. Schemes under Jal-Jeevan-Haryali Abhiyan, Saat Nishchaya (Har Ghar Nal ka Jal, Har Ghar tak Pakki Gali-Naliyan), Flood Protection Works and MNREGA works have been started with adequate social distancing norms. We have also released Rs 578.42 crore for agriculture input subsidy for farmers whose crop was damaged due to untimely rain and hailstorms in February and March.We have given Rs 3,102 crore to 10.8 million students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for various welfare schemes of the education department. We have also given three months’ advance pension to all the pensioners of the state under different pension schemes, which include Mukhyamantri Vriddhajana Pension Yojna, disability pension, widow pension and old age pension. A total of Rs 1,017 Crore has been transferred to 8.47 million beneficiaries. We have taken a decision to do procurement of wheat through PACS (Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies) at panchayat level so that farmers don’t have to resort to distress sale and they get minimum support price within stipulated time. This will benefit farmers a lot.Unlike your UP counterpart, you haven’t sought the return of Bihari students held up in Kota. Are your hands forced by your commitment to social justice? You seem apprehensive that special treatment of a set of citizens could beget a class/caste backlash from the less privileged.The Union home ministry issued the consolidated guidelines on April 15 under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and prohibited inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals except for medical reasons and permissible activities across the country for the lockdown period until May 3. All states and Union Territories have been directed to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines and we are following and enforcing these directives only. There have been demands from students in many cities and migrants from many states to return home. More than 2.5 million people stranded outside Bihar have applied for special assistance from Bihar Chief Minister Relief Fund. This will give you an idea about the number of people stranded outside Bihar. We are sympathetic to their cause and have apprised the central government accordingly. If the order issued under the Disaster Management Act is relaxed to allow such movements, then we have no objection to that. The concerned states should do health screening of such people and allow them to travel if they are found fit.As the BJP’s ally at the Centre and in the state, are you satisfied with New Delhi’s anti-Covid strategy? A BJP MP from Bihar is the junior health minister at the Centre. Did the PM consult you before the pan-India lockdown starting March 25?The central government is the repository of all information on the coronavirus pandemic. Since it’s a national crisis involving people from all states and Union Territories, the central government is in the best position to take necessary steps. After reviewing the situation in Bihar on March 13, the state government took a number of steps including closing educational institutions; transfer of midday meal money and Anganwadi centre benefits to the beneficiaries/parents’ accounts; closure of zoos, parks and museums; and suspension of all sports and cultural programmes. Then, on March 22, Bihar ordered a state-wide lockdown till March 31. Once the central government ordered a national lockdown from March 25 and issued guidelines for the same, we implemented those measures. Since the central government has all the information, it’s essential that all states and Union Territories follow the Centre’s guidelines and fight the pandemic together.What has been the Centre’s response to Bihar’s financial needs? Are you in agreement with other states for expeditious payment of their GST (Goods and Services Tax) share.We all are aware that the coronavirus pandemic has adversely affected the global economy and the Indian economy has also been impacted by it. The lockdown is bound to impact the economic and industrial activity adversely. The national lockdown has reduced the revenue collection of the central government as well as state governments. This has also affected our fiscal space and financial flexibility. We have shared our financial concerns on GST share, raising of borrowing limit under FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) Act with the central government. We are sure that together we shall overcome this coronavirus pandemic challenge.Shouldn’t the Centre announce a special economic package for MSMEs and migrant labourers rendered jobless by the lockdown?You are aware about the reduced fiscal space of central and state governments. We have transferred Rs 1,000 to accounts of around 1.6 million migrant labourers stranded outside Bihar. We have given priority to those sectors that help the rural population such as farmers, daily wage earners, unskilled and skilled people and migrant labourers. The Bihar government has started works in rural areas so that more people could get employment. The departments of rural development and water resources have taken up a large number of schemes under Jal Jeevan Hariyali Abhiyan. Construction works have been taken up by engineering and works department with proper social distancing techniques. Any package given by the central government for MSMEs would be welcome and would help mitigate the problems of the migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-touch-with-those-from-state-stranded-elsewhere-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar/story-PDSC4UeGf8vsacPteVDnxH.html
28-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu builds wall to seal border with Andhra||Authorities in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore have built a wall to seal a border crossing with Andhra Pradesh and prompted an angry reaction from their counterparts in Chittoor, who say the move will prevent essential travel between the two places including access to a cancer hospital. Officials in Chittoor called the move unwarranted since non-essential travel was already barred between the two districts because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Chittoor’s joint collector, D Markandeyulu, said inter-state borders remain sealed in view of the national lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread but vehicles carrying essential commodities were being allowed to move. “People are allowed to travel between states as there are always certain emergencies. The border check-posts are meant for that purpose. If state highways are blocked permanently by constructing walls, it will affect the emergency transport services,” he said.Officials said thousands of patients from Andhra Pradesh go to Vellore for treatment at a cancer hospital there. Essential commodities like vegetables and groceries are also brought from Vellore to the border villages in Chittoor. Chittoor is one of the worst Covid-19-hit districts with 73 of Andhra’s 1,177 cases as on Monday. Vellore has reported 22 of Tamil Nadu’s 1,885 cases. Markandeyulu said the Vellore district authorities did not even consult them before taking such a “strange decision” to build the wall. “We would take it up with the Vellore district authorities to see that the wall is removed,” he said.He added the wall was constructed even as there was no inter-state movement of vehicles or travelling due to the lockdown. “There is an inter-state check post between Vellore and Chittoor... construction of a permanent structure between the two states is something strange, unusual and unwarranted,” Markandeyulu said. He said local revenue officials brought the construction of the 5 feet high a 3 feet wide wall into collector N Bharat Gupta’s notice on Sunday.Unconfirmed reports said similar attempts of constructing walls were being made at Settinthangal village along the Chittoor-Tiruthani state highway.Vellore collector, A Shanmugha Sundaram, said his district shares borders with Andhra Pradesh at six places. He added only two state highways were blocked with walls. “We have done it only to prevent unauthorised travelling of people in view of the pandemic. The transport of goods or travelling of people in emergency situations can be done through alternative routes,” her said.Sundaram said the walls were not permanent structures and were constructed only with hollow bricks which could be removed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-builds-wall-to-seal-border-with-andhra/story-5su9hEBcTOiC6lPlbDxtaL.html
28-04-2020||India||States gear up to bring back stranded migrants amid lockdown 2.0||Days after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh started taking back stranded workers, the Rajasthan government issued guidelines to bring back stranded workers from other states and Odisha announced that it will have similar guidelines in place by the end of April.Bihar on Monday urged the Centre to relax guidelines on isolation and quarantine for allowing the return of migrant workers to the state. Close to a million workers from Bihar, stranded in different states, want to return, said government officials manning the state’s helpline for migrant workers.Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, supported the proposal of Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, that there should be national guidelines on interstate transport of migrant workers to prevent confusion at a meeting of all chief ministers with Prime Minister Modi.Hours after the meeting with the Prime Minister, Odisha health minister Naba Das said the state will come out with guidelines to bring back stranded workers by the end of April. He also said that 5.5 lakh people have registered with the portal launched to track migrant workers from the state.Odisha government’s chief spokerperson on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi, said the state was anticipating a huge rush of workers if the lockdown norms are eased on May 3. Das said that the CM had held discussions with the Gujarat and the Maharashtra governments regarding steps required to facilitate the safe return of Odia workers stranded in these two western states.The Rajasthan government appointed 19 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to coordinate with 14 state governments and respective district authorities to bring back stranded migrant workers from the state.Guidelines have also been issued for the desert state’s border districts from where the inbound migrant workers are likely to enter, which include mandatory testing and quarantine at transit camps for the returning workers. The home department has asked district collectors to keep a strict vigil on the movement of the inbound migrant labourers and ensure all their personal details, such as names, addresses, and mobile numbers, are recorded for contact tracing should any of them test positive for Covid-19. State chief secretary, DB Gupta, said these officers would also ensure implementation of guidelines and safety protocols.“After much effort by the state government, the migrant workers from Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them with all the help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities,” Rajasthan CM, Ashok Gehlot, tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-gear-up-to-bring-back-stranded-migrants/story-pMkK1PRrCzGtxL7c3PnfKO.html
28-04-2020||India||CRPF seeks probe into jawan’s mistreatment||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has written to Karnataka police chief Praveen Sood seeking an inquiry into the alleged manhandling, arrest, and chaining of one of its commandos on leave in Belagavi last week, two officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.Police in Belagavi’s Examba village allegedly assaulted, handcuffed, and arrested the commando, Sachin Sunil Savant, on April 23. He is accused of violating Covid-19 lockdown norms and assaulting police officers. A video of the incident was posted on Twitter and provoked outrage. A photo purportedly also showed Savant chained outside a police station.One of the two officials cited above said the trouble began after Savant was found without a mask. He was not wearing one since he was just outside his home, the official added.Savant is a part of the CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) unit that specialises in guerrilla and jungle warfare especially in Maoist insurgency-affected areas. CoBRA commandoes are highly skilled and considered among the country’s best. Savant is part of CoBRA’s 207 Battalion that is deployed for anti-Maoist operations in Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal.In a letter to Sood on CRPF chief A P Maheshwari’s behalf, the paramilitary force’s additional director general, Sanjay Arora, said the “unpleasant situation” could have been avoided had the state police taken them into confidence before arresting Savant. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Arora wrote Savant was cleaning his motorcycle in front of his house when the incident took place. He added Savant was “manhandled, ill-treated, paraded to the police station barefooted, kept in chains and handcuffs” by policemen on Covid-19 lockdown duty following a skirmish in Examba village.Arora asked Sood to get the matter inquired and “provide justice to the jawan keeping in mind the gravity of the incident and its impact on the relationship between the two forces”.“We have taken up the case with the state police chief of Karnataka. His [Savant] bail plea is coming before the court on Tuesday and the CRPF too shall be in court through its local officers. Thereafter, the case investigation shall be followed up to take it to the logical conclusion,” CRPF spokesman Moses Dhinakaran said.Arora wrote the CRPF is a force “with high standards of discipline and it has an institutional mechanism for taking care of such situations”. He added the conduct of police personnel was not citizen-centric. Savant has been put under suspension from his unit until the inquiry into the case is over.Belgavi police superintendent Laxman Nimbargi said Savant got into an argument with two of their constables while they were on a patrol and saw his sitting outside a house with a group of around six people. “When those people saw our men, they ran away except for one [ Savant]. When questioned why he [Savant] is not inside during the lockdown, he said he was also a policeman. Our constables said the law of the land is same for the everyone and asked him to go inside and wear a mask... This lead to argument,” he said.Nimbargi said Savant allegedly manhandled their constables and kicked one of them in his stomach. “We have released the entire video of the incident. Our men were assaulted. As per the law, action has been taken and case registered and he was produced in court. We have also sent report to his higher authorities.”He cited the ordinance passed to deal with assaults on health workers and security personnel and said they have merely implemented the government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-seeks-probe-into-jawan-s-mistreatment/story-v0ax45YrRbn0zKWeutyhtI.html
28-04-2020||India||SC calls airfare refunds arbitrary, seeks govt reply||The Supreme Court Monday questioned the Centre on its decision to restrict full refund of airfare to only those persons who booked tickets during the lockdown period, beginning March 25. The apex court said it was “arbitrary” on the part of the government to exclude persons who booked tickets prior to the lockdown.The issue was brought to the court in a PIL filed by Pravasi Legal Cell. The NGO challenged the April 16 notification issued by the ministry of civil aviation announcing full refund of air tickets booked during the period from March 24 to April 14, and again from April 15 to May 3, on account of the extended lockdown.Since the imposition of lockdown, all commercial flight operations, both domestic and international, were banned in the country. This hampered travel plans of those who had booked tickets in advance. And with the government notification in place, the airline operators refused to refund them the airfare.Advocate Jose Abraham who represented the petitioner NGO claimed that no airline can deny refund to passengers under the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) regulations. He questioned how the Government order could benefit one class of passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown when citizens who booked prior to that date suffered equally due to the lockdown.The bench of justices NV Ramana, SK Kaul and BR Gavai was convinced by the petitioner’s grievance. Addressing solicitor general Tushar Mehta through video conferencing, the bench observed, “This seems arbitrary. The relief should be entitled to everyone whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown, irrespective of the period of booking.” The Court directed Mehta to submit a response to the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-calls-airfare-refunds-arbitrary-seeks-govt-reply/story-Zemh93HJdLZrepnq0JgmPM.html
28-04-2020||India||Once lockdown ends, govt plans Make in India boost||After the extended, 40-day Covid-19 lockdown that ends May 3, the government plans to aggressively push its Make in India programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally even as it increases import duty to make imports expensive, two government officials familiar with the plan said on condition of anonymity. Also in the works are measures to encourage local entrepreneurs to take on multinational e-commerce giants such as Amazon and the Walmart-owned Flipkart, they added. The overall objective is to boost both manufacturing and services, and generate jobs, the officials said. The governments of some Covid-hit economies and executives of global corporations seeking alternatives to manufacturing in China have made overtures to the Indian government about setting up factories here, two of the officials added. “The new opportunity is in sync with India’s ongoing ‘Make in India’ initiative. Fresh policy decisions and fiscal incentives will be announced to take it further after the lockdown is eased. India needs to assure both its domestic and foreign investors, whether existing or potential, that it will also protect them from any import surge, particularly from China,” one of the two said. A vast market of 1.3 billion people, a relatively inexpensive workforce, and its democratic credentials are expected to hep India make its case, although the complexities of doing business in India (which have improved vastly in recent years), and poor infrastructure could play spoilsport. Experts also point to the policy flip-flops associated with doing business in India.The Make in India programme dates back to 2014, the first year of the Narendra Modi government’s first term in office, and was aimed at attracting investments in manufacturing, which contributes just 18% to the economic output of Asia’s third-largest economy. The government followed up the programme with measures to improve the ease of business and loosen tough labour regulations. The new incentives are aimed at burnishing India’s attraction as an investment destination for manufacturing companies.A thorough review of import duties is now underway with the objective of encouraging manufacturing or value addition in India, said the second official cited above. “Import of raw materials will be made increasingly cheaper, but higher duties will be levied on finished goods.” Sectors in which such measures are under consideration are electrical machinery, electronics, organic chemicals, plastic products and medical equipment, the officials said.Some of the ground for the next phase of Make in India has already been prepared with two announcements -- a deep cut in the corporate tax rate to 22% for existing companies and 15% to new ones, in September 2019, and an import duty hike on a host of products, from footwear and furniture to electrical appliances and toys, in the February 1 budget for 2020-21.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech: “It has been observed that imports under Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) are on the rise. Undue claims of FTA benefits have posed a threat to domestic industry. Such imports require stringent checks.” She added that “cheap and low-quality imports are an impediment” to the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)”.Major global economies will support Make in India in the post-Covid-19 era as they make a conscious effort to relocate their manufacturing activities away from China, said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at global consultant EY India .“India is an attractive destination in the medium to long term basis because of its high share of working age population. In terms of policy support, the CIT [corporate income tax] reforms undertaken last year will come in handy. A 15% CIT rate for new manufacturing units is highly competitive.” The second official quoted above said India would take the spirit of the Make in India campaign to services. “The government is considering encouraging Indian enterprises in domestically developed services such as e-commerce.” The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), along with domestic retailers, is planning to develop a national e-commerce platform that can be used by over 70 million kirana stores to accept orders online. The platform will connect domestic manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers and consumers, the official said.India must look beyond the domestic market, experts said. India’s primary strength lies in the services sector and in labour-intensive and skill-intensive manufacturing, Srivastava said. “This is why we have export advantages in traditional areas such as gems and jewellery and modern areas such as engineering goods and pharmaceuticals. In the longer run, we have to focus not only on Make in India but also on developing exports both in manufacturing and services.” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf said the post-Covid era is likely to see the shift of manufacturing of all types of products away from China. But issues related to land, labour and uncertainty in taxation are limiting the success of Make in India, he added.“Radical reforms are needed in all three areas. What more we need is policy and fiscal incentives in terms of ease of doing business, easy availability of finance for the industry and, above all, better infrastructure including both transport and logistics.” According to official data, India’s overall exports -- merchandise and services combined -- earned $528.45 billion in the financial year that ended on March 31, 2020, a 1.36% decline from the previous year. Imports shrank 6.33% in the year to $598.61 billion.India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-lockdown-ends-govt-plans-make-in-india-boost/story-5CPKUtHTeQau4sK8GPg8zN.html
28-04-2020||India||Manipur’s 1st Covid-19 patient free from surveillance, no new cases reported from state||Manipur’s first patient of coronavirus disease, who tested negative thrice in successive tests, is now free from surveillance as per protocol as her test result was found negative for the 4th time on Monday.Sharing this information, the state chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted, “Glad to share that the 1st Covid-19 patient from Manipur is now free from surveillance as per protocol, as her test result is found –ve for the 4th time today. She was detected +ve on March & discharged from JNIMS on April 12 after testing –ve for the 3rd time.”23-year-old female, who had come back from the UK, tested positive on March 24. But she improved a lot during treatment at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) hospital and discharged from the hospital on April 12. Since then she stayed home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine.On the other hand, the state’s second patient of the Covid-19, who tested negative twice in successive tests, was also discharged from the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences hospital in Imphal on April 21.The 53-year-old man, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2 and was under treatment at RIMS. He tested negative on April 18 and 19.He is presently at home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine.Even though there is no report of new Covid-19 positive case since then, the state authority continues to take up various measures across the state particularly at the important entry points and porous international border. The vigil and necessary step along the Indo-Myanmar international border has been taken up by erecting 200 metre long barb-wire fencing in Churchandpur district border to prevent cross border movement to control spread of dreaded virus.As on Monday, 428 people have been tested for Covid-19 and 196,153 were screened for the infection in Manipur as per the status report of the state surveillance officer Dr L Tomcha Khuman of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.In addition, 97 people ate staying at government quarantine centres and 319 of them have completed their quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-1st-covid-19-patient-free-from-surveillance-no-new-cases-reported-from-state/story-5QpO7Jt6fI167SubVLujNJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Bengal’s first private cancer hospital ostracised as patient tests Covid-19+||Founded by a legendary oncologist in 1973 and later named after him, the Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute at Thakurpukur on Kolkata’s southern fringes was forced to stop most of its services in the last ten days because of acute staff shortage triggered by social ostracism.This happened soon after a patient admitted with lung cancer on April 17 was referred to Bangur Hospital, the state-run nodal hospital for Covid-19 patients, after he tested positive for coronavirus.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Soon after the patient left the hospital, local residents and neighbours of many of our workers stopped them from coming to work, visiting markets or even collecting water from street outlets. It is extremely unfortunate that this happened, despite repeated appeals from the Union health ministry. Relatives of some staff members were also threatened,” said Dr Arnab Gupta, director of the institute and the founder’s grandson.“I contacted the state health department and moved the police administration. The situation started improving since this morning,” Dr Gupta told HT on Monday afternoon.Equipped with 310 beds and modern amenities, the non-profit institute, which is run by a trust, has 850 staff members. There are more than 180 doctors on its panel. Recognized by the World Health Organisation, the institute is a member of the Union for International Cancer Control, Geneva. “We had to stop several services and defer chemotherapy sessions and operations. Despite our efforts, many patients were compelled to go home. We kept around 55 patients, some of whom are in critical condition and the rest are children.” said Dr Gupta. “On April 19, there were only 15 staff members on duty. I had to join them,” he added.“The police campaigned in the local neighbourhoods and told people that they should appreciate the efforts being put in by health workers and doctors. We said cancer patients need special care, as much as Covid-19 patients do,” an officer at Thakurpukur police station said on condition of anonymity. Popularly known as Thakurpukur cancer hospital, the institute was Bengal’s first private cancer hospital to boast of modern facilities but treat patients at a nominal cost. It was first known as Cancer Centre Welfare Home and Research Institute. Dr Saroj Gupta was helped by a handful of doctors and social workers to set up the facility with 25 beds. They raised the earliest funds by staging a play scripted by the oncologist (Dr Saroj Gupta) who also played a cancer patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-first-private-cancer-hospital-ostracised-as-patient-tests-covid-19/story-XoQcya89zEVfNQVjg422IM.html
28-04-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik pitches SOP on return of stranded persons across states||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday pitched for a national standard operating procedure for smooth movement of stranded persons including students, workers, pilgrims, patients, professionals so that it is seamless across states.Patnaik’s proposal came during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers. The chief minister also sought assistance from the Centre for increasing Covid-19 testing capacity.Though Odisha health minister Naba Das early in the day said Odisha had demanded extension of the lockdown for a month, he later denied it saying the same was demanded by all the health ministers. “Neither my state nor I have personally demanded,” he said, adding that Odisha has the coronavirus crisis in control, when compared to other state’s population and the number of tests performed.During the meeting, PM Modi said that the impact of coronavirus will remain visible in the coming months. He highlighted the importance for states to enforce guidelines strictly in the hotspots i.e. the red zone areas. He stated that the efforts of the states should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter to green zones.The prime minister also urged chief ministers to factor in the changes in weather – advent of summer and monsoon – and the illnesses that can potentially come in this season, while strategising ahead.Of the 111 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha, 37 have recovered while one person who also had co-morbidity factors, died.Odisha was the first state to declare lockdown all over the state on March 24 after predicting a doomsday-like scenario of 36,000 cases of coronavirus in the state by May-end if people did not remain in their homes.In the last two weeks, apart from Sundargarh, Jajpur, Balasore, Bhadrak and Koraput districts, none of the other 26 districts have reported a single case. Khurda district which includes the capital city of Bhubaneswar is the only hotspot district in the state though no new cases have been reported from there in the last 12 days.The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and Bhubaneswar police commissioner said that as the capital city is in a red zone with 46 cases, all the norms of lockdown will continue.Meanwhile, chief minister Patnaik announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 15 lakh to the next of kin of any working journalist and ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh for police personnel in case of death while performing the Covid-19 duty. A few days back the government had declared that Rs 50 lakh ex gratia will be given for all doctors, nurses and heath personnel who lose their lives in the fight against Covid-19. The state government also said health workers who die during the fight against Covid-19 will be treated as “martyrs” and accorded a state funeral.In another development, a 32-year-old doctor posted at the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar, died Monday. He had a day off after seven days and died of some other medical complications. He had tested negative for Covid-19, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-moots-another-month-of-lockdown-seeks-more-testing-centres/story-Dagpu3wiDX1QGWGo5GEmRP.html
