29-04-2020||India||UGC issues new guidelines to keep academic year on track||New DelhiStudents can be graded based on their performance in internal assessment tests and the previous semester, the University Grants Commission (UGC) said on Wednesday, in one of many suggestions aimed at keeping the academic schedule on track in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The higher education regulator also said examinations in colleges and universities can be held in May and June with July being the month of summer vacations. The next academic cycle can begin in August for second- and third-year students and in September for freshers, it said. Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.In guidelines issued on Wednesday after long deliberations, UGC said if the previous semester’s result is not available, particularly in the first year, 100% evaluation of students may be done on the basis of internal assessments.The internal evaluation process can be continuous, mid-semester or it can be any method that gauges a student’s progression, UGC said, adding that the guidelines are “advisory” in nature and an individual institute will have to chart its own course based on its circumstances. Universities may also adopt efficient and innovative modes of examinations by reducing the time from three hours to two hours, it said. But students should be informed well in advance (at least one week before) about the conduct of examinations and other related activities.The regulator, however, said students who want to improve their grades should be allowed another opportunity whenever circumstances allow. It said there should be a grievance redressal mechanism set up by universities. UGC will establish a help line for monitoring grievances.Universities, colleges and schools across the country have been closed and exams postponed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, and it was later extended till May 3.Where it is difficult to hold exams, universities can give 50% weightage to internal evaluation and the remaining 50% to the performance in the previous semester, the UGC guidelines said. The period of lockdown will be treated as “deemed to be attended” by all students.The universities may conduct practical examinations and viva voice examinations through Skype or other apps. In some cases, practical examinations may be conducted during ensuing semesters, the guidelines suggested. UGC also suggested giving a six-month extension to M.Phil and PhD students.Universities will follow a six-day-week schedule. Students will be given exposure to laboratory assignments or practical experiments through virtual laboratories.UGC has also recommended that universities should prepare e-content/e-lab experiments and upload the same on their websites. They have also been asked to strengthen the mechanism of mentor-mentee counselling. They should also develop virtual classroom and video conferencing facility, and all teaching staff should be trained with the use of the technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-issues-new-guidelines-to-keep-academic-year-on-track/story-FI4xRaYmw6DIalagQaA8kL.html
29-04-2020||India||975 Odia students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota to head home soon||Hours after the Centre allowed workers and students stranded in other states to return home, 975 students from Odisha taking coaching for medical and engineering entrance exams in Kota town of Rajasthan will head home on Thursday morning.Officials said the students have made their own arrangements to travel by bus and the necessary route permits would be facilitated by the state government. IPS officer Avinash Kumar, who is among the officers facilitating the return of students from Kota, said so far, 1,000 students from Odisha have registered with the local authorities at Kota. Of the 975 students coming back on Thursday, most are from Jharsuguda and Sundargarh districts.The state government has advised these students to strictly adhere to the lockdown and quarantine guidelines after arriving in their respective home districts. Over 2,500 Odia students have been stranded in Kota after the national lockdown was announced last month to contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease.A few days ago, a large number of students from Odisha stranded at Kota had appealed to chief minister Naveen Patnaik to ensure their safe return to the state. Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra had also urged the chief minister to take immediate measures to bring back the students from Kota. Even BJP leader Bijoy Mahapatra had urged the government to bring back the stranded students in Kota, Bangalore and several other states.“How long will they wait without food and with mental strain? Students need immediate attention of the government,” Mohapatra had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/975-odia-students-stranded-in-rajasthan-s-kota-to-head-home-soon/story-92pzCp3AMk2Wu4imzKuWQI.html
29-04-2020||India||In Gujarat, high Covid-19 cases in four cities takes steep toll on state revenue||Amid the nationwide lockdown, the economy of Gujarat has been badly affected as about 91% of the Covid-19 cases in the state have come from the four metro cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodra and Rajkot which are major contributors in the state revenue.Till Wednesday, 4,082 coronavirus cases were reported from the state out of which 3,423 cases have been reported from these four cities which is 90.72% of the total. Ahmedabad has reported 2,777 cases, Surat-601, Vadodra-270 and Rajkot-58.The official estimate of the loss is yet to come, however, as per experts only these four cities contribute around 40% in the state’s revenue and around 40% of commodities across the country are exported from these four cities.A top official of the state government on condition of anonymity said that these four cities are a major contributor in the revenue of the Gujarat government. “One thing is for sure that the state’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) is witnessing a sharp decline as around 20,000 industries which falls under these remained shut for the initial 21-days of the lockdown. From April, some factories have been permitted but they are not working at full strength,” the official said.He added that the average monthly GSDP is around Rs 1.15 lakh crore to 1.25 lakh crore. “The expected decline must be around Rs 80,000 crores due to lockdown,” said a senior official.Shailesh Patwari, former president of the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said that each of these cities make a major contribution not only in the economy of the state but country as the tax collected from them goes into accounts of both the state as well as the Centre.Patwari said that Ahmedabad is the pharmaceutical capital of India. There are around 1,000 chemical and pharma industries and 200 engineering companies.“The turnover of the pharmaceutical and chemical industries is a minimum of Rs 1,200 crore per month. Similarly, the turnover of these engineering units is also around Rs 15,000 crore per month. So with these numbers, one can predict how much Ahmedabad has suffered due to the lockdown,” the former GCCI president said.Talking about Surat, Patwari said that around 90% of the diamonds are exported in the country from the city.“There are around 400 diamond units in Surat which have a monthly turnover of Rs 4,500 crore and similarly there around 1,500 small and large textile units which contribute around Rs 1,500 crore per month. After lockdown, work across these industries has been stalled,” added Patwari.Similarly, the ball bearing companies in Vadodra have a turnover of Rs 100 crore per day and the automobile and irrigational pump producing units Rs 1200 crore per day.“The positive indicator from these two cities are that most of the industries are located outside the limits of municipal area which have begun operating a few days back with certain permissible limits,” said the former GGCI president.Purvin Mariyankari, director, Ahmedabad Export-Import Development Association (AEIDA) said that on April 20 the government gave permission to industries located outside municipal limits to resume work, as per the guidelines, and as a result, many industrial units have started operations.Meanwhile, secretary to the chief minister on Wednesday said that the chief minister has instructed the district collectors to ensure that people do not face the problem of potable water during summer. He instructed the District Collectors to personally look into the matter and asked them to ensure a sufficient supply of water beforehand.“Further, all the broken hand pumps should be immediately repaired. The CM also gave clear instructions to ensure health and hygiene in the area in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” Kumar said.Director-General of Police Shivanand Jha said that for the convenience of the farmers in rural areas, technicians involved in fitting or repairing of borewells for farming will be able to travel without passes as long as they carry their driving licences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gujarat-high-covid-19-cases-in-four-cities-takes-steep-toll-on-state-revenue/story-LvsqzPepm1LlAd8ykdlKGI.html
29-04-2020||India||‘State provided jobs to over 18 lakh villagers under MNREGA’: Chhattisgarh govt||During the nationwide lockdown implemented for prevention of coronavirus spread, Chhattisgarh government claimed on Wednesday that the state is currently leading the country in terms of generating rural employment under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA).A press release issued by the Chhattisgarh government claimed that nearly 24 percent of the labourers employed under MNREGA across the country are from Chhattisgarh.“This is the highest in the country. Currently 18,51, 536 labourers have been employed under various ongoing MNREGA works in 9,883 Gram Panchayats of the Chhattisgarh” the release stated.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Panchayat and Rural Development minister TS Singh Deo have applauded the active approach and quick action of the sarpanchs for better implementation of MNREGA under these difficult circumstances.“The MNREGA works are being conducted while ensuring physical distancing, wearing of masks and adhering to the hygiene standards, to bring relief to the labourer families,” the release stated.The release further claimed that according to the statistics released by Union Rural Development Ministry, nearly 77, 85, 990 labourers have been employed under MNREGA works across the country. This includes the highest number of labourers employed 18,51, 536 labourers in Chhattisgarh alone, nearly one fourth of the total number of labourers employed across the country. Second in this list is Rajasthan with 14% of the total number of labourers employed, and Uttar Pradesh ranks third with 12% of the total number of labourers employed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-provided-jobs-to-over-18-lakh-villagers-under-mnrega-chhattisgarh-govt/story-RAJFlu8FwNGljiBerJs1IP.html
29-04-2020||India||River bridge collapse kills two labourers in Odisha||At least two labourers were crushed to death when a section of a river bridge under repair in Bolangir district of Odisha collapsed on Wednesday.The incident took place during construction of the bridge over the Suktel river of Bolangir district on Wednesday morning when the bridge connecting Tamia and Mudalasar under Patnagarh block collapsed. Repair works were undertaken on a section of the bridge which was constructed in 2015. The deceased workers hailed from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh.A casual worker named Mayaram who used to work there said his son and his cousin were killed in the mishap.Tehsildar Pushpanjali Panda who oversaw the rescue operation, said one body has been retrieved and efforts are on to retrieve the body of the other labourer.The bridge was constructed over the Suktel river with an expenditure of Rs 7 crore to connect Tamia and Mudalsar. The bridge was inaugurated in July 2015 but defects were spotted on the bridge a few years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/river-bridge-collapse-kills-two-labourers-in-odisha/story-TpBhMNc4syDnrNiP3pKjdI.html
29-04-2020||India||New Covid-19 guidelines to give considerable relaxations, says Centre||The Union home ministry which held a comprehensive review meeting on the lockdown situation on Wednesday, said new guidelines to fight Covid-19 which will come into effect from May 4, would give considerable relaxations to many districts.“It was noted that there have been tremendous gains and improvement in the situation because of the lockdown till now. To ensure that the gains of the lockdown are not squandered away, the lockdown guidelines must be observed strictly till 3rd May,” the ministry said in a statement.“New guidelines to fight Covid-19 will come into effect from 4th May, which would give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this would be communicated in the days to come,” it said.Earlier in the day, the ministry allowed migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions.In a big relief to the distressed people, the Union home ministry said that buses shall be used for transport of such groups of stranded people and these vehicles will be sanitised and will have to follow safe social distancing norms in seating.But the order by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to all states and union territories did not specify whether a person or a family can travel in a private vehicle, and if allowed, under what conditions.“Due to lockdown, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded at different places. They would be allowed to move,” he said in the order which has come into immediate effect.Once evacuated, the evacuees would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-guidelines-to-give-considerable-relaxations-says-centre/story-J2pCrzSY6wYs27hNrbOPtI.html
29-04-2020||India||Health ministry launches app for testing labs to avoid duplication of sampling data||With discrepancies in reporting of sample testing data found from certain labs, the Union health ministry on Wednesday launched a dedicated real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) mobile based application, for labs to fill the data at the point of sample collection.“It is an app for collection centres to fill data at the point of sample collection, to minimize error in reporting real time data to the government authorities. It was seen that the data was being duplicated as it was sent separately to various authorities involved such as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), state government etc. Now just one time entry will help reach the information everywhere, which will also save time and reduce other errors such as addresses, names etc,” a health ministry spokesperson said.This application is linked to the main data base operated by the health ministry that will automatically keep updating it.Director General of ICMR, Dr Balram Bhargava, who is responsible for overseeing Covid-19 testing, said, “The app has been made functional and needs to be put to use immediately.”So far, a total of 7,695 people have been cured, which takes India’s current total recovery rate to 24.5%. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 31,787.In the past three days, the doubling rate is 11.3 days in the country. “…although global mortality rate is around 7%, India is having a mortality rate of around 3%, and around 86% of fatality of people with co-morbidity. Only 0.33% patients are on ventilators, 1.5% patients are on oxygen support and 2.34% patients are in ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country. In case of any further eventuality, the country is well equipped with isolation beds, ventilators, PPE, masks etc.,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.A present, 288 government laboratories are working along with 97 private lab chains, with around 16,000 sample collection centres, and testing around 60,000 samples per day. The government is working to increase the testing capacity to 1 lakh tests per day within the next few days.Health secretary, Preeti Sudan, held a review meeting with states through video conferencing on Wednesday, and discussed the functioning of the systems dashboard, Covid-19 portal, apart from releasing the RT-PCR application.The health secretary again directed states that medical treatment to non-Covid-19 patients should not be denied, and essential care such as dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetic care, anti-natal care for pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments and other chronic conditions must continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-launches-app-for-testing-labs-to-avoid-duplication-of-sampling-data/story-HjPqRFdOk7f98xJziQ5qXO.html
29-04-2020||India||Home ministry says relaxations will be given to many districts from May 4||Migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown were on Wednesday allowed to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions, giving a big relief to the distressed people. The Union Home Ministry also said it has reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the country and found that tremendous gains were achieved during the lockdown and new guidelines will be issued soon, giving considerable relaxations to many districts from May 4. In an order, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said on Wednesday that buses shall be used for transport of such groups of stranded people and these vehicles will be sanitised and will have to follow safe social distancing norms in seating. The order, however, did not specify whether a person or a family can travel in a private vehicle, and if allowed, under what conditions.New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come.#Corona Update#StayHomeStaySafe @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA“Due to lockdown, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded at different places. They would be allowed to move,” he said in an order issued to all states and union territories. The order comes into immediate effect. Listing the conditions, the ministry said all states and union territories should designate nodal authorities and develop standard protocols for receiving and sending such stranded persons. The nodal authorities shall also register the stranded persons within their states and union territories, it said. In case a group of stranded persons wish to move between one state and union territory and another state and union territory, the sending and receiving states may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road. The moving persons would be screened and those found asymptomatic would be allowed to proceed, according to the Home Ministry. The states and union territories falling on the bus transit route will allow the passage of such persons to the receiving states and union territories, it said. On arrival at their destination, they would be assessed by the local health authorities, and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires keeping them in institutional quarantine, the order said.They would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups, it said. All those people who avail the opportunity will be encouraged to use ‘Aarogya Setu’ app through which their health status can be monitored and tracked. The home secretary issued the order in his capacity as the chairperson of the National Executive Committee under the Disaster Management Act. The Home Ministry also said the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on home quarantine should be followed by the authorities concerned. Separately, the Ministry announced that the new guidelines to fight Covid-19 will be issued effective May 4, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts and the details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come. “MHA held a comprehensive review meeting on the #lockdown situation today. There’ve been tremendous gains & improvement in the situation due to lockdown till now. To ensure that these gains are not squandered away, the lockdown guidelines should be strictly observed till 3rd May,” the Home Ministry spokesperson tweeted. The decision of the central government to allow movement of migrant workers, tourists, students and other stranded people will be a big relief to several lakh people who are stranded in different parts of the country. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Punjab, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, have brought back thousands of their students and tourists stuck in different parts of the country by bus. However, most of the migrant workers, tourists and other people continue to stuck in their places of work or shelter homes. While Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Assam, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh brought back their stranded students fron Kota in Rajasthan, Punjab has brought back stranded pilgrims from Maharashtra, besides students from Kota. A group of around 360 stranded people of Rajasthan is also being brought back from Assam. While transporting these students, pilgrims and other people, the states have used buses and other vehicles. There have been at least three protests by migrant workers in Surat in Gujarat in recent weeks as they have been demanding passage to their home states. A few hundred people had also gathered about a fortnight ago in Bandra in Mumbai after being influenced by rumours that trains would ply to North India. However, the Bihar government has been seeking the strict implementation of the lockdown, saying that people should remain wherever they are during the entire period of the lockdown. While announcing the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said people should remain wherever they are. In the beginning of the first phase of the lockdown, thousands of the migrant workers had started moving by foot from cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad to their respective places, creating a humanitarian crisis. This led to the Home Ministry directing the state governments not to allow the migrants to move, arrange shelter homes for them and provide them food. The government has already allowed industrial activities in rural areas with conditions. Similarly, apart from the shops for the essential commodities, standalone business establishments of non-essential goods were also allowed to open during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-says-relaxations-will-be-given-to-many-districts-from-may-4/story-dwmpBit8WhSuZJI7nkVGIL.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh crosses 2500, casualties mount to 130||The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 2,560 on Wednesday after 173 more people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours while the death toll has gone up to 130, according to the state government’s bulletin. In another development, the government has stopped giving information on the total number of samples collected in the state for the past three days prompting public health experts to demand comprehensive data from the government daily.Out of the total 173 positive cases reported in the past 24 hours 104 cases were reported from Indore alone. Indore’s tally rose to 1,476. A total of 65 people have died of Covid-19 in Indore.In the state capital Bhopal which is the second worst hit district in the state, 35 cases were reported in the past 24 hours to take its tally to 483. Fourteen people have died of Covid-19 in Bhopal. At least 12 of the deceased had survived the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy.Rachna Dhingra of Sambhavna Trust said, “At least 13 of the 14 deaths reported in Bhopal were of Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims. The state government and the central government should immediately swing into action to protect the lives of tragedy survivors.”The third worst hit district by Covid-19 is Ujjain with 127 cases and 23 casualties. Out of 31 districts affected by the disease, there are 12 such districts which have the number of Covid-19 patients in double digits.Public health experts Amulya Nidhi and SR Azad in a joint statement said, “It is alarming to see that the death rate in Madhya Pradesh is the highest in the country. India’s Covid-19 mortality rate is 3.21%, whereas the fatality rate in Madhya Pradesh is more than 5%. The death rate has been stagnant at around 5% for the last 2 weeks. The death rate in Delhi is 1.62%, Maharashtra 4.29%, Gujarat 4.79%, and in Rajasthan 2.11%. In the last 3 days, there have been deaths in 3 new districts namely Khandwa, Raisen and Ashoknagar.”Demanding a comprehensive bulletin every day the statement ssid, “The state government bulletin has stopped providing the total number of test samples and pending test results since April 27. Till April 26, there were 8,439 pending test results. A lot of patients have been waiting for numbers of days for their test results. But now, as there is no data being given on pending test results and availability of test kits, there is no transparency around the testing situation of MP.”The additional chief secretary of health Mohd Suleman could not be reached for his comments.However, a department official who did not want to be named said, “The health minister Narottam Mishra himself has gone on record saying that there would be a jump in the number once or twice and then the situation will improve. As far as the data of total number of samples is concerned it’s not to hide from the public but the department is getting information from the districts in a piecemeal manner, hence it’s difficult to give a clear picture as to how many samples have been collected across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-crosses-2500-casualties-mount-to-173/story-vRvT3v6Ifctx4YManGlYML.html
29-04-2020||India||Resumption of Parliament will depend on ground situation: Naidu||Even as he expressed hope that the monsoon session of Parliament will be held on schedule in July, Rajya Sabha chairperson and vice president M Venkaiah Naidu is learnt to have told members of the Upper House that the resumption of work will depend on the ground situation.According to a functionary aware of the details, Naidu, who has been calling up MPs during the lockdown to inquire about their health and well-being, was asked by several members about the possible date of reconvening the House.“The chairperson said it depends on the situation on the ground. He further said with intensive virus containment efforts being mounted across the country and results visible on the ground, one may hope for a normal schedule,” said the functionary quoted above.Since the imposition of the lockdown on March 25, Naidu called 241 members of the Upper House, including those retired and re-elected recently. He also spoke to former presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, and former prime ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda. “He also spoke to several governors, besides some chief ministers enquiring about the Covid-19 situation in respective states. This is his ‘Mission Connect’ during the confinement,” said the person quoted above.With the coronavirus pandemic spreading in India and large parts of the country under lockdown, Parliament’s Budget session had to be cut short by almost a fortnight.Many opposition parties that time urged the government to adjourn the session as cases of Covid-19 began to increase and after it was reported that Lok Sabha MP Dushyant Singh had to come to Parliament after attending a party where singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested positive for the infection, was present. Singh subsequently tested negative for the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resumption-of-parliament-will-depend-on-ground-situation-naidu/story-xchid1ID018DdCqETPSfKJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Bengal preparing Rs 1.5 lakh crore economic rehabilitation plan: Mamata Banerjee||The West Bengal government will come up with a six-month long economic rehabilitation plan involving Rs 1.5 lakh crore to deal with the crisis arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday.“I want to congratulate the economic task force I had set up. It has prepared a six-month long economic rehabilitation plan involving Rs 1.52 lakh crore. The task force headed by the state finance secretary has prepared the plan and it is now being examined by the state government,” Banerjee said, without divulging further details.Banerjee had earlier urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spend at least six percent of the GDP to fight the crisis and announce a National Economic and Health Package worth Rs 10 lakh crore for the state governments. The state has also been demanding its due of Rs 50,000 crore. The chief minister said that around 2500 people from Bengal who are stranded at Kota in Rajasthan were being brought back in 101 buses. It will take three days for them to reach Bengal.The government is also planning to allow stand-alone shops to reopen from Monday. Economic activities such as construction work, certain factories and public transport are also expected to start in districts that come under a ‘green zone’ the chief minister said. The local police will do a survey and decide on which shops could be reopened. Eight districts of the 23 districts in Bengal are in the green zone while four are in the red zone. “The Centre had asked states to allow shops to reopen while at the same time asking them to strictly maintain the lockdown. There is a lack of clarity. We had approached the Centre and are waiting for clarity,” she added.Coming down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party, without naming the saffron party, for repeatedly attacking the Trinamool Congress-led government on various issues, Banerjee said that they were like vultures, which wait for people to die so that they can make an issue out of it and play politics.“I am also a human being. I am not getting any sleep. I am having severe headache since yesterday. Whom shall I tell all these things to? We are doing overtime and double duty. I condemn those who are resorting to such things,” she addedBanerjee also challenged the BJP leaders to come down to the streets and sweep the roads and clean hospitals.“Keep the roads and hospitals clean. Work like Florence Nightingale. Stay beside Covid-19 patients and help the health department and police,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-preparing-rs-1-5-lakh-crore-economic-rehabilitation-plan-mamata-banerjee/story-7ZtMkUlHmcTThWhQTdizkI.html
29-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi hosts video show on Covid-19, Raghuram Rajan is his first guest||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is gearing up to launch a series of video-dialogues with public intellectuals, and the first to feature in this series is renowned economist and India’s former Central bank governor Raghuram Rajan.The dialogue with Rajan, which is over an hour long, includes a detailed discussion on the state of the economy and how to revive it in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. The discussion has been done in English via video-conferencing, Congress functionaries told Hindustan times. Congress’ social media head Rohan Gupta told Hindustan Times that Gandhi will be speaking to Rajan and the video will be launched tomorrow. “He (Gandhi) will be speaking to Raghuram Rajan. The discussion is about the fallout of coronavirus crisis and how it will impact the economy. They also discuss how to convert it into an opportunity,” Gupta added. “This is the first in a series of videos dialogues that Gandhi will be conducting with intellectuals, including public health specialists and activists working on the grass root level across the world,” a Congress functionary said. The dialogue is pre-recorded and will be disseminated by the Congress on social media over the next couple of days. “This is different,” said a second Congress functionary. “He (Gandhi) is not talking about the BJP at all. The entire conversation revolves around the state of the economy.” The two discuss solutions that may be viable in the ‘post-Covid world’, the second functionary added with the primary issue being the economy of the country.“States are facing huge losses,” said the first functionary. “The issue of loss of revenue, GST payments not coming in, all play a part in the discussion.” A slew of changes in the party has recently been interpreted by many Congress leaders as a sign of Gandhi’s return to presidency. Most recently, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi constituted an 11-member consultative group under former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s leadership to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic and to formulate the party’s views on them.The group also includes Rahul Gandhi, Randeep Singh Surjewala, KC Venugopal, P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari, Jairam Ramesh, Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate and Rohan Gupta. This is the first time Rahul Gandhi has become a member of a party panel since he stepped down as the Congress chief last year. The group has been holding extensive meetings and offering suggestions to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on how to address the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-conversation-rahul-gandhi-hosts-video-show-raghuram-rajan-his-first-guest/story-D1LNaD5stVXZnlqIgUzUsM.html
29-04-2020||India||Kerala braces for huge influx of expatriates amid Covid-19 pandemic||Kerala is bracing itself for a huge influx of workers from Persian Gulf countries as the Centre prepares to evacuate Indians stranded abroad.More than three lakh have registered in an online portal which the Kerala government launched on Sunday to facilitate the return of Malayalees stranded in other countries particularly in the Persian Gulf.“Their numbers have reached 3,20,463. These include 9,515 pregnant women, 10,007 senior citizens, 16,276 students, 56,114 who lost their jobs, 57, 436 relatives and 1. 25 lakh others,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday.He said the state has made all arrangements for them and is waiting for the Union government to send aircraft to evacuate them. There are also reports that three Navy warships are ready in Kochi for the mass evacuation.But the number of people waiting for evacuation is a new worry for Kerala which is fighting hard to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic.Kerala had initially expected two lakh people from Persian Gulf countries but the latest numbers show that the figure could double in the coming days. Since most of those waiting to return are blue collar workers the state has requested the Centre to foot their airfare but is yet to get a reply. Stranded Indians have been mounting pressure on the government to be allowed back into the country.There are at least 18 lakh Malayalees working in Persian Gulf countries and in 2018-19 their remittances were Rs 88,000 crore, the highest foreign remittance in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-braces-for-huge-influx-of-expatriates-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-hKdqRCoSz7RRimeBv1MJpK.html
29-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Odisha CM asks people to help in caring for migrants post lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik asks people to help in caring for migrants post lockdownWith Covid-19 cases in Odisha rising to 125 as three more people with travel history to neighbouring Bengal tested positive, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday sought help from the people in taking care of the 6 lakh plus migrant workers returning to the state. Read moreLudhiana railway employees donate ration among coolies out of their pocketsIn view of the coronavirus lockdown, Ludhiana railway officials on Wednesday distributed 50 ration kits to 47 coolies and three other workers out of their pockets. The workers are managing the vehicles at parking lots of the city railway station. Read moreAfter HC setback, Kerala brings ordinance to deduct employees’ salaryA day after the high court stayed its decision to cut employees’ salaries, the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance in order to make the deductions at a time it is fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreIsrael marks its Independence Day under coronavirus lockdownIsraelis celebrated their Independence Day at home Wednesday amid a nationwide lockdown aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Read more ‘It’s like movie groundhog day, every day is the same’: Graham Reid on life in lockdownIndia men’s hockey team had a decent start to their Pro League campaign in 2020, with wins over The Netherlands and World Champions Belgium. After playing Australia in home games, coach Graham Reid’s side had a nearly two-month break before the away games against Germany. Read moreUGC asks varsities to use internal assessments if exams not possibleUniversities facing difficulty in holding exams due to Covid-19 should grade students on the basis of internal assessment and performance in the previous semester, higher education sector regulator, UGC has decided. Read moreRIP Irrfan Khan: When the extraordinary actor recited poetry and made it his ownBollywood icon and international star Irrfan Khan, whose movie career included Slumdog Millionaire, Life of Pi, The Namesake, A Mighty Heart, The Darjeeling Limited and The Amazing Spider-Man, has died aged 53 at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. Read more Nothing to see here, just a pregnant woman picking up a snake off the roadTrue animal lovers never fail to go to go the extra mile to save a creature in trouble. And this woman in Arizona is among them. A video that’s gone all kinds of viral shows her picking up a snake off the road so it wouldn’t get killed by oncoming traffic. Read more Jeff Bezos is now twice as rich as Mark Zuckerberg with a net worth of $140 billionAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos is now twice as rich as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Bezos’ wealth shot up since the beginning of this year and currently, his net worth is estimated at $140 billion. Read moreWatch| Punjab extends lockdown: Minister Manpreet Badal explains why | Exclusive||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-odisha-cm-asks-people-to-help-in-caring-for-migrants-post-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XybZH4TfoXmxFWnp1XMUOL.html
29-04-2020||India||Bihar rejoices as Centre clears decks for migrants’ return||The Union home ministry’s order on Wednesday allowing migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded amid the lockdown in different parts of the country to return to their respective destinations with certain conditions has cleared the decks for return of migrants from Bihar in other states.Bihar’s Additional Solicitor General SD Sanjay said the Union home ministry’s order would now be submitted in the Patna High Court which is scheduled to hear on May 5 a bunch of four public interest litigations (PILs) seeking direction to the Bihar government for the evacuation of stranded students.The Centre’s order gives hope to students as well as migrants to return home from states where they have been stranded since the lockdown began.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that the decision of the Centre with regard to stranded migrant population, including students, was a welcome step and in keeping with state’s request. “The Centre has taken a positive decision on our request. This will help a great deal in bringing back the interested migrant population stranded in different states. Following the Centre’s guidelines is in the interest of everyone. Bihar government has always followed the directions issued under the Disaster Management Act,” he said.Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for accepting the state’s request to have a standard protocol for stranded migrants.“The matter was also raised by chief minister Nitish Kumar during PM’s video conferencing with CMs. The CM wanted go-ahead from the Centre. Now, the order will help Bihar bring back students and other stranded anywhere,” he added.LJP MP Chirag Paswan was quick to thank home minister Amit Shah for relaxing norms to ensure return of migrants, while RJD claimed that its relentless demand for return of migrants had borne fruits. Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav said that now the migrants should be brought back at the earliest.Nitish Kumar had so far refused to evacuate students from Kota. He had said that the state was strictly adhering to the central guidelines on the lockdown, and it will not be possible to evacuate anybody until the Centre amended or issued fresh directive in this regard.The MHA order says that in case of inter-state movement, “the sending and receiving states may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road”.“The moving persons would be screened and those found asymptomatic would be allowed to proceed. Sanitized buses with social distancing among passengers shall be used for transport of group of persons,” says the order from home secretary Ajay Bhalla.The states/UTs on the transit route will allow the passage of such persons to the receiving state and on arrival such passengers would again be assessed by the local health authorities and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires them to keep them in institutional quarantine.“They will be kept under watch required to undergo periodic health checkup. They may be encouraged to install Araogya Setu App for regular tracking,” says the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rejoices-as-centre-clears-decks-for-migrants-return/story-hwutfs6nKEgDKYsi9i5XLN.html
29-04-2020||India||After HC setback, Kerala brings ordinance to deduct employees’ salary||A day after the high court stayed its decision to cut employees’ salaries, the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance in order to make the deductions at a time it is fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Announcing this, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said extraordinary situations need extraordinary actions. “You can’t call it a salary cut. We have made it clear that the amount collected in five instalments will be repaid once the economic condition of the state improved,” he said. The move came a day after the high court stayed Kerala’s decision to deduct the salary of government employees for six days every month for the next five months (totalling 30 days) as part of efforts to raise funds for fighting Covid-19.The government decided to take ordinance route after it got legal advice that an appeal against the HC decision will delay the whole process and some of the critical sectors such as health will suffer. Now, governor Arif Mohamad Khan will have to give his assent to the ordinance. “All are undergoing a difficult situation. So it is natural that employees will also be a part of the process. We have deducted 30% salaries of ministers, MLAs, board chairmen and others for one year,” said the CM.State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala decried the latest move and said the government was taking revenge on employees after it suffered a serious setback in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hc-setback-kerala-brings-ordinance-to-deduct-employees-salary/story-N8IRPyvnLBaxDQpuRfIPuJ.html
29-04-2020||India||India under lockdown: Mother holds baby in arms for first time 15 days after birth||At the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, Sofia Marin Banu glanced down at her precious bundle of joy in her arms for the first time on Wednesday, 15 days after the baby girl was born in a hospital in Nagercoil.Amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown,officials of Kerala and Tamil Nadu witnessed the emotional reunion of mother and child at Kaliyikkavila.The healthy newborn was handed over to Marin by medical staff of the private Erankulam Lisie Hospital where the child underwent a complicated surgery for a serious heart problem soon after her birth through cesarean section at a Nagercoil hospital.Her heart problem was diagnosed during pregnancy and the parents wanted the delivery at the private hospital at Ernakulam which is known for handling such cases.According to hospital sources,doctors had said the baby was due on April 30,but the woman developed labour pains much earlier and delivered the child at the Nagercoil hospital in Tamil Nadu.The baby born with complex heart disease (d- transposition of great arteries) was reunited with the mother after the surgery, hospital sources said here. Effective coordination by the Kerala and Tamil Nadu government officials removed all the blocks created due to the Covid-19 lockdown and the child was taken to Ernakulam in an ambulance immediately after her birth on April 14 for treatment, sources said.“It was a very complicated surgery. We kept the child in complete isolation during the course of treatment,” Ebin Abraham, a Lissie hospital staff, told PTI.The surgery was conducted by a team of doctors led by cardiothoracic surgeon Sunil G S and pediatric cardiologist Edwin Francis.The infant’s father had accompanied the baby in the ambulance for the treatment but he was quarantined in a separate room in the hospital and was not allowed to see the child directly.He, however, saw his child through video call.This is Marin’s third child.“Certainly it was an emotional moment for Marin, who was in Nagercoil.But we could not see the emotions on her face as she was wearing a mask to protect herself from novel coronavirus infection when she received the baby from us,” said Abraham who witnessed the reunion at the border.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office, Ernakulam District Collector S Suhas and Tamil Nadu government intervened to facilitate the smooth journey of the ambulance carrying the child soon after her birth at the Nagercoil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-under-lockdown-mother-holds-baby-in-arms-for-first-time-15-days-after-birth/story-nEKKd4HY1DqVE4Gc46OVWP.html
29-04-2020||India||In a fortnight, India sees drop in Covid-19 hotspot districts||The number of Covid-19 hotspot districts in India as on Wednesday morning has come down to 129 from 170 a fortnight ago, but in the same period the number of infection-free districts or green zones too decreased from 325 to 307, according to official sources.During this time, the number of non-hotspot districts, also known as orange zones, increased from 207 to 297, they said.The Centre had on April 15 classified districts into three categories.Those with high load of Covid-19 cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are marked as hotspots or red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zone or non-hotspots. Districts with no Covid-19 cases are categorised as green zones.However, a red zone or orange zone district can be demarcated as green zone if no new coronavirus case is reported from those places for 28 and 14 days respectively.On April 15, the Centre had declared 170 districts across 25 states and Union Territories as coronavirus hotspots. Of these, 123 were hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 with clusters. It had also said 325 districts had not reported any coronavirus case because of actions initiated at field level.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that 80 districts in the country have not reported any new case of Covid-19 in last seven days while 47 districts have not registered any fresh case in the last 14 days.Also, 39 districts have not reported any instance of the infection in the last 21 days and 17 districts have not registered any new case for the last 28 days, he had said.The government has already identified 15 districts in nine states, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, as having “high case load”. Of these, seven -- Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi show particularly high case volumes.Other high case load places that are “critical” in the battle against Covid-19 include -- Vadodara (Gujarat), Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Thane (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Surat (Gujarat).“These 15 districts are critical in our battle against Covid-19. Of them 7 show particularly high case volumes. India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here,” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant tweeted on Monday.A senior health ministry official said the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India was three to 3.25 days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 and now it is 10.2 to 10.9 days. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 1,007 and the number of cases climbed to 31,332 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.The highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 9,318, followed by Gujarat at 3,744, Delhi 3,314, Madhya Pradesh 2,387, Rajasthan 2,364, Tamil Nadu 2,058 and Uttar Pradesh 2,053. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 1,259 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,004 in Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-fortnight-india-sees-drop-in-covid-19-hotspot-districts/story-nj0gH9VO4NOG8MXPspf2WN.html
29-04-2020||India||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik asks people to help in caring for migrants post lockdown||With Covid-19 cases in Odisha rising to 125 as three more people with travel history to neighbouring Bengal tested positive, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday sought help from the people in taking care of the 6 lakh plus migrant workers returning to the state.On Wednesday, a 60-year-old man from Keonjhar, a 34-year-old man from Deogarh and an 18-year-old woman in Jharsuguda district had tested positive.Odisha’s Covid-19 tally doubled from 61 to 125 in just 10 days. The state government has sealed the West Bengal border stopping road communication on 57 routes as 50 of the 125 positive cases had a Bengal connection.With 6 lakh plus migrants registering themselves on the state Covid-19 portal for returning to Odisha after the lockdown ends on May 3, the chief minister in a video message this afternoon said there is no need to panic as Odisha can evade the danger by remaining careful.“Earlier, people with foreign travel history were the major challenge for us. Odisha was the first state to have started registration for foreign returnees as part of precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With cooperation of people, we controlled the situation. Later, people who had returned from Nizamuddin posed as a challenge for the state and we successfully tackled the situation. Now, West Bengal returnees have emerged as the third challenge as among them 50 people have tested positive so far,” he said.Patnaik said the coming days are significant for the state as fellow Odia citizens from most infected states of the country like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan and West Bengal are due to return to Odisha. “They are our own. One remembers his or her mother and motherland during the time of crisis. They are our children, brothers and sisters. Taking care of them is our responsibility,” Patnaik said.Odisha has so far kept 1.72 lakh quarantine beds ready in 7125 temporary medical centres organized in about 7000 gram panchayats and 125 urban local bodies. However, officials concede that the number of quarantine beds are going to fall far short of the requirement and may lead to law and order problems if all the 6 lakh migrants converge in Odisha soon after the lockdown ends.Keeping this in mind, Patnaik said people need to be alert, keep patience, and opt for registration of people returning from outside and support the state government in keeping them in quarantine. “Through this they, our families, our villages and our society will stay healthy. A slight negligence can lead to a great danger. It is a matter of life and death as the problem may increase a 100 times due to carelessness of 10 per cent people,” he said, adding that the situation in Odisha due to the Covid-19 outbreak is better than other states.Patnaik’s message came hours before a group of 400 migrant workers from Surat in 8 buses were due to arrive in Ganjam district this evening. The workers engaged in cloth embroidery factories boarded the buses on April 27 and 28 using their own resources even before the Odisha government arranged buses for their transportation. The state government is planning to bring back Odia migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra and Gujarat in buses and keep them in quarantine in temporary medical centres for 14 days at least.Meanwhile, the district collector of Ganjam on Wednesday appealed to the people of the district not to roam around temporary medical camps where returnees from other states are being quarantined warning them of stringent action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-asks-people-to-help-in-caring-for-migrants-post-lockdown/story-dmbG5SJUvUVw4PmHPlMUeI.html
29-04-2020||India||BHEL resumes operations in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar a month into lockdown||The Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), one of the prominent public sector undertakings (PSU) in Uttarakhand resumed its operations on Wednesday after about a month amid the lockdown, officials said.The development came a day after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to discuss the revival of Industrial activities in the state. The two units of BHEL including Heavy Electrical Equipment Plant (HEEP) and Central Foundry Forge Plant (CFFP) had received permission from the Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar on Monday to resume operations.Operations resumed with less than half the total workforce in adherence to the government guidelines amid Covid--19 pandemic. Employees who have been called for duty will work on two shifts so that social distancing norms are strictly followed.BHEL manufactures gas turbines, turbo generators, condensers and related auxiliary while its CCFP plant primarily makes large size castings, forging of steel alloys and super critical grade steel.According to BHEL officials both the factory units, workplace, administrative blocks and equipment were thoroughly sanitized before the operations resumed. Sanjay Gulati, executive director of BHEL’s Heavy Electricals Equipment Plant (HEEP), Ranipur said that as per the guidelines of Central government and the district administration, BHEL has opened its twin plants. Gulati said, “Through indigenously developed portable electrostatic disinfection machine, the whole BHEL township including hospitals, factories, guest houses, administrative blocks, parks and roads are also being disinfected on a regular basis.”Earlier on Tuesday, CM Rawat held a meeting with CII and other state industrialists to discuss the measures for economic activities and industrial operations in the state which have been largely affected by the lockdown caused by the pandemic. Rawat said, “The state is gradually resuming the industrial activities for revival of the economy. Under the initiative, we have started a single-window system to give permission to industries and factories to resume operations. Since April 20, we have given permission to about 1,171 industries to resume operations mainly in Haridwar and Rudrapur which host major industrial areas of the state which together comprise about 1000 factories.”The CM had also said that at least 1,884 factories related to pharmaceutical and food processing sectors were already operational in the state. Bigger units like ITC, HUL, Nestle and others have already resumed their production. “Those from the automobile industry like Mahindra & Mahindra, Ashok Leyland and Tata Motors are soon going to start their production,” Rawat had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhel-resumes-operations-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar-a-month-into-lockdown/story-dio5ZkvfKIAVLPoPSwvdEI.html
29-04-2020||India||Indian Red Cross creating database of potential plasma donors for Covid trials||The Indian Red Cross Society is starting a dedicated database of people who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , and who can therefore be potential plasma donors for convalescent plasma therapy (use of blood from the recovered patients to treat severely sick patents) which can be done under the clinical trial mode.The therapy isn’t approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research as a regular line of treatment and the health ministry said on Tuesday that it can only be done as a trial, with requisite clearances from regulators.Still, the Indian Red Cross’ blood bank has already started receiving queries from relatives of Covid-19 patients looking for plasma from a recovered patient. The society plans to online counselling of shortlisted recovered patients to encourage them to donate their plasma for the study.“In a day or two, the Red Cross of India will begin psychosocial counselling of shortlisted recovered Covid-19 patients to prepare them as plasma donors. Our job is to look through the pile of recovered patients, and screen those who could be potential plasma donors. Once shortlisted these people will be counselled by our experts,” says Dr Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), Indian Red Cross Society.The society plans to speak to hospitals to get details of patients who recovered in past one month. After they get the list, it will be narrowed down further to those who will be eligible to donate, and the final list will be recommended to the government.“Ideally we will be looking at the recovery time of 28 days, but anything over 14 is good. Our regular blood donation criteria will apply along with the fact that they should have completely recovered from Covid-19. Eligible donors have to be between 18 and 50 years (of age), with no co-morbid conditions such as heart, kidney disease, diabetes, etc. Even women can donate but not those with more than one children as their antibodies don’t work. Unmarried women who fulfil other criteria can also donate,” said Dr Singh.The Red Cross will forward the list of shortlisted possible donors to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi because the actual donation will only happen in a hospital setting.“These people need to be bled in the intensive care unit (ICU) settings because in a stand-alone blood bank one can’t provide the kind of medical support that these people might require. So, the blood donation has to be done in a hospital,” Dr Singh said.The Red Cross will be sharing the database only with approved government facilities.As convalescent plasma therapy has shown promise in helping very sick Covid-19 patients recover, various countries including India are conducting trials to know its true potential as a treatment .Hospitals and research facilities can enrol patients as part of a clinical trial after receiving necessary approvals from the drugs controller general of India.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan last Tuesday held a video meeting with the Indian Red Cross Society and asked it to contact recovered patients and encourage them to donate blood . However, health ministry has made it clear that the treatment is to be conducted only as part of a trial with the requisite permissions.A section of experts say if the therapy has shown promise then clinical trials can be skipped to save time.“I have been arguing for plasma therapy without a clinical trial, as it is safe to give as compared to other medicines. However, it is critical to properly document the results,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, CMC Vellore.Dr Dharma Choudhary, a senior specialist in bone marrow transplant in India isn’t so sure: “It is a crude way of giving immunoglobulin, which are virus specific antibodies, with a belief that it will probably give some protection. I’d say it will be better than giving a placebo to a dying patient with no hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-red-cross-creating-database-of-potential-plasma-donors-for-covid-trials/story-NIVWE9NKAUb2n07B2QVSqK.html
29-04-2020||India||Assam plans to fly back 859 patients stranded outside the state||Guwahati: After facilitating return of 391 students from Kota in Rajasthan, Assam government is now mulling bringing back 859 patients from the state who went outside for treatment and are now stranded due to the lockdown.Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed on Wednesday that the state government is consulting with the union civil aviation ministry and various airlines to try and bring back the patients by flight.“Most of these patients have already completed their treatment and have expressed desire to return to the state. But since they are not fully recovered, it won’t be possible to bring them back by road,” he said.This Sunday, 391 students who were studying in various institutes in Kota were brought back in 17 buses covering a distance of nearly 2,000 km. While the students paid for the journey, the state government provided 8 police officials to accompany them and facilitate their journey.“We are in talks with the civil aviation ministry and private airlines to try and evacuate these patients and their relatives. At this moment it seems we will not be able to do it before May 3, but our efforts are on,” Sarma said.Most of these 859 patients are stranded in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore and Vellore. The state government has already provided them Rs 25,000 each as financial aid.Sarma informed that plans are also underway to bring back people from the state now stranded in Uttar Pradesh and other northeastern states.“We will have to undertake this exercise in a very careful manner so that the present scenario in Assam doesn’t aggravate,” he said.Assam has recorded 37 positive Covid-19 cases till Wednesday. While 1 patient has died, 29 have been discharged and 7 are still under treatment.Besides financial aid to patients stranded outside, the state government has paid Rs 2,000 each to 2.15 lakh workers from the state who are stranded in other states and 1000 USD each to 52 persons from the state stranded abroad.Since April 25, the state government has allowed inter-district movement of people stranded across Assam due to the lockdown. This window will be available till May 2.Till Wednesday, nearly 49,000 persons have used their own vehicles to avail this benefit while more than 20,000 others have been transported free of cost by 1274 buses belonging to Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-plans-to-fly-back-859-patients-stranded-outside-the-state/story-L6qtZjci7AuT1FOg9lIJ1M.html
29-04-2020||India||Over 4,000 petition environment ministry on hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley||Nature conservationists on Wednesday petitioned the environment ministry to reject the 3,097 megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley that will entail the diversion of luxuriant forest land, felling of tens of thousands of trees and pose a threat to the region’s rich biodiversity/ Conservation India, a non-profit website on wildlife and nature conservation, sent a memorandum with 4,305 signatures to the ministry, asking it to deny environmental clearance for the project. The signatures were received only in the past three days, the portal said.Wildlife biologists and scientists including Nandini Velho; Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; Aparajita Datta, senior scientist at the Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF); Anindya Sinha, a professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, and others wrote at least four letters last week to the ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) flagging massive biodiversity loss if large hydropower projects were allowed to go ahead in Dibang Valley.FAC has considered granting forest clearance to the Etalin hydropower project at a meeting last Thursday; the minutes of the meeting are yet to be released. The project will involve diversion of 1,150.08 ha of forest land and clearing of .270,000 trees in subtropical, evergreen and broad-leaved rainforests.Dibang Valley is home to a genetically distinct population of tigers, over 75 species of other mammals, and 300+ species of birds, including many endangered ones, Conservation India said in its memorandum. The valley is part of the Eastern Himalayan Global Biodiversity Hotspot, which is one of only 36 such hotspots in the world. In addition to tigers, the greater region of Dibang Valley harbours mammals including the clouded leopard, Asiatic golden cat, Asiatic wild dog, red panda, Mishmi Takin, red goral, and Gongshan Muntjac.Rapid bird assessments in the region have found endangered species such as the Blyth’s tragopan, Sclater’s monal, rufous-necked hornbill, Ward’s trogon, Hodgson’s frogmouth, beautiful nuthatch, wedge-billed babbler and the recently discovered Mishmi wren-babbler. “There is consensus amongst scientists that the rise in zoonotic diseases (such as Covid 19) and acceleration of climate change is linked to biodiversity and forest destruction,” the memorandum said, adding that the proposal should be scrapped.According to FAC’s own factsheet, the project falls under the richest biogeographical province of the Himalayan zone and one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions with luxuriant forests and rich flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”“We have received some letters and memorandums from people but we don’t know if they are from scientists. They are all in the same format and have similar wording. Some have names signed, others don’t,” said a senior environment ministry official and FAC member. “To be absolutely sure about the project we have asked for some information from agencies on the area. The minutes of the FAC meeting will be out soon. We haven’t taken a decision on the project yet.”HT reported on April 23 that an FAC subcommittee, which visited the site in February, had recommended in its report dated April 21 that the Etalin project be allowed on condition that the developer deposits money for wildlife conservation in the area.The project is proposed to be developed by Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited and Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is about Rs 25,296.95 crore, according to the factsheet.“We have been eagerly waiting for this clearance which is a must for grant of forest clearance for the project. The proposal for grant of forest clearance to Etalin project was submitted to environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the FAC meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on grant of FC to the project. We are hopeful that FAC will finally be recommending the proposal for grant of FC,” Bharat Rohra, MD & CEO, Jindal Power Limited, said on April 22 in response to queries from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-000-petition-environment-ministry-on-hydropower-project-in-arunachal/story-12tsC1CFegMhAki3ovDmcI.html
29-04-2020||India||Mizoram CM praises man who travelled 3,000 km with friend’s body||Home is where the heart is, in life and in death, too.The 23-year-old Raphael AVL Malchhanhima was a distraught man when his friend Vivian Lalremsanga died of suspected heart attack on April 23 in Chennai.The lockdown had shuttered the city and cluttered his mind.The post-mortem was conducted and the local authorities suggested that Lalremsanga’s last rites be performed in Chennai, over 3,000 km away from home, as transporting his body was out of the question.“Thank you from the bottom of our hearts! You’ve just shown what every Mizo heartbeat means when it comes to the term ‘Tlawmngaihna’,” Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted.Thank you from the bottom of our hearts! You've just shown what every Mizo heartbeat means when it comes to the term "Tlawmngaihna"!@CMOTamilNadu@NDTVTamilCinema#selflessheroes #tlawmngaihna pic.twitter.com/TVwnAQWoTjLalremsanga had recently completed a course in hotel management and was waiting to collect the certificate, and hoping to start a career in an induustry which held great promise before the coronavirus sank it into an unfathomable abyss.But fate willed otherwise and his body was found outside his rented apartment.Despite the authorities in Chennai suggesting that Lalremsanga be buried at a cemetery there, Malchhanhima could not bring bring himself to accept the idea of leaving his 28- year-old friend miles and miles away from home.It was then that ‘Tlawmngaina’, the Mizo code of ethics, which espouses the moral of self-sacrifice for the common good, showed him the way. He had made up his mind. His friend’s lifeless body will not remain in the bowel of earth in faraway land.The Mizoram government and the Chennai Mizo Welfare Association stepped in.“The body was at the mortuary of a hospital and we were thinking of ways to transport it to Mizoram amid the lockdown. Two ambulance drivers saw our plight and came forward to help us, saying they had earlier been to Assam as lorry drivers,” Chennai Mizo Welfare Association secretary Michael Lalrinkima told PTI.The drivers, however, insisted that somebody from Mizoram accompany them. Malchhanhima volunteered.And then began Lalremsanga’s journey homeward, embalmed and enshrouded, in an ambulance with his caring friend and the two good samaritans--Chinnathanbi and Jeyanthiran--through deserted highways and bleak landscapes on April 25.“The thought of my friend being buried far away from his home troubled me. My father, a preacher, also encouraged me to accompany the mortal remains of my friend withstanding the difficulties of the journey,” Malchhanhima, a native of the remote Hmawngbu village in south Mizoram’s Lawngtlai district, told PTI.He said they were stopped by police at several places and would travel long hours at a stretch without food as most highway eateries were shut. When they would find one, they were asked to wait outside and collect the packaged food which they ate inside the ambulance.Before reaching Mizoram on Tuesday, after a four-day back-breaking and emotionally draining journey, they were screened at Vairengte check-gate on the state’s border with Assam.Once in, the pervasive sombreness of the occasion lifted momentarily, when people greeted and thanked them for bringing back Lalremsanga home, among his own people, before he joined the invisibles.Malchhanhima has been put under quarantine for 14 days at a designated facility, while his friend Lalremsanga rests in everlasting peace at a cemetery near his home in Aizawl’s Model Veng.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-cm-praises-man-who-travelled-3-000-km-with-friend-s-body/story-jvYxESJREQf6EN52kRo1iN.html
29-04-2020||India||Three terrorists killed in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir||Three militants were killed and as many security forces personnel injured in an overnight encounter between the ultras and the forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Wednesday. Based on an input about the presence of militants in Melhoora area of south Kashmir’s district, a cordon and search operation was launched by security forces on Tuesday, a police spokesman said. He said during the search operation, the militants fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated, leading to an encounter. In the ensuing gun fight, three militants were killed, the spokesman said. The identity of the militants killed is being ascertained and their medico-legal formalities are being done, he added. The spokesman said three security forces personnel also sustained injuries in the encounter and they were rushed to a hospital. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of the encounter, he said. Police have registered a case and initiated a probe into the matter, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-killed-in-shopian-district-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-HDFlfMo03MloopbuLP7eMO.html
29-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand to boost immunity of Covid warriors with homeopathic, ayurvedic medicines||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday approved a fund of Rs 2.48 crore to acquire ayurvedic and homeopathic medicines to boost the immunity of Covid-19 warriors, a senior minister said.The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun.Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said the money will be used to buy various Ayurvedic and homeopathic medicines for the Covid warriors.Kaushik said, “Government will buy homeopathic medicine named Arsenic Album-30 and Ayurveda items like Giloi, Ashwagandha, Tulsi and others to be given to Covid warriors including policemen, doctors, sanitary workers and others.”He also informed about the inauguration of telemedicine and e-hospital in the state. “Under the new facility started in Doon Government Hospital, patients will be able to consult doctors over the phone. Apart from this, Srinagar Medical College has also given permission for Covid-19 tests. Permission for the same had also been sought for Almora medical college and Haridwar hospital,” he said. Uttarakhand currently has three testing facilities for Covid-19 at Dehradun, Rishikesh and Haldwani. The state has recorded 54 cases of Covid-19 out of which 33 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-boost-immunity-of-covid-warriors-with-homeopathic-ayurvedic-medicines/story-xsy6hVV8HnPmByiDxDVQSP.html
29-04-2020||India||Stranded migrant workers, students can go home. MHA sets the ground rules||A month after millions of people, mostly migrant workers were stranded without work in different parts of the country, the Union home ministry on Wednesday finally allowed states to repatriate them to their respective states.The central government has, however, so far refused to run special trains to take them home as demanded by some states such as Maharashtra.They would have to travel in buses.The only condition that the home ministry has imposed for such inter-state travel is that the government of states, from where these people begin the journey and the government in the destination state, should clear the trip.Besides, only people who do not have symptoms of Covid-19 would be allowed to travel. They would also be subject to health check ups by health authorities of states which they cross.Several states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had already started bringing back people from other places though the central guidelines till this evening did not permit such travel. This had put chief ministers of states such as Bihar under immense pressure.Nitish Kumar, who has been battered by the opposition in his state for sticking to the rulebook, had insisted that he would not take any step that violated the central guidelines and had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order the home ministry to set the ground rules for this trip. Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik had made the same request at last week’s interaction of chief ministers with PM Modi.It will be a mammoth task working out the logistics of arranging thousands of buses to what state governments have estimated would imply transporting five million workers.On arrival at their destination, “such persons would be assessed by the local health authorities, and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires keeping the persons in institutional quarantine. They would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups. For this purpose, such persons may be encouraged to use the Aarogya Setu app through which their health status can be monitored,” the home ministry’s guidelines said.Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s order on Wednesday is in contrast to the Centre’s stand before the Supreme Court just a few days earlier when it told a three-judge bench led by Justice NV Ramana that “there is no necessity” to shift the migrant workers from their place of occupation to their home in villages.“Their daily needs are being taken care of wherever they are working and the daily needs of their family members are being taken care of at their respective villages,” the status report filed by the Centre had said.That is not how many migrant workers perceived their status. Besides, there As HT reported earlier in the day, disquiet and anger was simmering in the shelter homes where the workers have been located since the end of March.Sometimes, it spilled over to the streets. As it happened in Gujarat’s Surat this week when migrant workers clashed with police personnel.Tuesday’s violence was the third incident reported from Surat involving out-of-work migrant workers since the lockdown was imposed last month to check the Covid-19 spread.There have been numerous instances of migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometres to reach home. Some succeeded.Pinky, 29, was caught in Rajasthan. She and her family - they worked at a cloth mill in Bhilwara - were on their way back to Uttar Pradesh last month when they were stopped by the police. They have been living at Jaipur’s Gandhi Nagar shelter home since March 29. She told HT that she just wanted to see her four-year-old daughter back home in UP’s Etawah.One reason the Centre had been reluctant to let migrant workers head back home in a hurry is that the absence of workforce in states such as Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana would come in the way of industrial units getting started again..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-centre-allows-stranded-migrant-workers-students-and-tourists-to-go-home-sets-ground-rules-for-travel/story-vIikaLtRikGQdcmvCHR1wL.html
29-04-2020||India||‘No functions or 5-star hotel stay’: Assam cuts costs to fight Covid-19||The Assam government on Wednesday initiated a set of austerity measures to tackle the economic crisis that has resulted from the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19.“Like the health crisis created by Covid-19, a similar crisis is looming over the economy because of the disease. In order to tackle it, we have prepared a list of austerity measures,” health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The government had decided earlier that there will be a 30% cut in salaries of Governor, Chief Minister, ministers and MLAs from April. From now there will be a 25% cut in the salaries of chairman, vice-chairman of PSUs and government boards and corporations.However, the government has decided not to cut salaries of its employees for the month of April. But instead of paying it on the first of every month, this time it will be paid on the eighth day of the new month.“No new scheme or project will be implemented without prior approval of the finance department and establishment expenditure for the first four months of the financial year, from April to July, will be reduced from 20% of the budget allocation to 10%,” Sarma said.There will be no industrial reimbursement to factories for the first four months of the financial year, no new vehicles to be purchased by government departments without approval of CM and no conferences, workshops, seminars, functions or fairs held till July.“Except Governor, CM, Chief Justice and other judges of the High Court and the chief secretary, no one will be allowed to travel in executive class. Government employees won’t be allowed 5-star hotel accommodation when they travel outside the state,” Sarma said.Foreign travel and training for government employees will not be allowed except for those funded by the Centre or foreign agencies. Similarly, there will be no allocation of MLALAD funds for the first four months of the financial year.Giving details of how the crisis has affected Assam’s economy, Sarma informed that while GST collections for April 2019 was Rs 932 crore, this month the figure was just Rs 193 crore — a drop of 80% in collection.Likewise, revenue collection from sale of liquor dropped from Rs 65 crore in March this year to just Rs 6 crore in April. Tax collection from sale of petroleum products dipped from an average of Rs 340 crore per month to just Rs 60-70 crore this month.The state government needs Rs 3,600 cr every month to pay salaries, pension and interest on loans.“As it is a developing scenario, we will take additional measures in coming days and weeks depending on how the situation unfolds. I believe we will be able to come out of this crisis (without much damage), but we need generous help from the Centre,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-functions-or-5-star-hotel-stay-assam-cuts-costs-to-fight-covid-19/story-zHDUl7dIfno2wvoo6FyzHL.html
29-04-2020||India||India’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases is now 11.3 days: Harsh Vardhan||India’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases is 11.3 days since the last three days, and the country’s mortality rate due to the highly infectious disease is around 3 per cent, Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday.Although the global mortality rate of coronavirus patients is around 7 per cent, India’s mortality rate of 3 per cent extends hope for all those afflicted by the disease.About 86 per cent of those Covid-19 patients who have succumbed to the deadly disease so far also had co-morbid conditions like acute diabetes and hypertension, the minister, who is a doctor himself, said. ALSO READ | Coronavirus RNA airborne, but unlikely to be infective: Study“Only 0.33 per cent Covid-19 patients are on ventilators, 1.5 per cent patients are on oxygen support and 2.34 per cent patients are in the ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country,” Dr. Harsh Vardhan told the media.At least 288 government laboratories are working along with 97 private lab chains with around 16,000 sample collection centres which are testing around 60,000 samples per day, according to health ministry data.“The government is working hard to increase the testing capacity to 1 lakh tests per day within the next few days,” the health minister said.With 1813 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in India has risen to 31,787, which includes 22,982 active cases and 7,797 who have been cured and discharged, health ministry data indicated.At least 1008 coronavirus patients have succumbed to the contagious disease so far. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-positive-cases-is-now-11-3-days-harsh-vardhan/story-PZWF1oYDtvRpOPBMp7kgSK.html
29-04-2020||India||Former Finance Secretary Rajiv Kumar appointed PESB chief||Former finance secretary Rajiv Kumar was on Wednesday appointed as the chairperson of the Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB), the government’s headhunter for top level posts in public sector undertakings. Kumar, a 1984 batch IAS officer of Jharkhand cadre, retired as finance secretary in February this year. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved his appointment as the PESB chairperson for a period of three years, according to a Personnel Ministry order. The PESB does top level recruitments in central public sector enterprises. Kumar will succeed Kapil Dev Tripathi, who has been recently appointed as the Secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind. Kumar has been credited with bringing in key reforms in banking and bureaucracy during his stints in the finance ministry and the Ministry of Personnel. He steered the banking and financial sector through the severest crisis. Kumar took over as the Secretary, Department of Financial Services in September 2017 when most of the public sector banks including the State Bank of India were in losses. He was designated as the finance secretary in July 2019 by the government. Known for taking bold decisions, Kumar brought in fundamental changes in the banking sector and played a crucial role in merging 10 public sector banks into four, officials said. He was also instrumental in brokering peace between the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that resulted in the smooth transfer of Rs 1.76 lakh crore of the central bank’s surplus to the exchequer last year, they said. During his two-and-a-half year stint as Financial Services Secretary, several policy decisions were taken to promote responsive and responsible banking, the officials said. A massive Rs 3 lakh crore recapitalization of banks was undertaken during his tenure. Before joining the finance ministry, Kumar was the Establishment Officer (EO) in the Personnel Ministry.He played a key role in bringing in a 360 degree appraisal system for promotion and empanelment of senior bureaucrats during his stint in the Personnel Ministry. Kumar was also instrumental in streamlining the promotion and appointment process done by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), they said. Incidentally, a compendium of guidelines pertaining to board-level appointments in the Central Public Sector Enterprises was issued by Kumar when he worked as the EO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-finance-secretary-rajiv-kumar-appointed-pesb-chief/story-N2TglT1pT8RK7sgGG8c1TO.html
29-04-2020||India||Minority medical colleges have to admit students on NEET scores, rules SC||The National Eligibility Entrance Test, or NEET, the single entrance exam for all medical colleges, will apply to minority institutions providing medical courses, the Supreme Court ordered on Wednesday.The top court ruled that there would be no exception to the law that lays down uniform entrance exams for all graduate and post graduate medical courses.“The rights available under Article 30 (of the Constitution which secures the right of religious and linguistic minorities to run educational institutions) are not violated by provisions carved out in Section 10D of the MCI Act (Medical Council of India Act) and the Dentists Act and Regulations framed by MCI/DCI,” the three-judge bench comprising justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and MR Shah.As a single entrance examination to medical and dental colleges, NEET was first introduced in 2013. But this exam was scrapped by the Supreme Court within a few months. A five-judge bench of the Supreme Court revisited this verdict and restored it in 2016.Over 15.9 lakh students have registered for this year’s entrance exam to study medicine across the country.Christian Medical College, Vellore, which used to hold its own entrance exam, had challenged the NEET route for admissions, arguing that it violated the institution’s minority rights enshrined under Article 30.The institute had insisted that its selection process was designed to select candidates who would be willing to serve in the country’s rural areas, not just cities. For this reason, it said, they had heavily subsidised the medical course.The three-judge bench, however, reasoned that NEET was introduced for better administration in view of several instances of maladministration by several private colleges.“The regulatory measures are intended for the proper functioning of institutions and to ensure that the standard of education is maintained and does not fall low under the guise of an exclusive right of management to the extent of maladministration,” the judges ruled.In its verdict, the bench led by Justice Arun Mishra also set aside challenges to NEET by private medical colleges, deemed universities, and state governments who wanted to hold their own entrance tests for admission to MBBS and BDS courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-only-admission-test-for-medical-courses-applicable-to-minority-institutions-also-rules-supreme-court/story-fvv6vOAFBsXXY8tHaIoHkN.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Coronavirus cases rise to 31787 in India, death toll at 1008||The Ministry of Health updated the number of coronavirus cases to 31,787 on Wednesday evening. The figure includes 22,982 active cases, 7,796 patients who have been cured or discharged and 1008 fatalities. According to the health ministry, 1,813 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that India’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases is 11.3 days since the last three days. The minister added that the country’s mortality rate due to coronavirus is around 3 per cent.“Only 0.33 per cent Covid-19 patients are on ventilators, 1.5 per cent patients are on oxygen support and 2.34 per cent patients are in the ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country,” Vardhan stated.With 9,318 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra continues to be worst-affected state. Gujarat comes at the second spot with 3,774 coronavirus cases followed by the national capital which has reported 3,314 coronavirus patients so far. Punjab on Wednesday announced an extension in coronavirus curfew for two more weeks till May 17 but with some relaxation. Limited easing of restrictions will be in place every day from 7 am to 11 am, starting Thursday. The containment and red zones will, however, continue to remain under total lockdown.“The State Home Department has issued detailed guidelines clarifying that the word ‘shopping complexes’ is replaced with ‘market complexes’ within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities meaning thereby that activities in market complexes would continue to remain prohibited till May 3, 2020,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-31787-in-india-death-toll-at-1008/story-zZlDe6HIq6NiKq4p9u7J6H.html
29-04-2020||India||Yes Bank Fraud: CBI custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan extended till May 1||The special CBI court on Wednesday extended custody of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) till May 1 in connection with Yes Bank fraud case.The brothers were arrested on Sunday and were remanded to CBI custody till Wednesday. As the period for custody ended, the two were again produced before the special CBI court on Wednesday afternoon. The agency probing Yes Bank fraud case sought extension of their custody for further investigation.The agency pleaded that they only got one day after their arrest to interrogate them on various aspects of the loans and debentures obtained from Yes Bank during the tenure of Rana Kapoor, founder and Chief Executive Officer of Yes Bank. The prosecution also claimed that the accused have not cooperated in the questioning and they need more time to unearth the conspiracy.The plea was objected by the defense lawyers Amit Desai and Subodh Desai submitting that the custodial interrogation of the two is not required. It was argued that the case is based on banking transaction and money trails, documents of which are available with the agency. They also submitted that everything is available in the form of record hence the accused need not be sent to CBI custody in times of Covid emergency.The court after considering the arguments from both the side has extended the CBI custody of the two brothers for two more days till May 1.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), which is till date not redeemed. It is further alleged that Yes Bank had sanctioned loan to RKW developers, where Dheeraj is a director and the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil. CBI has alleged that in return, Wadhawan allegedly “paid kickback of Rs 600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-cbi-custody-of-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhwan-extended-till-may-1/story-lxB48AA9gjneCXpx9Y9J5I.html
29-04-2020||India||Pending Class 10, 12 exams to be held at first possibility: Official||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) plans to conduct the pending board examinations for classes 10 and 12 at the first possibility, according to officials aware of the matter who also said students will be informed about the process at least 10 days in advance. CBSE earlier declared that it would conduct exams in 12 important subjects for Class 12. Exams for 17 other subjects for classes 10 and 12, which could not be held in communal violence hit north-east Delhi, will also be conducted.“Recently, there has been a lot of speculation regarding CBSE Board exams. The board’s decision to take exams for 29 subjects of class 10 and 12, stands the same. There is no change in position of conducting board exams. Therefore, exams will be conducted,” Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE’s controller of examinations said.The clarification came amid uncertainty over when the exams will be conducted, leading to speculations that the exams will be done away with in a one-time arrangement. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday his government has asked the human resource development ministry to evaluate and promote students of classes 10 and 12 on the basis of their scores in internal exams. “We are prepared to conduct board exams for classes 10 and 12 pending due to the lockdown in wake of the Covid-19 situation in the country. The exams will be conducted for 29 subjects crucial for promotion and admissions to undergraduate courses, at the first possibility. The students will be given at least a 10-day notice before exams are conducted,” a senior HRD ministry official said.“States have been asked to start the evaluation process for the exams already conducted and have been advised to facilitate evaluation of answer sheets. The CBSE will also issue instructions for marking or assessment of non-important subjects not included in the list of 29 subjects,” the official said.The Bihar board has already announced results for three streams of class 12 and is in the process of evaluation of class 10 exams. The Uttar Pradesh board is yet to begin the evaluation and will take a call in this regard soon.According to HRD ministry officials, as of now there are plans to conduct competitive exams including JEE and NEET in June for admissions to engineering and medical colleges. For other undergraduate admissions, the University Grants Commission (UGC) is working on an alternative calendar for the new academic session.Universities and schools across the country have been closed and exams postponed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.Later, a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, and it was later extended till May 3. The board was not able to conduct exams to classes 10 and 12 on eight examination days due to the coronavirus outbreak. Further, due to the law and order situation in northeast Delhi, the board was not able to conduct exams on four examination days, while a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six days.CBSE has already announced that it will not be conducting any exams for students in foreign countries.“There are several CBSE schools located in 25 countries (which too are affected by Covid-19)…Under such circumstances, it is felt that the board will not be in a position to hold differential sets of exams for each of these countries,” the official said. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pending-class-10-12-exams-to-be-held-at-first-possibility-official/story-9K1cI8I3oKKFrC312AA2jO.html
29-04-2020||India||Cop injured as migrant workers protest for wages near IIT-Hyderabad||Protesting non-payment of wages despite repeated requests, about 1600 migrant workers went on the rampage and attacked the police with sticks and stones at the Indian Institute of Technology campus at Kandi in Sangareddy district on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Wednesday afternoon. An assistant sub-inspector Sangappa received minor injuries and a police vehicle was partially damaged.On receiving the information, additional police forces from Sangareddy, led by Superintendent of Police S Chandrashekar Reddy and DSP Sridhar Reddy rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control.The SP pacified the agitators and assured them that their issues would be resolved at the earliest. He took a delegation of the workers to the district collector M Hanumantha Rao for talks.The workers complained that their company had not been paying wages to them for the last two months. The collector directed the company representatives to pay the pending wages by Thursday evening in their accounts.The collector also advised the company to begin work with the material available, strictly observing the physical distance norms and supplying the workers masks and sanitisers.The collector said the workers had grown restive as they had been held up on the campus without work for a long time. He said works should begin in a small way to keep them engaged.The workers, most of them from Bihar and Jharkhand, had been brought to the site by the construction major Larsen and Toubro to work on the construction of buildings on the IIT campus nearly six months ago.Following the nationwide lockdown, they had been held up at the construction site itself. They were alleging that the company had not been paying them wages for the last two months.On Wednesday, the workers who did not have even essentials to feed their children, began leaving the campus for their native places, as they were vexed with the lockdown and lack of wages. However, the Sangareddy police prevented them from coming out of the campus saying that the lockdown was in force.The agitated workers picked up an argument with the police asking how long they should bear with uncertain conditions, insisting they be allowed to go back to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-injured-as-migrant-workers-protest-for-wages-near-iit-hyderabad/story-7nTdn4csWDbEitxv58ymTN.html
29-04-2020||India||Coronavirus situation in Odisha ‘well under control’: CM Naveen Patnaik||The Covid -19 situation in Odisha is “well under control”, but the next few days will be “extremely challenging” as a large number of people are likely to return from states that have been hit hard by the pandemic, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said on Wednesday. Patnaik said Odisha will create history in controlling the spread of coronavirus if people cooperate with the state government and adhere to its guidelines. “The Covid-19 situation in Odisha is now well under control. The next few days are going to be extremely challenging and crucial, but there is nothing to be afraid of,” he said in a video message. “A large number of Odia brothers and sisters will return from states like the worst-hit Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan and neighbouring West Bengal,” the chief minister said. Their arrival will lead to detection of more Covid-19 cases, but the situation can be kept under control with cooperation from people, he said. Patnaik said people should assist the state government in ensuring that all returnees are registered and placed under quarantine. “This will ensure that the returnees and their families remain healthy, as also our villages and our society. A little bit of carelessness and negligence might put everybody in danger. This is a matter of life and death,” he said. The chief minister cautioned that laxity on the part of even 10 per cent of people will lead to escalation of the situation by 100 per cent. Patnaik added that out of the 122 Covid-19 patients in the state, 50 had recently returned from West Bengal. “Looking after West Bengal returnees has also become a major challenge for the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-situation-in-odisha-well-under-control-cm-naveen-patnaik/story-HAOvujpYqC6ti5POGmVTPO.html
29-04-2020||India||Rs 17,986 crore transferred to farmers amid Covid-19 lockdown: Agriculture minister||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar briefed the media on Wednesday. During the press conference, the minister said that farmers across the nation have benefitted a great deal through Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme during the coronavirus lockdown. Tomar said that the Department of Agriculture has transferred Rs 17,986 crore to farmers since March 24. The minister also emphasised the significance of “Kisan Rath” App which was launched amid the coronavirus lockdown on April 17 to help farmers and traders identify the right mode of transportation for movement of farm produce.  #PMKisan has benefited farmers immensely even during this #COVIDー19 as @AgriGoI has transferred Rs. 17986 crore to farmer since 24th March, 2020: @nstomar media briefingMore Details:🔽 pic.twitter.com/koThr4MynVThe minister said that India has primarily been an agriculture-driven nation, as a result of which the country manages to produce more than it needs. “The country is going through a tough time and even during such circumstances, the agricultural system of the nation is completely functional,” Tomar said. The minister said that the nationwide lockdown, to curb the spread of coronavirus, has affected many sectors and industries but hasn’t impacted the food supply or the availability of ration. “No one in the country can say that he couldn’t find vegetables or milk amid the lockdown,” the minister stated.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 31,787 on Wednesday evening, the Ministry of Health stated. The figure includes 22,982 active cases, 7,796 patients who have been cured or discharged and 1008 fatalities. According to the health ministry, 1,813 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.The nationwide coronavirus lockdown will come to an end on May 3 if not further extended. Punjab government, however, has extended the curfew till May 17 with limited relaxations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-government-has-transferred-rs-17986-crore-to-farmers-since-march-24-says-minister-of-agriculture/story-pWWlHebUaEVF3shb6PvYSJ.html
29-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Irrfan Khan buried in presence of friends and family, Tigmanshu Dhulia says ‘I am sad how small his funeral will be’||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Irrfan Khan buried in presence of friends and family, Tigmanshu Dhulia says ‘I am sad how small his funeral will be’Irrfan Khan was buried in the presence of wife Sutapa Sikdar and sons Aayan and Babil at 3 pm on Wednesday. The actor passed away after a long and spirited battle against neuroendocrine tumours. The funeral was small due to the restrictions in place due to coronavirus pandemic. Read more. In Wayanad, pay Rs 5000 as fine for not wearing masksThose living in Kerala’s Wayanad will now have to pay a heavy price for not wearing a mask while venturing out of their homes amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Violators will be fined Rs 5000 for not wearing a protective mask, news agency ANI reported. Read more. India green-lights UAE, Kuwait request for ex-military doctors, nursesThe government has given an in-principle approval to requests from Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to send Indian doctors and paramedics to help the two Gulf countries fight the Covid-19 pandemic, a top government official told Hindustan Times on Wednesday. Read more. ‘Loss to the world of cinema, theatre’: PM Modi mourns Irrfan Khan’s deathPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the death of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan, who died in a Mumbai hospital earlier in the day, saying he will be remembered for his “versatile performances”. Read more. Suicide bomber kills 3, injures 15 in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul: ReportA suicide bomber on Wednesday targeted a base belonging to Afghan special forces on the southern outskirts of the capital, Kabul, killing at least three civilians and wounding 15, officials said. Read more. Google’s new website aims to help you avoid Covid-19 related online scamsGoogle has launched a dedicated portal that aims to help users stay safer online. The new portal focuses on the Covid-19 related online scams. Read more. In hindsight: Covid profited from our mistakesAs we enter what might (or might not) be the final week of the nationwide lockdown, I thought back to the weeks since Corona took over our lives. My own view is that, compared to many Western countries, we haven’t done too badly. Read more. HRD Minister to answer students’ queries regarding impact of Covid-19 on their educationUnion Human Resource Development Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday called out students to talk about their queries regarding the impact of Covid-19 on their education and other issues. Read more. BJP’S ‘take tuition’ jibe at Rahul Gandhi; Congress says fugitives protectedThe row over RBI writing off loans of top 50 defaulters revealed in a recent RTI query has escalated. After Rahul Gandhi said that the government had tried to conceal the facts when he raised the issue in Parliament, BJP has now hit back. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said that Rahul Gandhi does not understand the difference between ‘write off and waive off’. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-irrfan-khan-buried-in-presence-of-friends-and-family-tigmanshu-dhulia-says-i-am-sad-how-small-his-funeral-will-be-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3fOEPkhGmAashxVTyVhI8H.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 shuts down Varanasi for a day, Punjab CM announces curfew extension: 10 points||The Covid-19 tally in the country breached the 31000-mark on Wednesday. India reported a total of 31332 coronavirus cases, Ministry of Health stated. The figure includes 22629 active cases, 7695 patients who have been cured or discharged and over 1000 fatalities. The extended phase of coronavirus lockdown in the country will come to an end on May 3 if not further extended. Here are the key developments:1. The government has given an in-principle approval to requests from Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to send Indian doctors and paramedics to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic.2. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced the extension of curfew for two more weeks in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. 3. The central government on Wednesday asked all its employees to download the Aarogya Setu app and commute only after they have been marked “safe” or “low risk” in a move to reduce the spread of coronavirus. 4. The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to float a new Ordinance - which will enable it to defer payment of salary up to 25% amid the coronavirus outbreak.5. The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced some relaxations for Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai where a four-day “intense lockdown” was clamped to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will end at 9pm.6. With more than 40 cases of coronavirus reported so far, the 31st Battalion of CRPF posted in Delhi has become the epicentre of coronavirus cases.7. Central teams, which were tasked to check preparedness of districts with a high load of coronavirus cases, found that infection prevention control practices were not properly followed in several hospitals, news agency PTI reported.8. Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi is completely shut today, district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said as the number of cases of the coronavirus disease rose in municipal corporation limits.9. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that those health centres and hospitals that don’t have the permission to practice plasma therapy should not perform it. Jain said that the central government has said that plasma therapy is very technical and is at an experimental stage currently.10. The doors of the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand were opened early on Wednesday after a six-month-long winter break in the absence of pilgrims due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-shuts-down-varanasi-for-a-day-punjab-cm-announces-curfew-extension-key-developments/story-JsR3IpcFAQtO009q9juh3N.html
29-04-2020||India||Punjab extends curfew for 2 weeks, shops to open for 4 hours every day||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday extended the curfew in the state by two more weeks beyond the national lockdown in place till May 3 to curb the spread of coronavirus disease.Singh made the announcement during a video address and said the curfew will be lifted for fours hours every day to allow people to step out of their homes and shops to open. The state’s information and public relations department issued a guideline for shops to open in a staggered manner across the state from 7am to 11am. The guideline said people must strictly follow norms social distancing, use sanitisers and masks.“The State Home Department has issued detailed guidelines clarifying that the word ‘shopping complexes’ is replaced with ‘market complexes’ within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities meaning thereby that activities in market complexes would continue to remain prohibited till May 3, 2020,” the statement said.Keeping in line with the central guidelines, shops registered under the Shops & Establishment Act except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls in rural areas are allowed to open with 50% strength of workers. Similarly, in urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls do not have the permission to open. Shops which deal in goods and those extending services like salons and barbershops etc. would continue to remain closed. E-commerce companies will be allowed to deliver essential goods only and the sale of liquor continues to be prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-extends-curfew-for-2-weeks-shops-to-open-for-4-hours-every-day/story-VXIE2ACshqMfJcOnQ4b7FI.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid survivor: Stay positive, says Noida-based IT professional after recovering||Lucknow: Umang Khemani (31), a Noida-based information technology (IT) professional, who tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive in March, is wiser in hindsight after recovering from SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.He has a word of advice for all those who are panic-stricken about the pandemic.“Stay away from an overdose of Covid-19 news, and it’ll help you to stay positive. Watch web series on over-the-top (OTT) media offerings or any other programme of your choice on TV or online,” said Khemani, who works for a multi-national company (MNC).He tested Covid-19 positive after his return from the US on March 17. He and his wife had gone to New York on March 6.“We got ourselves tested for Covid-19 on our return from the US. I tested Covid-19 positive on March 21. Fortunately, my wife tested negative. I got myself admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida for treatment,” he said.“The GIMS authorities took good care of me and followed all prescribed guidelines. The rooms were properly sanitised every three-four hours. I was on a healthy diet and doctors were supportive and inspirational. They encouraged me to do 15-minute yoga daily and urged me to think positively,” he added.Khemani believes that if detected early, patients can recover from Covid-19. “Proper precautions need to be taken for 14 days. The mantra is to stay isolated, maintain social distancing norms, use personal protective equipment (PPE) kits such as mask, hand sanitiser and chances are high that you will recover in two weeks,” he said.Khemani cites his own example to urge others not to worry about the pandemic. “Most of the patients are recovering. There’s no need to panic. I was released by the GIMS on March 30, and I’m happy to be back with my family. However, I’m taking all the precautions such as self-isolation even after I returned home,” he added.Khemani’s cousin Dr. Rohit Gurnani, who works in Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU), had advised him to stay calm via several video-conferencing calls while he was undergoing treatment at the GIMS. He considers that he could recover quickly because of his family’s support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-survivor-stay-positive-says-noida-based-it-professional-after-recovering/story-9ZLctlBx8cUXgcseFtUBBJ.html
29-04-2020||India||BPCL may have to let go Nashik plot held illegally for 55 years||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will have to forego a 14,550 square feet plot in Nashik, belonging to the family of late Champalal Vithuram Jajoo, which it had illegally occupied for over 55 years, after a single bench of the Bombay high court turned down an appeal filed by the public sector undertaking to retain the plot.The bench of Justice Dama Sheshadri Naidu was critical of BPCL’s numerous attempts to appeal, and thereby prolong the legal battle, when it said, “If law cannot give you what you seek, litigation will. The appellant (Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited), it seems, strongly believes in this and proves it right, too.”The comment came because of the conduct of BPCL which held on to the plot with an unregistered lease deed by prolonging litigation. According to law, BPCL with an unregistered deal could have held on to the property only for 30 days.The issue started in February 1965 when BPCL, which earlier was Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Limited, secured a 20 year lease for the property for Rs 3,900 per year but did not secure a registered lease deed. Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Limited was nationalized by the central government to form Bharat Refineries Limited, before renaming it as BPCL.In 1977, the plot owners filed an eviction suit to recover the plot from BPCL for erecting unauthorized permanent structures, change of user and for unlawfully sub-letting the plot. In March 1985, a trial court dismissed the suit and later an appeal filed by the owners was also dismissed. The owners filed a writ petition which was also dismissed in 1998.In May 1998, the owners issued a notice of possession to BPCL and sought their eviction on the grounds of bona fide requirement, arrears of rent and permanent construction and filed a civil suit which they won. BPCL was unsuccessful in its challenge to the civil suit in 2005, and subsequently filed a second appeal in 2014 for which the Bombay high court ruled that the appeal was not maintainable in 2016. But BPCL once again filed another appeal in 2018.“All the while it holds on to the property,” noted Justice Naidu and said, “Now the PSU has been a tenant for 55 years on the strength of an unregistered lease deed, which legally entitled the lessee to be a tenant for only 30 days,” the judge added. “In other words, it is supposed to be a tenant for 30 days; that is all it gets as a lessee under an unregistered lease. But BPCL continues as a lessee for 55 years. Law gives it 30 days, and litigation stretches it to 20,075 days,” said the judge and dismissed the appeal filed by the public sector undertaking for securing extension of the lease.By another order, also pronounced on Monday, the judge also upheld the orders passed by a civil judge junior division at Nashik in September 2005, evicting BPCL and one of its retailers from the plot.Justice Naidu noted that first of all the unregistered lease conferred no rights on BPCL. Besides, the PSU has already got the extension beyond 20 years - the period it prayed for in the suit, despite losing the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bpcl-may-have-to-let-go-nashik-plot-held-illegally-for-55-years/story-v1cfeqKnEWV3MixdYIhfgI.html
29-04-2020||India||India green-lights UAE, Kuwait request for ex-military doctors, nurses||The government has given an in-principle approval to requests from Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to send Indian doctors and paramedics to help the two Gulf countries fight the Covid-19 pandemic, a top government official told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.Kuwait was the first one to seek Indian medical assistance earlier this month when Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah called Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Indian Air Force had then flown a 15-member military rapid response team.As this team was wrapping up - it returned on Monday - New Delhi received the request for more medical teams. “They were very impressed with the rapid response team,” an official said.By this time, senior government officials said, another request for Indian healthcare personnel had come in from the United Arab Emirates. There are also similar requests pending from Mauritius and Comoros, the archipelago off Africa’s east coast Comoros, that are battling the disease.Other Gulf countries have also sounded out New Delhi that they would need Indian medical assistance and are expected to send formal requests shortly.In response to these requests, the top official said, “an in-principle decision has been taken to allow retired military doctors, nurses and technicians to travel to UAE and Kuwait to begin with”.For Comoros and Mauritius, the government has okayed short-term deployment of the military’s rapid response teams. These self-contained teams comprise military doctors, nurses and other paramedics.The foreign ministry and the armed forces are still working out the mechanics of how the medical teams for Kuwait and UAE would be constituted.“Retired military healthcare professionals - doctors, nurses, lab technicians - who are ready to take up this assignment, can opt to help the Gulf countries,” the official said.On an average, a top military official told Hindustan Times, about 100 doctors, 30-40 nurses and a few hundred paramedics retire from the Army Medical Corps every year.Since it would not have been possible to spare serving government doctors at this time, the decision attempts to address the urgent needs of the Gulf countries without compromising with the healthcare requirements of people in India.PM Modi and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, who have received numerous requests for Indian assistance from Gulf countries over the Covid-19, had earlier ordered officials to prioritise approvals to their requests for dispatch of millions of paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine tablets.So far, 45 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and 11 metric tonnes of HCQ’s active pharmaceutical ingredients have been cleared to be shipped on a commercial basis to six Gulf countries, Bahrain, Jordan, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.Another 22.7 million units of paracetamol were also cleared for Kuwait and the UAE before the government lifted export controls on the medicine on 17 April. Some more consignments of paracetamol were subsequently cleared for the two countries, apart from Iraq and Yemen.Medical Assistance to Gulf countriesUAE - 428 lakh HCQ tablets, 10 tonnes of HCQ active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), 220 million paracetamol tabletsKuwait - 7.7 million paracetamol tablets, injections etcBahrain - 15 lakh HCQ tabletsJordan - 0.5 tonnes of HCQ API Oman - 10 lakh HCQ tabletsQatar - 80,000 HCQ tabletsSaudi Arabia - 0.52 tonnes of HCQ APIOfficials suggest India had gone out of its way to cater to the requirements of the Gulf countries at this crucial juncture, gestures that have been warmly reciprocated by the West Asian countries. Like when the UAE was packing off immigrants from every other country following the outbreak of the pandemic, India requested Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to go slow with repatriating Indian nationals because the state governments didn’t have the infrastructure to deal with the influx.This request was accepted though around the same time, the messaging to the rest of the world was that the government could impose restrictions on return of workers later from countries that don’t evacuate their nationals.“It is in this context”, a foreign ministry official said, “that the unseemly controversy over a cabinet note in Kuwait should be seen”. The document, which spoke about Muslims being targeted in India, was leaked around the same time that Kuwait was requesting India to make an exception and send Indian doctors and healthcare professionals.It was an effort by vested interests - possibly linked to pro-Pakistan elements in the kingdom - to influence the narrative around India’s deepening ties with Gulf countries. In any case, a minister in the Indian government said, even at meetings of the Union Cabinet in Delhi, all issues and topics under the Sun are discussed. “That does not mean that the view being discussed reflects the stand of the government,” he said.Officials underline how the concerns referred to in the Kuwaiti document echoed the narrative that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan had been trying to build for some time.Foreign minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi had promptly weighed in, calling for a coordinated effort against coronavirus. “Unfortunately, what we’re seeing is that though this virus respects no borders, it doesn’t differentiate between ethnicities or religion — yet in India [...] they’re in the grip of Islamophobia,” he said, according to a report in Pakistan’s newspaper Dawn’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-green-lights-uae-kuwait-request-for-ex-military-doctors-nurses/story-fc6THXnkTBVLTSMRgZbhdL.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In Kerala’s Wayanad, Rs 5,000 fine for dumping masks in the open||Masks, which have become common in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, are now contributing to litter in many places. To discourage such a trend, the police in Kerala’s Wayanad have imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on people caught littering the streets with masks.“We will fine offenders Rs 5000 and if they fail to cough up the fine we will register a case against them under the relevant provisions of the Epidemic Act which carries a maximum punishment of five years in jail. We need to discourage littering so a heavy fine is required. Attitudinal change is a must in such trying times. People will have to rise to the occasion,” said Wayanad’s superintendent of police E Rajaram.Health experts say dumped masks could facilitate super spread of Covid-19. In Wayanad, shops which do not provide hand sanitizers or soaps for customers will also be booked. They will have to cough up Rs 1,000 for the first offence and Rs 5,000 for a subsequent offence.Leading the battle against Covid-19 in Wayanad is a young collector, Dr Adeela Abdulla (34) who is also a qualified doctor.“Wayanad is an ecologically sensitive district that has more than 70% forest area. So we have to be strict. In pandemic days, masks are part of our life but at the same time we need to know how to use and dispose of it,” said the 2012 batch IAS officer who took many proactive steps in conjunction with the district police chief to make Wayanad a green zone.“My district shares borders with two states, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. So we have to be strict as people cross over from both sides. There is no compromise on masks. Not Covid-19 alone, it can check other respiratory tract infections also,” she said.Wayanad is represented by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Lok sabha.Taking a cue from Wayanad many local bodies in the state said they will give enough lessons to the public on how to wear and dispose of masks. They said many firms have started designer masks to suit all occasions but no lessons are imparted on wearing and removing masks.“We have seen after wearing masks people adjust it with their hands frequently. This defeats the very purpose,” said a civic body member. Kerala recorded 485 cases of Covid-19 out of which 359 have recovered and four have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-in-wayanad-pay-rs-5000-as-fine-for-not-wearing-masks/story-h8XnTToPUgifAoIwzMCgWJ.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Irrfan Khan’s performances will remain etched in our memories’: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind has expressed sadness over the death of actor Irrfan Khan. He said that Khan’s demise is a big loss to cinema.“Saddened by the untimely demise of noted actor Irrfan Khan. A rare talent and a brilliant actor, his diverse roles and remarkable performances will remain etched in our memories. A big loss to the world of cinema and millions of film lovers. Condolences to his family & admirers,” a tweet from Ratrapati Bhavan said. Saddened by the untimely demise of noted actor Irrfan Khan. A rare talent and a brilliant actor, his diverse roles and remarkable performances will remain etched in our memories. A big loss to the world of cinema and millions of film lovers. Condolences to his family & admirers.Khan died on Wednesday after being admitted to Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital with a colon infection.The death, after a prolonged battle with cancer, was confirmed by a spokesman who said Khan was surrounded by family at the time.“He fought the many battles that came with it,” the spokesman said in a statement, referring to the diagnosis of Khan’s rare cancer in 2018.Irrfan Khan was among the first Indian actors to make a consistent mark in Western cinema, following in the footsteps of crossover pioneers such as Saeed Jaffrey, Roshan Seth and Om Puri.Born Sahabzade Irfan Ali Khan in the western desert state of Rajasthan, in a family with no ties to cinema, the actor recalled in interviews that as children, he and his siblings were not allowed to watch movies.The only exception was when a visiting uncle took them to the theatre.Khan made his screen debut in the Academy Award-nominated 1988 drama “Salaam Bombay!,” a tale of Mumbai’s street children. He later worked with directors Mira Nair, Wes Anderson and Ang Lee.Khan in 2018 was diagnosed with a rare neuroendocrine cancer and underwent months of treatment in the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irrfan-khan-s-performances-will-remain-etched-in-our-memories-president-kovind/story-Tmc2Ui057LnrUvQGZ8D81L.html
29-04-2020||India||Centre’s teams find several hospitals fail to meet infection control practices||Central teams, which were tasked to check preparedness of districts with a high load of coronavirus cases, found that infection prevention control practices were not properly followed in several hospitals raising concerns over safety of healthcare workers, official sources said.Six high-level multi-disciplinary teams were constituted by the Union Health Ministry to assist and review state health departments for proper implementation of cluster containment plans for large outbreaks and check hospital preparedness for Covid-19.Teams comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS and ICMR among others visited states including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu which have high case load districts.They visited the stated between second and third week of April. “They have observed that infection prevention control practices were not being followed properly during sample collection and treatment of confirmed cases raising concerns over the possibility of healthcare workers getting infected and leading to further transmission,” the sources said.They have recommended that such infection prevention control guidelines should be strictly followed in hospital settings.Several healthcare workers including doctors and nurses have been infected by Covid-19 across the country.Asked about the number of infected healthcare personnel, an official said no such centralised data has been maintained.The Central teams have also advised the states to follow laid down procedures of sample collection and transfer to testing labs maintaining the cold chain.“It was observed that the cold chain was not being followed at some cases which may lead to incorrect test results,” the sources said.Explaining the cold chain, the sources said samples and specimens and even certain drugs and reagents are needed to be stored at a particular temperature. Even when they are transported, that temperature level has to be maintained so that they do not degrade.The teams have also recommended the need for deploying more field staff for house-to-house survey in containment zones as well as strengthening of passive surveillance in buffer zones so that asymptomatic cases are not missed out.The teams have also recommended maintaining of a separate triage area in hospitals for segregation of the mild, moderate and severe patients of coronavirus infection, which they said, were not followed in many places.They have also recommended training of healthcare workers in IPC practices and clinical management of mild, moderate and severe as per the national clinical guidelines.Interaction with many of them revealed that they are unaware of the guidelines to be followed while handling a Covid-19 patient and this is a “serious concern,” the sources said.As many as 15 places including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad have been identified as “high case load” by the government.Out of these 15, seven districts show particularly high case volumes, like Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi.The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 1,007 and the number of cases climbed to 31,332 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-teams-find-several-hospitals-fail-to-meet-infection-control-practices/story-lUeBfKiPff4rMmgivVpuxN.html
29-04-2020||India||Villagers attack police over opening of PDS shop in Bihar||A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and a sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) in Bihar’s Kaimur district sustained minor injuries, while a home guard was severely wounded on Tuesday afternoon when angry villagers attacked them for shielding what they called an “errant” public distribution system (PDS) dealer.The SDPO’s official sports utility vehicle (SUV) was also damaged in the attack.The home guard, Sudarshan Bind, who has suffered a broken jaw and profuse bleeding, is undergoing treatment at a local district hospital. The incident occurred at Chhevari village under Ramgarh police station of Kaimur district, when the SDM, SDPO, and other officials reached the spot to open a sealed PDS shop.The villagers attacked the officials because they opposed the officials’ move to open the PDS shop, which was sealed last week on charges of malpractices. Dilnawaz Ahmad, superintendent of police (SP), Kaimur district, rushed to the troubled spot and brought the situation under control. The police have registered a case against seven named and 50 unidentified attackers. They have been booked under Section 148 (rioting) and Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They have also been charged for the violation of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, under the National Disaster Management Act. The district police authorities have arrested seven people, including the husband of Chhevari panchayat head, Harendra Ram. “Ram is accused of leading the mob. The other assailants have also been identified, and they will be arrested soon,” SP Ahmad said.The district administration had sealed two PDS shops in the village last week in the presence of SDM Shiv Kumar Raut, marketing officer Hemendra Kumar, and the police last week following the locals’ complaints about the dealers’malpractices.On Tuesday, SDM Raut, SDPO, district supply officer (DSO) Prabhat Kumar Jha reached the village with the police in a bid to settle the dispute over the dealers’ alleged malpractices. The officials announced that the licence of one of the PDS shops had been cancelled, and a dealer from an adjacent village has been entrusted with the responsibility to run it. However, the officials gave a clean chit to the second dealer, which irked the villagers and demanded the closure of both the PDS shops. Soon, they gheraoed the officials and started pelting stones at them.“Many PDS dealers in Kaimur district are indulging in rampant corruption for long. This has been a cause for resentment among the poor villagers, who are primarily dependent on the PDS for their survival. Tuesday’s violence was an outburst of their pent-up anger and frustration,” said Vijay Yadav, district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-attack-police-over-opening-of-pds-shop-in-bihar/story-rXM4BHpd8dzVLlh8Khm4vI.html
29-04-2020||India||Bihar Covid-19 update: Tally reaches 366; 28 districts now affected||The number of Covid-19 patients reached 366 in Bihar on Wednesday, after 20 more people tested positive for the disease in the state. Two people have died of the disease in the state so far, according to Union health ministry.With Araria, Sitamarhi and Sheikhpura reporting their first cases, 28 of state’s 38 districts are now affected by the coronavirus pandemic.Giving details about the number of cases, Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said that six people - all men in the age range between 18 and 70 years - tested positive for coronavirus infection in Gopalganj district.In addition, Kaimur reported four cases, including that of a four-year-old boy from Chainpur village which has become a hotspot. The remaining patients, including a woman aged 19 years, are from the district headquarters of Bhabhua.Munger has the highest number of Covid-19 cases - 92 - followed by Patna (39), Nalanda (35), Rohtas (31) and Siwan (30).Some villages in Buxar district are also Covid-19 hotspot; a 17-year-old boy tested Covid-19 positive in Naya Bhojpur village on Tuesday.Till Tuesday evening, 19,851 samples have been tested at six approved laboratories in the state four at the state capital and one each at Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga.Meanwhile, Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi told the Centre that 38 lakh people in the state have so far downloaded the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. The highest number of downloads - 5.62 lakh - are from Patna followed by 1.81 lakh in the Muzaffarpur district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-covid-19-update-tally-reaches-366-28-districts-now-affected/story-d5nc8H0qdRUK5SX2uBVnDL.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Centre asks all employees to download Aarogya Setu app||The central government has asked all its employees to download the Aarogya Setu app and commute only after they have been marked “safe” or “low risk” in a move to reducethe risk of transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The order, issued by the department of personnel and training on Wednesday, has instructed all employees, including outsourced staff to download the app. Joint secretaries (administration) across departments have been asked to ensure that the directions are strictly followed. The Aarogya Setu app will determine the risk, based on Bluetooth proximity (‘recent contact with infected person’) to assess whether an official is at ‘high risk’. Those marked as ‘high risk’ will have to skip office for 14 days. The directions come just a few days before May 3, the scheduled date to lift the lockdown. While ministries are still waiting for clarity on whether the full workforce has to return to offices, they are taking preventive measures such as sanitisation and thermal screenings to reduce the risk of being infected. The app, one of the government’s flagship initiatives to fight the coronavirus pandemic, has been downloaded by nearly eight crore users so far after being launched on April 2. It has been dogged by privacy concerns, with many critics saying there is no clarity on where the data collected is stored, and if it is stored for posterity. “There are many problems with the app. There is a privacy concern and a cybersecurity one. All the information is stored on a backend server. There may be a possible security threat,” lawyer Apar Gupta said. “People who are working with the government, their movements will be tracked at all times. The only form of restraint is the privacy policy which may be changed anytime,” Gupta added. Independent security researcher Srinivas Kodali said the app collects “information but doesn’t provide essential information.” “The app has security features, yes. It is an experiment with a good aim that may fall flat. The question remains how is data used and who has access to the data collected. The essential problem is a trust deficit when it comes to the government. It is a surveillance app,” Kodali said while speaking to HT. Moreover, Kodali added the app doesn’t work unless a majority of people download it.According to Arnab Kumar, program director and a member of the Aarogya Setu core team, “the benefit of the app lies in its ability to automatically contact trace”. The app collects the name, phone number, sex and travel history of the person over the last 30 days. According to sources in NITI Aayog, the data is stored for around 45 days after which it is deleted if a person is not at risk.“Security and privacy concerns have been paramount while designing the app. Each phone number is assigned a unique id and once someone is found Covid-19 positive, the app traces other unique ids the person has come in contact with,” Kumar said. “Using Bluetooth-enabled technology we can determine the time and distance the persons maintained and thus, warn others who may be at risk,” he added. Kumar added that the data is stored with the government and accessible to only those who are directly involved in battling the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-centre-asks-all-employees-to-download-aarogya-setu-app/story-N0imeC28KBQ9TiijveYNhO.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Loss to the world of cinema, theatre’: PM Modi mourns Irrfan Khan’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the death of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan, who died in a Mumbai hospital earlier in the day, saying he will be remembered for his “versatile performances”.Irrfan Khan died at Kokilaben Hospital in Mumbai, where he was admitted for treatment of a colon infection on Tuesday. “Irrfan Khan’s demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre. He will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. My thoughts are with his family, friends and admirers. May his soul rest in peace,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Irrfan Khan’s demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre. He will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. My thoughts are with his family, friends and admirers. May his soul rest in peace.PM Modi was among a host of political leaders, Bollywood actors, sportsperson and others to mourn the Piku actor’s death. Also Watch | Actor Irrfan Khan passes away in Mumbai; tributes pour in from celebritiesThe 53-year-old’s death, which came after a prolonged battle with cancer, was confirmed by a spokesperson who said Irrfan Khan was surrounded by family at the time.“It’s saddening that this day, we have to bring forward the news of him passing away. Irrfan was a strong soul, someone who fought till the very end and always inspired everyone who came close to him,” the spokesperson said. “Surrounded by his love, his family for whom he most cared about, he left for heaven abode, leaving behind truly a legacy of his own. We all pray and hope that he is at peace. And to resonate and part with his words he had said ‘As if I was tasting life for the first time, the magical side of it’,” the statement said.Irrfan Khan was diagnosed with an neuroendocrine tumour in March 2018 and went to London for treatment. He came back in February last year to shoot Angrezi Medium, his last film, and went back to London again. He returned to India in September 2019.Irrfan Khan died days after his 95-year-old mother, Saeeda Begum, passed away on Saturday morning in Jaipur. Khan, who couldn’t travel to the capital of Rajasthan, due to the coronavirus lockdown, paid his last respects to his mother through a video conferencing session, according to news agency ANI.He is survived by his wife and two sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-to-the-world-of-cinema-theatre-pm-modi-mourns-irrfan-khan-s-death/story-ZeeFFdVf2yJJiBpP5ka7FK.html
29-04-2020||India||Palghar lynching case: 5 cops suspended, 35 shunted||Three more policemen have been suspended in connection with lynching of three people, including two sadhus, in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, news agency ANI reported.“An Assistant sub-inspector and two head constables of Kasa police station have been suspended in Palghar lynching case. Two police inspectors have already been suspended in the case. Thirty cops were transferred yesterday,” ANI reported quoting a statement from Palghar Police.Two sadhus and their driver were lynched by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110 kilometre from Palghar in Maharashtra on April 16. They were attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.It later emerged that the sadhus - 70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri - belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rite of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri.Palghar Police have arrested around 110 people, including nine juveniles in connection with the mob lynching.Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department (CID).A petition has been filed in the Bombay High Court seeking to transfer the investigation into the Palghar incident to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The petition, filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay, also sought directions to the central government and Palghar SP to submit a report to the NIA with a view to enabling the agency to make a decision about taking over the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palghar-lynching-cases-5-cops-suspended-35-shunted/story-LiMW8qz9EFyJPzvh9KHeOO.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Powerhouse of versatility and talent’: How politicians remembered Irrfan Khan||The passing away of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan sent shockwaves across the country and beyond the borders. Khan was an unparalleled artist who received the country’s fourth highest civilian honour Padma Shri in the year 2011. Besides people from the film fraternity, both Bollywood and Hollywood, scores of ministers and politicians expressed their sadness and condoled Khan’s demise. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Irrfan Khan’s demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre”.  Irrfan Khan’s demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre. He will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. My thoughts are with his family, friends and admirers. May his soul rest in peace.“He will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. My thoughts are with his family, friends and admirers. May his soul rest in peace,” the prime minister tweeted. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi described Khan as a “versatile and talented actor” and said he was India’s popular brand ambassador on the global stage of cinema and television. “He will be greatly missed,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted out.  “I’m sorry to hear about the passing of Irrfan Khan. A versatile & talented actor, he was a popular Indian brand ambassador on the global film & tv stage. He will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans at this time of grief,” Gandhi’s tweet read.  I’m sorry to hear about the passing of Irrfan Khan. A versatile & talented actor, he was a popular Indian brand ambassador on the global film & tv stage. He will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans at this time of grief.Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje said the world of cinema has lost a “powerhouse of versatility and talent”. Deeply saddened by the passing of actor #IrrfanKhan. An artist par excellence, the face of #ResurgentRajasthan - today the World of Cinema has lost a powerhouse of versatility and talent. He will be missed.My sincere condolences to the family.“Deeply saddened by the passing of actor #IrrfanKhan. An artist par excellence, the face of #ResurgentRajasthan - today the World of Cinema has lost a powerhouse of versatility and talent. He will be missed,” Raje tweeted out. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said India lost “one of the most exceptional actors of our time”.Shocked to hear of the demise of Irrfan Khan, one of the most exceptional actors of our time. May his work always be remembered and his soul rest in peace“Shocked to hear of the demise of Irrfan Khan, one of the most exceptional actors of our time. May his work always be remembered and his soul rest in peace,” Kejriwal tweeted out. Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, Shashi Tharoor said Khan “gladdened his heart” although both had never met.  Saddened beyond measure by the passing of a human being I had never met, but who gladdened my heart and the hearts of millions with his incandescent talent. RIP @irrfank, gone when he had so much more to give https://t.co/4qscNrSfQv“Saddened beyond measure by the passing of a human being I had never met, but who gladdened my heart and the hearts of millions with his incandescent talent. RIP @irrfank, gone when he had so much more to give,” Tharoor expressed in a tweet. No stereotypical looks, no six-pack, no fancy dance steps, no dynastic claim to a place in Bollywood. It was just talent & a breathtaking screen presence. #IrrfanKhan your courage to speak up when others chose silence was your biggest asset & will be missed the most. God speed.“It is difficult to find another example of IrrfanKhan’s unmatched performance,” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet. “His acting broke the boundaries of languages, nations and religions, creating an accent of acting that united all humanity through art and compassion,” she posted. Saddened to hear about the demise of #IrrfanKhan.One of India’s most versatile actors and a true gem of a person, my thoughts are with his family and friends in this hour of grief. Om Shanti.Khan, 53, breathed his last on Wednesday at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. The actor was being treated for colon infection at the hospital. The actor was diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumour, a rare form of cancer, in the year 2018. He left for London for treatment and returned last year to shoot for Homi Adajania’s ‘Angrezi Medium’ which released last month. The actor returned to London and came back last year in September after his treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/powerhouse-of-versatility-and-talent-how-politicians-remembered-irrfan-khan/story-PfhplWja1g73Iijy6Ol70H.html
29-04-2020||India||Nagaland levies Covid-19 cess of Rs 5 per litre for diesel and Rs 6 for petrol and motor spirit||Nagaland has followed in the footsteps of two other states in the north-east -- Assam and Meghalaya – that imposed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cess on petroleum products last week.In a notification issued on Tuesday, Sentiyanger Imchen, the additional chief secretary and finance commissioner, Nagaland, stated that the Covid-19 cess would be Rs 5 and Rs 6 per litre of diesel, petrol and other motor spirits, respectively.“In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section 3 of section 3A of the Nagaland (Sales of Petrol and Petroleum Products including Motor Spirit and Lubricant) Taxation Act, 1967, the Governor of Nagaland is pleased to notify than in addition to the existing rate of tax and cess, Covid-19 cess shall be levied,” said the notification that came into effect from Tuesday midnight. On April 21, Assam had hiked the price of petrol from Rs 71.61 to Rs 77.46 per litre and that of diesel from Rs 65.07 to Rs 70.50 per litre. “Due to a decrease in international oil prices, it will affect the amount Assam gets as royalty for oil from ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation) and Oil India Limited. This increase in prices is an attempt to cover some of the losses, maybe Rs 50 crore in 30 days. This is a temporary measure and there will be a rollback once the Covid-19 crisis gets over,” Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said. On April 21, Meghalaya, too, had increased its taxes on petrol and diesel. Now, a litre of petrol and diesel costs Rs 74.9 and Rs 67.5, respectively, in the state. Meghalaya government has also decided to levy 2% as sales tax surcharge on both petrol and diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-levies-covid-19-cess-of-rs-5-per-litre-for-diesel-and-rs-6-for-petrol-and-motor-spirit/story-Lw9VhGJ0taHAk4cqj2Ei3L.html
29-04-2020||India||P Chidambaram spotlights MSMEs concern on paying April wages, advises govt||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to 6.3 crore Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to help them pay wages and salaries to 110 million people engaged in these MSMEs for the month of April.And for non-MSMEs, he said the government should announce a “Paycheque Protection Programme” on the lines of the steps taken by the United States.“This is not a legislation but a financial assistance package,” Chidambaram said, addressing the press through video-conferencing.“It is bewildering that there has been absolutely no financial package or assistance announced for businesses since the onset of Covid-19. The government may have the luxury of time but the MSMEs do not. They need to know right away whether they will be helped to stay afloat and thereby pay salaries and wages to those dependent on these businesses,” he said.“Tomorrow is the last working day of the month. More than 12 crore people of India are waiting with bated breath. They want to know if they will be paid their salaries and wages for the month of April. There is palpable tension and rising uncertainty among the working people of India and their families,” Chidambaram said.According to the annual report of the MSME ministry, the senior Congress leader said 11 crore people are engaged in 6.3 crore MSMEs and most of them would not have worked a single day in the month of April because the entire country was in a lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. “How will these people feed themselves and their families without an income? These 11 crore people’s livelihoods are in danger now because most of the employers are unable to pay wages and salaries. The businesses have had no sales this month and their payments to their vendors are also stuck, leaving the vendors also in distress,” he said.“Large swathes of the private sector are faced with what economists call an extreme liquidity shock. Furthermore, these businesses are also unsure about their future. They do not know whether they can continue their businesses or will be forced to shut down permanently. The time to make bold decisions to save the MSMEs is now. If businesses do not see hope, they will decide to close,” he added.The government has to step in today to protect 110 million Indians and give hope to 6.3 crore MSMEs, Chidambaram said, adding the Congress has submitted a proposal with specific, well thought out and concrete suggestions to help them.“We urge the Prime Minister to look at that proposal and immediately announce Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to MSMEs to help them pay wages and salaries for the month of April, and also Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for MSMEs that will help them to go to the banks and borrow money,” he said.Elaborating on the ‘Paycheque Protection Programme’, the former finance minister said according to the income-tax department, there are roughly 10 million people with a salary income of less than Rs 3,50,000 a year or Rs 30,000 a month.“Assuming an average salary of Rs 15,000 a month for these 1 crore people, the total cost comes to Rs 15,000 crore for the month of April. This is not a large sum to protect the livelihoods of 10 million people who have filed tax returns and paid taxes in the past, and can be easily found. The government must announce a Paycheque Protection Program right away to protect the salaries of these 1 crore employees.”The Congress also suggested waiver of employers’ contributions to the employees provident fund (EPF) and employees state insurance (ESI), on a temporary basis, for the next three months, he said, adding this will assist in reducing the payroll costs of employers and retaining the workforce.“Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large scale retrenchments and layoffs which will devastate livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people,” Chidambaram said.“We urge the Prime Minister to step in urgently and announce an assistance package to protect the wages and salaries and pay cheques that are due in the next few days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-spotlights-msmes-concern-on-paying-april-wages-advises-govt/story-rmsjh02XhStGAt2n8ZDRYI.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala to bring ordinance to cut employees’ salaries for mobilising funds||Miffed by Kerala High Court order that stayed the state government’s decision to deduct six-day salary of all its employees in the next five months as a temporary measure, the State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to float a new Ordinance - which will enable it to defer payment of salary up to 25 per cent, said a State Minister.Soon after the weekly cabinet meeting, State Finance Minister Thomas Issac told the media that the government has decided to come out with Disaster and Public Emergency Special Provisions Act which will give it the power to defer payment of salaries, up to 25 per cent of all state government employees.“This is not against yesterday’s high court order, instead we have abided by it. We are not going to go in appeal against stay order. The State government is using the provisions in the Act. The provision in the Act is clear as it says this can be done when a health emergency or a disaster strikes. The Centre has declared the pandemic as a health emergency,” said Issac.“Some people like leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala is yet to gauge the situation what the state is presently undergoing. Anyone is free to go in appeal against the new Ordinance. The salary of April month will be paid in May after completing the procedures,” added Issac and said they will stick to defer six days salary, that they originally proposed.Incidentally, it was the various Congress-led staff unions that had approached the court over the “arbitrary manner in which employees had been forcibly directed to contribute to the CM Covid Relief Fund”.The court on Tuesday pointed out that salary is an employee’s right and they have no clue of how the government will use this donated money.However, the court said that the state government could go in for an appeal, if it wished.Incidentally, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Issac had first demanded a contribution of one month’s salary each from all state government officials towards the Relief Fund, but the move was shot down by the opposition parties.Feeling snubbed, the Vijayan government then went ahead and announced that they have no other way but to defer six-day salary for the next five months. It too came under heavy criticism from the opposition staff unions which approached the court.Now all eyes are on the Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on what position he will be taking with regard to the new Ordinance and if he decides to seek additional information or goes in for legal advice, there is likelihood that the payment of salaries for April, might get delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-to-bring-ordinance-to-cut-employees-salaries-for-mobilising-funds/story-ngAswChktYfLWO3GxHDk7O.html
29-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra Covid-19 positive deaths cross 400, total cases inch towards 10,000 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra Covid-19 positive deaths cross 400, total cases inch towards 10,000Maharashtra, which tops the list of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases and fatalities in the country, crossed 400 deaths related to the pandemic on Tuesday. The last 100 Covid-19 related deaths in the state were reported over the past four days, including 31 on Tuesday alone. Read more. ‘Sensationalising facts’: Nirmala Sitharaman hits back at Rahul Gandhi for RBI list tweetFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying the list of wilful defaulters released by the Reserve Bank of India was not presented in Parliament because it contained friends of the ruling party. Read more. Over 2 lakh H-1B workers could lose their right to be in US by JuneManasi Vasavada has less than three weeks left before she loses her legal right to be in the country. The dental practice in Passaic County, New Jersey, where Vasavada, 31, has worked for almost two years closed its doors in mid-March due to Covid-19. She has been on an unpaid leave of absence ever since. Read more. ‘Warne hated it’: Brett Lee recalls how Sachin Tendulkar ‘toyed’ with Shane WarneThe rivalry between Shane Warne and Sachin Tendulkar has been a constant feature of India-Australia matches in the 1990s and 2000s with both legendary cricketers trying to outwit each other. Read more. Facebook profiles of over 267 million users sold on dark web, hacking forumsFacebook profiles of over 267 million users were sold on the dark web and hacker forums for $623 (Rs 47,900 approx). These Facebook profiles don’t include passwords but contain details like email addresses, phone numbers, personal details and more. Read more. Irrfan Khan, the commoner Khan who became a starIrrfan Khan fought and fought, but on April 29, he died in the presence of his family in Mumbai, having battled cancer for two years, leaving behind a legacy that will be celebrated for generations. Read more. International Dance Day 2020: The importance of dance during these timesAs I write this, Lykke Li sings in my background “Having troubles telling how I feel, But I can dance, dance, dance! Couldn’t possibly tell you how I mean, But I can dance, dance, dance.” Read more. CBSE says no change in decision regarding holding of Class 10th, 12th board examsThe Central Board of Secondary education (CBSE) on Wednesday said that there has been no change in decision of the board regarding the holding of Class 10 and Class 12 board examinations. The board further said that its decision to take board exams for 29 subjects of Class 10 and Class 12 remains the same.Read more. Donald Trump rebukes reporter over covid testing query: ‘Are you going to apologize…?’US President Donald Trump rebuked a Yahoo reporter over US testing rate. Hunter Walker raised a comparison between US testing rate and that of South Korea. Walker later tweeted that he had misread a chart and was sorry about it. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-covid-19-positive-deaths-cross-400-total-cases-inch-towards-10-000-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VmOm7kc0jjMWufykiMGFCP.html
29-04-2020||India||Three warships on standby to evacuate Indians from the Gulf||India has kept three warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indian nationals struck in the Gulf countries as New Delhi works towards implementing a challenging evacuation plan that will also include special flights amid the Covid-19 outbreak, government sources said on Wednesday.These warships include INS Jalashwa and two other amphibious warships, the sources said. “The ministry of external affairs is steering the evacuation plan. The navy is prepared to send three warships to bring Indians back,” the sources said.As reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation plan --- India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home.Students stranded in different countries will be next, followed by everyone else including Indians who were travelling for work, or pleasure.The navy’s solitary landing platform dock (LPD), the INS Jalashwa, has a displacement of 16,950 tonnes. Formerly known as the USS Trenton, it was bought from the United States 13 years ago. The navy also has a fleet of five smaller amphibious warships with a displacement of 5,600 tonnes, and even smaller 1,150-tonne landing ship tanks.The navy’s plans to build four LPDs in the country to scale up its amphibious warfare capabilities as part of a $3-billion project has not made any headway so far. Earlier, Reliance Defence had teamed up with French shipbuilder DCNS, while L&T partnered with Spanish state-owned company Navantia to build the warships in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-warships-on-standby-to-evacuate-indians-from-the-gulf/story-lZHlmkc5JxkwNOKy4bWndI.html
29-04-2020||India||Woman donates to Covid-19 fund out of compensation money for husband’s death||The wife of a slain Chhattisgarh Armed Forces (CAF) jawan, who was killed in a Communist Party of India (Maoist) attack in Bastar district on March 14, has donated Rs 10,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight against coronavirus.On March 14, two jawans of the Chhattisgarh Armed Forces (CAF), Upendra Sahu and Devendra Singh, were killed in an improvised explosive device (IED) blast triggered by the Maoist rebels near Bodli village in Bastar district.“Sahu’s widow Radhika has donated Rs 10,000 to the CM’s Relief Fund to combat Covid-19. It’s a heartwarming gesture from a martyr’s wife and that too only a month after she lost her husband to a Maoist attack. We’re proud of her,” said Deepak Jha, superintendent of police (SP), Bastar.Radhika’s good turn has touched a chord among the officials in the tribal-dominated Bastar district.“We tried to impress upon Radhika that instead of donating Rs 10,000 to the CM’s Relief Fund, she could have deposited the money in her son’s account. But she insisted that there are many kids like her son, who’re going without food because of Covid-19, and this meagre sum can come in handy for them. She told us that her late husband always stood for such causes,” said Abinash Mishra, a probationary Indian Administrative Officer (IAS), who was present when she donated the money.The Bastar Police authorities have made a short video clip on her selfless deed.However, she is unfazed by the adulation. “I donated a fraction of what I had received as compensation from the government after my husband was martyred. My late husband always used to help people during their hard times. I’m doing what he would have done had he been alive,” Radhika told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-slain-caf-jawan-s-wife-donates-rs-10-000-to-cm-s-relief-fund/story-fGHbdFiu7MWrpUhwB1UL4L.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Irrfan was India’s brand ambassador on global stage of cinema’: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday condoled the demise of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan.Describing Khan as a “versatile and talented actor”, Gandhi said he was India’s popular brand ambassador on the global stage of cinema and television. “He will be greatly missed,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted out. I’m sorry to hear about the passing of Irrfan Khan. A versatile & talented actor, he was a popular Indian brand ambassador on the global film & tv stage. He will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans at this time of grief.“I’m sorry to hear about the passing of Irrfan Khan. A versatile & talented actor, he was a popular Indian brand ambassador on the global film & tv stage. He will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans at this time of grief,” Gandhi’s tweet read. Khan, 53, breathed his last on Wednesday at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. The actor was being treated for colon infection at the hospital. Khan’s spokesperson released a statement on his admission to the hospital on Tuesday. “Yes, it is true that Irrfan Khan is admitted to ICU at Kokilaben in Mumbai because of a colon infection. We would keep everyone updated. He is under doctor’s observation. His strength and courage have helped him battle and fight so far and we are sure with his tremendous willpower and prayers of his well wishers, he will recover soon,” the statement read.Khan was diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumour, a rare form of cancer, in the year 2018. He left for London for the treatment and returned last year to shoot for Homi Adajania’s ‘Angrezi Medium’ which released last month. The actor returned to London and came back last year in September after his treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-brand-ambassador-on-global-stage-of-cinema-rahul-gandhi-on-irrfan-khan-s-death/story-twGHtPULOwOqN2vR4LqrNO.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Cong, Rahul Gandhi should introspect’: Sitharaman hits back on wilful defaulter row||The government has attached or seized properties worth Rs 18,332.70 crore in the cases involving fugitive economic offenders Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, while also hitting out the Congress party over its allegations that the Centre had written off loans of as many as 50 top defaulters. In a series of tweets on Tuesday night, Sitharaman stressed that the government is pursuing wilful defaulters, and has filed 9,967 recovery suits and 3,515 first-information reports (FIRs) against such offenders.Her remarks came a day after the opposition Congress party alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had written off loans worth Rs 68,607 crore due from top 50 bank loan defaulters, including Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. Citing a right to information (RTI) reply from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to activist Saket Gokhale, the Congress also alleged that the NDA government waived off loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore between 2014, when it came to power, and last September, and asked for a response from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sitharaman.In her reply, Sitharaman said the Congress “attempted to mislead people in a brazen manner”, adding that it’s typical of the party that resorts “to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context”.She pointed at what she called the Congress’s failure to play a “constructive role”, launching a fresh attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has sought to corner the government over the issue of wilful defaulters.“@INCIndia and Shri. @RahulGandhi should introspect why they fail to play a constructive role in cleaning up the system. Neither while in power, nor while in the opposition has the @INCIndia shown any commitment or inclination to stop corruption & cronyism,” Sitharaman tweeted.She said scheduled commercial banks wrote off Rs 145,226 crore between 2009-10 and 2013-14, when the Congress-ruled United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power. “Wished Shri. @RahulGandhi consulted Dr. Manmohan Singh (who was then the prime minister) on what this writing-off was about,” she said.Referring to media reports and quoting former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, she said a large number of bad loans originated in the period 2006-2008 in the Congress rule, and “too many loans were made to well-connected promoters who have a history of defaulting on their loans...”Sitharaman gave details of the cases involving Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. “Nirav Modi Case : Immovable and movable properties worth more than Rs 2387 Crore attached/seized.(Attachment Rs 1898 Crore and Seizure Rs 489.75 Crore). This includes foreign attachments of Rs 961.47 Crore. Auction of luxury items for Rs 53.45 Crore. He is in prison in the UK.”“Mehul Choksi Case: Attachments of Rs 1936.95 Crore including foreign attachment of Rs 67.9 Crore. Seizure of Rs 597.75 Crore. Red Notice issued. Extradition Request sent to Antigua. Hearing for declaration of Mehul Choksi as Fugitive Offender is in progress.”“Vijay Mallya Case : Total value at the time of attachment was Rs 8040 Crore and of seizure was Rs 1693 Crore. Value of shares at the time of seizure was Rs 1693 Crore. Declared fugitive offender. On extradition request by GoI,UK High Court, has also ruled for extradition.”But Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala was not satisfied. In a series of tweets, he asked whether the RTI reply of RBI stated the facts and questioned why the government was wrting off “bank loans of absconders and frauds”. “And @nsitharaman ji, Cleaning the Banks of people’s money by writing off loans of absconders & fraudsters is not called ‘cleaning the system’. ... It’s called weakening the entire Bank architecture fiscally & imprudently, if not maliciously,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-rahul-gandhi-should-introspect-sitharaman-hits-back-on-wilful-defaulter-row/story-fAcJwq4DHUF7gX0LoUxgiN.html
29-04-2020||India||‘One of the most exceptional actors of our time’: Kejriwal condoles Irrfan Khan’s death||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Wednesday and expressed condolences on the demise of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan. Kejriwal described Khan as “one of the most exceptional actors of our time” and said that he is shocked by the sad news. Shocked to hear of the demise of Irrfan Khan, one of the most exceptional actors of our time. May his work always be remembered and his soul rest in peace“Shocked to hear of the demise of Irrfan Khan, one of the most exceptional actors of our time. May his work always be remembered and his soul rest in peace,” Kejriwal tweeted out. Khan, 53, breathed his last on Wednesday at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. The actor was being treated for colon infection at the hospital. Khan’s spokesperson released a statement on his admission to the hospital on Tuesday. “Yes, it is true that Irrfan Khan is admitted to ICU at Kokilaben in Mumbai because of a colon infection. We would keep everyone updated. He is under doctor’s observation. His strength and courage have helped him battle and fight so far and we are sure with his tremendous willpower and prayers of his well wishers, he will recover soon,” the statement read.Khan was diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumour, a rare form of cancer, in the year 2018. He left for London for the treatment and returned last year to shoot for Homi Adajania’s ‘Angrezi Medium’ which released last month. The actor returned to London and came back last year in September after his treatment. The actor lost his mother, Saeeda Begum, on Saturday in Jaipur. “’I trust, I have surrendered,’ these were the some of the many words that Irrfan expressed in a heart felt note he wrote in 2018 opening up about his fight with cancer. And a man of few words and an actor of silent expressions with his deep eyes and his memorable actions on screen. It’s saddening that this day, we have to bring forward the news of him passing away. Irrfan was a strong soul, someone who fought till the very end and always inspired everyone who came close to him. After having been struck by lightning in 2018 with the news of a rare cancer, he took life soon after as it came and he fought the many battles that came with it. Surrounded by his love, his family for whom he most cared about, he left for heaven abode, leaving behind truly a legacy of his own. We all pray and hope that he is at peace. And to resonate and part with his words he had said, ‘As if I was tasting life for the first time, the magical side of it’, read the statement released on the actor’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-the-most-exceptional-actors-of-our-time-kejriwal-condoles-irrfan-khan-s-death/story-96x0JVfg9JOVVcnPA9cyzN.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Take tuition’: Prakash Javadekar to Rahul Gandhi on loan waived off comment||Union minister Prakash Javadekar has hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he was taken aback by Rahul Gandhi’s comment that Modi government has waived off Rs 65,000 crore of loan defaulters.“@RahulGandhi should take tuition from @PChidambaram_IN on the difference between “write off” and “waive off”. @narendramodi govt has not waived off any loan. “Write off” is a normal accounting process. It doesn’t stop recovery or action against defaults,” Javadekar said on Wednesday.“Writing off is process to show depositors correct pictures of bank. It doesn’t stop banks from taking actions and pursuing recovery. We’ve seen how Nirav Modi’s assets are seized and auctioned. Mallya has been left with no choice but to come back as his appeal in HC has been rejected,” he added.Earlier, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had accused Gandhi of “trying to mislead people in a brazen manner”. Sitharaman also listed the cases of Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya and said that the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is pursuing these willful defaulters.Gandhi had said on Twitter that the government waived loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore since 2014 till September 2019.The former Congress president said he had asked in Parliament the names of the top 50 bank loan defaulters in the country, but the finance minister did not answer. Now, the RBI has given out the list which includes Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and many of BJP’s “friends”, he said.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also released the list of the top loan defaulters in the country, as per an RTI reply, and demanded answers from the prime minister on why their loans were waived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-tuition-union-minister-prakash-javadekar-on-rahul-gandhi-s-loan-waived-off-comment/story-FBHrEYdSyBQrnOPGUFfvwI.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Air India, Indian Navy on standby to evacuate Indians from Gulf||The national carrier Air India and Indian Navy have been asked to be on standby with their aircraft and warships for the mass evacuation of Indians from Gulf countries as Covid-19 pandemic continues. “We are assessing the scenario and finding the plan to evacuate Indians from the Gulf countries. We have asked Air India and Indian Navy for the detailed evacuation plan,” top government sources told ANI.Amid coronavirus scare, thousands of Indians have expressed willingness to come back to India from the Gulf countries, but due to suspension of air operations and other modes of travel, they have been stuck there.India has suspended all kinds of travel till May 3 as the country continues to be under coronavirus-induced lockdown. Government sources also stressed that “many Indians have contacted the embassies through social media and emails,showing a willingness to return to their homes. The government is doing all possible planning and making arrangements of their evacuation from their destinations.”China-originated coronavirus has raged across continents, killing people and crippling economies. The oil and gas rich Middle Eastern countries have also been affected by the deadly pathogen. “Around 10 million Indians are in Gulf countries and many of them are living in port cities, and that is why the government has also asked Indian Navy to give a detailed plan for evacuation through sea routes,” sources said.The Indian Navy, in their detailed evacuation plan, submitted to the government, has mentioned that “the Indian Navy can evacuate 1,500 Indians from the Gulf countries in three warships of the Navy.”The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has already started consultations with the States and Union Territories (UT) for the necessary arrangements starting the process.“We have started our consultation with the governments of States/ UTs for the necessary arrangements. Similarly, all missions are also told to make a detailed report for those who have shown their willingness to return back to India and provide full assistance to them,” MEA sources told ANI.According to sources, senior officials from the Ministry of Civil Aviation had given brief note before a Group of Ministers that, “India has over 500 aircraft and the Indian aviation is capable of the evacuation of Indians from the Gulf nations.”Majority of the Indians who are stranded in the Gulf countries are labourers. Discussion is underway to determine who will bear the expenses of their evacuation- whether it will be borne by citizens or the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-air-india-indian-navy-on-standby-to-evacuate-indians-from-gulf/story-DjyZi0gkABtcL8ZUhsk3PJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Those without permission shouldn’t practice it: Delhi health minister on plasma therapy for Covid-19||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that those health centres and hospitals that don’t have the permission to practice plasma therapy should not perform it. Jain said that the central government has said that plasma therapy is very technical and is at an experimental stage currently. “Those who do not have permission should not practice it. Delhi has permission from the Centre. Only, those who have permission should perform this therapy,” Jain said.The minister also said that there is no need to hospitalise asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms. “They will be kept under home quarantine for 14 days and will be treated at their homes, as per the new protocol,” Jain said. The Ministry of Health on Tuesday said that currently plasma therapy is at an experimental stage and there is no evidence yet to support that it can be used as a treatment for Covid-19.Centre has said that plasma therapy is very technical and is at an experimental stage currently. Those who do not have permission should not practice it. Delhi has permission from Centre. Only, those who have permission should perform this therapy: Delhi Health Min Satyendra Jain https://t.co/sTjJXC50ouIt further said the ICMR has launched a national-level study to learn the efficacy of plasma therapy in the treatment of coronavirus and till the apex health research body concludes its study and a robust scientific proof is available, plasma therapy should be used only for research or trial purpose. “If plasma therapy is not used in a proper manner under proper guidelines, then it can also cause life-threatening complications,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Ministry of Health, said at a press briefing on Tuesday.The Covid-19 tally in the country breached the 31000-mark on Wednesday. India reported a total of 31332 coronavirus cases, Ministry of Health stated. The figure includes 22629 active cases, 7695 patients who have been cured or discharged and over 1000 fatalities. The extended phase of coronavirus lockdown in the country will come to an end on May 3 if not further extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-without-permission-shouldn-t-practice-it-delhi-health-minister-on-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19/story-D5TyByxDhcwT4y7JrsUvPM.html
29-04-2020||India||List of states, UTs that haven’t reported any Covid-19 case so far||Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep, Nagaland and Sikkim are among the few Union territories and states that have not reported a single case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till date.And Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Tripura and Goa have not reported a single case in the past 14 days.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said 80 districts in the country have not reported any new Covid-19 case in the last seven days and 47 districts have not registered any fresh case in the last 14 days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Also, 39 districts have not reported a case since the last 21 days and 17 districts have not registered any new case for the last 28 days,” the minister said on Tuesday.Vardhan also said more than 300 districts have not reported any infection so far, while 129 districts with significant Covid-19 cases have been declared as hotspots.“The government is focusing on these hotspot districts to contain the spread of the virus,” he said during a review meeting held with the directors and heads of department of biotechnology and its 18 autonomous bodies and PSUs through video conference. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Monday said that the 300 districts across the country where no Covid-19 case has been reported “should be treated as tirtha sthaan” or sacred places. The Prime Minister had said during his interaction with chief ministers that state governments should ensure that precautions like maintaining safe distance should not be abandoned in these districts.He had said there is a need to expand green zones like these districts because in the coming days, what happens in these areas will “pave the way for our lives in the future”.India on Wednesday morning reported more than 1000 Covid-19 related fatalities as the number of infected people jumped to 31,332 across the country, the Union health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-states-uts-that-haven-t-reported-any-covid-19-case-so-far/story-JsjabEMxkEuZlAGNcWFHtN.html
29-04-2020||India||100 US firms planning to leave China due to Covid-19 interested in UP, says minister||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh has said that the state government is in touch with about 100 US companies who want to leave China due to the coronavirus crisis. He added that these companies have shown interest to come to UP.“US has significant investment in China. Prime Minister and Chief Minister want to use the opportunity where industries are moving out of China and see how they can be brought to India, especially to UP. Video-conferencing was held with over 100 American companies yesterday, in a webinar. They’ve shown interest,” said Singh, who holds the MSME portfolio.He said that these companies are big names in logistics, scientific instrumentation, electronic and automobile sectors. “They already have investments in China. I’m hopeful we’ll be able to bring them to UP, given how we’re working by making changes in our industrial and sectorial policy,” Singh added.The webinar was organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.Singh said that at the webinar he told the US companies about Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s sector-specific policies mainly in the defence, pharmaceuticals, food processing, electronics and education sectors.Many companies participated in the webinar, including Adobe, Boston Scientific and UPS while Siddharth Nath Singh, along with a team of senior officers, including industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon and principal secretary, MSME and exports, Navneet Sehgal, represented the state.Sehgal said that US businessmen hailed Yogi government’s fight against Covid-19. They were also informed of the Team-11 which has been set up by the chief minister to check the spread of the virus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-us-firms-planning-to-leave-china-due-to-covid-19-interested-in-up-says-minister/story-hPnzkgYzpYnlXOZngE1HzI.html
29-04-2020||India||1 woman Maoist killed, 2 policemen injured in encounter in Chhattisgarh||A woman Maoist was killed and two security personnel were injured during a gun battle in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district on Wednesday morning, officials said.DM Awasthi, Chhattisgarh’s director general of police (DGP), said the encounter took place in the morning under Chhotedongar police station area, when a joint team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) was on an area domination exercise.“Near Kademeta police camp, Maoists first triggered an IED (improvised explosive device) and started firing which led to the encounter,” Awasthi said while speaking to HT.“Two security personnel, one belonging to DRG and another of CAF were injured while the team of police recovered a body of woman Maoist,” the top police official added.Police have also recovered one SLR rifle and a 12-bore rifle from the spot.Awasthi further said the team is still in the jungle and more details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-woman-maoist-killed-2-policemen-injured-in-encounter-in-chhatisgarh/story-Dz0aWJ6wOnBArDcV2XybOK.html
29-04-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 positive deaths cross 400, total cases inch towards 10,000||Mumbai: Maharashtra, which tops the list of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases and fatalities in the country, crossed 400 deaths related to the pandemic on Tuesday. The last 100 Covid-19 related deaths in the state were reported over the past four days, including 31 on Tuesday alone. Maharashtra took 33 days to report 100 deaths on April 10 after the first Covid-19 positive case was recorded in the state on March 9. On April 17, the state’s death toll breached the 200-mark, and it topped 300 on April 24.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Maharashtra is also inching towards recording 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases, as Tuesday’s tally stood at 9,318. The state health department authorities have gone on an overdrive to ensure containment and aggressive contact tracing and testing in a bid to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.Though Mumbai recorded its single-day highest toll at 25 on Tuesday, the authorities maintained that this was a cumulative count over the past eight days and was not reported earlier, pending verification. The state government is worried over the high mortality rate, which was also raised by the two inter-ministerial central teams (ICMTs) that visited Maharashtra last week. The state’s Covid-19 related mortality rate stands at 4.29, as compared to the corresponding national figure of 3.17, as on Tuesday.Maharashtra has brought down the fatality rate from 7% in early and mid-April. The officials attributed the dip to early detection and treatment. Only 1% of the total Covid-19 active cases in Maharashtra fall in the critical category, they added.On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 393 new Covid-19 positive cases and the city’s overall count stands at 6,169. Mumbai has reported 1,000 cases over the past three days.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Maharashtra has tested 1,29,931 samples, of which 1,20,136 proved negative, to date, the officials said.On Monday, four housekeeping staff at Mantralaya, the state secretariat, tested Covid-19 positive. This has led the state government to disinfect Mantralaya at Nariman Point and the new administrative building, situated next to it, on Wednesday and Thursday. Both the buildings and all the government offices there will remain closed for these two days, the authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-positive-deaths-cross-400/story-fwodlqoUtw2WzXP0SBkO1K.html
29-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, family forced to carry asthma patient on handcart; declared dead on arrival||The family of an asthma patient put him on a handcart when the ambulance did not turn up, but failed to save his life with policemen on the way to hospital and doctors there allegedly ignoring his plight. Both police and medical authorities denied their alleged negligence which the family said led to the death Monday of vegetable vendor Satish Agrawal, who lived in curfew-bound Faithagadi in Kota’s Rampura area. Agrawal was carried about half the way to MBS Hospital on the cart from which he sold vegetables, before a private ambulance arrived. His son Manish on Tuesday said when his father suffered an asthma attack at 11.30 am the family made several calls for an ambulance. “As none of the ambulance services responded, I put my father on his vegetable cart and started for the hospital over two and a half kilometres away from home,” he said. “Though policemen on the way removed barricades at various intersections on the curfew-bound road, none of them thought of helping us and rushing my father in a police vehicle to the hospital,” Manish told PTI. “After Manish had covered over a kilometre till Nayapura circle on the way to MBS Hospital, I somehow managed to hire a private ambulance,” another relative said. “Even at the hospital, we were made to shuttle from one room to another and to a makeshift clinic outside the hospital building before doctors eventually attended on him and declared him dead at 2.30 pm,” he said. MBS Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Naveen Saxena, however, refuted the allegation. “Satish Agrawal was brought to the hospital in a collapsed condition and a doctor immediately examined him in room 125 and declared him brought dead,” he said. “Sometime later, the family members of the victim, however, said the patient’s heart was still beating, following which Dr Lokesh Suwalka re-examined him and conducted an ECG,” Dr Saxena said. “The medical staff did not delay in the treatment,” he asserted. On the unavailability of an ambulance, he said the service is managed by the chief medical and health officer. The officer could not be contacted for comment. Kota’s Assistant Superintendent of Police Dilip Saini too rejected the family’s allegation about policemen ignoring the plight of the patient being carted to a hospital on a handcart. “It is hypothetical to say that the policemen did not help. The policemen in the area did not have any vehicle or an ambulance, which could have been summoned only from a hospital or the ambulance service numbers 104 or 108,” said Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-family-forced-to-carry-asthma-patient-on-handcart-declared-dead-on-arrival/story-PFGW38g7S67sQnNpgb2G5H.html
29-04-2020||India||Varanasi shut down today as Covid-19 cases rise in UP town||All shops, markets, home delivery services and business activities are closed for a day on Wednesday in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi, district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said as the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose in municipal corporation limits.The temple town, which is also the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has reported 49 cases of Covid-19 including one death so far. Eight patients have also recovered from the deadly disease and 40 are being treated.Sharma said the movement of people engaged in government work, social organisations providing food packets, home delivery of milk and those associated with state-run and private hospitals will be allowed. Apart from these, all types of passes will remain suspended on Wednesday, he said.The district magistrate said a decision may be taken to open shops and allow other activities after Thursday. He said that this order is only for the limits of Varanasi municipal corporation and does not apply to rural areas.No one, except those with a medical reason, will be allowed to get inside Varanasi’s municipal limits. Anyone found outside their house in the city without a medical emergency will be booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-shut-down-today-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-up-town/story-pbj72Yr2VIZAulTqbv7eUN.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Sensationalising facts’: Nirmala Sitharaman hits back at Rahul Gandhi for RBI list tweet||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying the list of wilful defaulters released by the Reserve Bank of India was not presented in Parliament because it contained friends of the ruling party.She accused Gandhi of “trying to mislead people in a brazen manner”.“Shri @RahulGandhi MP (LS) and Shri @rssurjewala spokesperson of @INCIndia have attempted to mislead people in a brazen manner. Typical to @INCIndia, they resort to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context. In the following tweets wish to respond to the issues raised,” Sitharaman said in first of her 13 tweets which she posted on Tuesday night.“Today’s attempt of @INCIndia leaders is to mislead on wilful defaulters, bad loans & write-offs. Between 2009-10 & 2013-14, Scheduled Commercial Banks had written off Rs.145226.00 crores. Wished Shri @RahulGandhi consulted Dr. Manmohan Singh on what this writing-off was about,” she said in another tweet.Also read: BJP govt waived loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore, helped defaulters, says CongressThe finance minister further said that those defaulters who do not repay despite having capacity to pay, divert or siphon-off funds, or dispose of secured assets without bank’s permission are categorised as wilful defaulters. “They are those well connected promoters who benefitted from UPA’s ‘Phone banking’,” Sitharaman said.She also quoted former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan who had said that a large number of bad loans originated in the period 2006-2008.  Shri @RahulGandhi MP (LS) and Shri @rssurjewala spokesperson of @INCIndia have attempted to mislead people in a brazen manner. Typical to @INCIndia, they resort to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context. In the following tweets wish to respond to the issues raised.Sitharaman also listed the cases of Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya and said that the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is pursuing these wilful defaulters.She ended her long Twitter thread by asking Rahul Gandhi and the Congress to introspect. “Neither while in power, nor while in the opposition has the @INCIndia shown any commitment or inclination to stop corruption & cronyism.”Gandhi had said on Tuesday that he had asked the government in Parliament the names of the top 50 bank loan defaulters, but the Finance Minister did not answer his question.Also read: Cong slams Centre, asks how it can afford to waive bad debts worth Rs 68,607 crore“Now the RBI has given the names of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and many of BJP’s “friends” in the list of bank frauds. That is why this truth was held back from Parliament,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.The Congress alleged the government waived loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore since 2014 till September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensationalising-facts-nirmala-sitharaman-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-for-rbi-list-tweet/story-dzEY0Au8KpD7xyFEsU9PbO.html
29-04-2020||India||Kejriwal shares ‘happy’ news, says only 3 of 529 media persons Covid-19 positive in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that only 3 out of 529 media professionals, who have been screened for Covid-19 recently, have tested positive for the virus. The chief minister wished a speedy recovery to the ones suffering from Covid-19. He said that the work of media is very important, especially “during a pandemic”.“Am so happy to share only 3 out of 529 media persons tested have been detected positive. My best wishes to all of you. Your work is very important esp during a pandemic. Those who have been detected positive, I am praying for your speedy recovery,” Kejriwal tweeted out.Last week, the Delhi administration started screening media professionals for coronavirus after reports of media persons contracting coronavirus surfaced from across the country. Am so happy to share only 3 out of 529 media persons tested have been detected positive. My best wishes to all of you. Your work is very important esp during a pandemic. Those who have been detected positive, I am praying for your speedy recovery“Dear friends from the media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted out. Last week, Kejriwal-led Delhi government announced that the administration will set up a special Covid-19 centre to test media professionals who have been reporting from the field during the lockdown. The Karnataka government also issued a similar order.  The central government also issued an advisory for media professionals working in the print and electronic sector of the industry. According to the release by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, media personnel have been advised to take health and related precautions while performing their duties during the coronavirus pandemic.Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health pic.twitter.com/ZRz1BOYFJW“Management of media houses is requested to take necessary care of their field staff as well as their office staff,” the advisory read. Scores of media personnel in certain parts of the country have been reported to have contracted Covid-19.“It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted with Covid-19 while covering the happening in certain parts of the country,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-kejriwal-shares-happy-news/story-dsIzFen3e5VqxEBEpk9IEL.html
29-04-2020||India||Person’s caste not to be mentioned in any judicial, administrative matter: Rajasthan High Court||Rajasthan High Court has issued a notification directing that the caste of any person, including accused, should not be mentioned in any judicial or administrative matter noting that this is “against the spirit of the Constitution”.“It has been observed that the caste of accused and other persons is being incorporated by the officers/officials of Registry of this court and presiding officers of subordinate courts/special courts/tribunals in judicial and administrative matters, which is against the spirit of Constitution of India and not in consonance with the directions of Rajasthan High Court issued vide order dated July 4, 2018,” Rajasthan High Court Registrar General said in a standing order issued on Monday.“Therefore, it is enjoined upon all concerned to ensure that the caste of any person including the accused is not incorporated in any judicial or administrative matter,” the standing order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/person-s-caste-not-to-be-mentioned-in-any-judicial-administrative-matter-rajasthan-high-court/story-fRcQfeLe9d60RcXRTk0ogJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Kedarnath Temple’s doors open, no devotees allowed amid Covid-19 lockdown||The doors of the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand were opened early on Wednesday after a six-month-long winter break in the absence of pilgrims due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic.The process of opening the doors of the temple to Lord Shiva began at 3am as Shiva Shankar Linga, the chief priest of the shrine, carried out the rituals. He performed the first ‘’pooja” in the name of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the temple decorated with marigold flowers. BD Singh, a representative of the Devasthanam Board, and 20 employees from Panchagai were present when the religious rituals and aarti were performed. Around 15 policemen and administration officials also participated in the rituals. This year the Indian Army band did not participate in the ceremony during the opening the portals of the shrine due to lockdown restrictions. Authorities have said no pilgrim will be allowed to visit Kedarnath so that norms of social distancing is maintained.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tweeted his wishes to the devotees as the doors of the Kedarnath Temple were opened. “I wish all devotees on the occasion of the opening of the doors of the Jyotirlinga Lord Kedarnath with all rituals. I pray to Baba Kedarnath that your wish is fulfilled, may Baba Kedar’s blessings be upon all of you. I pray to Baba to protect all humanity from corona,” Rawat tweeted in Hindi. आज पूरे विधि विधान के साथ 11वें ज्योतिर्लिंग भगवान केदारनाथ के कपाट खुलने पर सभी श्रद्धालुओं को शुभकामनाएं। आपका मनोरथ पूर्ण हो, बाबा केदार का आशीष सभी पर बना रहे, ऐसी मैं बाबा केदारनाथ जी से कामना करता हूं। बाबा से प्रार्थना है कि समस्त मानवता की कोरोना से रक्षा करें। pic.twitter.com/CWAXECDDvlThe annual Char Dham Yatra began on Saturday with the opening of the Gangotri and Yamunotri temples in Garhwal Himalayas on Akshaya Tritiya. After Kedarnath, the portals of Badrinath Temple will be opened on May 15.The four pilgrim destinations of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath are known as Char Dham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-temple-s-doors-open-no-devotees-allowed-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-JFcZkJ4TNVWh123c2OFaxO.html
29-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, Haryana’s Faridabad tightens entry of people from other districts||Authorities in Haryana’s Faridabad have tightened restrictions over the movement of “government employees and regular people” from other states and districts as the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose in the state. Faridabad’s district collector Yashpal Yadav issued an order late on Tuesday, saying “doctors, paramedical staff, police, bank employees will be able to enter using ID cards only until 12 pm on April 29…” Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The order, which will remain in effect till May 3, said they will have to make arrangements to live at their workplaces.The order, however, clarified that vehicles transporting essential items, gas services, medicines and those involved in banking services will be allowed to enter the district. There will be no restrictions on the movement of ambulances as well.“Movement passes issued by the competent authority of the central government in exceptional circumstances will be recognised,” it said, adding violators will be penalised under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The order comes after Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said after Sonepat, the state is considering sealing borders in Gurugram and Faridabad districts with the national capital.“The state is considering sealing all borders with Delhi, including those in Gurugram and Faridabad,” Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said while speaking to reporters.The minister said that 18 cases have been reported in the state linked to daily commuters of the state working in Delhi.Vij, on Sunday, asked Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to make arrangements to check commuters between Haryana and the national capital and limit the issuance of lockdown passes.He also blamed the Delhi government for allowing entry of Tablighi Jamaat members, who were allegedly responsible for spreading the virus in the state.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Haryana Police on Tuesday stepped up surveillance along the state’s borders with Delhi after Vij ordered sealing of all entry and exit points with the national capital in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases.Seven new cases of the coronavirus disease in Haryana took the state’s tally to 308 on Tuesday. Four of these were reported from Jhajjar, while two from Sonepat and one from Panipat.Faridabad had six active cases and Sonepat the most with 20 patients, followed by Gurugram at 15, Nuh 11, Panipat 8, Panchkula and Jhajjar five each, Rohtak and Ambala three each, Palwal and Hisar two each and Bhiwani has one. The recovery rate in Haryana is about 73%.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-haryana-s-faridabad-tightens-entry-of-people-from-other-districts/story-rKG94W0KUbrqDaos1Dwk2K.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: These districts in UP could be the first to get lockdown relaxation||The number of coronavirus cases in the country is on the rise. In Uttar Pradesh, the tally has breached the 2,000-mark. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has indicated to start some activities in the districts that aren’t under the grip of Covid-19 or are less affected due to the infection.The chief minister has directed for an action plan to be prepared for the relaxation activities in the ‘green zone’, HT’s Hindi Language publication Live Hindustan reported. On Tuesday, CM Adityanath held a Covid-19 review meeting with the officials of Team 11. He said that an action plan should be prepared for how to start industrial units after May 3.As of now, 15 districts in the state are in the ‘green zone’ where not a single case of coronavirus infection has been reported. These districts include Ambedkarnagar, Amethi, Ballia, Deoria, Chitrakoot, Farrukhabad, Kanpur Dehat, Siddharthnagar, Kushinagar, Lalitpur, Mahoba, Hamirpur Fatehpur, Chandauli and Sonbhadra. Coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh stood at 2053 on Wednesday. 462 patients in the state have recovered from the disease or have been discharged while 34 have lost their lives to the deadly contagion. The Covid-19 tally in the country breached the 31000-mark on Wednesday. India reported a total of 31332 coronavirus cases, Ministry of Health stated. The figure includes 22629 active cases, 7695 patients who have been cured or discharged and over 1000 fatalities. The extended phase of coronavirus lockdown in the country will come to an end on May 3 if not further extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-these-districts-in-up-could-be-the-first-to-get-lockdown-relaxation/story-RIPavkZOPi1sMlUZFO7yrK.html
29-04-2020||India||‘Misrepresentation reached new levels’: India rebuffs US religious panel’s report||India on Tuesday rejected a report by a US panel on religious freedom that said the country was violating religious freedom of minorities as “biased and tendentious.”In its 2020 annual report, the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) recommended that India be designated as a “Country of Particular Concern” (CPC), for “engaging in and tolerating systematic, ongoing, and egregious religious freedom violations”.The panel cited the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which fast-tracks Indian citizenship for non-Muslim refugees fleeing persecution from neighbouring countries, and “nationwide campaigns of harassment and violence against religious minorities” as its reasons for the move.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rebuffed the report.“We reject the observations on India in the USCIRF annual report. It’s biased and tendentious comments against India are not new. But on this occasion, its misrepresentation has reached new levels,” he said. The watchdog has also recommended that the US government should impose targeted sanctions against Indian government agencies and officials responsible for religious freedom violations, freeze their assets in the United States and ban them from entering the country. India, which was on the commission’s Tier 2 list of countries to be watched in 2019, was among the 14 countries that the USCIRF asked the US state department to designate as CPC over increasing assaults on religious minorities.Nine countries—Myanmar, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan—were designated as CPCs in December 2019. Five others included India, Nigeria, Russia, Syria and Vietnam, USCIRF said.It could not be immediately ascertained if the recommendation were binding and whether the Trump administration would indeed accept those meant for the US government.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misrepresentation-reached-new-levels-india-rebuffs-us-religious-panel-s-report/story-HGXGOyFcqkiwLqoPWTUPaO.html
29-04-2020||India||With 73 deaths in 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 toll crosses 1000-mark||India’s death toll from the coronavirus pandemic rose to 1007 on Wednesday after 73 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours as the country stepped up to ease the restrictions under the lockdown that have already lasted more than a month.The number of infected people jumped to 31,332, the Union health ministry data showed at 8am, with 1897 new cases of Covid-19. The rate of recovery rose to 24.55% after 827 people were sent home after being cured, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has indicated that the lockdown could continue beyond May 3 in parts of the country worst affected by the pandemic identified as hotspots.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDespite the national lockdown that has kept people mostly indoors amid strict restrictions, Maharashtra and Gujarat continued to report some of the biggest spikes in the country.There were 11,196 cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, including 400 deaths and 1388 people who have been sent home from hospitals. In Gujarat, 4359 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, out of which 181 have died.The two states have a doubling rate for infections at 8.3 days and 8.8 days respectively. The overall doubling rate for the country is 10.8 days, down from 4 days at the beginning of the month.Delhi has 87 more patients of Covid-19 at 4446 but the number of fatalities in the national capital is less than the western state at 54. Click here for Covid-19 live updatesDelhi and 14 districts across the country account for more than 60% of all Covid-19 cases reported in India, according to data from the federal think tank NITI Aayog.Delhi, which has 11 districts, accounts for 12.62% of all cases in the country as of Monday. Mumbai and Indore feature among the list of the 14 other districts.As the number of cases jumped, the health ministry has cautioned against the usage of plasma therapy, increasingly being seen as a magic bullet to cure critically ill Covid-19 patients, as a regular line of treatment.It said the therapy of transfusion of antibody-rich plasma, a component of blood, from recovered patients of Covid-19 into those who are critically ill with the disease, should only be done as a trial and with all requisite approvals.Some of the recovered patients in India have already donated plasma. “ICMR is doing a pan-India study to evaluate the efficacy of convalescent therapy in critically ill Covid-19 patients, and until they come out with specific guidelines on it, no one should use it as a treatment modality for Covid-19 patients as it could not only be harmful but is also illegal,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), earlier this month, had issued a detailed document on the study model using plasma therapy, which has shown promise in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Globally, there are 3,114,659 people who have been infected and 217,153 of them have died due to the respiratory illness. The United States recorded its one-millionth case of new coronavirus, about one-third of the entire world’s caseload, and 58,351 deaths on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-1000-mark-31-332-cases-so-far/story-FGTB60x6PGrTOOBKHhwsCJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra heads towards grim milestone, UP crosses 2,000-mark||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 31,332 on Wednesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 22,629 active coronavirus cases in the country, 7,695 patients have been cured or discharged while 1007 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 9,000-mark while national capital Delhi is fast catching up with Gujarat, the second worst-affected state. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 9,318 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra inches towards another grim milestonr - of 10,000 cases. It already the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 400 deaths so far while 1,388 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, Ministry of Health, stands at 3,744. While 181 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 434 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 3,314 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Fifty four people have died from the infection while 1,078 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,364 on Wednesday. The state has reported 51 fatalities, and 768 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,387 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred twenty people have died from Covid-19 here while 377 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2,058 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1,268 recoveries and 25 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar PradeshMore than 2,000 people (2,053 to be exact) have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 462 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 34 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,259 positive Covid-19 patients and 258 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.TelanganaOver 1,000 (1,004 to be exact) positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. Three hundred twenty one people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 725 on Wednesday. There have been 22 deaths and 119 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 565. Eight people have died from the infection while 176 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 523 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths. Two hundred seven people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 485 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 359 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 310 and 322 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 19 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. Two hundred nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 71 in Punjab.In Bihar, 366 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 64 patients have recovered. Odisha has 118 Covid-19 positive patients, 38 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 103 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 17 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 54 coronavirus patients, 33 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 25 have recovered. Assam has reported 38 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 27 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 38 cases of coronavirus and 34 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 56 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 15 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 16 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-heads-towards-grim-milestone-up-crosses-2-000-mark/story-vBNkgSTF5mC2DdINmJQuIN.html
29-04-2020||India||India cases cross 30k, virus may keep coming back every year: Covid-19 news today||India’s Covid-19 cases crossed the 30,000-mark on Tuesday as the country remained in the grip of the deadly coronavirus disease. The Union health ministry, meanwhile, cautioned that plasma therapy, increasingly being seen as a magic bullet to cure critically ill Covid-19 patients, should only be done as a trial with all requisite approvals, and not as a regular line of treatment. And in another grim warning, China’s top scientists said Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, cannot be stopped and will continue to cause seasonal infections like the flu.Covid cases climb to 31,000, spike puts deaths over 1,000The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 30,000 mark on Tuesday while that of fatalities due to the pandemic exceeded 1,000, as the country maintained a precarious grip on a disease that officials fear could peak over the next couple of months. Read more.Plasma therapy is not a proven treatment: GovtPlasma therapy, increasingly being seen as a magic bullet to cure critically ill Covid-19 patients, should only be done as a trial, and with all requisite approvals -- and not as a regular line of treatment, according to the Union health ministry. Read more.Virus may keep coming back every year: ExpertsChina’s top scientists on Tuesday said that Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), cannot be stopped and will continue to cause seasonal infections like the flu. The seasonal flu kills between 300,000 and 650,000 people around the world every year, according to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates. Read more.Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia crossed the 30,000 case-count for Covid-19. On Tuesday night, the country’s tally stood at 31,329cases, 1,007dead, and 7,761recovered. Read more.IT, ITES firms’ employees can work from home till May 31: Ravi Shankar PrasadEmployees of information technology (IT) companies and IT-enabled service providers can work from home until May 31, IT and telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday, extending the timeline by a month in the aftermath of Covid-19, restrictions on transport and safe distancing practices put in place to curb its spread . Read more.No need to seal office if employee tests positive: GovtThere is no need to seal an entire building if a person living or working there tests positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because disinfection of the affected floor and common areas is enough to stop the spread of infection, according to the Union health ministry. Read more.Consider enacting 1 nation, 1 ration card: SC to CentreThe Supreme Court on Monday asked the Central government to examine the feasibility of implementing the “one nation one ration card” scheme during the national lockdown so as to alleviate the hardships faced by migrant labourers who have been stranded in other states. Read more.Delhi among 15 areas that make up 60% Covid-19 casesDelhi and 14 districts across the country account for over 60% of all Covid-19 cases reported in India, according to data from the federal think tank Niti Aayog, whose chief executive officer Amitabh Kant says diligent monitoring, and aggressive testing, treating and containment are required to check the spread of the disease. Read more.Niti Aayog office sealed after employee tests Covid-19 positiveGovernment think-tank Niti Aayog sealed its office in New Delhi on Tuesday after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to officials. Read more.Oxford vaccine shows promise in animal testThere is hope in the scientific community after initial results showed that the vaccine produced by the Jenner Institute and Oxford Vaccine Group showed promising results when tested on monkeys in a laboratory in the US. Read more.HRD ministry discusses evaluation process of CBSE Class 10, 12 papersThe Union human resource development (HRD) ministry has decided to push to begin the process of evaluation of Class 10 and 12 answer sheets of millions of students who appeared in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations this year, a senior official said after a key meeting of the ministry on Tuesday. Read more.Postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics will be cancelled if pandemic not over: Games chiefThe postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics will be cancelled if the coronavirus pandemic isn’t brought under control by next year, the organising committee’s president said in comments published Tuesday. Read more.Internet speeds fall to lowest in 2 yearsIndians experienced the slowest internet speeds in at least two years in March when the country locked down to slow the spread of the Coronavirus disease, analysis of data from the government’s MySpeed application showed. Read more.Missed childhood vaccinations trigger worryChildren missing out on life-saving vaccines could lead to a resurgence of potentially fatal diseases, such as childhood pneumonias, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and diarrhoea, among others, which threaten to reverse the gains India has made by immunising children against vaccine-preventing illnesses to bring down its infant mortality rate (IMR) from 33 per 1,000 live births in 2017 from 34 the year before. Read more.Domestic makers of rapid kits in a fix as ICMR halts their useLocal manufacturers of antibody based rapid testing kits (RTKs) for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), whose kits were validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and approved by the Central Drugs Standard Organisation (CDSCO), seem to be grappling with a sense of uncertainty as they are yet to receive any orders from the ICMR. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-cases-cross-30k-virus-may-keep-coming-back-every-year-covid-19-news-today/story-hWMtcz4fOnICSPdB8CJxQP.html
29-04-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 update: Number of cases cross 2,000-mark, 34 dead||The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 2,000-mark as 66 more people tested positive for the disease on Tuesday.Three more people died on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 34 in the state.The fresh cases were reported from different parts of the state, including 17 from Agra, followed by 12 from Varanasi and eight from Kanpur Nagar, according to state health department.Of the overall deaths in Uttar Pradesh, Agra accounts for 12, followed by Moradabad (6) and Meerut (5). Four Covid-19 deaths have taken place in Kanpur, one death has been reported each from Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Firozabad, Aligarh and Srawasti.The fresh cases brought the total count in the state’s 60 districts to 2,053, the statement said.Briefing the reporters in Lucknow on Tuesday, Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said the work of forming a committee for monitoring and prevention of medical infection in each district is almost complete.“This committee will work under the supervision of Additional Chief Medical Officer. The committee will have representatives from district hospital, women’s hospital, IMA, WHO, UNICEF and Pollution Control Board as members,” Prasad said.The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,557.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Tuesday to encourage use of plasma therapy, while steps are already underway at various places to create ‘plasma banks’. Several people who have recovered after contracting the virus have offered to donate their plasma for treatment of others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-update-number-of-cases-cross-2-000-mark-34-dead/story-v70tYpBcekRWxt8nR33JfI.html
29-04-2020||India||17 fresh Covid-19 cases emerge in Agra, Niti Aayog includes it in ‘high caseload’ areas||Agra continues to be a Covid-19 hotspot in Uttar Pradesh. The district recorded 17 cases of the disease on Tuesday, taking the overall number to 241.The Niti Aayog, the central government’s think tank, has included Agra in the list of high caseload areas that are “critical” in the battle against Covid-19.The district has so far seen 12 Covid-19 related deaths.A 67-year-old patient died of Covid-19 in Agra, and was cremated according to the protocols to be followed for the disease. The man was undergoing dialysis in a hospital in the city. The entire staff in the dialysis wing has been quarantined.Meanwhile, fresh cases were reported from Varanasi (12) and Kanpur (8).“Three Covid-19 deaths took place in the state, taking the death toll in the state to 34. Two deaths were reported from Agra, while one death took place in Kanpur,” Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, Joint Director/State Surveillance Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said.The fresh cases brought the total count in the state’s 60 districts to 2,053, the statement said.Agarwal said 64 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday after recovery from the infection, taking the total number of cured people to 462 in the state.The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,557.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-fresh-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-agra-niti-aayog-includes-it-in-high-caseload-areas/story-rrn4XjUGEA19SBlUDK2KgJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Podcast: Shankkar Aiyar on the Proliferation of India’s ‘Gated Republics’||In a much cited 2009 essay, economist Lant Pritchett argued that India is not a failed or a failing state, but a flailing one. In Pritchett’s words, India is “a nation-state in which the head, that is the elite institutions at the national level remain sound and functional but this head is no longer reliably connected via nerves and sinews to its own limbs.”  A new book the author and journalist Shankkar Aiyar takes the argument one step further. Aiyar’s new book, The Gated Republic: India’s Public Policy Failures and Private Solutions argues that the failure of India’s public sector to deliver on its most essential functions has created a massive gap, which the private sector has had no choice but to fill.On this week’s episode, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) speaks with Aiyar about the causes and consequences of the proliferation of India’s “gated republics,” what the COVID19 crisis reveals about the Indian state, and whether democracy is part of the solution or part of the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shankkar-aiyar-on-the-proliferation-of-india-s-gated-republics/story-jh6vLmIcxXSv7jczh9v0cM.html
29-04-2020||India||21-yr-old woman commits suicide 2 days after wedding in Karnataka’s Gadag: Cops||A 21-year-old woman, who got married just two days ago, committed suicide by hanging herself in her maternal home in Karnataka’s Gadag district, police said on Tuesday. The woman, a resident of Musari near Nandishwar Mutt, was engaged to tie the knot with a man from the same district in an arranged marriage before the lockdown.Both families decided to go ahead with the marriage on Sunday as scheduled in spite of the lockdown. The marriage was solemnised at a temple in Lakshmeshwar town of Gadag district in a simple ceremony in the presence of only the parents and immediate family members.To complete other rituals she is said to have returned to her maternal home on Monday. On Tuesday morning, she went to take a bath and when she did not come out even after a couple of hours, family members broke open the door and saw her hanging from the ceiling with a saree.“We have registered a UDR (unnatural death report) and are conducting preliminary investigations. Both the families including that of her husband’s claim that there were no issues,” an official of the Betageri Extension police station said while speaking to HT.“Her body has been shifted to the district government hospital for post-mortem. Further investigations are on and we are questioning all family members,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-2-days-after-wedding-in-karnataka-s-gadag-cops/story-j2abKzgzGTZQlO6L3QdaRM.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Canadian PM thanks India for help in repatriation of stranded nationals||In a conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau has expressed his “appreciation” for the help extended by New Delhi in the process of repatriation of Canadians stranded in India during the Covid-19 pandemic.In fact, the welfare of citizens stuck in each other’s nations formed a major component of the telephonic dialogue between the two leaders. Modi tweeted that he had a “warm exchange” with Trudeau and that he “Thanked him for looking after Indian citizens in Canada in these difficult times.”Over three lakh Indians, including nearly two lakh students, are in Canada at this time, and the Indian Government, through its High Commission and Consulates, has been working with the Federal Government as well as provinces and universities to ensure their well-being. Meanwhile, nearly 40,000 Canadians were similarly situated in India and New Delhi has helped facilitate 14 special flights so far, the latest of which departed from Kolkata. This flight was to fly from east India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTrudeau’s call also came as a consignment of five million tablets of hydroxychloroquine from India is expected to arrive in Canada by the end of this week. Trudeau expressed his gratitude for “India’s commitment to the continued export of key pharmaceutical products,” according to a readout issued by the Canadian PMO.Both countries are also looking at upping cooperation over the crisis, as Modi added, in his tweet, “Collaboration and partnership between India and Canada is vital to fighting the pandemic including through medical research and supply chain management.” This was echoed in Trudeau’s statement which noted they “agreed to continue cooperating closely and noted the value of the important people-to-people ties between the two countries.”The conversation also focused on the need “for global coordination, including through the G20, on pandemic response and to stabilize the global economy” and “for increased international cooperation to accelerate the development of diagnostics, treatments, and potential vaccines” while keeping supply chains for medical equipment and critical items open globally. They discussed cooperation during the pandemic under the rubric of the G-20 group of nations of which both are members.Modi also offered his condolences to Canadians over the killing of 22 persons during a shooting rampage, the worst on the country’s soil, in the province of Nova Scotia last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-canadian-pm-expresses-gratitude-for-india-s-help-in-repatriation-of-stranded-nationals/story-nrVjN611dpMKRsFYVXqW3I.html
29-04-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district||Two terrorists were killed in south Kashmir’s Shopian district after a gun battle with security forces, police said on Wednesday morning.A joint team of the Indian Army, police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had launched a search operation in Melhora village late on Tuesday night.Police said both terrorists are yet to be identified.More terrorists could be hiding in the village as the operation is underway, the officials added.Last week, 10 terrorists were killed in separate encounters in different parts of south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-district/story-xjxlQKIxnJ695GaJ2EwdvM.html
29-04-2020||India||Private labs can’t collect medical samples for Covid-19 testing from home: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to stop the collection of medical samples from home by private laboratories for Covid-19 testing. Citizens will now have to go to fever clinics or visit private laboratories to get tested.Till now, people could either call the helpline number of the BMC seeking requests for Covid-19 tests or get in touch private laboratories for the collection of samples from home. However, there have been complaints that the private labs are not submitting reports on time. Click here for full coverageApart from this, the BMC has received several other complaints about violation of testing rules, leading to the decision to stop the home collection facility.“We are going to stop home collection of samples. Now, fever clinics will collect samples from suspected patients if they show any symptoms or have comorbid ailments,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.According to the BMC, under the new plan, any symptomatic person; high-risk patients on dialysis or chemotherapy, and women who are over 36 weeks pregnant can call the BMC’s helpline number, 1916 and get directed to a fever clinic.“If the doctor at a fever clinic thinks the individual requires testing, the medical staff will collect the samples and send them to our laboratories for testing. This will be free of cost,” said Kakani.People who want to opt for a private testing facility and pay the charge of ₹4,500, can visit private laboratories directly. After scrutiny, if the person falls into the criteria for testing, the lab will collect the samples.Though the BMC has put a cap of ₹4,500 on tests, private labs charge around ₹7,000, inclusive of the cost of personal protective equipment and service charges.78% cases diagnosed via contact tracingAccording to data provided by BMC, almost 78% of the city’s Covid-19 patients were diagnosed through contact tracing Till Monday evening, over 5,700 people in Mumbai were diagnosed with Covid-19, of which around 4,500 were identified through contact tracing of infected people “We have so many asymptomatic patients because we could identify them before they started showing symptoms,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-labs-can-t-collect-medical-samples-for-covid-19-testing-from-home-bmc/story-9QYYI9EPZ1jwAdVvN2twLN.html
29-04-2020||India||Three daily labourers in Odisha killed in stone quarry mishap||Three labourers, including two women working in a stone quarry of Odisha’s Ganjam district were killed after they were crushed by large pieces of rocks when a part of the quarry collapsed on them on Tuesday.Berhampur SP Pinak Mishra said a portion of the stone quarry caved in and fell on the labourers working at the quarry near Bhatkumarada village under Purushottampur police station area. The quarry had started operating after government eased lockdown norms for roads and house construction works.The deceased have been identified as Bhakta Parida, Namita Naik and Pankaja Dash. While Bhakta was a resident of Bikrampur village in Khollikote area, Namita and Pankaja were staying in Tanganapani village at the outskirts of Berhampur city.Police reached the spot and sent the bodies to a hospital for post-mortem. A case of culpable homicide have been registered in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-daily-labourers-in-odisha-killed-in-stone-quarry-mishap/story-VC3WCe8oeMDvMifd10H4lI.html
29-04-2020||India||2 drivers traverse 3,000 km to bring back body of Mizo youth from Chennai to Aizawl||The rain failed to deter many in Mizoram’s capital Aizawl on Tuesday who came out to thank two ambulance drivers Jeyanthiran and Chinnathambi. The duo had driven nearly 3,450 km from Chennai to Aizawl carrying the body of a Mizo youth, Vivian Remsanga, who died in Chennai.“Against all odds. 3,000 plus km of hardship and struggle won’t dampen the spirit of resting the tragic earthly remains of Vivian Remsanga by his friend Raphael AVL Malchhanhima along with Jeyanthiran and Chinnathambi, both from Tamil Nadu. Mizoram salutes you,” Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted on Tuesday.Malchhanhima was Remsanga’s friend, who also undertook the journey in the ambulance.“Thank you from the bottom of our hearts. You have just shown what every Mizo heartbeat means when it comes to the term ‘Tlawmngaihna’,” the CM said.Loosely translated, ‘Tlawmngaihna’ is a Mizo code of conduct that urges everyone to be hospitable, kind and helpful. It was on full show in Aizawl as people, maintaining social distancing norms, handed traditional shawls, shirts and more to the two drivers. Photos and videos of the ambulance arriving at Aizawl soon went viral.Twenty-eight year old Vivian, who graduated from a Chennai-based hotel management institute in February this year, expired in the city on April 23 due to a heart attack. His body was found by the Adyar police.“Cause of death was not Covid-19 or physical assault. We were able to trace his family back to Mizoram. Fortunately, we found an ambulance which was willing to take the body back,” said PC Michael Lalrinkima, general secretary of Mizoram Welfare Association, Chennai.“The ambulance, which charged around Rs 2 lakh for the trip, started past midnight on April 24 and reached Aizawl this afternoon. Vivian’s friend, Raphael, decided to accompany the body,” he added.There have been two other instances of people from Tripura, who were undergoing treatment in Chennai, returning back to their state in ambulances during the lockdown. Earlier this month, a couple journeyed over 3,000 kilometres to their hometown at Udaipur in Gomati district, 50 kilometres from Agartala.On Monday night, another ambulance from Chennai reached Kamalpur in Dhalai district of Tripura carrying the body of a 72-year cancer patient. The deceased, Mukul Chandra Dhar, had gone to Chennai in February for treatment. But when the lockdown started, Dhar decided to return, accompanied by his son and a relative. However, Dhar expired on the way.(With inputs from Priyanka Deb Barman in Agartala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-drivers-traverse-3-000-km-to-bring-back-body-of-mizo-youth-from-chennai-to-aizawl/story-9mnMh7v8yWdZ65IaidqFpI.html
29-04-2020||India||Plasma therapy is not a proven treatment: Govt||Plasma therapy, increasingly being seen as a magic bullet to cure critically ill Covid-19 patients, should only be done as a trial, and with all requisite approvals -- and not as a regular line of treatment, according to the Union health ministry.The therapy involves transfusion of antibody-rich plasma, a component of blood, from recovered patients of Covid-19 into those who are critically ill with the disease.Hospitals across several states have applied for permission to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for permission to start plasma therapy. As of Tuesday night, there were 7,761 recovered patients in India, some of whom have already donated plasma. On April 14, Max Healthcare’s Saket hospital, which had the permission on compassionate grounds, used plasma therapy on a Covid-19 patient in one of the first such instances in the country.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“ICMR is doing a pan-India study to evaluate the efficacy of convalescent therapy in critically ill Covid-19 patients, and until they come out with specific guidelines on it, no one should use it as a treatment modality for Covid-19 patients as it could not only be harmful but is also illegal,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.ICMR, earlier this month, came out with a detailed document on the study model using plasma therapy, which has shown promise in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“It has been tried in China and other countries, and we wanted to see how it works in our population. Those who will be transfused convalescent plasma will be given( it) in a study mode. One should understand it is not to be given to everyone as a treatment modality. There is not adequate evidence yet on its efficacy, so there’s a need to generate more data. Those who want to be a part of this trial will have to seek Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO) approval,” said a senior ICMR official who asked not to be named. “ICMR currently has not approved plasma therapy. It’s approved in India only for trial and research purposes,” said Agarwal.ICMR, in its circular, said: “Therapeutic Plasma Exchange (TPE) is an experimental procedure for critically ill COVID-19 patients. Hospitals and institutions planning to provide this modality of treatment should do so in a clinical trial with protocols which are cleared by the Institutional Ethics Committee. The protocols should be registered with the Clinical Trial Registry of India, and approved by Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization, and mechanisms to report adverse and serious adverse events to the CDSCO should be put in place.”The circular also asked health facilities interested in becoming trial sites to apply.The two main hospitals for trials that have already been approved as ICMR sites, and have begun trials about a week ago, are Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), both in Delhi; the two have recruited a total 20 patients for the study which will last three months.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi has also started receiving plasma donations to start trials. Other hospitals that want to administer plasma therapy to critically ill patients will need permission from CDSCO. The primary aim of such studies and trials is to check the proportion of patients remaining free of mechanical ventilation in both groups (those given convalescent plasma therapy and those not). The second one is to monitor, among other things, mortality in both the groups, duration of hospital stay, duration of intensive care unit stay, requirement of vasopressor (medicine to treat severely low blood pressure in critically ill patients) and days free of dialysis.Currently, no effective treatments are available for Covid-19. Convalescent plasma from recovered patients contains antibodies against Covid-19 , which may be beneficial for severely ill patients.As part of the study, doctors collect up to 500 ml Convalescent Plasma from a recovered patient after 14 days of recovery (and after two consecutive COVID-19 negative tests using the polymerase chain reaction test). Plasma collected from one recovered person can be given to two patients.“Delhi needs to have a bank of around 200 Covid-19 plasma donations; we cannot wait for a donation when a sick person comes to the hospital. Anybody who has recovered from the infection — meaning two consecutive samples have tested negative — and has completed two more weeks of quarantine can donate plasma. People who have recovered can donate plasma every seven to ten days,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS.All trial patients will receive either standard treatment (supportive therapy) with random donor plasma or convalescent plasma and standard treatment.Some hospitals have also sought permission to begin clinical trials at their hospital. “We have received an approval from the drugs controller of India for conducting clinical trials using plasma therapy for moderate to severe Covid-19 patients admitted at Max Healthcare. We got this approval yesterday and so far no patients have been enrolled in this study. Any further administration of this will be under the approved study,” said a spokesperson for Max Healthcare.The hospital administered convalescent plasma to a critically ill Covid-19 patient , who was on ventilator, on April 14. It sought and received approval on compassionate grounds.The patient recovered and was recently discharged. “…but it is important that we also understand that plasma therapy is no magic bullet. During the patient’s treatment at Max Hospital, Saket, other standard treatment protocols were followed and we can say that plasma therapy could have worked as a catalyst in speeding up his recovery. We cannot attribute 100% recovery to plasma therapy only, as there are multiple factors,” Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director – Max Healthcare, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-is-not-a-proven-treatment-govt/story-tWjSE5oNMixGXiOLvCJ1IM.html
29-04-2020||India||Virus may keep coming back every year: Experts||China’s top scientists on Tuesday said that Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), cannot be stopped and will continue to cause seasonal infections like the flu. The seasonal flu kills between 300,000 and 650,000 people around the world every year, according to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates.“This is very likely to be an epidemic that coexists with humans for a long time, becomes seasonal and is sustained within human bodies,” said Jin Qi, director of the Institute of Pathogen Biology at China’s apex medical research institute, the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, according to Bloomberg News.Several scientists, including Anthony Fauci, the director of US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, have said the new coronavirus is likely to cause seasonal peaks of infections in winter.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coveragePublic health experts in India agree that the Sars-Cov-2 is here to stay. “The virus is sure to be around because it has a high transmission rate and many asymptomatic people and those with mild disease remain undiagnosed but spread infection. Diseases spread by asymptomatic carriers are difficult to contain as everyone needs to use protection, which becomes difficult to sustain at the population level over a long period,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.People with Covid-19 are the most infectious during the first week of symptoms, with 44% infections spread by those not obviously sick, according a study published in Nature Medicine on April 15, which explains why it is spreading faster than other coronaviruses, like Sars-CoV, which caused the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars). Sars-CoV directly enters the lungs and swiftly causes serious respiratory symptoms, leading to the person being hospitalised and isolated soon after getting infected. This limits the chances of the virus replicating in the throat and spreading to others. “These are two different viruses (Sars-CoV-2 and Sars -CoV), so their behaviour will be different. The host virus interaction properties are different. In Sars, there was only lung infection and it could spread when the infected person coughed, but in the case of Sars-CoV-2, the infection begins in the upper respiratory tract so you can infect even if you talk. The virus is in the nasopharyngeal fluid, which mixes with saliva, so you can infect when you sing, speak or shout. Silent transmission is common in this disease. So screening at airports for temperature was appropriate in case of Sars, but not for Sars-CoV-2,” said Dr Jacob John, veteran virologist and professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College.Sars-CoV-2 replicates in the upper respiratory tract before moving down to infect the lungs, which leads to people shedding huge amounts of the virus through coughing in the first week of symptoms, according to a study published in the journal Nature on April 1.“Its high infectiousness is one part of it but it will become seasonal because it will continue to infect people who don’t have immunity against it. How it will behave will be difficult to predict because all virus mutate, but it is difficult to predict what the impact of mutation will be on virulence and transmission,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research. “Everyone who gets infected and recovers develops immunity but to stop infections from recurring, we need long-lasting neutralising antibodies. We don’t know how long-lasting antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 are, but if we get a good vaccine that gives long-lasting immunity, then perhaps we can eradicate it...,”added Dr Kant.There are seven coronaviruses known to infect humans, four of which cause mild cold-like symptoms that are sharply seasonal and appear to transmit similarly to influenza, according to a study in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. Using data from the decade-long US Household Influenza Vaccine Evaluation study, the researchers found most coronavirus cases were detected between December and April/May, and peaked in January/February. Only 2.5% of the cases occurred between June and September, according to the study.“A second wave is likely in November but by then countries would have gone though the first wave and health systems would have time to recover. In the post-Covid-19 world, social distancing, face masks and hand washing will also become a social reality until we get a vaccine,” said JVR Prasada Rao, former health secretary, Union ministry of health and director general, NACO.Hot weather is unlikely to have much of an impact, said Chinese scientists. “The virus is heat sensitive, but that’s when it’s exposed to 56 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes and the weather is never going to get that hot,” said Wang Guiqiang of Peking University First Hospital.“We have to wait and watch to see how the weather will affect the seasonal transmission of Sars-CoV-2,” said Dr Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-may-keep-coming-back-every-year-experts/story-x0btbvgjpR6bQZu5LeA6qN.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid cases climb to 31,000, spike puts deaths over 1,000||The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 30,000 mark on Tuesday while that of fatalities due to the pandemic exceeded 1,000, as the country maintained a precarious grip on a disease that officials fear could peak over the next couple of months.According data disclosed by state health departments, the total number of Covid-19 infections across India was 31,329 and deaths 1,007 on Tuesday, which recorded the biggest single-day jump in fatalities. Tuesday’s 74 deaths surpass the previous high -- 54 fatalities recorded on Monday -- by a significant margin.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe latest 10,000 infections came over a period of 7 days – a day less than it had taken for the tally to go from 10,000 to 20,000 – with Maharashtra and Gujarat continuing to report some of the biggest spikes even while under a lockdown that has disrupted everyday life at an unprecedented scale.The two states have a doubling rate for infections at 8.3 days and 8.8 days respectively. The overall doubling rate for the country is 10.8 days, down from 4 days at the beginning of the month.“If you look at some of the countries where cases are high, you will see twenty countries with the combined population as of India’s have 84 times more coronavirus cases,” said Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal at the government’s routine briefing on the crisis. But the outbreak appears to be turning particularly serious in the country’s financial capital Mumbai, which accounts for close to 6,000 of the 9,318 cases across the state as on Tuesday. Of the 393 new cases in the city, 41 were reported in Dharavi, a slum neighbourhood regarded as one of the most densely populated places in the world with close to a million residents.In Gujarat, 226 new infections were recorded on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 3,774 – behind Maharashtra’s 9,318 and ahead of Delhi’s 3,314.Globally, there are now close to 3.1 million who have been infected and roughly 213,000 of them have died due to the illness. At 57,000 fatalities, the United States is the hardest hit country followed by Italy (27,000 deaths) and Spain (23,000 deaths).India’s top health officials said the coming days will be the most crucial in determining which trajectory India follows, since some of the lockdown measures will be relaxed in areas that have not been hit hard by the disease. “The most important thing now to focus on is putting in place aggressive containment measures in identified hot spots, or what we call red zones, so that these (infections) don’t leak into green zones,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Guleria added that these measures will need to be paired with “aggressive behavioural change in terms of maintaining hand hygiene, wearing a mask, following cough etiquette” as a way of life for Indians. “The moment will come when we will have to lift lockdown, so we will have to prepare our strategy focusing on areas from where no cases have been reported and that can be opened up for commercial activities, and to ensure the red zones are converted to orange and then green zones,” he said.“We should manage to successfully segregate the zones, only then we can say the curve has truly been flattened, and will continue to remain that way,” he added. Flattening the curve refers to the strategy of bringing down new infections to match health care capacity, an approach particularly crucial for a disease like Covid-19 that has spread like wildfire in countries that dithered on announcing tough measures. The measures have also meant mounting economic losses. Financial analysts Moody’s Investors Services said in an assessment released on Tuesday that the near shutdown of economic activity could bring down India’s GDP growth rate to 0.2% in the current calendar year. “There are significant downside risks to our forecasts in the event that the pandemic is not contained and lockdowns have to be reinstated. Even without longer-duration lockdowns, a self-perpetuating dynamic could take hold, resulting in large-scale destruction of businesses and entire sectors, as well as a structurally high unemployment rate, a permanent loss of human capital, and persistent malaise in consumption and investment,” the rating agency said in its Global Macro Outlook update.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-climb-to-31-000-spike-puts-deaths-over-1-000/story-nThJOwdwG7tFkqRzBzAhWL.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India crossed the 30,000 case-count for Covid-19. On Tuesday night, the country’s tally stood at 31,329 cases, 1,007 dead, and 7,761 recovered.This comes exactly a week after it crossed the 20,000 mark. On April 21, the count was 20,004 cases, 644 dead, and 3,778 recovered.The country crossed the 10,000 mark on April 13; the count on that day was 10,444 cases, 355 dead and 1,191 recovered.The number of cases in India continues to grow, but the curve is not, by any stretch, an exponential one. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndia has been testing more — 716,733 tests as on Tuesday — but the testing protocol is still skewed towards direct and indirect contacts of infected people. Still, the increased testing has already helped reduce the proportion of those testing positive to those tested (by around 0.6 percentage points, according to NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant). That is bound to happen as the number of tests increases.The actual proportion of people infected is likely to be even lower than the current 4.1% (a number put out by the NITI CEO) — just as the actual number of people infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is likely to be much higher. Indeed, with almost seven out every 10 people infected being asymptomatic (as of a week ago, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research), it would be surprising if it weren’t. Still, no one in the government, NITI, or the Indian Council of Medical Research will accept this — perhaps because they think it makes the country look bad.It doesn’t.As this column has repeatedly pointed out (citing worldometers.info ), 97% of the cases in the world are mild and India is no exception.The real number to worry about is the fatality rate as measured by the proportion of those who die to those testing positive, and also the overall number of deaths. Given that the actual number of cases in India is definitely higher than the reported number, the country’s fatality rate is certain to be lower than the 3.17% it was on Monday night. This number is much lower than the global fatality rate of 6.9%, although that proportion is skewed by the high death rates (all double digits) in countries such as Spain, Italy, France, the UK, and Iran. Even in the US, which accounts for almost a third of all cases, the number is a high 5.6%. To be sure, the same logic that applies to India, applies to these countries too — their actual fatality rates will be much lower.While it’s important to keep fatalities down to a minimum, this writer isn’t suggesting that we stop looking at the number of cases. Given that Covid-19 infects and kills in clusters, it is imperative that India gets its response right in regions with a high prevalence of the disease. On Tuesday, NITI pointed out that around 60% of Covid-19 cases in India are from 15 districts, with seven accounting for 47%. Three cities, Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad account for a third.India’s ability to deal with the situation in these three cities will prepare it for the challenge ahead — at least till a vaccine for the virus is discovered (the Oxford candidate continues to make good progress and if the trial is successful, the world could have a vaccine by September). A team of Chinese scientists has said that it believes the Sars-CoV-2 virus will not vanish the way the Sars-CoV virus, which caused Sars, did, but return in waves, much like the common flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-pQxY1cBenNNCTj5NTWHkWJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Domestic makers of rapid kits in a fix as ICMR halts their use||Local manufacturers of antibody based rapid testing kits (RTKs) for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), whose kits were validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and approved by the Central Drugs Standard Organisation (CDSCO), seem to be grappling with a sense of uncertainty as they are yet to receive any orders from the ICMR. To make matters worse, on Monday, ICMR asked states to return RTKs sourced from China after its field assessment found them to be showing too much variation in results -- and while doing so, did not say anything at all about its future plans regarding RTKs. To be sure, some states had been directly trying to source RTKs, including from some domestic manufacturers.  CDSCO has approved RTKs made by six local companies. Antibody tests are done using a person’s blood, and results are available in 30 minutes to an hour as opposed to the RT-PCR (Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests that take about five hours. Still, the latter are the gold standard for diagnosis of Covid-19; the antibody tests are largely used to measure prevalence of a disease, according to experts. ICMR , on April 11, invited a techno-commercial offer for procurement of 4.5 million RTKs, with a tight deadline. However, even those who were not rejected by the council are yet to hear from it. “We applied for the tender, and even though our bid wasn’t rejected, we are yet to hear from them. It is a little confusing. They haven’t placed orders yet. The states somehow seem more proactive in their approach, and we are also getting several export queries,” says Prateek Mittal, director, marketing, Medsource Ozone Biomedicals Pvt Ltd.“This uncertainty will be counterproductive to cost efficiency. The cost can come down at even half the volumes given to the Chinese,” he added. ICMR placed an order for 550,000 RTKs with two Chinese companies; these are the kits it has now asked states to return. Medsource is approved by both ICMR and CDSCO to manufacture rapid tests kits, and has started production; its peak capacity is 115,000 kits in a day.“We can ramp up but since there is no clarity on procurement right now we don’t want to do that just yet. In these difficult times we are making investments but this uncertainty is quite challenging,” said Mittal.Gurugram-based SD Bio Sensor, another company with requisite approvals, is also waiting to hear from the research body as the manufacturers say their first priority is to produce for ICMR.“ ICMR has taken samples of our kits for further testing, and we are waiting to hear from them. We are sure though that our sample will pass the test as our company has already been exporting kits to US/UK etc. About 80% of the manufacturing already happens in South Korea and we just finish the product here,” said Punit Kumar, deputy manager, regulatory affairs.The company can make 100,000 RTKs a day and can scale it up to double the quantity. “We have about 300,000 kits already in our warehouse, and even Haryana procured about 25,000 of our rapid testing kits. Let’s see what ICMR says,” he added.Even the government-owned HLL Lifecare is yet to receive an order from ICMR. “We have 2 lakh rapid test kits ready, and can produce one lakh kits in a week,” said an official at the company who asked not to be identified.Surat (Gujarat) based Voxtur Bio Ltd, another approved company, has begun production with a capacity of manufacturing 10 million kits in a month. Two of the six companies, Vanguard Diagnostics and ImmunoScience India, are still in the process of beginning production. “We did not apply for the ICMR tender because of the strict timeline for deliver,” said Atul Tarde, CEO, ImmunoScience India.“The tender is open for all, and those who qualify will get an equal opportunity,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, the spokesperson for ICMR. Experts believe it makes sense to encourage local manufacturing. “Stop relying on China; we should encourage Indian manufacturers,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-makers-of-rapid-kits-in-a-fix-as-icmr-halts-their-use/story-R0F0oGJisyWDy9JsfIOC4M.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: States assess mild cases to begin home-isolation||After the Centre on Monday released guidelines allowing mild or pre-symptomatic coronavirus cases to be home-quarantined, state governments have been directed to start assessing patients. Medical officer in state Covid-19 hospitals and district surveillance officers will take a call on whether a patient should be isolated at home. A patient with mild or pre-Covid-19 symptoms will be allowed home quarantine provided he or she lives in a place that allows strict isolation without having to intermingle with the rest of the family and a caregiver is present p 24*7 who is in direct touch with a nearby Covid-19 hospital.Under the guidelines, the patient would have to agrees to his or her health condition monitored, and report by telephone to the district surveillance officer on a daily basis, among other preconditions.The patient will have to sign an undertaking of strict compliance with the do’s and don’ts. Experts say there was no need to wait this long for letting asymptomatic patients to be isolated at home.“I am a big believer of keeping mildly infected {people} at home. It should have been done much earlier as in about 90% of the cases I would say symptoms are self-limiting, which means these will get better on their own. However, regular telephonic contact is a must so that at anytime if the patient’s condition deteriorates then they can be rushed to the nearest hospital,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.As per the assessment made by the medical officer, a patient is categorised as very mild or mild, moderate or severe, and admitted to a Covid care centre, a dedicated Covid health centre or a dedicated Covid hospital.A Covid care centre, for mild or asymptomatic patients, is a facility created in hotels, hostels, lodges and even makeshift structures. “Instead of these facilities, a pre-symptomatic patient will be allowed to remain at home. But the patient has to strictly adhere to the norms,” said a senior health ministry official.The caregiver of the patient, and close family contacts, will have to take the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic under the supervision of a medical officer.Downloading the Arogya Setu app and keeping it on at all times is a prerequisite for allowing home isolation for positive cases.Meanwhile, Union health secretary Preeti Sudan on Tuesday turned tough on hospitals which are turning away non-Covid patients, or insisting on them getting a Covid-19 test done before treatment. “All health services should remain functional during the lockdown,” Sudan wrote in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-states-assess-mild-cases-to-begin-home-isolation/story-dUo59CfOyCpfU4pz164TNJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Govt leverages MGNREGS to strengthen rural infrastructure||The sharp focus on creating individual assets in MGNREGS over the years has presented the government an opportunity to leverage the flagship job scheme in this pandemic when millions of migrant labourers are stuck at home.Just two types of activities—construction (on individual land) and sanitation works—are earmarked for 69% of the total work under MGNREGS for this financial year, government data has shown. “These activities”, according to a rural ministry official, “perfectly suits us to allot work to large number of workers and meet a demand surge as constructing a house or a toilet requires hardly one to three workers.”The construction activities on individual land are mostly for building houses for the poor under PMAY(G). MGNREGS beneficiaries can work for up to 90 days to build a house and as a part of the Swachh Bharat programme, there is a boom in construction of toilets and waste management in rural India.As per the latest data on work status for FY20-21, 50% of the work under MGNREGS is for construction of individual properties and 19% are sanitation-related. There is also heavy demand for water conservation and renovation of traditional water bodies. The Union rural development ministry wants to complete 4.8 million houses in this year.Last week, union rural development and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met his state counterparts through a video conference to discuss how to scale up key flagship schemes such as MGNREGS, the rural housing scheme, rural roads programme and the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM).Tomar told the states that the resources should be used to “strengthen rural infrastructure, create employment in rural areas and facilitate diversification of rural livelihoods.”The government has already released around ₹36,000 Crore to the States/UTs in the current financial year, including ₹ 33,300 Crore under MGNREGS to quickly pay all dues and help states start new work in this financial year.Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra pointed out that the government needs to step up its activities to maximise the MGNREGS potentials. “There are 2.5 lakh gram panchayats in India. Work couldn’t have started in all GPs due to Covid restrictions and containment zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-leverages-mgnregs-to-strengthen-rural-infrastructure/story-nDjwDIKbun1fp6fGgWjcXL.html
29-04-2020||India||Kerala-made Covid testing kit awaits approval two weeks on||A Covid-19 testing kit developed at Thiruvananthapuram’s Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCIMST) has been awaiting approval for two weeks from regulatory bodies, scientists involved in the development said on Tuesday. Experts have underlined that the approval should be speeded up as India needs to ramp up testing to effectively deal with the pandemic when the Centre has asked states to return the rapid test kits sourced from China. The Centre’s move came on Monday days after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) evaluated the Chinese kits after huge variations in their results were reported.The scientists said the kit is less expensive and more accurate than the polymerase chain reaction testing kits. They said the kit is called ‘Chitra Gene LAMP N’. Scientists called it “highly confirmatory” for the Covid-19 diagnosis and added the kit detects the N-Gene of the SARS CoV 2, which causes the disease. “Sree Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, an institute of national importance, of India@DST, has developed a diagnostic kit that can confirm #Covid 19 in two hours at a low cost,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted on April 18. Experts have underlined that regulatory agencies across the world have eased processes and that the ICMR should follow suit. “Mere lockdown would not do any good. We have to speed up tests during these days,” said former Christian Medical College (Vellore) principal Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who represents Thiruvananthapuram in Parliament, has criticised regulatory bodies for delaying the approval for the kit developed at SCIMST. “Many imported Chinese kits are found to be faulty... rather than clinging on to technicalities... the ICMR should give permission to indigenously developed kits,” he said in a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-made-covid-testing-kit-awaits-approval-two-weeks-on/story-jNDfASgM58cAB05jhE3QqJ.html
29-04-2020||India||China says unfair to label its test kits faulty||China on Tuesday expressed concern about the Indian Council of Medical Research’s decision to stop using rapid antibody testing kits made by two Chinese firms, saying their products meet quality standards and are exported to many other countries. “The quality of medical products exported from China is prioritised. It is unfair and irresponsible for certain individuals to label Chinese products as ‘faulty’ and look at issues with pre-emptive prejudice,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement .The statement came a day after ICMR, which plays a key role in advising authorities engaged in the fight against Covid-19, said state governments should stop using rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics after several states found huge variations in the results, and after its own field assessment exercise. Ji said: “We are deeply concerned with the evaluation results and the decision made by ICMR.”Both Wondfo and Livzon, she said, have clarified that their testing kits had been certified by China’s National Medical Products Administration, meet the quality standards of China and importing countries, and have also been validated and approved by ICMR through the National Institute of Virology (NIV). “The Covid-19 antibody rapid test kits produced by these two Chinese companies have been exported to and well recognised in many countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America,” she added.Ji further said Beijing hopes New Delhi “could respect China’s goodwill and sincerity, strengthen communication timely with relevant Chinese companies based on facts, and resolve [the matter] reasonably and properly”.She said there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of rapid antibody testing kits. Ji described viruses as a common enemy of mankind and said China will continue to support India’s efforts in fighting Covid-19, strengthen medical and health cooperation, and jointly work to overcome difficulties to safeguard the safety of people in both countries.India has placed orders for hundreds of thousands of testing kits and millions of PPE kits with Chinese firms. However, several state governments reported wide variations in the results produced by kits from Wondfo and Livzon.The ICMR stressed in a statement issued on Monday that rapid antibody testing kits should be used only for surveillance, and said it evaluated the kits from Wondfo and Livzon in field conditions. “In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits and return them,” the statement added.A separate Indian government statement said orders from the two Chinese firms were cancelled as their kits were “underperforming”. Wondfo reacted to ICMR’s decision by saying it was “surprised and disappointed” as its “one of the first tests to receive an import licence from India, and has been validated and approved by the ICMR through NIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-unfair-to-label-its-test-kits-faulty/story-v37UbLIMGkUtdX61cuWkDM.html
29-04-2020||India||Museums, zoos, science centres take the online route||With no visitors because of the Covid-19 lockdown, science centres, zoos, and museums across India are opening up their galleries and enclosures through virtual means for the people to see them while staying at home.While some are hosting live streaming of animals 24x7, others are allowing people to take virtual walk-throughs of the museum galleries. Others are organising sky observation programs, where visitors can log in to observe celestial events like the Super Pink Moon, which appeared on April 8.Last week, the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata, the oldest in India, launched an app to help people take virtual tours. People can have panoramic view of the zoo, check photos and videos in enclosures with a voice-over option to know more about a particular animal they are interested in.The Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai was the first in India to start live streaming of animals in their enclosures almost two years ago. Its webpage is now getting almost 60,000-80,000 views daily. “The page views have increased several times because of the lockdown. We now have live streaming of 14 species. There are 180 cameras installed in the zoo and animal enclosures. For the lockdown, we have added an extra feature in which we focus on one animal at a time. Say for example, an elephant enjoying a shower,” said Sudha Ramen, deputy director of the zoo.Even though the pan-India lockdown had started on March 25, almost every zoo and museum had closed down much before that.The Indian Museum, the oldest and largest multi-purpose museum in India, is going to launch a virtual walk-through very soon, said its director-in-charge Arijit Dutta Choudhury. The museum has a mummy which is 4,000- year-old. “For now, people can see some of the most important collections, some of which are a few thousand years old,” he said.And it is not just the galleries and enclosures. Science museums and centres are also holding live shows and competitions too. “The lockdown came as a new challenge for the National Council of Science Museums which has a network of 25 science museums and centres spread across the country. We decided not only to make people aware of coronavirus but also started organising various online programs and activities to connect with the visitors,” said SN Singh, spokesman. Since the lockdown began, various science museums and centres have opened their galleries online. There have been panel discussions on Covid-19, celebrations of commemorative days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/museums-zoos-science-centres-take-the-online-route/story-9QE8pgrFeXxKWe2rWgrGLP.html
29-04-2020||India||Kailash Mansarovar yatra shrouded in uncertainty||Uncertainty looms over the annual Kailash Mansarovar yatra after officials in Uttarakhand said they might not have enough time to prepare for the pilgrimage. The ministry of external affairs organises the pilgrimage to Mount Kailash in Tibet each year through two different routes -- Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand and Nathu La Pass in Sikkim. The north-eastern state announced last week that it will not host the pilgrimage this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Kumaun Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVM) officials, who take care of the yatra route through Uttarakhand, said they might not have enough time to remove snow deposits from the pilgrimage route. “With rain and snowfall continuing intermittently on many stretches of the yatra route since December, it could take more than a fortnight time to remove the snow deposits”, said a KMVN official said on condition of anonymity. Another official of the nodal agency said they still haven’t been informed by the central government about whether the yatra is scheduled for this year or not. “No agency involved in preparation of the yatra had been given any sort of instructions by the Union ministry this year. So there is uncertainty whether the yatra will be held this year or not,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kailash-mansarovar-yatra-shrouded-in-uncertainty/story-f5IUBx38MTmyoYYdAbl0KK.html
29-04-2020||India||Two priests killed in UP’s Bulandshahr||Two priests of a Shiva temple in Bulandshahr’s Pagauna village were found murdered on Tuesday morning.Hours later, the police said it had arrested a youth in connection with the case.“We have arrested Murari aka Raju, a Dalit man, on charges of killing two priests. The accused is a habitual drug (bhang) addict. He has confessed to his crime and described the killing as “Bhagwan ki Ichchha” (wish of God),” said Atul Kumar Chaube, circle officer of Anoopshahar police area. “The accused had no enmity with the sadhus but a few villagers claimed he had an altercation with them over a chimta (tongs) which was stolen a day before.” The bodies of Jagdish aka Rangidas, 55, and his disciple Sher Singh, 46, have been sent for the postmortem. “A wooden staff was used in the killing and no cut wounds were found on bodies. The accused has confessed that he used a wooden staff to kill the sadhus,” said Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has sought a detailed report from senior officials .Village head Dinesh Kumar said the police’s version is unreliable as the bodies bore cut wounds, which appeared to have been inflicted by some sharp-edged weapon. Local Vishwa Hindu Parishad leaders also did not find the police claims convincing. “Can a drug addict kill two middle-aged sadhus using a wooden staff?” asked VHP leader Rajkumar Dunger while accusing the police of diverting the issue by dragging a Dalit into it.The incident comes more than a week after two sadhus and their driver were lynched by a mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110 kilometre from Palghar in Maharashtra. They were attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.The opposition leaders attacked the ruling BJP over the incident. Congress general secretary in charge of UP, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the case should not politicised. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Yogi, expressing his concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-priests-killed-in-up-s-bulandshahr/story-dYmlgAVNi6sN3VrNOAidWK.html
29-04-2020||India||Give $1trn for green recovery: Prakash Javadekar to developed countries||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar has called for a grant of $1 trillion to developing countries immediately for a green economic recovery in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.He said this at the 11th session of the Petersburg Climate Dialogue on April 27 and 28. The event was co-chaired by Germany and the UK, and witnessed the participation of 30 countries. The aim was to facilitate discussions among high-level government officials over measures that could pave the way for a green recovery from the current economic crisis.Javadekar stressed making climate technology open source, or made available at an affordable cost. “Covid-19 has taught us that we can survive on less. The world must think of adopting more sustainable consumption patterns in line with requirement of sustainable lifestyles, as was first mooted by PM Narendra Modi at the Paris Conference of Parties (2015).” He added that the world has an opportunity to accelerate renewable energy and create jobs in the sector.India and other developing countries have been demanding action on a pre-2020 commitment of developed nations of mobilising $100 billion by this year for mitigation and adaptation. In a webinar organised by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences on April 22, Javadekar said: “In 2009, the world had agreed that developed countries will mobilise $100 billion every year for climate adaptation and mitigation. Its been 11 years and the amount is $1 trillion now. Where is the money? There is no money on the table.”At the Petersburg Dialogue, UN secretary general Antonio Guterres said in a video message: “The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the fragilities of our economy to shocks such as disease or climate disruption. Countries have committed to enhance their nationally determined contributions (NDCs) and longterm strategy to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050. This commitment must be maintained. G20 countries must lead by example.”The Petersburg Dialogue is crucial because the UN climate negotiations (COP26) to be held in Glasgow has been deferred in view of Covid-19. Countries were to submit enhanced NDCs in line with the Paris Agreement at Glasgow. Only four countries have submitted updated NDCs while 181 countries haven’t updated their NDCs. Without ambitious NDCs, the global average temperature is expected to rise by 3-5 degrees C over pre-industrial levels by the end of the century.Most scientists and environmentalists are worried about a rebound effect of the current economic crisis with economies investing in polluting sectors to come out of the slowdown. “I am concerned about global economic crisis than I am about delaying this year’s COP. If the economy tanks, climate action may be delayed in the interest of getting people back to work. I hope we put people back to work in green energy and technology, sectors that will result in lasting change,” Rob Jackson, Professor, Stanford and Chair, Global Carbon Project, told HT in an interview earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-1trn-for-green-recovery-prakash-javadekar-to-developed-countries/story-D3I5rGGU7XuvogOwhGdaSN.html
29-04-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: NIA expands scope of its probe||Expanding the scope of its probe into the December 2017 Elgar Parishad conclave, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has started looking at whether the 11 activists arrested in the case were involved in raising funds (for anti-national activities), brainwashing educated youth in urban centres, made international visits to get support from different organizations abroad, launched misinformation campaigns against the government , and met with overground Maoist leaders, two officials familiar with development told HT.The probe by NIA also focuses on student leaders in various universities and non-government organizations that extended support to the activists.Nine activists, Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bhardwak were arrested and chargesheet by Pune Police in 2018 in the case while two others, Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha were arrested earlier this month by NIA. Most are currently in judicial custody. “While Pune police has already filed two charge sheets in Bhima Koregaon incident, our probe focuses on unearthing the whole network of activists and frontal organizations working with them including student unions, youth organizations, lawyers’ groups, tribal bodies and NGOs. The source of funding, both in India and abroad, different events/activities organized by them will be identified and stopped,” said the first official.Senior advocate Mihir Desai, who appears for Teltumbde and Gonsalves said: “All the charges are false and baseless. Pune police too has been saying this for two years that they are looking at larger conspiracy but there was no mention in its charge sheets.”Advocate Rohan Nahar, who appears for Varavara Rao and Rona Wilson, said: “The police and now NIA are going on a wild goose chase...there is no case at hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-expands-scope-of-its-probe/story-5oTRtNnVpVEagFpS5e4RpJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Only 3 districts in Gujarat are Covid-free; virus tally at 3,774||As many as 30 out of Gujarat’s 33 districts have reported Covid-19 cases with Ahmedabad being the worst-hit in the state. Ahmedabad accounted for 2,554 of Gujarat’s 3,774 cases as of Tuesday when 226 more people were diagnosed with the disease. In Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases, 30 out of 36 districts have been hit by the pandemic. Covid-19 cases have been reported from 25 of the 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh.Ahmedabad reported the highest number of new cases (164) on Tuesday followed by Vadodara (15) and Surat (14) and took the total number of the cases in the three districts to 2,543, 570, and 255.All 19 fatalities were reported from Ahmedabad since Monday and took the death toll from the pandemic in the state to 181. “Fifteen of the deceased were suffering from comorbid conditions,” said Gujarat’s principal secretary (health) Jayanthi Ravi. He said there is no reason to worry as the spread has not been as fast as reported from other countries. Dr Parthiv Mehta, a pulmonologist, said comorbidity was one of the reasons for the higher mortality. “Gujarat has the highest number of people with diabetes, heart diseases, obesity, high blood pressure. Most of the deceased had comorbidities so that is why we can say that people in the state are not dying because of Covid-19 but instead dying with it,” said Mehta.Mehta said another reason for higher mortality is the prevalence of L strain of the Covid-19 instead of the S in Gujarat. “What I can predict is that while S strain was majorly prevalent in Kerala, L is more prevalent in Gujarat. So mostly the old aged people with comorbidities with this L-strain are succumbing to the virus more. Also, another reason behind the high number of cases is the number of tests the state government is doing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-3-districts-in-gujarat-are-covid-free-virus-tally-at-3-774/story-nsKQTDntKdfVbVopZblElN.html
29-04-2020||India||MP minister says Jamaat event led to spike in cases; tally rises to 2,387||Madhya Pradesh health minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday blamed the attendees of a congregation at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi that later emerged a Covid-19 hotspot for the growing cases of the disease in the state.“Jamaat people mingled with people so deep that when our teams went to localities to identify people suffering from Covid-19, they were attacked with stones. People beat our doctors and spat on them intentionally. This resulted in a delay [in identifying and treating Covid patients] and the virus spread to other areas too,” said Mishra.Madhya Pradesh has drawn flak for its handling of the pandemic and is among the states, where the Centre has deputed interministerial teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control the disease.Mishra blamed the attendees on a day when the number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,387 while the virus spread to 31 of the Madhya Pradesh’s 52 districts.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also blamed Tablighi Jamaat for spreading of the virus in the state.Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said the government has blamed the group to divert attention from its failures. “Let there be a review of the situation by an independent expert or experts. If the team’s finding is same as that of the government, then the government can say with authority that any particular group is responsible.”Another public health expert, SR Azad, said the problem with the government’s approach from day one has been that it did not look beyond certain localities and groups to check the spread of the disease. “Hence, the measures expected to be undertaken were not taken like increase in number of labs, more testing, more surveys and screening...”Azad said the first four Covid-19 cases were reported from Jabalpur and they were not Jamaat members. “They had a travel history. In Bhopal, more than 100 officials and personnel of health department were infected. It was not because of any Jamaat member.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-minister-says-jamaat-event-led-to-spike-in-cases-tally-rises-to-2-387/story-hShogWwl6u54a9J5MoDSXJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Stuck in camps, uncertainty keeps labourers on the edge||As uncertainty mires the return of millions of migrant workers in the absence of Central guidelines, disquiet and anger are simmering in the shelter homes where the workers have been housed since the end of March.On Monday, several chief ministers asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue guidelines allowing the states to bring back the migrant workers.Close to five million workers would have to be brought back to their respective states, as per the data collected by the state governments till Tuesday afternoon. The states have demanded special trains to bring these workers back. These workers will be kept in special quarantine homes being set up at state borders and at district headquarters. Pinky, 29, has been at the Gandhi Nagar shelter home in Jaipur since March 29 and is waiting to meet her four-year-old daughter at Etawah, Uttar Pradesh. She, along with her family members, were working at a cloth mill in Bhilwara, and were brought to shelter home, when they were walking back home on March 29.“My daughter with her uncle and others reached Etawah,” she said, hoping that the UP government will send buses to take them home as the state did for workers in Haryana. “I just want to go back home,” she said.She is not alone. Many from UP at the shelter home have registered themselves with the government helpline for migrant workers stranded in other states. UP plans to bring back a million workers from other states.Chandradeo Singh, 22, who went to Mangalore from Jharkhand’s Latehar to earn a livelihood, is stuck there, along with five others. “We have exhausted all the money. Workers are not taking packets of cooked food for fear of being infected by coronavirus,” he said. He wants to know if the Jharkhand government bring them back home. “Even if the government withdraws the lockdown, we do not have bus or train fare to reach to Latehar.” Back home, his wife said the family of six was surviving on boiled food. “We get PDS ration but we do not have money to buy even vegetables or other items to cook food,” she said.The Jharkhand government’s helpline for stranded workers has registered 9,48,135 workers, from close to 15,000 places across India, all of whom want to return to their home state.Anil Sethi, 37, is among 4.9 lakh workers from Odisha who have registered with the state government portal for stranded workers outside the state. In Bangalore, Sethi, a plumber, queues up at the food centre for three hours every day, to be ladled out some tomato rice, which, he says, is not enough for five workers from Odisha, who are sharing a room. “Whatever money I saved has been spent for buying food. I called the Odisha government helpline after which local NGO persons came and gave us 2 kg rice, 500 gram flour, 250 gram rice and a cabbage for the five of us. How long can five people survive on that?” he asked. Before the lockdown, Sethi used earn Rs 400 a day and used to send half of the money back home. “I never said no to any work despite not keeping well. I have two daughters at home. So I had no other way than to work hard,” he said.Nirmal Kumar, was among the five workers. He had decided to walk back from a shelter home in Gurugram to their village in Purnia in Bihar. “We got food thrice a day in a shelter, but we want to return at any cost,” Kumar, 23, said. However, their journey was short-lived as they caught by police in Ghitorni in Delhi and put in a shelter. “The government has failed to feel our pain,” said another worker from Purnia, Bambam Kumar, 22. Arvind, 47, a worker from Bihar’s Samastipur, said he came to Ludhiana two months ago to work in the agriculture fields. “I came here to earn something but I am sitting idle now,” he said.Around 15 lakh migrant workers from Bihar are in Mumbai, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi and Haryana. The Bihar government has refused to bring them back unless the Central government gives a go-ahead. The state government has announced special assistance of Rs 1000 through the Direct Benefit Transfer system to migrant workers. “We have also received 25 lakh applications seeking Rs 1,000 assistance announced by the state government and have transferred the amount through DBT mode into the accounts of 15 lakh people so far,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said.Like Kumar, Jharkhand chief minister, Hemant Soren, has requested PM Modi to direct the Union home ministry to relax the interstate travel ban so that migrant workers and students stuck in other states could be brought back. The government has transferred Rs 1,000 each to about a lakh workers, state labour department officials said.The Rajasthan government has started bringing back migrant workers from other states. The CM has got other states on board to get migrant workers from Rajasthan back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stuck-in-camps-uncertainty-keeps-labourers-on-the-edge/story-Rs2U9qEyWG7af1hlRP9bRN.html
29-04-2020||India||300 booked, 5 held for ‘rioting’ in Surat||Five people were detained and another 300 booked on Tuesday for alleged rioting and violation of the Covid-19 lockdown after migrant workers clashed with police personnel in Gujarat’s Surat.Police said the trouble began around 7 am when police personnel on duty in Thakor Nagar objected to some workers roaming around in a local market. “A few labourers were roaming around without any reason. When policemen on patrol asked them to stay indoors and follow the lockdown restrictions, they got angry and started throwing stones. Later, some locals and the stone pelters started arguing with the police,” said inspector H M Chouhan of the Dindoli police station.Chouhan said an additional police force was rushed to the spot and the dispute was resolved after an hour-long standoff. “However, one head constable identified as Kamlesh Choudhary got injured and a police vehicle was damaged,” Chouhan said.This is the third violent incident reported from Surat involving migrant workers since the lockdown was imposed last month to check the Covid-19 spread.On April 11, 81 migrant workers, mostly from Odisha, were arrested in Surat for rioting and violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The workers allegedly resorted to violence after many of them were not paid their salaries for March and also denied permission to return to their homes. Over 90 migrant workers were arrested on March 30 in Surat for attacking police after they were not allowed to return to their native places.The lockdown left tens of thousands of migrant workers jobless and promoted many of them to return to their homes including on foot from bigger cities. The exodus prompted the Centre to ask the states and Union territories to seal their borders for non-essential travel and look after the stranded migrant workers in relief camps. But many workers have gathered in places like Mumbai and Surat demanding that they be allowed to return to their homes even as the Centre has allowed gradual restart of the economy outside the Covid-19 hotspots since the lockdown was extended this month until May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-booked-5-held-for-rioting-in-surat/story-9Skj36XlvxO4mP2PDXOJJI.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Customs hearings to be held via video conference||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has issued detailed guidelines for its offices to conduct hearings on customs related matters via video conference (VC) with the consent of the appellant or respondent to ensure speedy disposal of cases while observing social distancing norms to check the spread of Covid-19.“With an aim to create a virtual Customs working environment, ensuring #SocialDistancing, reduce physical presence & usage of ICT systems, CBIC issues guidelines for conduct of personal hearings in virtual mode under Customs Act, 1962,” CBIC tweeted on Tuesday.According to the guidelines, the new system would also facilitate importers, exporters, passengers, advocates, tax practitioners and authorised representatives to maintain social distancing while performing their work at ease, from a place of their choice.Persons participating in video conference should also be appropriately dressed and maintain the required decorum, the guidelines said.The guidelines are part of the government’s ongoing reforms -- ‘turant’ (instant) customs -- such as online query module, eSanchit, web based goods registration, electronic processing of licenses, machine release of imported goods based on customs compliance verification and electronic transmission of PDF-based first copy of bill of entry (BoE) to customs brokers and registered importers, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity.Rahul Shukla, executive director, indirect tax , at consultancy firm PwC said, “Shift to virtual environment for hearings, etc. by CBIC is a welcome move not only from COVID 19 response perspective but one more step towards a faceless customs. Hopefully, this will help expeditious clearances of pending matters with minimal glitches.”Chartered accountant Kapil Rana said conducting personal hearings in the virtual mode is in sync with the changed the way of doing business. “During the pandemic, the business is not happening or happening at a very slow pace, utilising this time to clear of all the pending cases is a fantastic move. By this, the department will be able to clear of the pending cases and also the cases live CVD refund, custom duty refund, and other refunds will be also cleared and released which will help business during this crunch time,” he said.The government has already announced permitting electronic submission of documents from March 15 to expedite import of goods, particularly raw materials such as active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that will immensely help the industry in conducting business amidst Covid-19 pandemic.“Turant” is an ongoing exercise of CBIC to expedite its systems and processes. It was introduced in February last year as a next generation reform to push up India’s position in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business (EODB) Index where ‘trading across borders’ is a critical component for evaluation of a country’s performance, according to a February 28, 2019 CBIC circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-hearings-to-be-held-via-video-conference/story-Xfq6DRsQiyIDgfvNDKKlQI.html
29-04-2020||India||Covid 19 update: Govt testing strategy focuses on speed||The government’s strategy to scale up testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hinges on the procurement of automatic RNA extraction platforms, corralling existing RT-PCR machines from institutes across the country and working on in 24-hour shifts, a recent study has outlined.The strategy is the subject of a paper, ‘Strategic Planning To Augment The Testing Capacity For Covid-19 in India’, published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research and authored by scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research body. The paper details short and medium- term measures that can increase daily testing capacity in public-sector laboratories and facilities to 100,000-120,000 samples but adds that the most effective interventions could take until the middle of May or the first week of June to fully operationalise.In the first week of April, ICMR announced its intention of gradually increasing the testing capacity to 100,000 tests daily.The main measures proposed are redeployment of 42 manual RT-PCR machines from other research units, procurement of kits that can do the screening and confirmation tests in one run, operationalising high-throughput automated platforms that can conduct 140 tests a day, decentralising the laboratory network, utilising machines used for tuberculosis diagnosis and procurement of automatic RNA extraction machines. Of the measures, the automatic RNA machines that eliminate the need for time-consuming manual extraction of RNA of the virus – a key part of the RT-PCR test – and high-throughput platforms that can process more material were found to the most effective. “Installation and/or operationalization of automated RNA extraction platforms supported by requisite extraction kits…could increase testing capacity by 1.5-2 times within the same operating hours,” noted the scientists. The paper evaluated the measures on three time scales: 8-hour working day (conservative), 16-hour working day (moderate) and 24-hour working day (aggressive). Only in the third scenario did the capacity increase to 100,000-120,000 daily. “It is important to note that utilization of the scaled-up testing capacity will require deployment of additional workforce, procurement of corresponding commodities for testing and scale-up of sample collection and transportation efforts,” the authors note.The most effective intervention was the automated RNA extraction kits that boosted testing capacity by 40%-50% in various work-cycle scenarios. But the paper cautioned that it was a medium-term measure that could take up to May 23 to fully operationalize. The installation of high-throughput machines – two of which are operational in Delhi and Bhubaneswar, according to the ICMR – could also take up to June 1 to fully operationalise. India has gradually ramped up its RT-PCR testing capacity – the standard swab test that can tell if a person is suffering from the disease at the point of testing – since the first week of April. It is now the only form of testing for Covid-19 in India after the government found Chinese rapid testing kits – used to check if a person’s blood has antibodies – faulty and decided to return them.As of April 25, India’s daily testing capacity stood at 45,352 samples, but a break-up of government and private facilities was unavailable. This represented a nearly 10-fold jump from the figures on March 25, when the ongoing national lockdown was imposed. But experts have flagged that per-capita testing, which stands at 529 per million, is among the lowest in the world.At present, India has 283 government labs testing for Covid-19 and 94 private labs, and another 30-50 facilities are in the pipeline, said ICMR media coordinator LK Sharma. Labs have a minimum capacity of 90 tests per cycle, but some can test up to 250, he added. “Many of the recommendations have already been implemented. In some labs, two shifts, totaling to 16-hour workday, have already started. The capacity can be increased as per the sample load.”In a recent modelling study, a group of Indian scientists flagged the importance of scaling up testing, especially when the government is considering lifting the lockdown. “Our model and various other studies have already established the relation between the duration of the lockdown and the number of tests. Thus, it is important that we increase the testings substantially and look at the ratio of the number of positive tests and the total number of tests. For example, if after performing 100 tests, you find that 10 of them are positive, this ratio is 10/100 = 0.1. A good rule of thumb is to increase testings to such an extent that this ratio goes below some prescribed threshold, say 1%. This means that you have now detected almost all the infected cases, and lifting the lockdown is possible,” said Snehal Shekatkar, a professor at the Centre for Modelling Studies at Savitribai Phule Pune University and one of the authors of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-testing-strategy-focuses-on-speed/story-38AN1ZepabxysSuBDBKMFI.html
29-04-2020||India||Missed childhood vaccinations trigger worry||Children missing out on life-saving vaccines could lead to a resurgence of potentially fatal diseases, such as childhood pneumonias, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and diarrhoea, among others, which threaten to reverse the gains India has made by immunising children against vaccine-preventing illnesses to bring down its infant mortality rate (IMR) from 33 per 1,000 live births in 2017 from 34 the year before.IMR, which is the number deaths per 1,000 live births in the first year of life, is a crude indicator of the overall health of a country. India is inching closer towards the Sustainable Development Goal of bringing IMR down to 25 or fewer by 2030. Its current IMR being roughly a fourth of 129 infant deaths in 1971, according to the Sample Registration System (SRS) data released in June 2019, but deaths may rise if childhood vaccines are missed.Many states in India have halted immunisation activities because of the national lockdown and community health workers are being asked to help with Covid-19 surveillance and contact tracing, which leaves them with no time to visit homes to immunise a children in rural areas.“While the world strives to develop a new vaccine for Covid-19 at record speed, we must not risk losing the fight to protect everyone, everywhere, against vaccine-preventable diseases. These diseases will come roaring back if we do not vaccinate,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general, World Health Organization (WHO).With city hospitals and clinics suspending immunisation services till the lockdown is lifted, text messages received by paediatricians from concerned parents have shot up. “We assure parents that services will be resumed as soon as the is lockdown lifted, but still queries keep coming. We used to send reminders for vaccination dates, which have also been suspended, but all pending appointments will be addressed on priority as soon as things get back to normal. Children must be kept safe, from Covid-19 and all other diseases,” said Dr Krishnan Chugh, director, department of paediatrics, Fortis Healthcare.The WHO also recommends that if immunisation services are suspended, urgent catch-up vaccinations should be rescheduled as soon as possible, prioritising those most at risk.Parents seeking information on vaccination have made paediatrics the fastest growing speciality on online health portals, such as Practo, which registered a 350% growth for paediatrics on its eConsult platform since March 1. The top queries were to do with cough and cold, affect of delayed vaccination, and fever and headache in toddlers, according to the e-health platform.“The health ministry has written to states twice asking them to continue routine immunisation, coverage of which is close to 90% but now risks falling rapidly. In rural areas, most children receive essential vaccines through government outreach using Ashas (accredited social health activist, or community health workers), who are now engaged in Covid-19 surveillance and community awareness programmes. If immunisation services stop, India risks losing gains it has made in lowering child mortality,” said the official with the Union health ministry, requesting anonymity.One in five of the world’s 5.9 million under-5 deaths take place in India, with more than half being from vaccine-preventable and treatable infections, such as pneumonia, diarrhoea and sepsis. If all children are vaccinated after birth, more than half these lives could be saved.In 2018, the last year for which global data is available, 86% of children under the age of five globally were vaccinated with three doses of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTP3) and one dose of the measles vaccine, up from 72% in 2000 and 20% in 1980, but an estimated 13 million children never receive any vaccines, putting them at risk of disease and death, according to the WHO.“The stakes have never been higher. As Covid-19 continues to spread globally, our life-saving work to provide children with vaccines is critical. With disruptions in immunization services due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the fates of millions of young lives hang in the balance,” said Robin Nandy, chief of immunisation, Unicef....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missed-childhood-vaccinations-trigger-worry/story-7TTkWr0T96nqTI45CJE77K.html
29-04-2020||India||BJP sends notice to UP MLA who called for boycott of Muslim vendors||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday issued a notice to its lawmaker Suresh Tiwari in Uttar Pradesh asking him to explain his comments asking people to boycott Muslim vegetable vendors and why action should not be initiated against him over them. Tiwari, the lawmaker from Barhaj in Deoria district, was on Tuesday heard purportedly calling for the boycott to avoid contracting Covid-19.“On the instructions of the [state] party chief Swatantra Dev, party general secretary Vidyasagar Sonker has issued notice to Tiwari and asked him to explain his conduct and why action should not be initiated against him,” said BJP leader Manish Dixit. Tiwari admitted to having called for the boycott, saying say he did so as a precautionary measure to protect people from getting infected. “On April 18, I was distributing masks among people in Deoria when people complained that Tablighi Jamaat was spreading the infection. Many of them were worried that Muslim vendors were infecting vegetables with saliva. As responsible MLA, I asked them not to take the law into their hands to deal with situation but simply stop buying vegetables from them [Muslims]. Tell me what wrong I have done if I have said such things,” Tiwari said.Muslim vendors have particularly found themselves isolated and drummed out of business since Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot following a congregation there last month.Congress leader Ajay Kumar Lallu accused the BJP of spreading hatred even at the time of the pandemic. “When the country is reeling under severe crisis of coronavirus, BJP leaders are busy fanning hatred. It is a shameful act which has exposed the real face of BJP. The Tablighi Jamaatis, who are being blamed for spreading coronavirus, have set an example by offering to donate their plasma to cure patients. I am confident the countrymen will put up a united fight against Covid-19 by neglecting such comments,” Lallu said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sends-notice-to-up-mla-who-called-for-boycott-of-muslim-vendors/story-zTjPGu4iBtKKzQ3pZQVNgO.html
29-04-2020||India||Demand for ration cards increases amid lockdown||The post-Covid-19 lockdown has sparked a renewed scramble for ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), which entitles poor households to subsidised foodgrains from government-run fair price shops, according to multiple officials in state governments.The demand for ration cards hints at a perception among people that normality will not be restored anytime soon and a shortage of essential may be looming as a hard lockdown, confining residents indoors and shutting commercial establishments, is expected to stay in place beyond May 3 in 300 districts affected by the pandemic. A partial lockdown may continue in other districts. NFSA covers 75% of the population in rural areas and 50% in urban areas. Food right activists claim that the new rush of applications for ration cards shows that many poor households, especially the families of migrant workers, have been left out.“The only way to ensure every poor {household} gets rations is by universalizing the Public Distribution System. The states should ensure that every family gets access to rations,” said Reetika Khera, a professor of development economics at the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi and a food rights activist. According to data provided by the state governments, the demand for new ration cards is particularly high in the poorer states such as Odisha, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, where up to 90% of the population in rural areas is already covered under NFSA.Odisha has received applications for 500,000 new ration cards in addition to 32.6 million cards already issued. Some 100,00 cards have been issued and the remaining would be issued in the next two months under the state government’s food scheme, said MQ Haque, additional secretary in the food supplies and consumer welfare department. “No one will go hungry in Odisha and we are working towards that,” said Haque. The Rajasthan government has decided to give rations to 9 million people not having ration cards under the NFSA. “These are the people who are demanding PDS rations; now ,even though they are not NFSA beneficiaries, we have decided to give them grains,” said Siddharth Mahajan, food secretary, Rajasthan. Around 44.6 million people are beneficiaries of the NFSA in Rajasthan.The West Bengal government has issued food coupons to 500,000 families that applied for ration cards, entitling them to access fair price shops, according to food and supplies minister, Jyotipriyo Mullick. The state has 56.5 million NFSA beneficiaries.Uttar Pradesh has issued 323,000 new ration cards in addition to 34 million cards already issued under NFSA. In Jharkhand, 697,000 new applications for ration cards are pending. “In the lockdown period, we have decided to give 10 kg rations at Rs 1 per kilogram to applicants of new ration cards,” said Sanjay Kumar, Jharhand’s food director.Madhya Pradesh’s food secretary, Shivshekhar Shukla said about 3.2 million people, who don’t have ration cards, are being given five kg of rations - 4 kg of wheat and 1 kg of rice -- free in April. MP has 11.6 million beneficiaries under the NFSA. Shukla said processing the new ration card applications will take time.Andhra Pradesh state civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar said as many as 95,000 people had applied for new ration cards this year. Of them, after verification, 81,000 have been approved. Officials in Telangana said no new application for ration cards had been received. Karnataka has decided to give rations to every family which has applied for new ration cards, said Vijay Kumar, joint director of Karnataka’s procurement and food department. Even in affluent Punjab, applications have been received for 320,000 ration cards. Punjab has 14.1 million beneficiaries under the NFSA. The neighbouring food bowl state of Haryana has received around 250,000 new applications for ration cards.Some state government officials say they were willing to provide rations even to non-NFSA beneficiaries provided the Centre increases the allocation of foodgrains. “Since the central government is not allocating food for such additional people, we are having problem in giving rations to them,” said an official of the MP food department, who requested anonymity.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has already written to the Centre asking it to provide rations on demand during the lockdown period and not in line with the state-wise quota fixed by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-ration-cards-increases-amid-lockdown/story-xwaP0y153pnzrz91FAdKAI.html
29-04-2020||India||Internet speeds fall to lowest in 2 years||Indians experienced the slowest internet speeds in at least two years in March when the country locked down to slow the spread of the Coronavirus disease, analysis of data from the government’s MySpeed application showed.The nationwide lockdown began in the last week of March while some states ordered closure of schools and a ban on public gatherings even before that, which led to people staying home. Hindustan Times last week reported, from government data, that India’s daily average internet consumption in the week beginning March 22 (Janata curfew day) was 13% more than the average daily consumption in the previous week.The MySpeed application by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) collects data by occasionally testing internet speed on smartphones of users who have installed the application. The authority then makes six-month average results and raw data public.An analysis of the raw data from the application showed that median download speeds were 2.8 megabits per second in March. This was the lowest monthly median download speed in at least two years, since April 2018, when the app started tracking speeds. The median upload speed of 1.9 Mbps was also the lowest in the two years. Before this March, the download speed was the lowest in December 2019 (3.5 Mbps) while the upload speed was the lowest in October 2019 (2 Mbps). Specifically, 4G users got a median download speed of 3.1 Mbps speed while 3G users got a median of 0.8 Mbps speed, both the lowest in two years.Median is considered a better measure of central tendency than the mean, when there are extreme values that could skew calculations.The median download and upload speeds in February this year were 4.2 and 2.4 Mbps, compared to 2.8 and 1.9 Mbps in March, which means a drop of 34% and 20% respectively.This drop in the internet speeds was seen across all major telecom operators -- Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, Jio and the state-owned Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited. Median download speeds on all these networks were their lowest in two years.Also, the download speed in 16 of the country’s 23 telecom circles dropped to the two-year low in the respective states.Ookla, an internet testing and analysis company, has also reported that download speeds on mobile devices in India declined by about 14% and on fixed broadband by about 9% between February and March this year.As the nationwide lockdown that India imposed led to a surge in internet consumption, several video streaming applications jointly decided on March 25 to temporarily suspend high definition and ultra high definition video options to help telecommunication services run smoothly with the increased demand. This came after the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), an association of private telecom operators, called for such measures to reduce the burden on the networks during the lockdown.When asked for a comment, COAI officials said that they will look into the data and then issue a comment. Till the time of going to print, they had not issued a statement.That there has been a spike in demand for high data consuming services such as video streaming portals is evident with data from Google Trends, a tool that helps analyse the popularity of search queries. Youtube, Netflix and Amazon Prime – names of some of the prominent video streaming websites – and general terms such as ‘movies’ and ‘web series’ were at the peak of their search popularity during the nationwide lockdown, in comparison to any time in the last one year. Other than this, many schools and colleges started online classes while businesses made more use of e-meeting platforms for video conferencing. To be sure, the drop in internet speed in March was seen even as the country started to lock down only in the later half of the month. Whether Indians continued to experience slower internet or the telecom operators were able to scale up the capacity of their infrastructure allowing faster internet connectivity will be known when the data for April is made available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-speeds-fall-to-lowest-in-2-years/story-Je1uZaqEVtipMEiD0gr3sL.html
29-04-2020||India||IT, ITES firms’ employees can work from home till May 31: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Employees of information technology (IT) companies and IT-enabled service providers can work from home until May 31, IT and telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday, extending the timeline by a month in the aftermath of Covid-19, restrictions on transport and safe distancing practices put in place to curb its spread .The department of telecommunications (DoT) on March 13 relaxed rules to allow employees of IT and ITES firms to work from home without mandatorily going through the authorised PPVPN (Provider Provisioned Virtual Private Network). The relaxed guidelines are applicable until April 30; the guidelines will now stay in force until May-end. International call centres, business process outsourcing and knowledge process outsourcing centres, e-learning sites, billing centres and medical transcription companies are covered by the relaxed rules.The mandatory Rs 1 crore deposit fee needed to let employees work from home has been waived and the service providers need to only inform the local DoT office of the addresses of their remote workers; ministry officials said this can be made a permanent fixture Prasad announced the extension after a meeting by video conference with the chief ministers of Haryana and Sikkim,and the deputy CMs of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, who are also in charge of the IT departments in their states. State IT ministers from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Goa, Nagaland, Mizoram, and Meghalaya were also in attendance. After the meeting, Prasad said the states had requested that district-level dashboard access be given to the Aarogya Setu app to all district administrations. Some states asked him to explore the possibility of integrating the system for issuing ePasses during the lockdown with the Aarogya Setu app. Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi asked him to develop a digital platform for sharing best practices and innovations put in place by different states to tackle the health crisis; Prasad asked the IT ministry to initiate the development of such a platform. Telangana’s KT Rama Rao suggested that a strategic working group of government officials and industry leaders be formed to explore digital solutions in education, healthcare, commerce, and emerging technologies. Prasad said that his office was in touch with all social media platforms to curb the spread of fake news, and that offenders would “face consequence and even police action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ites-firms-employees-can-work-from-home-till-may-31-prasad/story-HTMagcEOfqhIn2AjAyJruM.html
29-04-2020||India||Ensure smooth movement of trucks with essentials: Nitin Gadkari tells states||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday asked the states to act urgently to remove blockades for the smooth movement of trucks carrying essential goods along inter-state borders. In a video conference with state transport ministers, Gadkari said the clearances should be ensured at the earliest for the purpose. Gadkari pulled up the states for delaying the clearances and said nearly 3.5 lakh trucks were stuck because of it at inter-state borders, officials aware of the matter said. The officials said there was no discussion on the resumption of inter-state public transport at the meeting. Gadkari told the ministers that they need to intervene in such matters and ensure resolution of issues through the local and district administrations. “At the same time, adhere to health advisories and other guidelines like proper [social] distancing, wearing of masks, use of sanitizers, both by the driver and cleaners and also at the dhabaas [roadside restaurants],” Gadkari said.Himachal Pradesh’s transport minister, Govind Thakur, said there were several issues related to the movement of goods and transportation that needed to be resolved. “There is delay in movement and hence the meeting was called to discuss the hurdles. There was no discussion on public transport yet, which will only take place on May 3 [when the extended Covid-19 lockdown ends],” Thakur said. Responding to a suggestion by a state minister, Gadkari said his ministry will start a helpline to resolve the transportation issues. Gadkari suggested the states should explore the operationalisation of app-based two-wheeler taxis, especially in rural areas, to assist farming communities with smoother movement. “This will also provide new employment opportunities,” Gadkari said.Gadkari said he will accord top priority for national highway construction by two to three times the present pace over the next couple of years. He urged the states to expedite land acquisition and utilise funds that have remained unused. All India Motor Transport Congress president Kultaran Singh Atwal said the movement of vehicles remains a major issue despite the Centre’s advisories. “The e-pass system is not working properly and the movement of staff apart from drivers is still a tedious task. Local restrictions are not helping the transport fraternity. There is no fresh load, no unloading at the factories, godowns or warehouses. Our vehicles also get stuck up for days together apart from harassment by local administration,” said Atwal He added the screening process at inter-state borders has left trucks stranded. “There is screening process at interstate borders... There are long queues up to 6-7 kilometres and the drivers and crew are stranded without food and water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-smooth-movement-of-trucks-with-essentials-gadkari-tells-states/story-z12UoAHc40TXBMECV3hGEJ.html
29-04-2020||India||Paramilitary forces report first Covid death after CRPF SI dies in Delhi||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sub-inspector, who was admitted at Safdarjung Hospital after he was tested positive five days back, succumbed on Tuesday, officials said.This is the first death due to the pandemic among 10 lakh personnel strong central paramilitary forces that are deployed for border security, counter-insurgency and law and order duties across the country.Officials cited above said the Sub-Inspector, who was posted with the 31st battalion of the forces in New Delhi, was suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. Patients with these conditions are more vulnerable to COvid-19 infection.At least 31 other personnel of this battalion have been admitted at different hospitals after they are suspected to have contracted the virus from another colleague found positive in their camp.There have been over 60 positive cases of Covid-19 in all the central paramilitary forces till now. Earlier, cases have been reported in the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Some of them have been cured too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paramilitary-forces-report-first-covid-death-after-crpf-si-dies-in-delhi/story-B1arsr5e1GEtrBc9mjbnwK.html
29-04-2020||India||Consider enacting 1 nation, 1 ration card: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Central government to examine the feasibility of implementing the “one nation one ration card” scheme during the national lockdown so as to alleviate the hardships faced by migrant labourers who have been stranded in other states.A three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana passed the order in a plea by a petitioner who highlighted the plight of migrant labourers because they did not have local identity proof. “…we direct the Union of India to consider whether it is feasible for it to implement the said scheme at this stage or not and take appropriate decision in this regard keeping in view the present circumstances”, the court said disposing of the plea.The “one nation one ration card” scheme, formulated by the Central government was expected to be launched in June across 20 states. The scheme is aimed at ensuring beneficiaries get what is due to them in terms of subsidised foodgrain even when they are out of their home states. Experts are not convinced the scheme will work. “To serve ration card holders who are not usually buying from a PDS (public distribution system) outlet, is a major reform to the supply chain management of the PDS,” said Reetika Khera. “And this rejigging, supplying grain for Bihari men in Tamil Nadu or Gujarat, will have to be done across states. Even if it were possible to do it, most migrants who are stuck in the cities are likely to have left their ration card back home, for their families to use in the village. They will be better served by setting up community kitchens.”“The most obvious solution is temporarily universalising the PDS. There is enough grain to universalise for a year.”The petitioner pointed out that many migrant workers who left their home state to work in other cities have been confined to their rented accommodation and are unable to return to their home states because of the lockdown. Millions of migrant workers ar stuck in relief camps and other sites in states other than their own, with no way of returning home. They have run out of food and with no local identity proof such as a ration card or voter card to avail of government benefits like subsidised food grains, they are facing poverty and hunger, the petition said. “States and Union Territories have been giving preferences to their respective citizens and voters and denying benefits of subsidised grains, shelter, medical facilities to said migrants labourers/ employees of other states due to absence of local identity proof i.e. ration card/residential proof/ voter card”, the petitioner claimed.The petitioner, therefore, prayed that the “one nation one ration card” scheme, which is proposed to come into effect from June 2020, should be implemented during the lockdown enforced to contain the pandemic so that migrant labourers are not denied subsidised food grains and other government benefits.Activist Nikhil Dey said there are many limitations to extending the “one nation, one ration card” even temporarily., pointing out that even within states portability of cards (from one district to another) is not easy. “The ration cards of migrant labourers are not with them. Different schemes and coverage exists in different states, so they are reluctant to recognise migrants as being entitled to their schemes. In most cases, only one family member has a ration card. Moreover, there are 35% people who are outside the ambit of this scheme and then we have to factor in the population increase since the 2011 census in which NFSA (National Food Secuity Act) coverage is based . It would be one thing if ‘universal ration’ is provided -that is, a person can avail ration using any form of identification like an Aadhaar number , or any other card. That is what the Supreme Court ordered in the Swaraj Abhiyan judgement, for circumstances of a drought , and what it should order in a pandemic and a disaster such as this one -- w e need use our overflowing food stocks to universalize the PDS to deal with hunger. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-enacting-1-nation-1-ration-card-sc-to-centre/story-XNf7oBfz5kTVRmibE5JwzH.html
29-04-2020||India||No need to seal office if employee tests positive: Govt||There is no need to seal an entire building if a person living or working there tests positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because disinfection of the affected floor and common areas is enough to stop the spread of infection, according to the Union health ministry.“The health ministry has issued a detailed advisory on do’s and don’ts if a non-Covid hospital reports a Covid-19 positive case. The same rules apply for office premises or any other building from where a positive case is reported. There is no need to shut the entire premises, rather one can just do proper disinfection of the main area, and other common areas,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.The advisory is significant as more business activity starts and as companies and factories contemplate a return to some sort of normalcy after May 3 when the current phase of the lockdown ends. According to the health ministry guidelines for non-Covid hospitals where a positive Covid-19 patient is identified, local health authorities need to be immediately informed, followed by disinfection procedures at the affected areas.All contacts of the patient should be home quarantined and monitored for 14 days. Their details must also be shared with local health authorities.If the local health authorities are reasonably satisfied that the source case(s) have been identified and isolated, all contacts have been traced and quarantined and adequate disinfection has been achieved, the building will continue to function. But if the building still continues to report new cases in the following days, it would be advisable to temporarily close the defined section of the building from where the maximum number of cases are being reported. After thorough cleaning and disinfection it can be put to use again.Experts say much depends on the design of the building. “If the structure is where there are multiple flats or different floors, then there is no need to seal the entire building as per the infection control guidelines. However, all the flats or floors have to remain under observation, and people should watch out for symptoms,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist, and formerly head of department, CMC, Vellore. Despite taking the above measures, if the primary source of infection cannot be established and or the building is still reporting large number of cases then a decision needs to be taken on whether the building needs to be shut down under intimation to the local health department.BOXFollow up actionsWhen a Covid-19 cases is reported at a workplace*Active screening of all staff is done daily (by means of thermal screening especially at the start of shift) • All staff members should monitor their own health at all the time for appearance of symptoms, and report them at the earliest*Close contacts should be home quarantined for 14 days, monitored...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-seal-office-if-employee-tests-ve-govt/story-perXqGTzn8eepGWyvhAv3N.html
29-04-2020||India||OFBs, DPSUs told to ramp up output after lockdown||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday asked the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) to draw up contingency plans for resuming operations after the lockdown to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is lifted, the ministry said in a statement.Singh said such plans were necessary to ramp up production and compensate for the time lost due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Singh spoke to top officials of the OFB and DPSUs, via video conference, and reviewed operational plans as well as their contribution to the fight against the pandemic.Several units of the OFB and DPSUs, located in non-red zones, have already kicked off operations and drawn up plans for post-lockdown operations, the ministry statement said. Defence ministry officials said the units of the OFB and DPSUs plan to work in three shifts six days a week (rather than the usual five) to speed up production. Work will be carried out by observing social distancing and other relevant health guidelines, the officials said.The defence ministry statement said that Singh referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plans to revive the economy once the lockdown is over and said that the DPSUs along with the private defence industry could play a major role in the revival.Singh praised the efforts of DPSUs in coming out with new products to fight Covid-19 and also the assistance provided by them to the local administration.The OFB’s contribution in fighting Covid- 19 includes the repair of more than 100 ventilators, manufacture of 12,800 coveralls, development of specialised machines for testing of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and supply of 6.35 lakh masks to local authorities, the statement said.The OFB has also earmarked 280 isolation beds at hospitals spread across 10 locations.The statement said Bharat Electronics Ltd is ready to manufacture 12,000 ventilators in May and another 18,000 in June to support the national effort to tackle the disease. Around 3,000 engineers will help train health professionals in operationalising the ventilators, the ministry said.The statement said Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has manufactured and supplied 300 aerosol cabinets to various hospitals and also distributed 56,000 masks and extended support to migrant labourers. HAL has also earmarked 93 isolation beds in Bangalore for Covid-19 patients.Independent comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ofbs-dpsus-told-to-ramp-up-output-after-lockdown/story-dI9WFzJgmk4PCWhrTmVMGM.html
29-04-2020||India||HRD ministry discusses evaluation process of CBSE Class 10, 12 papers||The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry has decided to push to begin the process of evaluation of Class 10 and 12 answer sheets of millions of students who appeared in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations this year, a senior official said after a key meeting of the ministry on Tuesday.In his meeting with state education ministers on Tuesday, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told the states to facilitate the CBSE in evaluating answer sheets, the official quoted above added. The evaluation process is in limbo because of the ongoing national lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19, but the fate of roughly 30 lakh students depend on it.“The matter has been discussed in meetings between HRD and CBSE officials and the attempt is to begin the process of evaluation of answer sheets at the earliest. In the evaluation process, different examiners often get together in one building where answersheets are evaluated. A protocol of social distancing in this regard can be prepared,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Class 10 exams are largely over, barring some areas in north-east Delhi hit by communal violence in March, and all that needs to be done is evaluation. A majority of Class 12 exams are also over and if evaluation begins, the results can be declared in June itself, the official added. But no final decision has been taken about the remaining Class 12 examinations – around 12 main subjects – the official said. The CBSE will have to wait till the required permissions are granted, the official added.A separate meeting of the University Grants Commission on Tuesday took up the recommendations of a high-level committee appointed to draft an academic calendar for the Covid-19 hit 2020-21 academic session.A second senior official said the committee’s recommended that universities follow a six-day weekly pattern instead of a five-day week and consider the lockdown period as deemed attendance by students so that nobody is disqualified because of attendance shortage.The panel also recommended the month of June as summer vacation period and suggested declaration of result by mid-August so that the session could commence. However, this will would upon the circumstances of the universities, the second official added.The committee, chaired by professor RC Kuhad, former member of the UGC and vice-chancellor, Central University of Haryana, also gave universities the option of open-book assessment or objective-type-question based test to conduct the final exams of the present session. They can shorten the exam duration from three to two hours based on the need, the second official said.The panel also suggested that students be allowed to reappear in exams if they want to improve their grades. Universities have been asked to follow social distancing norms and a common admission test for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Significantly, the panel felt that many varsities did not have adequate resources to impart e-learning.At the UGC meeting on Tuesday, officials felt more suggestion needed to be incorporated and the report may be made public after more deliberation. However, the second official said that the commission decided not make the suggestions binding in nature.In the HRD ministry meeting, Nishank said a decision had been taken to provide mid-day meal during summer holidays of schools, on which an additional expenditure of about Rs 1600 crores will be made. In addition, under the mid-day meal Scheme, an ad-hoc grant of Rs 2,500 crore was being issued for the first quarter.To augment the mid-day meal programme, the minister announced that in wake of Covid-19, the annual central allocation of cooking cost (for procurement of pulses, vegetable, oil, spices and fuel) will be enhanced to Rs. 8,100 crore from Rs 7,300 crore. Officials said another meeting could be held with states on issues related to higher education||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hrd-ministry-discusses-evaluation-process-of-cbse-class-10-12-papers/story-xRqymcjH5Y25xCI8YWOW7O.html
29-04-2020||India||42 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi, death toll rises to 18||Forty-two new coronavirus patients have been found in Dharavi slums of Mumbai on Tuesday taking the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the area to 330, and four patients have succumbed to the disease, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) saidThe total number of Covid-19 cases in Dharavi has touched 330 and the death toll has risen to 18.“Four deaths and 42 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Dharavi area today. The total positive cases in the area stand at 330 and the death toll has risen to 18,” the BMC said in a statement.With the number of Covid-19 cases mounting in what is believed to be Asia’s largest slum dwelling, the BMC has increased the number of institutional quarantine facilities by adding a 1200-bed Dedicated Corona Health Centre (DCHC) at the NESCO ground in Goregaon. This facility also has 1,000 beds with oxygen supply, courtesy the Romel Group and the MCHI-CREDAI.In Mumbai, the coronavirus case count inched towards the 6,000-mark on Tuesday with 393 fresh infections, while 25 more patients died, taking the death toll to 244, the civic body said.With 393 more people testing positive for coronavirus in Mumbai, the tally zoomed to 5,982, according to the BMC.At least 219 more people have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, taking the number of discharged patients to 1,234 so far.According to the civic body’s statement, out of the new cases, samples of 103 people had tested positive in private labs on April 25-26. These patients had already been admitted in isolation wards, where they are receiving treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-death-toll-rises-to-18/story-x5W6oChBme7sxmcku7lHkN.html
29-04-2020||India||In Bengal, cops attacked when they tried to disperse crowd in containment zone||Two police officials were injured when a mob attacked police personnel in a containment zone in Howrah district near Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon. Two police vehicles were also damaged.The cops were attacked when they went to disperse a huge crowd that had gathered in a market area around 4:30 pm violating lockdown norms at Belilious Road, a containment zone in Howrah district. Howrah district is one of the four red zones of West Bengal. “Some people had gathered on the road violating lockdown norms in a containment zone. Policemen, patrolling the area, had asked some women to go back home. It was then that some young men started quarrelling with the police. The situation soon turned violent and the locals attacked the police” Arup Roy, state cooperative minister and a Trinamool Congress MLA from Howrah said.A large police contingent, with police staff from at least two police stations and RAF, were deployed to bring the situation under control.Top police officials refused to take calls. A few persons were detained.In a separate case, a young man was arrested when he assaulted a police officer at Parnasree in south west Kolkata. The young man was riding his motorcycle when police stopped him for questioning.Late on Tuesday night, the West Bengal Police tweeted: “We are taking strong action against everyone involved in the incident at Tikiapara, Howrah today. The perpetrators will be identified and brought to justice. No transgression of the law anywhere will be tolerated.”West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee retweeted it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-cops-attacked-when-they-tried-to-disperse-crowd-in-containment-zone/story-jQxeHCYReeM8Pa6zGksNeI.html
29-04-2020||India||After Siachen and Sydney, HC judge drives to Shillong to prevent constitutional vacuum; another judge drives 2200 km||Amid country-wide lockdown, a veteran judge’s experience in driving long distances in different continents and road conditions helped the Meghalaya high court avoid a constitutional vacuum on Monday. After driving for two and a half nights and several hours in day time to cover more than 2000 kilometres from Allahabad to Shillong via Kolkata, justice Biswanath Somadder took oath on Monday morning as the new chief justice of the Meghalaya high court.Justice Somadder and his office staff from the Allahabad high court, where he served, covered the distance between Friday evening and early Monday in a convoy of four vehicles. They refuelled four times and maintained an average speed of 65 kmph, sources said.Known among close associates for his long road trips, the veteran judge had earlier driven from Brisbane to Sydney in Australia, from Kolkata to Ladakh and also in distant parts of England. But these trips were part of his vacations.Interestingly, justice Dipankar Datta of the Kolkata high court also covered an equally long distance – from Bengal’s capital city to Mumbai – around the same time. On Tuesday evening, he took oath as the new chief justice of Bombay high court. Justice Datta and his son took turns behind the wheels while covering around 2200 km, sources said. He replaced chief justice C J Bhusan Dharmadhikari, who retired on Tuesday.A Supreme Court collegium announced both the appointments on April 18.Sources told HT that had justice Somadder not reached Shillong on time, the post of the chief justice would have fallen vacant. It would have led to a constitutional vacuum as there is no provision to appoint an acting chief justice when a chief justice has already been appointed.The Supreme Court collegium, on April 18, transferred justice Mohammad Rafiq (who justice Somadder succeeded) as the new chief justice of Odisha. Justice Rafiq had left Shillong and had gone to Rajasthan and took a special flight to Odisha to take charge. He also took oath in Bhubaneswar on Monday.During the road trip, justice Somadder stopped the convoy for the first time at Aurangabad to have dinner around Friday midnight. Four vehicles were needed as the occupants had to maintain social distancing. On Saturday afternoon, the convoy reached the judge’s home at Salt Lake in the eastern side of Kolkata. Justice Somadder slept for two hours and packed a few things, sources said.Some roads in south and north Bengal were not in good condition and the convoy had to slow down. The convoy stopped at Siliguri before moving to Bongaigaon in Assam and then to Guwahati.Although justice Somadder and his staff had maintained all safety guidelines, they were screened by health workers at the borders of Assam and Meghalaya, sources said. The oath-taking ceremonies at the governor houses in Shillong and Bombay were attended by few people because of social distancing guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-siachen-and-sydney-hc-judge-drives-to-shillong-to-prevent-constitutional-vacuum-another-judge-drives-2200-km/story-fHePtXf4l6lhqFCHKZ0xjN.html
29-04-2020||India||BJP govt waived loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore, helped defaulters: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had waived off Rs 68,607 crore due from the top 50 bank loan defaulters, including Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. The BJP, however, has denied the allegation. Citing what it said was an RTI reply from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the opposition party also alleged the NDA government also waived off loans worth Rs 6.66 lakh crore between coming to power in 2014 and last September, and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to come clean on the matter.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said he had asked a question in Parliament seeking the names of the country’s top 50 bank loan defaulters but the finance minister didn’t give an answer.“I asked a straight question in Parliament – state the names of the 50 top bank loan defaulters in the country. The finance minister refused to answer the question. Now, the RBI has given the names of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and many of BJP’s ‘friends’ in the list of bank frauds. That is why this truth was held back from Parliament,” he tweeted in Hindi.Mallya recently lost his UK high court appeal against an order for his extradition to India. India has also sought the extradition of Choksi, one of the accused in the Punjab National Bank scam, from Antigua and Barbuda. Modi is fighting his extradition to India from the UK over charges of fraud and money laundering.On March 16, Gandhi had asked the question about wilful bank loan defaulters during the Lok Sabha’s budget session. But he wasn’t allowed a supplementary question, triggering protests by Congress members in the House.Gandhi later said his right as a Member of Parliament to ask a supplementary question in the Lok Sabha was taken away as Speaker Om Birla didn’t allow him to do so.The Congress leader said he was hurt by the action as it was the Speaker’s duty to protect his right to speak and ask supplementary questions. “This is completely unfair,” he had said.However, union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur took a swipe at Gandhi, saying the former Congress chief considers himself a “privileged” MP and wants to be treated differently than other Lok Sabha members.“Some people consider themselves privileged. They want to be treated differently than other MPs. They want to ask questions even after the Question Hour is over...The answers to his questions were provided in writing to him but still Gandhi and other Congress members made noise,” Thakur countered. BJP spokesperson Gopa lAgarwal also rebutted the Congress leader’s remarks. “We have categorically explained, and anyone known to Banking industry, will vouch that making provisions for NPA and Bad loans is not write off. It remains recoverable and the borrower is obligated to pay back that amount to the Banks. Provisioning only strengthens the Banks Balance sheet from the lenders point of view,” said Agarwal,He said the Congress is misleading people by raising the issue. “I am ashamed to call Congress leaders like Chidambaram and Manmohan Singh economists, if they can’t understand or swallow this basic fundamentals of banking. Actually they are playing a fraud on the people of our country trying to mislead and misinform the nation. Truly we should all ask the ex PM and ex FM; under whose tenure these scrupulous loans were given to these crony capitalist like Nirav Modi, Vijay Mallya and Mehul Chokshi? And now who is trying to recover them, with Benami property act, fugitive offenders act and extradition? It is our government of Shri Narendra Modi,” the BJP spokesperson added. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had on Tuesday released the list of top loan defaulters, according to the RTI reply from the RBI. He also demanded answers from the prime minister on why their loans were waived off.“This is a classic case of promoting the ‘dupe, deceive and depart’ policy of the Modi government, which can no longer be accepted and the prime minister has to answer,” he told a news briefing via video conference.Surjewala said this also reflected the “misconceived priorities and dishonest intentions” of the Modi government.The entire country is fighting the Coronavirus and the government has no money to pay states, but it has the money to condone and write off Rs 68,307 crore of bank loan defaulters, he said.“Helping fugitives and waiving off their loans has become the BJP’s main agenda. On March 16, Rahul Gandhi asked the government in Parliament for the names of 50 top bank scamsters in India. The government and the finance minister kept mum and refused to disclose any names,” Surjewala said. “But now an RTI has revealed the magnitude of the waiver.”Surjewala said the government’s financial mismanagement has caused non-performing assets (NPAs) to balloon out of proportion. “Till April 24, Rs 68,607 crore had been written off by the government. The prime minister cannot evade this question by keeping silent,” he said.“As much as Rs 8,048 crore have been written off for Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi. Another diamond merchant Jatin Mehta’s Rs 6,048 crore too has been written off, and so is the case with Kingfisher’s Vijay Mallya. Similar is the case with the relations of these defaulters,” he alleged.“This is what happens when an economy, primed to be one of the largest in the world, is run by an ‘Entire Political Scientist’. Tax payers money is being used to bailout the government’s rich friends. How long will the government continue the charade of working for the poor and the middle class?” the opposition party said on Twitter.It alleged that such write-offs have come to light at a time when the government has frozen the dearness allowance of Central government employees, pensioners and defence personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-waived-loans-worth-rs-6-66-lakh-crore-helped-defaulters-cong/story-ZZsUPFWZpKZPl5gnheYqLO.html
29-04-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, priests to offer first prayers at Kedarnath, Badrinath for PM Modi||After offering prayers on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines on the day of the opening of the temples, priests of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrine have also decided to offer the first prayers on behalf of the prime minister.Satpal Maharaj, minister for culture and tourism in Uttarakhand said that it has been decided to offer the first prayers at Kedarnath and Badrinath on behalf of PM Modi as a sign of expressing gratitude to him for helping in increasing the numbers of pilgrims to these shrines which in turn has boosted the local economy over the years.“Every year our Prime Minister Modi visits Kedarnath shrine to seek Baba Kedar’s blessings for the well-being of the country, but this time due to the coronavirus pandemic neither he nor any of the pilgrims have been able to come to the shrines. As a sign of gratitude, the first prayers at both Kedarnath and Badrinath shrine will be offered on his behalf for helping boost the local economy of the hills by his visits to the shrines,” Maharaj said.The minister further added that he would be going to Delhi after the lockdown is lifted to give the offerings from the prayers, holy flowers and holy water, to the Prime Minister.After the first prayers were offered at the Gangotri shrine on Sunday on behalf of PM Modi, the priests will now send holy Ganga water for the prime minister through the post, as a blessing to strengthen the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi has donated Rs 1100 to Sripanch Mandir Samiti Gangotri on the auspicious occasion of Tritiya Mahaparva. Suresh Semwal, president of the Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, said that the sub-divisional magistrate of Bhatwadi area, Devendra Singh Negi gave the amount sent by Prime Minister Modi to the temple committee.“After that, we offered the first prayers to Goddess Ganga on behalf of the prime minister to give us the strength to fight the pandemic and win the war against coronavirus,” said Semwal.Deepak Semwal, secretary of Gangotri Dham Temple Committee said that anyone who offers prayers to Goddess Ganga is “given the holy water of Maa Ganga by the priests of the temple, which is why we are sending it to Prime Minister Modi also, as he offered prayers on Sunday.”Last year, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat gave credit to PM Modi’s frequent visits to the state as the reason behind the record influx of pilgrims to the four holy shrines of the state.In November, Rawat had tweeted, “This year, more than 34 lakh 81 thousand devotees have visited Chardham and Hemkund Sahib. Prime Minister Modi after visiting Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines gave the message of clean and safe Chardham Yatra to all devotees, which brought a large number of pilgrims here.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the Rudra meditation cave in Kedarnath in May last year. PM Modi spent a day meditating at the Rudra Caves, nearly a kilometer from the Kedarnath shrine. Following his visit, the cave received a significant number of bookings from across the country. He also visited the Badrinath shrine in May last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-priests-to-offer-first-prayers-at-kedarnath-badrinath-for-pm-modi/story-7I7sXrrSSvrAzw6zwYoB7J.html
29-04-2020||India||Think of India as one big family: Brave Punjab Sub Inspector Harjeet Singh||The blessings that we earn protect us mysteriously as a shield in the face of peril. It’s all about karma, firmly believes Harjeet Singh, known for his compassion and humility in his entire neighbourhood. Two days after his surgery to reimplant his severed hand, Singh shared an incident with his younger brother Gurjit Singh. It’s the kind words of an old woman that protected him in the face of the savage attack, he said thoughtfully. “It could have been much worse. At the same spot where my hand was cut, I had handed over vegetables to mata ji. She had given me a lot of blessings,” he said. The fearless policeman from Punjab, Harjeet Singh is slowly recovering from the brutal attack he suffered earlier this month. Singh has been promoted to the rank of SI in recognition of his bravery and he hopes to resume duty as soon as he feels better. A group of fugitives in Patiala had chopped off his hand with a sword while he was on early morning duty, enforcing the lockdown at the Patiala sabzi mandi to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The Punjab policeman had his hand reimplanted at PGIMER Chandigarh after a challenging 7.5 hour long plastic surgery. With a lathi in his hand, Singh had fearlessly faced his attackers till the time they struck him with a sword, and he fell on the ground. Talking to us on phone from the hospital, he tells us he is feeling much better and stronger. “It’s all almighty’s grace. I am grateful to God for all his kindness,” says the 48-year-old. Humble and soft-spoken, Singh is thankful for all the love and blessings that he has received from across India. The policeman says it’s Gurbani (teachings of the Sikh gurus) that have always given him strength to face any adversity. “Kare karave aape aap manas ke kich naahi hath…It’s God who is the doer….we human being have nothing in our hands. No harm can ever come your way if you have Guru Nanak Dev Ji’s blessings. I am a very small person…it’s Baba Nanak who gives us the strength to carry on,” says Singh, who remained composed and collected even as he faced a violent and brutal attack while performing his duty. He did not show any sign of anger or panic and every calmly carried his own severed hand as he rushed to the hospital on a scooter. Before disconnecting the call, Singh appeals to pass on his message to all. “Covid-19 can be defeated only by strict social distancing, and we all must follow it. I request everyone with folded hands to please stand by the police officers, the doctors, the sanitation workers who are fighting day and night for you,” he says. Singh’s father Karnail Singh was a former police officer who took voluntary retirement to look after his fields. He instilled in his sons the values of kindness and forgiveness when they were growing up. “My brother is a policeman, so he has to assert his authority, but I have never seen him hold on to anger to have any grudge in his heart against anyone. Even for his attackers, he said, “Jaane do, unki koi dushmani nahin thi mujhse, hadsa ho gaya.(Let it be, they didn’t have any enmity with me, it was an accident).” For those who break rules pandemic deliberately, this is all he has to say: “Just think of your family, think of your loved ones. Your careless actions will impact them as well.” He also hopes that we treat our country as one family. “Poore desh ko apna parivaar samjhen, toh hum zaroor jeet jayenge,” he says. Punjab Police has started a campaign #mainbhiHarjeetSingh on social media as a tribute to the police officer’s bravery. “Let’s show everyone that any attack on policemen & doctors, fighting COVID-19 on the frontlines, like SI Harjeet Singh, will unite India together as one. In solidarity with SI Harjeet& all warriors, I urge you all to wear his name proudly on your chests today,” tweeted Dinkar Gupta, Punjab Director General of Police. Gupta changed his name on my badge to Harjeet Sing on Monday. The DGP has also written to police chiefs in India, applauding Singh for his “two top attributes of a good cop: not meeting violence with violence or tit for tat, and courage in the face of fire.” SI Harjeet Singh has emerged as the symbol of the nation’s fight against COVID-19, he said. Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh also shared a video of the police officer on Twitter. “It has been 2 weeks since SI Harjeet Singh’s hand was operated upon in PGI. I am extremely happy to share that he is recovering well & that his hand has started to regain movement. Sharing this video of braveheart Harjeet Singh with you all,” he wrote on Twitter.Singh’s brother, Gurjit Singh is thankful to all for standing by the family in this time of distress. “It is such a heartwarming feeling. Strangers are calling and telling us that we’re not alone. We are getting calls from across India. Humara hausla banaye rakhne ke liye shukriya! We are humbled. We are grateful to SSP Patiala Mandeep Singh Sidhu ji and our DGP sahib who arranged for such good medical treatment for my brother,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/think-of-india-as-one-big-family-we-can-t-fight-this-battle-alone-brave-punjab-cop-harjeet-singh/story-RC04ev4j5wVQzko5Hh0seK.html
