30-04-2020||India||Rajasthan registers 118 new Covid-19 cases, state count at 2556||Rajasthan saw a surge in Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 118 positive cases being reported in the state, 83 of them from Jodhpur. The total number of positive cases in the state till 2 pm was 2,556.In addition, three deaths were reported in the state, taking the death toll to 58.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, said two deaths took place in Jaipur while one was reported from Chittorgarh district.A 67-year-old man from the walled city in Jaipur died on April 29. He was suffering from diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. He was admitted to the MG hospital in Jaipur on April 19 and died on April 29, Singh said.A 54-year-old man from Sodala, Jaipur died at SMS hospital. He was admitted on April 25 and died on April 29. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, Singh said.The third death was reported from Nimbaheda in Chittorgarh district where a 43-year-old man died on April 30. Singh said he was admitted to the government hospital on April 25 and he did not have any known co-morbidities.Singh said Jodhpur reported 83 coronavirus cases while Jaipur reported 21.There were two cases from Tonk, two from Kota, four from Ajmer and three from Chittorgarh. Baran, Dholpur and Alwar reported one case each.Health minister Raghu Sharma said there are no cases in seven of the 33 districts.“In three districts the number of positive cases is now zero - these are Churu, Pratapgarh and Bikaner. Already four districts did not have any positive cases,” he said.He said in seven districts there are over 100 cases and the health department is working with a focus on these areas.In the remaining 19 districts, there are very few cases and many are in the recovery phase, he said.Sharma said 836 people have recovered and 592 have been discharged from hospital. He said there are over 1000 people admitted in wards in government hospitals and around 4,800 in general hospitals in the state. Nine people are in ICU and only two are on ventilators, he said. “So the situation in the state is under control.”Regarding testing, he said, “Rajasthan has been consistently increasing its testing capacity and we are now conducting 8800 tests per day and in a couple of days we will touch 10,000 tests per day.”He said the total samples taken were 1,00,000 and Rajasthan is among the top three states in the numbers of samples collected.“We have increased our testing capacity but we have to get adequate numbers of RNA extraction kits and PCR testing kits so that there is no pendency in testing samples and we can know the real situation regarding the spread of the infection.”He said testing identifies positive cases and then on basis of their condition, doctors can decide if they are to be put in quarantine or isolation or ICU or ventilator and they can save people’s lives.Rajasthan on Thursday became the third state in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu to have taken over 1,00,000 samples for Covid-19 testing.Till 2 pm on Thursday, Rajasthan had taken 1,03,704 samples of which 96,325 were negative and 4823 were under process.Health minister Raghu Sharma said Rajasthan is aggressively testing. He said the total samples taken has crossed the 1,00,000 mark and Rajasthan is among the top three states in numbers of samples collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-registers-118-new-covid-19-cases-state-count-at-2556/story-QxXdnxIXAFkGke9O8tXj2K.html
30-04-2020||India||Industries in K’taka may start from May 4||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that all industries in the state outside containment zones will be allowed to operate from May 4 a day after the extended lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread will end. He said the Covid-19 cases might continue for another two to three months and added efforts to control the pandemic would go hand in hand with economic activity which has almost fully stopped due to the lockdown.Yediyurappa said the cases reported from Bengaluru have been coming down for the last two to three days but they will wait for a few more days to take a final decision on allowing economic activities in the city. Bengaluru, which has reported 147 of Karnataka’s 565 Covid-19 cases, has around 24 containment zones. The city is Karnataka’s economic engine and contributes nearly half of the state’s revenues.Yediyurappa said they have no plans for allowing malls, hotels or movie theatres to reopen and added the state would wait for Centre’s directives before taking a final decision.Yediyurappa later met representatives of associations of commerce and industries and asked them to be ready to resume operations. He appealed to the industrialists to pay wages and salaries to their employees.The Karnataka Cabinet met separately and decided to issue one-time permits for inter-state and inter-district for stranded migrants and labourers.Law minister J C Madhuswamy said the cost for the travel would be borne by those who want to travel and the government would merely provide permits and bus services. On Wednesday, another minister, Suresh Kumar, said the state government would bring back stranded people from Karnataka from Gujarat and buses would be sent for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industries-in-k-taka-may-start-from-may-4/story-AQHkSpyqm3t0ky3Hd0ByzJ.html
30-04-2020||India||105 Covid patients dead in W Bengal||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Thursday that 105 Covid-19 patients had died in the state, 33 of them succumbing to the viral disease, and the rest to co-morbid conditions. The state government also reported 37 new cases on Thursday, taking to 795 the number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19.This new figure of fatalities was released six days after the state administration said 57 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 had died, and attributed 18 of the deaths to the disease and 39 to “severe co-morbidity.” Bengal is the only state that has formed a committee of doctors to determine the cause of death among Covid-19 patients.“Today I have received a report from the expert committee conducting audits into the deaths of Covid-19 positive patients. Altogether 105 cases have been examined by them, out of which they have said 33 died of Covid-19 infection. In 72 other cases, death was caused by co-morbid conditions and Covid-19 was only incidental,” Sinha said.Meanwhile, the number of containment zones increased. In Kolkata from 227 on Monday to 264 on Thursday, and in neighbouring Howrah to 70 from 56.A controversy has raged over Bengal’s way of listing Covid-19 fatalities, with opposition parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress and the Left accusing the state government of manipulating the number of deaths.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Wednesday said that she and her government did not tamper with the numbers and that an expert committee of doctors was conducting the audit independently. Over the past two days, a new controversy haS been brewing over an official order from the superintendent of Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital asking doctors not to mention Covid-19 in the death certificates of patients who had tested positive for the disease.This government order from the medical superintendent-cum-vice principal of Murshidabad Medical College was dated April 25 and numbered Msd/MCH/MSVP/2006. While top health department officials remained tightlipped, the hospital superintendent, Debdas Saha, was transferred on Thursday.“The administration is trying to make the superintendent a scapegoat. The administration from the top is differentiating between the deceased persons to show a lesser number of deaths. There is a death audit committee for this purpose. The only mistake the super may have done was to put the government’s viewpoints in the writing,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh alleged.Congress’ Lok Sabha leader and Berhampore MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury echoed Ghosh.Chief secretary Sinha, refusing to comment on the transfer, said the death audit committee had nothing to do with death certificates.“This committee was not doing any kind of audit in death certificates; it was auditing the cause of death,” Sinha said.Senior doctor Rezaul Karim, a leader of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said that he had raised the issue of death audit during the chief minister’s meeting with eight doctors’ associations on Tuesday.“It is possible that a person testing positive for the presence of novel coronavirus in her/his body is not a Covid-19 patient. She/he may have no symptoms of the disease at all and might only be a carrier. But these fine differences could be part of academic debates within the boundaries of academic institutions. We told the chief minister that at the time of a pandemic, deaths of all patients testing positive for coronavirus infection should be attributed to Covid-19 in order to avoid confusion and controversy in the public sphere,” Karim said. On Thursday, senior Left leaders staged a demonstration in Kolkata to protest against the “manipulation in the number of deaths,” and alleged a scam in the public distribution system and mismanagement in reaching relief to the poor. They maintained social distancing while staging the demonstration with placards in their hands and faces covered with masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/105-covid-patients-dead-in-w-bengal/story-ibgojGgKXZR0zLGqH1VC0K.html
30-04-2020||India||25% Gujarat cases from 2 zones in capital||JaipurOne in every four cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat has so far been reported from two zones of the Ahmedabad municipal corporation, with a population of 320,000, government data shows.Till Thursday, 4,395 cases were reported, out of which 24.50% cases have been reported from the central and southern zones of Ahmedabad. Of the total 1,713 cases reported from these two zones, most have been from Khadia, Dariapur, Shahpur, Jamalpur, Danilimdi and Behrampur, according to officials.Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said the wards from central and southern zones come under the Walled City of the district and have high population density. “On a scale never seen before in India, we sealed the old Walled City in a single day and surveyed more than 100,000 people. We adopted a strategy of cluster containment early on and were able to moderate the growth of virus in hot spots such as central Ahmedabad. Even at the cost of a rise in figures, we started aggressive testing and surveillance,” he said.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the municipal corporation took some time to react after the first case was reported on March 30. “Also, the lockdown norms were not strictly enforced in these wards,” the local government official said.Giving out details of Covid-19 cases in the state, health secretary Jayanthi Ravi on Thursday said the recovery rate considerably improved over the past few days. “We expect to see a lot of improvement in the next week or so,” she said.Following the guidelines of the Union home ministry, the state government has also started the process of identifying people of Gujarat stuck in other states. “Responsibility has been assigned to 16 officers of Gujarat to make arrangements to bring back stranded persons. The process will be carried out in phases,” said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister.In Surat, a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient, who allegedly left the Covid-19 ward of a civil hospital two days back, was found dead on a bench outside the medical facility on Thursday morning, police said. Preliminary investigations and CCTV footage of the hospital indicated that the man did not go outside the hospital campus, located in Khatodara area, during the last two days, an official from Khatodara police station said. He was admitted on April 21 and a few days later, his wife also tested positive and was admitted to the same hospital.“As of now, we don’t know why he ran away in the middle of his treatment, where he went and how he died. We are carrying out a thorough investigation into it,” deputy commissioner of police Vidhi Chaudhari said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-gujarat-cases-from-2-zones-in-capital/story-SMLUAUGWbNKkB13tSyKU2O.html
30-04-2020||India||At 17.5%, Ujjain has MP’s highest death rate||Bhopal/Ujjain: Ujjain has recorded the highest death rate--17.51%--in Madhya Pradesh with 17 Covid-19 related fatalities there over the last seven days, according to the government data. Seven out of 76 Covid-19 patients had died in Ujjain until April 23 and every fourth patient has succumbed to the disease over the last seven days.Ujjain, which is known for famous Mahakal Temple and hosts one of four Kumbh fairs every 12 years, had reported 137 Covid-19 cases as of Thursday and 24 fatalities. Indore, the worst-hit place in the state by the pandemic, had a death rate of 4.40 until Wednesday followed by Bhopal (2.89%). Madhya Pradesh, with 130 deaths, has a death rate of 4.88%. It is 3.19% nationally.Officials said the government has now involved a private medical college’s laboratory in Ujjain for testing as a delay in getting reports is one of the reasons behind the high death rate in the district.Ujjain’s first Covid-19 case came to light on March 25 after a woman tested positive for the disease after her death. It had reported just six cases until March 31 and two deaths. On April 15, Ujjain had 30 Covid-19 patients and six fatalities. The number of cases rose after April 22 and so did the deaths.A health department official, who did not wish to be named, said the situation was alarming right from the beginning when five members of the family of the first patient were found infected. “Ujjain’s situation was similar to that of Indore. The hotspots were identified early and the administration thought the situation could be controlled with the lockdown and curfew restrictions.” The official said there was hence no focus on surveys, screening and collection of samples. “The state government did not pay attention to the problem... [it did not] upgrade any lab here for Covid testing. The administration in Ujjain heavily relied on labs in Indore and Bhopal, which were already overburdened... The result was the reports were delayed by 10 to 15 days. In between, the administration also sent samples to labs in Pune, Ahmedabad and certain other centres but it hardly helped.”HP Sonaniya, the nodal officer for Covid-19, said about 90% of the patients who have died were suffering from other diseases. “Only two to three young patients have died. The rest were above 60. There were at least seven to eight who died within two hours of their admission to hospital as they were admitted in a very serious conditions. Also, seven to eight patients were brought dead but their numbers were added to the list of deceased as their samples were collected for tests as per protocol.”Ujjain division commissioner Anand Sharma said mostly Covid-19 patients in Ujjain are from containment areas as they are able to trace them. “As we have got a lab in Ujjain now, it will clear the backlog... The situation will improve.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said Ujjain is a classic case of a state government’s failure in assessing the ground situation and inaction. “Besides lack of required surveys, screening and testing, the administration relied on a private facility for treatment of patients without trying to know if it had enough infrastructure. That there was no government laboratory till now and a private lab was engaged on Thursday, 35 days after the first case, speaks volumes about the bureaucratic approach in dealing with the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-17-5-ujjain-has-mp-s-highest-death-rate/story-SLUoZqRMVXjbXA5g4CI7SI.html
30-04-2020||India||No SC stay on Central Vista project||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stay the Central Vista Redevelopment Project for the time being, saying there is no pressing urgency for granting one because the country is in a state of lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. “During Covid-19, nobody is going to do anything. There is no urgency...” Chief Justice of India SA Bobde remarked.Petitioner Rajeev Suri, an advocate, had moved the court challenging the Centre’s notification on March 20 for changing the land use for the proposed project. The redevelopment plan includes a new Parliament building, and a common secretariat for central government offices . Almost all opposition parties have urged the Centre to shelve the project and spend the money instead on the fight against Covid-19. The total project is expected to cost around Rs 20,000 crore. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, defended the project. “Parliament is being constructed. Why is there a problem?”The court said another petition by Suri on the same issue is pending before it. That petition, which was initially filed before the Delhi high court, was transferred to the Supreme Court on March 6. The court disposed of Suri’s fresh petition while granting him the liberty to amend the pending petition.“The Supreme Court has granted liberty to amend the writ petition challenging the Central Vista project which is pending. In the order today, there is no rejection of prayer. In this pending petition, the Supreme Court has already passed an order that the proposal of the government in regard to the Central Vista will be subject to the outcome of the pending writ petition,” said Suri. He added that Mehta has also accepted the notice and sought time to file a counter-affidavit . “There is no refusal to stay. Today, it granted liberty to amend the writ pending.”Suri and another petitioner, Lt Colonel (retd) Anuj Srivastava, moved the high court in February challenging a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) notification on December 21 regarding changes in land use for the redevelopment. He challenged the alterations envisaged by the Centre, arguing that the DDA is not vested with the requisite power to bring about such changes. Suri submitted the power, if at all, for bringing about such changes lies with the Centre.Srivastava challenged the public hearings held to raise objections to the exercise, arguing that they were a mere formality devoid of any meaningful exercise.A single-judge bench of the high court on February 11 granted them interim relief and ordered the DDA to approach it before notifying any of the proposed changes in the land use. “In case a decision is taken to notify the proposed changes in Master Plan Delhi 2020-21, the DDA will approach the court before notifying such decision,” the high court ordered while issuing notices to the Centre and the DDA.A high court division bench comprising Chief Justice D N Patel and justice C Hari Shankar stayed the order of the single judge on February 28. Suri then approached the Supreme Court.The Centre subsequently notified change in the land use on March 20 which Suri challenged in his fresh plea before the Supreme Court .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-sc-stay-on-central-vista-project/story-M6DFkVPiHQ1Wy97vqB0ohP.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid19: Over 27,000 workers leave Rajasthan as movement of migrants begin||Over 27,000 daily wagers from Rajasthan have been sent to their home states in the last two days and another 8,000 will leave in the next two days as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have agreed to take them back.Till Thursday afternoon, over 27,000 labourers from other states—Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat-- had been dispatched while 8,287 migrant workers returned to Rajasthan—5619 of those were stranded in relief camps in Gujarat, which saw 654 of its labourers return home from Rajasthan. Around 25,000 migrant labourers to be sent home from Rajasthan were from Madhya Pradesh--where another batch of close to 3300 migrant workers will be dispatched on Friday morning-- and the remaining 3000 were from Punjab.Over 9300 people have applied to return to Rajasthan from Madhya Pradesh, of which 2275 have already been brought back.A senior state government official said Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have agreed to accept their migrant labourers. Rajasthan has over 500 migrant labourers from Haryana while Haryana has around 2,200 labourers from Rajasthan. The movement of labourers between Rajasthan and Haryana will start on Friday.Similarly, the movement of 6,466 migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh would start in the next two days, the official said.He said that over 350 labourers will be sent to Uttarakhand on May 2 and 23 labourers from the hill state will be brought back to Rajasthan. The official quoted above added that 17 buses carrying 222 migrants have left Assam for Rajasthan after having dropped students from Assam studying in Kota.The official said that close to nine lakh labourers/migrants have registered through a call center, web portal etc, either to return to the state or to leave it. A total of 6,15,662 of those have registered to return to Rajasthan from other states, and 2,68,689 want to go to other states.The state government is also making arrangements to send students studying at coaching institutes in Kota back home. Till date, 22,278 students have been sent in 1008 buses.“Now 17,000 students from Bihar, Jharkhand, Delhi, Orissa and other states are left in Kota,” the official quoted above said.The pilgrims stuck in Ajmer are also being sent back. While over 210 pilgrims from Ajmer have already returned to their home states, another 3500 were stranded in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-over-27-000-workers-leave-rajasthan-as-movement-of-migrants-begin/story-SajPyr8KiBLG2QwnP2fKpM.html
30-04-2020||India||SC settles 1996 cricket World Cup tax dispute||A full 24 years after the conclusion of the 1996 Cricket World Cup jointly hosted by India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, India’s top court has ruled that payments made to cricket associations for matches conducted in India will be liable to tax. The Income Tax authorities had raised a demand of Rs 38.88 lakh payable by a joint consortium formed by the host nations based out of India.After conclusion of the World Cup, Indian tax officials discovered that a consortium by the name PILCOM (Pak-Indo-Lanka Joint Management Committee), transferred payments out of India to the cricket boards of member countries of the London-based International Cricket Council (ICC). ICC has nine full members and 20 associate members. PILCOM opened two bank accounts in London into which money was transferred.A show cause notice was served to PILCOM for non-deposit of tax liable on these payments as these were considered income accrued in India under Sections 201(1) and 194E of the Income Tax Act. On initial calculations, the amount liable to be deposited came to Rs 2.18 crore. But PILCOM challenged this assessment before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, which ordered a re-assessment in the year 1997.A second assessment order was passed on December 28, 1998. PILCOM filed an appeal before the Tribunal but lost. The matter went to Calcutta High Court which partly upheld the tax demand on November 11, 2010. It was an appeal against this order that finally came to be settled by the apex court on Thursday.PILCOM argued that the payment made to cricket associations was towards “grant of privilege” and had nothing to do with matches played in India. The amount was called “guarantee money”. The tax department maintained that the income in question arose from a source of income in India, i.e. playing of cricket matches, fully satisfying the mandate required under law.On Thursday, a bench of Justices UU Lalit and Vineet Saran said, “The payments made to the Non-Resident Sports Associations in the present case represented their income which accrued or arose or was deemed to have accrued or arisen in India……Though the payments were described as Guarantee Money, they were intricately connected with the event where various cricket teams were scheduled to play and did participate in the event. The source of income, as rightly contended by the Revenue, was in the playing of the matches in India.”The court noted the provision of Section 115 BBA (1)(b) of Income Tax Act which talks about income generated by non-resident sports association in India and held this income to include guarantee money as well. PILCOM had further sought tax exemption under the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) signed with Australia, England, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, Kenya and Holland. The judges held, “The obligation to deduct tax at source under Section 194E of the IT Act is not affected by the DTAA…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-settles-1996-cricket-world-cup-tax-dispute/story-SB5NDV4KmMjui987RKlyUL.html
30-04-2020||India||With 17 deaths in 7 days Ujjain’s mortality rate is highest in MP||Bhopal/Ujjain: With death of as many as 17 Covid-19 patients in the past seven days Ujjain has reported the highest death rate in Madhya Pradesh leaving Indore and Bhopal, two other big hotspots much behind, according to the state government’s data.Madhya Pradesh has reported a total of 2,625 cases of Covid-19 and 137 deaths as on Thursday evening.Ujjain district registered as many as 137 Covid-19 cases till Thursday morning out of whom 24 have died. The mortality rate is 17.51%. On April 23 the number of patients stood at 76 with seven dead. Thus in the past 7 days almost every fourth Covid patient died in the district.Indore’s mortality rate as on Wednesday evening was 4.40% and Bhopal’s 2.89%. Madhya Pradesh’s mortality rate was 4.88% against the national mortality rate of 3.19% with 1,075 casualties.It was only on Thursday, 35 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Ujjain that the state government could engage a private medical college’s laboratory in the city for testing the samples.Health department officials say the inordinate delay in getting reports of samples was one of the main reasons behind the high mortality rate. Ujjain’s first Covid-19 patient came to light after her death on March 25 when she tested positive. Till March 31 there were just six patients and two of them had died. On April 15, six of the 30 patients had died. But the number of Covid-19 positive cases rose alarmingly after April 22 and so did the number of casualties.A health department official who did not want to be named said, “The situation was alarming right from the beginning when as many as five members of the family of the first patient in Ujjain who had died were found infected. Ujjain was a similar case as that of Indore. The localities which were epicentres were identified early but the administration believed that with lockdown and curfew restrictions it would be able to control. Hence, there was no focus on massive survey, screening and collection of samples to be tested.”He said, “As the state government too didn’t pay attention to the problem of upgrading any lab here for suspected Covid patients’ samples the administration in Ujjain heavily relied on labs in Indore and Bhopal which were already overburdened with a high number of samples to be tested. The result was the reports were delayed by 10 to 15 days. In between the administration also sent samples to labs in Pune, Ahmedabad and certain other centres but it hardly helped.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “Ujjain is a classic case in the country of a state government and its machinery’s failure in assessing the ground situation and swinging into action to control the situation. Besides lack of required survey, screening and samples collection the administration relied on a private facility for treatment of patients without trying to know if it had the infrastructure to treat patients. The fact that there is no government laboratory till now and a private lab was engaged on Thursday 35 days after the first case of Covid-19 found speaks volumes for the bureaucratic approach of the government in dealing with a pandemic.”But the government says that most of those who died of Covid-19 in Ujjain had co-morbidity factors.The nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr HP Sonaniya said, “About 90% of the patients who died were suffering from several other diseases. There were only two to three young patients who had died. The rest were above 60 years of age. There were at least 7 to 8 patients who died within two hours of their admission to the hospitals as they were admitted in a very serious situation and they came very late. Also, 7 to 8 patients were brought dead but their number was added to the list of deceased as their samples were collected for test as per protocol.”Commissioner, Ujjain division Anand Sharma expects the situation to improve in the near future.“Mostly the patients in Ujjain are coming from containment areas as we are able to trace them after contact tracing of the patients. As we have got a lab in Ujjain now it will not only clear the backlog in Ujjain but in the division too regarding the test of samples. The number of deaths rose as four deaths were reported from one family only in Badnagar, a town in Ujjain district. The situation will improve in the coming days,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-17-deaths-in-7-days-ujjain-s-mortality-rate-is-highest-in-mp/story-QRIV4rXYEhckJhqPyxI8ZK.html
30-04-2020||India||With AQI below 50, UP’s Saharanpur catches glimpse of snow-capped Himalayas||In over three decades, for the very first time, residents of Saharanpur had a glimpse of snow capped peaks of Gangotri as the Air Quality Index in the Uttar Pradesh town dipped to below 50 amid the nationwide lockdown.For a majority of residents, it was a pleasant surprise and for others who had grown up listening to stories from their elders about the Himalayas being visible from the town, it was a slice of those stories come alive.Pictures of the snow capped peaks soon became viral as surprised residents took to social media to share the pictures they had taken of the snow-laden mountains.ALSO READ | Mountain range in Himachal Pradesh visible from Jalandhar in Punjab.“The mountains that were visible were peaks of Bandarpunch and Gangotri in the inner Himalayas. I shared the photos on social media because I have never seen such a sight in Saharanpur and I have been posted here for a long time,” Indian Forest Service officer and secretary of UP State Biodiversity Board, Ramesh Pandey said.“These are the same mountains, which can otherwise be seen from Mussoorie,” Forest conservator, Saharanpur division, V K Jain said.Lack of vehicular traffic and industrial emissions due to the lockdown has led to a sharp dip in pollution levels across most cities and towns. It is just not Saharanpur, which is enjoying clean air during the month-long lockdown. A few days earlier, people in Jalandhar had been able to see the Dhauladhar range at a distance of about 200 km for the first time in decades.An official of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board said Saharanpur does not have an automatic AQI station in place. “A manual report is also not available since offices are closed. But the nearest AQI station at Muzaffarnagar has recorded an AQI of less than 50. Generally, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur, have similar AQIs so it is estimated that Saharanpur’s AQI too, must be below 50. In the past, AQI here has been recorded in the “very poor” category of 300,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-aqi-below-50-up-s-saharanpur-catches-glimpse-of-snow-capped-himalayas/story-gNRl7FPAn1UuIfSad75xaM.html
30-04-2020||India||‘All borders sealed to keep out infections’||New Delhi: There have been no major activities like infiltration of terrorists, human trafficking, cattle, fake currency or drug smuggling along India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh over the last month as they have been completely sealed, the head of Border Security Force (BSF) and Indo-Tibet Border Force (ITBP) said on Thursday.“Our priority during the [Covid-19] lockdown has been to stop infiltration of coronavirus carriers from across the border while maintaining tight vigil on other activities,” said Surjeet Singh Deswal. “We have maintained a high level of alertness at the borders, which are completely sealed with no movement of any kind.”Jammu & Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh last week accused Pakistan of pushing Covid-19 infected militants to spread the disease in the Union Territory. The intelligence agencies have also alerted the government that about 300 terrorists were waiting to cross over from Pakistan, according to people aware of the matter. Pakistan has also resorted to shelling and firing, which are often used as cover to push in infiltrators into India, along the Line of Control (LoC) or the de facto border between the two countries in Jammu & Kashmir.Without going into specifics, Deswal said Pakistan’s “mischievous acts” along the international border and the LoC have been responded “with double impact”.Deswal said a few incidents of smuggling or people crossing from the Bangladesh border have been reported over the last month. According to the BSF data, over 20,000 cattle were smuggled to Bangladesh from January 1 to March 24. After the lockdown, this number has come down to around 300. Smuggling of heroin, drugs, gold, and silver has drastically reduced since March 25 when the lockdown was imposed.According to the data, 97 kg of heroin was seized along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab between January 1 and March 24, while only 17 kg heroin was seized from March 25 till April 12.“There has been no infiltration of terrorists. A couple of incidents had taken place in Punjab when a Pakistani national was stopped from crossing over on March 25 at Pulmoran in Amritsar while another Pakistani was apprehended from Bamer in Ferozepur on March 26. Otherwise, the border is quiet,” said a BSF officer who did not wish to be named.The BSF is responsible for guarding the 2,289-kms border with Pakistan from Gujarat to Jammu. It also manages 237-km long LoC under the army’s operational control. The BSF guards the entire 4,092 km-long border with Bangladesh.Deswal said they were maintaining 100% vigil along the India-China border as well. He added the BSF and ITBP are now Covid-19 free and a few cases reported have been cured. “We have told all the troops and their families to undertake extra physical exercise as having a healthy body is the best medicine against the coronavirus,” Deswal said. He added they have begun calling troopers, who have been on extended leave due to Covid-19 lockdown, back to duty from areas that have reported no cases. He said the ITBP is also making masks and Personal Protection Equipment for the Central Industrial Security Force, which may resume Delhi metro and airport services soon.Deswal has also briefed the troops deployed at Indian embassies in Afghanistan and Sri Lanka on the safety measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-borders-sealed-to-keep-out-infections/story-yNP70nRWwQX9X4QPZ93nvM.html
30-04-2020||India||India takes on Pak for ‘disinformation campaign’ at UN human rights body||India on Thursday targeted Pakistan at a special virtual meeting of the UN human rights agency on the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it was engaged in a “disinformation campaign” instead of tackling a rising number of Coronavirus infections.Delivering India’s statement at the virtual meeting with special procedures, first secretary Mini Kumam of India’s permanent mission to the UN in Geneva, said without naming Pakistan: “It’s sad that instead of joining the global and regional efforts in combating Covid-19, one country continues its disinformation campaign against India.“One can only advise this country to focus its efforts in tackling the pandemic domestically and particularly the sharp rise in number of cases only in the occupied territories and addressing the discrimination meted out to its minorities even in these hard times.”In recent weeks, Pakistani authorities have faced criticism over reports that members of the Hindu minority in Karachi were not provided relief materials by an NGO. The Imran Khan government’s handling of the pandemic has also faced criticism within Pakistan.During the virtual meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, India said the impact of the crisis is “still unfolding in a multidimensional manner, including on human rights and fundamental freedoms”. India said the guidelines issued by the special rapporteur on the right to adequate housing are “very relevant in this crisis”.“As we all are aware, the flow of information is very crucial is carrying out mandated activities by the special procedures. In the current situation, we would like to ask how the pandemic has affected the flow of credible information to the special procedures,” the Indian statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-targets-pak-for-disinformation-campaign-at-un-human-rights-body/story-g79bWxNVqmqwZDiLUFDvyI.html
30-04-2020||India||Odisha HC orders probe in death of a Muslim who was denied dialysis in lockdown||The Orissa High Court has directed the State government to quickly investigate the death of a 70-year-old man with renal malfunction who died after allegedly being denied dialysis at a private hospital in Cuttack early this month over his Muslim identity.In an order, a bench of Orissa High Court asked the Cuttack district collector to inquire into the death of Sayed Abdul Hasan on April 10 due to the alleged denial of dialysis at Shanti Nursing Home in Cuttack town during the Covid-19 lockdown.“The State shall also ensure that no person is denied treatment for any ailment by any hospital of the government or a private entity, if such facility is available with the hospital, and if not available, he or she should be referred to an appropriate hospital, where such facility is available. However, such treatment must be guided by the guidelines or instruction given by the State Government in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” said the bench comprising justices Shatrughan Pujahari and KR Mohapatra.Azra Jamal, a lawyer-activist, had filed a PIL in Orissa HC seeking action against Shanti Nursing Home, alleging it denied dialysis treatment to Hasan, which led to his death on April 10. “Shanti Hospital in Cuttack had refused to treat the chronic kidney disease patient because he belonged to the Muslim community. As a result of which he died on the same day,” Jamal had said in her petition. She said the private hospital had turned the patient away, demanding the production of negative “Covid-19 test result before allowing him to access the dialysis facility.The son of the deceased had initially lodged a complaint with the police alleging his father was asked to follow a lot of protocol compared to other patients upon his arrival at the hospital on April 10. Though the man was a regular patient with the nursing home for a year and a half, the hospital staff allegedly advised him against coming for dialysis. Members of the hospital management asked my father to come back with personal protection equipment for the medical staff who would give him the dialysis, the son of the deceased alleged.The petitioner in her PIL said news reports over Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi had resulted in fear and hatred towards the Muslim community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hc-orders-probe-in-death-of-a-muslim-who-was-denied-dialysis-in-lockdown/story-205siq8mIUWoSCaFbDETqI.html
30-04-2020||India||PM Modi meets ministers to discuss investment, booster for economy expected||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a “comprehensive” meeting discussing strategy to boost the battered economy as the government may announce its first booster dose to protect lives and livelihood after the lockdown is eased next week, people aware of the development said.There is a general consensus that the government would respond to emerging economic challenges as and when required instead of a one-time stimulus, they said requesting anonymity.But, one thing is certain that all policy and fiscal measures will be aimed at making India a preferred global manufacturing hub where both domestic and foreign direct investments (FDIs) will be encouraged.Hindustan Times on Tuesday reported that the government plans to aggressively push its ‘Make in India’ programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) confirmed it on Thursday. “Various strategies to bring investments into India in a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed [in the meeting],” a PMO statement said.“PM Modi held a comprehensive meeting to discuss strategies to attract more foreign investments into India as well as to promote local investments in order to give a boost to the economy against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the statement said. The meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Modi, was attended by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, home minister Amit Shah, commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal, minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur and other senior bureaucrats.According to people mentioned above, the government is, however, cautious while opening the economy from next week as the country cannot afford another nationwide lockdown that has hit both formal and informal sectors.The government ordered a three-week nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 from March 25 and further extended it till May 3. “The lockdown will be eased next week for certain safe areas and economic activities would be conducted there strictly as per the MHA (ministry of home affairs) guidelines,” one person said. According to the person, the government is working on relaxing regulatory norms, removing bureaucratic hurdles and providing fiscal incentives to both domestic and foreign investors. This matter was also deliberated in the meeting, he said.“It was discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more plug and play infrastructure in the existing industrial lands/plots/estates in the country and provide necessary financing support,” the PMO statement said.During the meeting, the PM directed that the action should be taken for a more proactive approach to handhold the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary central and state clearances in a time bound manner, it said.Various strategies to bring investments into India in a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed. Detailed discussions were held on guiding states to evolve their strategies and be more proactive in attracting investments, it added.It was also discussed that the reform initiatives undertaken by the various ministries should “continue unabated” and action should be taken in a time bound manner to remove any obstacles which impede promotion of investment and industrial growth, it said.N Venkatram, CEO at consultancy firm Deloitte, said, “Swadeshi 2.0 is about manufacturing from India. This will happen if our own industrialists have the ability to invest in India in turn encouraging foreign investment as well as manufacturing by foreign companies in India. We also need to look at changes needed in regulation and get the Industrialist mindset back. We need to build our economy to its export potential based on our competitive advantages and generate employment.” Mithun V, partner-M&A, Private Equity and General Corporate at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co said the move is “reassuring” for the global and local investor community. “This is also a very good time for the government to focus on encouraging infrastructure and manufacturing sector investments, especially given the ongoing global backlash against our land border sharing neighbour,” he said.The industry called it an apt policy at the right time and said India should strategically target each of the companies which is relocating from China.Confederation of Indian Industry director general Chandrajit Banerjee said, “We suggest that these [investment zones] should be large zones with a special purpose vehicle to provide approvals and clearances, along with world-class urban infrastructure such as roads, worker housing and facilities, sewerage and low-cost power. Land and labour regulations can also be specifically instituted for these zones to ensure large scale employment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-ministers-to-discuss-investment-booster-for-economy-expected/story-oxYCfIvdandaJFiaCDDU9K.html
30-04-2020||India||India working on plans to repatriate citizens stranded abroad post-lockdown||India said on Thursday consultations were on to finalise plans for repatriating citizens stranded around the world even as missions in different countries were arranging essential supplies and looking after the needs of such people.“The matter is receiving the attention of the government. It would be premature for me to spell out the plans for their return at this stage,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing.Though Srivastava said he didn’t have details regarding the number of Indians stranded around the world or expatriate workers wishing to return to the country, people familiar with developments have said the number is expected to run into hundreds of thousands.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicNoting that the country has been under lockdown since March 25 and all commercial flights had been suspended, Srivastava said: “In this situation, there are Indians all over the world who have gone to various parts as students, there are deportees or they’ve finished their projects and they wish to return.Also Read: 60,000 foreign nationals evacuated from India, UK announces more charter flights“We understand that they are naturally inconvenienced and we appreciate their predicament…Consultations are on and discussions are underway [for their return].”Indian missions around the world are taking care of the stranded citizens by arranging food and shelter and addressing issues arising from their unplanned stay abroad, such as the expiry of visas, he added.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakOfficials have already said the repatriation of Indian citizens is expected to begin once the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown eases after May 3. The exercise is expected to involve Air India, the air force and the navy.The Air force is expected to use some of its largest transport aircraft, such as C-130s and C-17s, for evacuation flights while the navy has kept three large warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indians from West Asian countries.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that more than 56,000 people from his state had registered to return after losing their jobs in foreign countries.The external affairs ministry and Indian missions are expected to begin registering Indians who want to return in the coming days, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Secretaries responsible for various geographical regions in the external affairs ministry have held a series of meetings via video conference with groups of ambassadors based in Delhi during which the repatriation of Indian citizens and their welfare figured in the discussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-on-plans-to-repatriate-citizens-stranded-abroad-post-lockdown/story-qAMrr6zg2798zbBa2T7NzL.html
30-04-2020||India||60,000 foreign nationals evacuated from India, UK announces more charter flights||About 60,000 foreign nationals from 72 countries have been evacuated from India on special flights amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with the UK on Thursday announcing plans to fly back another 2,000 stranded British travellers.Secretaries in the external affairs ministry have been interacting via video conference with groups of ambassadors based in Delhi to discuss ways to fight the pandemic, the welfare of stranded Indians around the world and the evacuation of foreign nationals from India.The ambassadors have thanked the ministry for its role in helping the evacuating of foreign nationals from all parts of India despite challenges of logistics during the lockdown, said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “About 60,000 foreign nationals from 72 countries have been evacuated,” he told a virtual media briefing.The UK said there would be seven charter flights in May to take more than 2,000 stranded British travellers home. These flights will take the total number of chartered flights so far to 59 and once they are completed, more than 15,000 British travellers will have been evacuated from India.A statement from the UK high commission said the seven flights would be operated from Amritsar to London on May 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.The UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Tariq Ahmad, said: “Our charter programme has already helped more than 10,000 British travellers return home from India by ensuring flights to the UK have run every day since April 8…I would like to thank the government of India for their help in making it happen.”This is the fifth round of charter flights organised by the UK for Britons stranded in India. The UK government allocated £75 million for special charter flights to priority countries such as India, with the focus on helping the most vulnerable people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-000-foreign-nationals-evacuated-from-india-uk-announces-more-charter-flights/story-i4VM8hL7hNXJwGSCQ6R6iL.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Make your arrangements’: Telangana to states ready to bring people home||The Telangana government on Thursday wrote to various states, telling them to make their own arrangements for the return of migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in the region on account of lockdown. The issue was discussed at a meeting held by chief secretary Somesh Kumar late on Wednesday, following the Central government’s order allowing return of people stranded in different parts of the country. The Telangana government nominated senior IAS officer Sandeep Kumar Sultania as nodal authority to oversee transportation of stranded migrant labourers and others to their native places, as per the protocol suggested by the Centre. He will be assisted by a team of officers.According to an official release, the chief secretary said a letter would be written to his counterparts in all the states to provide details of persons from their respective states who are stranded in Telangana. These states should make their own arrangements for the shifting of stranded passengers to their destinations.Somesh Kumar asked the stranded persons who wish to go home to get in touch with their native state for transport arrangement. “The government of Telangana will permit stranded persons to move to their native states,” he said.He requested the chief secretaries of the other states to advise their nodal authorities to get in touch with Telangana nodal authority for facilitation of shifting of the stranded people. “Our nodal authority will arrange for screening of the persons and issuance of passes to the asymptomatic persons for undertaking the journey,” he said.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh, has also begun a similar exercise to see the safe return of stranded people to their respective states.State chief secretary Neelam Sawhney, who took part in the video conference with cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in the morning, discussed the issue with her senior officials and instructed that necessary measures be taken for bringing the Telugu workers stranded in other states back to the state.State chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who constituted a Group of Ministers to oversee the Covid-19 situation in the state and take appropriate measures, asked them to ensure that necessary measures are taken for sending the stranded people to their destinations.At the same time, the government would also take all measures for the safe return of migrant labourers and construction workers from Andhra Pradesh stranded in various states to their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-your-arrangements-telangana-to-states-ready-to-bring-people-home/story-GCfJvBsIUV1iq3pFGoTsHI.html
30-04-2020||India||India says social media posts in West Asian states are ‘propaganda’||India on Thursday described a flurry of social media posts in West Asia on the treatment of Muslims in the country as “propaganda” and said countries in that region were keen to work with New Delhi for economic recovery after the Covid-19 crisis.Over the past few weeks, several commentators from West Asia and a member of the royal family of the United Arab Emirates have called out what they said were Islamophobic social media posts by a handful of Indians working in the Middle East. They have also criticised what they said was the targeting of Muslims in India.As the issue gained prominence, external affairs minister S Jaishankar reached out to many of his counterparts in the West Asian countries, especially members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), to address the matter and also to discuss the welfare of some eight million expatriates in the region.Responding to a string of questions on the issue during an online news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava described much of the material on social media platforms as “propaganda by interested parties”.“Stray tweets cannot be used to characterise our bilateral relations with these countries, and the real picture of these relations is very different. The prime minister and external affairs minister have been in regular touch with their counterparts from the region, and spoken to them over the past few days,” he said.The West Asian states, he said, also want a “priority discussion with India on the post-Covid-19 economic recovery”.Srivastava added: “So what comes out clearly in these discussions is that these countries are deeply committed to friendly relations with India. They also don’t support any interference in the internal affairs of India. It is, therefore, important that the friendly and cooperative nature of our relations is accurately recognised and the misuse of social media is not given credence.”The West Asian states have also made requests for India to send medicines and medical teams. “There’s a request to send doctors and nurses from India,” Srivastava said, adding that so far, a medical rapid response team had been deployed in Kuwait for a fortnight.India has also made special efforts to ensure uninterrupted supply of food and essential commodities required by these countries during the holy month of Ramzan.Responding to a report that Oman, which is home to 770,000 Indians, has launched a drive to replace expatriates working in the government sector, Srivastava said this was a decades-old policy that isn’t “specific to India and doesn’t target Indians in any way”.Countries such as Oman “greatly value relations with India and also value the large and important role that our diaspora has played in contributing to the economic prosperity of that region”, he said. Oman has also been taking special care of Indians amid the Covid-19 crisis by providing them free testing and treatment, he added.Oman’s finance ministry recently issued a circular calling for the expatriates employed in the government sector to be replaced by Omanis, with proposals in this regard to be submitted by July. The circular also said the replacement of expatriates should be done in a speedy manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-social-media-posts-in-west-asian-states-are-propaganda/story-Gk9IQgPsvbqEUaGG32sM1K.html
30-04-2020||India||In Karnataka, industries outside containment zones to start from May 4: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said all industries outside containment zones will be allowed to operate from May 4. Stating that Covid-19 cases might continue for another 2-3 months, he said that efforts to control the spread of the disease would go hand in hand with economic activity which has come to a stop due to the current lockdown.On allowing economic activities in Bangalore which continues to be a red zone district with nearly 24 containment zones, the CM struck a more cautious note saying that while cases have been coming down for the last 2-3 days, they will wait for a few more days to take a final decision in this regard. Bangalore is the economic engine for the state bringing in nearly half of the state’s revenues and taxes.He also said that at present there were no plans to allow malls, hotels or movie theatres to start functioning, but hinted that the state government would await the Centre’s directives in this regard before taking a final decision.Later in the day, CM Yediyurappa met with members of various associations of commerce and industries and asked them to be ready to resume operations. The CM also appealed to the industrialists to pay wages and salaries to employees.The Karnataka cabinet which met earlier also decided to give a one-time permit to inter-state and inter-district travel for those who are stranded including migrants and labourers.However, law minister J C Madhuswamy clarified that the cost of travel would be borne by those who want to travel and the government would merely provide permits and bus services. It also said hair salons, liquor outlets and restaurants would continue to be closed for now.On Wednesday, minister for primary and secondary education Suresh Kumar had said that the government would bring back stranded Kannadigas from Gujarat and buses would be sent for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-industries-outside-containment-zones-to-start-from-may-4-yediyurappa/story-WIDKfkaBwytxaKSgDlt2pL.html
30-04-2020||India||Sikkim: India’s only Covid-free state gets its first testing lab||Sikkim, India’s only Covid-free state, has come up with its first laboratory to test swab samples of Covid-19 patients, top officials of the tiny Himalayan state said on Thursday.Till date the state had to send swab samples to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Darjeeling district of West Bengal, around 100 km away, under tight security. Around 200 samples have been tested at NBMCH so far.“Four Truenat beta-CoV test machines have been installed in state-run STNM hospital in Gangtok. Earlier it took us at least two days to get the test result as they had to be sent to NBMCH in Siliguri. Now we will get the results in one hour,” said Mani Kumar Sharma, health minister of Sikkim.Truenat beta-CoV test is a screening test. If tested positive, a person has to undergo an RT-PCR test for confirmation of Covid-19. Sikkim, with a population of 6.19 lakh, shares international borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan. While the state was amongst the first to close the international borders and ban the entry of foreign and domestic tourists, it also took early decision to close two of the four border check posts with West Bengal.“So far not a single person has tested positive for Covid 19 in the state,” said a top health official of the state.Adjoining Kalimpong district in West Bengal has witnessed the death of a 44-year-old woman from Covid-19 on March 30 at NBMCH. In all, 11 members of her family in Kalimpong and Siliguri also tested positive. They have all been treated and discharged.“Along with the four Truenat machines, the state has also received 1,440 testing kits. We are, however, waiting for the guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research for the full-scale operation of the machines,” said Pempa T Bhutia, Sikkim’s health secretary.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government has also authorised 15 state-run hospitals to start Truenat beta tests to ramp up testing. Till date, West Bengal has tested 16,525 samples at 14 authorised testing labs. In the last 24 hours, the state conducted around 1905 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-india-s-only-covid-free-state-gets-its-first-testing-lab/story-2ITOjgAaoV2VGgL4RFQEoK.html
30-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Buses not feasible, need trains to ferry migrant workers, says Kerala CM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Buses not feasible, need trains to ferry migrant workers, says Kerala CMKerala has asked the Centre to run special trains to take migrant workers to their states because buses are not feasible for such long journeys, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday. Read moreFarm to fork: Farmer’s distress call turns into direct-selling of produce in Mohali’s housing societiesWhat began as a response to a distress call made by a kinnow grower in Abohar, looking for a market to sell the fruit amid the curfew, has now turned into a pilot project to aid direct selling of farmers’ produce in different housing societies of the district. Read more J&K tally mounts to 614 with 33 fresh Covid-19 infectionsThirty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 614, officials said. All fresh cases were reported from the Kashmir valley—Anantnag, Budgam, Baramulla, Shopian and Srinagar districts—where the tally has risen to 556. Read moreFive drug peddlers held in Ludhiana; 1kg heroin recoveredThe local unit of Special Task Force (STF) claimed to have busted two rackets of drug peddlers with the arrest of five people and recovery of 1.10kg heroin from them on Wednesday, police said, adding that the woman kingpin of one of the gangs is yet to be arrested. Read more Italy PM Conte battles local leaders over Covid-19 lockdownItalian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte Thursday criticised regional chiefs for defying the government and lifting lockdown measures early, saying it risked undoing efforts to prevent a second coronavirus wave. Read more Gautam Gambhir calls Rohit Sharma ‘best white-ball cricketer in the world’Rohit Sharma turned 33 on Thursday and the who’s who of the Indian cricketing fraternity wished the opening batsman on his special day. Rohit’s former India teammate Gautam Gambhir too wished him and in style. Read more Bihar STET re-exam 2019 answer key to be released on May 1The answer key of Bihar STET re-exam 2019 will be released on May 1. The answer key will be released for all the sets of all the subjects of paper I and Paper II. Read more International Jazz Day 2020: Jazz goes virtual this year to bring music lovers together during coronavirus pandemicInternational Jazz Day is observed to connect artists, communities, schools, academics, historians and jazz enthusiasts from around the world to celebrate jazz. Read more Cat carries her sick kitten to a hospital in Turkey, medics treat the little one. See picsThe feeling of motherhood really passes the bounds of space, time, and even species. A tweet involving a cat and its baby kitten aptly show how motherly love is same for everyone. Read more Karisma Kapoor pays touching tribute to Irrfan Khan, uncle Rishi Kapoor: ‘Have a safe journey you both’Actor Karisma Kapoor has shared a video of Irrfan Khan and her uncle, Rishi Kapoor, who died on Wednesday and Thursday. The short clip comes from a scene they shared in the film D-Day. Read more Reliance Jio’s JioMeet it now live: All you need to knowReliance Jio dropped in a mention of JioMeet in their Q4 2019-2020 results. Now JioMeet is not exactly new, it was launched more than a year ago but it is officially being rolled out by Jio Platforms now. Read more Watch| Sick mother, 1-yr-old baby, children at home: Why migrants are desperate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-buses-not-feasible-need-trains-to-ferry-migrant-workers-says-kerala-cm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SQc8XsHAy5W9e6CDok8gEK.html
30-04-2020||India||Buses not feasible, need trains to ferry migrant workers, says Kerala CM||Kerala has asked the Centre to run special trains to take migrant workers to their states because buses are not feasible for such long journeys, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday.He said the majority of 3.60 lakh workers in the state are from West Bengal, Assam and Odisha and trains are ideal to ferry them back to their states. On Wednesday, the Union home ministry had suggested that states arrange buses to ferry home workers who have been stranded in the lockdown.“In the prevailing situation, bus journeys are not safe. And there is a limit to keep social distancing in buses. So we want the railways to run non-stop trains for them. The state chief secretary has written to the cabinet secretary in this regard and we are waiting for an early reply,” Vijayan said. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.There have been reports that in some areas migrant workers are getting restless.In Malappuram the police launched a mild baton charge to control about 100 workers who took out a procession seeking immediate travel arrangements for them. The CM said some forces are deliberately provoking them.The government calls the migrants “guest workers” and has introduced many welfare schemes including insurance for them. Most of them work in the construction sector, hotels and small-scale units. Though the government is taking care of the food, lodging and necessities like phone recharge coupons the migrants say calls from their kin make them worried.Kerala reported two fresh cases off Covid-19  on Thursday taking the total to 497 out of which 384 have been discharged leaving 113 in hospitals, the CM said. He said at least 70 areas are in hotspots and there is no plan to ease restrictions in those places. Two senior police officers (IGs) and Kasaragod collector are in self-quarantine after a TV reporter who interviewed them tested positive on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buses-not-feasible-need-trains-to-ferry-migrant-workers-says-kerala-cm/story-4hax7oziSaSTqt8r8RVYfK.html
30-04-2020||India||Several Hyderabad Muslims back no-new-clothes-in-Eid call in solidarity with the poor||Many Muslims in Hyderabad are getting ready to celebrate this year’s Eid without new clothes in solidarity with the poor, devastated by the nationwide lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19.A campaign of sorts to this effect has been run on the social media in Hyderabad with a call to all Muslims: “I am not buying clothes for Eid. Will you?” The call has evoked good response.Wearing new clothes on Eid-ul-Fitr, which is likely to fall on May 24 this year, is an age-old tradition for the Muslims. However, it is still not clear whether the lockdown will be lifted by then, allowing the garments shops and showrooms to be thrown open to the public.In an open appeal to fellow Muslims of Hyderabad through WhatsApp, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, descendent of last Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, asked not to buy clothes for Eid, even if the lockdown is lifted.“Let us pledge to exclude our materialism and gloating and be mindful of the underprivileged around us. Let’s say no to excessive and unnecessary shopping for Eid. Keeping in mind the current situation due to the ongoing lockdown for Covid-19, most of us are at home, but the poor and needy are left to fend for themselves without a job as everything is shut down,” he said.Stating that it was disheartening to see so many people face difficulties in fulfilling their daily needs, Khan asked the Muslims to donate as much as they could towards the daily expenses of the poor. “The money that we spend on our extravagance, can be used to help a family survive and live without this fearful uncertainty,” the Nizam’s descendant said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMuslims are also being advised against extravagance and in favour of saving for the future. “Please save the money and realise that in future, we may need money for medicines, food and education,” one of the messages said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19During Ramzan, the Muslims practice the tradition of Zakat Al-Fitr. While Zakat involves parting with 2.5 per cent of money saved in a year to help the poor and the needy, Fitr involves the distribution of around 2.5 kgs of staple food to the poor to help them celebrate Eid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-hyderabad-muslims-back-no-new-clothes-in-eid-call-in-solidarity-with-the-poor/story-qIyyWCrMhasC5AjKdjAX6M.html
30-04-2020||India||1077 to be helpline number for senior citizens hit by Covid-19 crisis in Delhi||The Delhi government on Thursday directed the revenue department to start a helpline for senior citizens to give information related to coronavirus. The number 1077 will be the helpline number for senior citizens in the national capital if they need any information or help related to the Covid-19 health crisis.The helpline for senior citizens will be activated within two days and information about it will also be widely circulated, according to a government order. The helpline will be operational for senior citizens 24X7.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Thursday in his order also issued directions for an online application that can register grievances or requests of senior citizens. The online application will also provide an SMS acknowledgement to the elderly person concerned as well as to the District Magistrate concerned and his nodal officer.District magistrates will appoint a nodal officer in their respective areas, who will ensure that grievances of senior citizens living alone or with their family in the capital are attended to by the department concerned, according to the order.A day earlier, on Wednesday, Delhi recorded 125 new cases of Covid-19, down from Tuesday’s 206 cases, the state’s health department said.The national capital has now registered 3,439 cases of Covid-19 out of which 2,291 are active cases and 1,092 coronavirus patients have recovered.There were two deaths in the past 24 hours which took the death toll in the capital city to 56. No deaths had been reported for the last four days earlier.The Delhi government’s rate of testing is also increasing every day. On Wednesday, the government carried out 3,855 Covid-19 tests and the rate of testing is now at 2,338 per million of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1077-to-be-helpline-number-for-senior-citizens-hit-by-covid-19-crisis-in-delhi/story-I7ClSFWcWuWjjW3pvnN9EO.html
30-04-2020||India||J&K tally mounts to 614 with 33 fresh Covid-19 infections||Thirty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 614, officials said. All fresh cases were reported from the Kashmir valley—Anantnag, Budgam, Baramulla, Shopian and Srinagar districts—where the tally has risen to 556.“33 new cases, all from Kashmir, reported. Also, 24 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals,” a government spokesperson said, adding that four patients recovered from Jammu division and 20 from Kashmir.Meanwhile, Jammu district now has no positive cases. “All the reported 26 positive cases from the district have recovered. It is an indicative of being on the right course. Nevertheless, declaring Jammu district Covid-free will be premature. Need to carry this forward proactively, with caution,” said Jammu deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan. So far, 216 patients—165 in Kashmir and 51 in Jammu division—have recovered from the disease while eight have died. Till date, 70,408 people have been put under observation—7,335 in home quarantine, 390 in hospital isolation, 193 in hospital quarantine, 8,398 in home surveillance while 54084 completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-tally-mounts-to-614-with-33-fresh-infections/story-MY6hiAkHpqmB8PHBEEY4ZM.html
30-04-2020||India||60 days and counting, Uttarakhand man flying from Tehran in 4th quarantine||For 25-year-old Praveen Burathi, it has been the longest journey from the Iranian capital Tehran to his home in Khatoli village in Champawat of Uttarakhand spanning over 60 days and four quarantines amid the Covid-19 pandemic.And it is not over yet.He had been quarantined once in Tehran and twice in Jaisalmer earlier before his fourth quarantine began in Champawat on Tuesday.His ordeal began on February 28 when he went to the Tehran airport to catch a flight to Delhi. Burathi who works as a navigation officer at a shipping company in Tehran, had been sanctioned two months’ leave by his company but the flight on February 28 was cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions.“I have been quarantined a fourth time in Champawat. It took me around two months to travel 3,551 km from Tehran to Champawat. When I reached Tehran airport on February 28, I was informed that flight for Delhi has been cancelled due to Covid-19 outbreak and countries restricting the movement of people across borders. I was told there was no certainty when the next flight will leave for India,” said Praveen Burathi.Burathi said he then contacted the Indian embassy in Tehran. “There I was advised by officials that I would be quarantined in a hotel till the next flight is available. I remained in quarantine there till March 14 and my sample was taken by Iranian officials, which tested negative on March 16.”“Finally I boarded the Air India flight for Delhi with 195 other Indians on March 18 from Tehran. After we reached Delhi we were taken to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan through two domestic flights and quarantined there for 14 days,” Burathi said.Burathi said after completion of the quarantine period, their samples were taken again for Covid-19 testing on March 31. “The report was received on April 5, which showed two people had tested positive for Covid-19. So the rest of us were quarantined again for 14 days at the same centre. We completed the second quarantine period on April 19, when samples were again sent for the testing”, he said.“When the test reports came negative on April 23, then we were permitted to go home. But it took me three more days in obtaining a pass from the authorities in Jaisalmer. During this, we were allowed to stay at the centre. After obtaining a pass, I hired a taxi for Rs 30,000 and left for Champawat,” said Burathi.Burathi reached Champawat on Tuesday and went straight to the local police station to inform them about his arrival. Given his travel history, he was quarantined again in a local hotel for 14 days.“If I had gone directly to my village, the police would have taken action against me for hiding my arrival or villagers might have informed the police. So I thought it is better to approach the police before going to my village,” Burathi said.“I want to go home so badly. I am eagerly waiting for this quarantine to end so that I can be with my family. It has been the longest and most tiresome journey of my life,” he saidChief medical officer Champawat district Dr RP Khanduri said, “The man who came from Iran has been kept under institutional quarantine at a hotel in Champawat for 14 days”.“Though we are quarantining people who come from outside the state, given this man’s travel history we are extra cautious. After he completes his quarantine period, his samples will be sent for testing. If they come negative, he will be sent home and advised to stay at home,” she said.In Uttarakhand, where 57 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, 11,120 people have been home quarantined and 2,218 have been quarantined in various institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-days-and-counting-uttarakhand-man-flying-from-tehran-in-4th-quarantine/story-snCE4A2c2KwpHOoTcGzpFJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Guv shuts nomination route for Thackeray, holds out hope with letter to EC||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday requested the Election Commission to hold elections to the nine vacant seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council ‘at the earliest’, ending suspense over CM Uddhav Thackeray’s nomination to the upper house in the state assembly. The development comes close on the heels of Uddhav Thackeray reaching out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help sort out the brewing political crisis in the state, which has also been hit hard by the coronavirus outbreak.The Sena had hoped that the “message from Delhi” will reach the state Raj Bhavan.The Governor made the request to fill the nine seats in the legislative council that have been lying vacant since April 24, with a view to end the current uncertainty in the State.In his letter, the Governor has stated that the Central Government has announced many relaxation measures regarding the enforcement of lockdown in the country. As such the elections to the council seats can be held with certain guidelines, he has said.Since Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray is not a member of either house of the State Legislature, he needs to get elected to the Council before May 27.The Election Commission had withheld the election process for these nine seats following the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-suspense-over-uddhav-s-nomination-maharashtra-guv-requests-ec-to-hold-polls-for-9-legislative-council-seats-in-state/story-OSbEpiGQHoD6d2KWqDEC7J.html
30-04-2020||India||JNU, IGNOU, hotel management form submission dates extended||The dates for submission of online applications for various important entrance examinations including for Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) and the National Council for Hotel Management for the year 2020 have been extended by the National Testing Agency on Thursday.A public notice released by the authority said the last day for online submission of the form for National Council for Hotel Management (NCHM) JEE 2020 was being extended to 15th May, 2020 from 1st of March, 2020.Similarly the forms for IGNOU’s admission test for academic session beginning 2020 could now be submitted online till 15th of May, 2020 along with the forms for the examination to enter the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) 2020.The testing agency also extended the date for the online submission of forms for Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination (JNUEE) to 15th May 2020, while the last date of submission of forms for the entrance to All India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test was extended to 5th June, 2020.All the above extensions have been done keeping in mind the difficulties being faced by students and parents in the online submission of forms along with the application fee, said the release. All the above applications can be submitted till 4 pm on the last dates mentioned but the submission of fee has to take place before 11:50 pm on the last date.The fee, the notice says, can be paid online through credit/debit card/ netbanking/UPI and PAYTM.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIt also advises students/examinees to visit websites dedicated to each of these examinations for a detailed schedule carrying revised dates for downloading admit cards after an assessment of the situation is done on 15th of May. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jnu-ignou-hotel-management-form-submission-dates-extended/story-iPOy7sNDn329nsFPKocntM.html
30-04-2020||India||SC notice to Centre in plea to regulate Covid-19 treatment costs||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of the central government in a plea to regulate the cost of treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at private hospitals across the country.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, issued notice to the central government in the petition filed by a lawyer, Sachin Jain, who claimed that private hospitals are exploiting Covid-19 patients by charging exorbitant amounts for their treatment and were making a fortune out of their miseries amid the nationwide healthcare emergency.“The state should combat the commercial exploitation by private hospitals and bring in necessary regulations on the tariff structure for regulating private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” the petition prayed.Jain, in his petition, referred to a news report published on April 3, which had stated that insurance companies revealed that private hospitals were saddling customers with inflated bills that were, in turn, passed on to the insurance firms.“A reputed insurance company confirmed that it had, till April 2, settled 41 insurance claims of Covid-19 and the maximum amounted to Rs 6.5 lakh. Another well-known insurance company has stated that it has been receiving an average claim size of Rs 5-6 lakh for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals,” the petition stated.The size of the claims, the petitioner submitted, was a matter of grave concern and the insurance companies had stated that the bills were highly inflated and unreasonable.One such incident cited by an insurance firm was where a private hospital used personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as 300 gloves and one coverall suit on a Covid-19 patient in a single day.The insurance companies have even started rejecting claims of Covid-19 patients by up to 50% of the amount, the petitioner submitted. “If such inflated bills can become a cause of concern for the insurance industry, what will be the plight of the common man, who neither has a fat wallet nor an insurance coverage plan?” the petition said.Jain also sought a direction from the apex court to be issued to these private hospitals, who are functioning on public land, to treat Covid-19 patients pro bono or on a no-profit basis.Jain prayed that the central government should bear the expenses incurred at private hospitals by poor and vulnerable people, who don’t have any insurance coverage plan.“Medical treatment owes a constitutional duty to treat the have-nots and a person cannot be refused treatment merely on the ground that he is not in a position to afford the fee payable for such expensive treatment,” the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-in-plea-to-regulate-covid-19-treatment-costs/story-MeTEGONQbVyw2mSWFUr4JL.html
30-04-2020||India||Ensure free movement of trucks to maintain supplies, Centre tells states||The Union home ministry on Thursday asked state governments to ensure free movement of trucks/goods carriers to maintain supply chain of goods and services in the country amid the lockdown.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla in a letter to chief secretaries of states cited the ministry’s earlier orders on traffic movement.“It has been reported that at inter-state borders in different parts of the country, movement of trucks is not allowed freely and local authorities insist on separate passes….. no separate passes are required for through traffic of trucks and goods carriers including empty trucks, etc. This is essential for maintaining the supply chain of goods and services across the country during the lockdown period,” Bhalla wrote“Ensure free movement of trucks/goods carriers, incl empty trucks. Local authorities must not insist on separate passes at inter-state borders across the country.This is essential to maintain supply chain of goods & services in the country,” the home ministry spokesperson tweeted.A home ministry order on April 15 has said, “Movement of all trucks and other goods/carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper subject to the driver carrying a valid driving license, an empty truck/vehicle will be allowed to ply after the delivery of goods, or for pick up of goods,”On Tuesday, the home ministry said that it will announce more relaxation from May 4, a day after the lockdown ends. Inter-state traffic is still patchy. A few states have even blocked their borders to insulate themselves in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-free-movement-of-trucks-to-maintain-supplies-centre-tells-states/story-uDJKGgDrkFtE9neKAWAcCP.html
30-04-2020||India||Pune-based institute DIAT develops microwave steriliser to kill coronavirus||New Delhi: The Pune-based Defence Institute of Advanced Technology has developed a microwave steriliser to kill the coronavirus and named it Atulya, the defence ministry said on Thursday. DIAT is a deemed university supported by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The virus gets disintegrated by differential heating in the range of 56 to 60 degrees Celsius, the ministry said in a statement. “The product is a cost- effective solution and can be operated in portable or fixed installations. This system was tested for human/operator safety and has been found to be safe,” it said. The sterilisation time can range from 30 to 60 seconds depending on the size and shape of objects. Weighing three kilos, it can be used for sterilising non-metallic objects only.Different wings of the defence ministry including the armed forces, the DRDO and the Ordnance Factory Board, have designed and developed a wide range of products to support the country’s effort to contain the spread of the pandemic.The DRDO has developed several products to combat the pandemic including ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, large area sanitisation solutions and Covid-19 sample collection kiosks. Last week, the DRDO stepped forward to provide medical oxygen plants to hospitals in far-flung areas to generate their own oxygen supply.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 15, the armed forces have also come up with a raft of innovations to combat the pandemic --- from modifying quadcopters to spray disinfectants over large areas to ultra-violet light sanitisers, assisted respiratory systems and 3-D printed masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-based-institute-diat-develops-microwave-steriliser-to-kill-coronavirus/story-ooTjT5ThyQAYPjZUWOb8LM.html
30-04-2020||India||First Covid-19 patient to receive plasma therapy in Maharashtra dies||The first Covid-19 patient who underwent convalescent plasma therapy in Maharashtra succumbed to the infection on Wednesday night at Lilavati Hospital. The 53-year-old male patient was in critical condition and had been under ventilation in the intensive care unit (ICU).The patient was brought to the hospital on April 20 after his swab test report returned positive for coronavirus infection on April 19. But due to the delay in the detection of the virus, he had already developed acute respiratory distress syndrome. He was immediately put on ventilation in the ICU. According to the doctors from the hospital, despite having symptoms like sore throat, dry cough and fever, he delayed his treatment thinking he couldn’t have contracted the disease since he didn’t have any travel history and was also not a high-risk close contact of any Covid-19 positive patient.“When the patient was brought to the hospital, his condition was already extremely critical. He had severe breathing problems due to the delay in treatment. He had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia,” said Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati Hospital. On April 25, the hospital performed the first convalescent plasma therapy on the patient after procuring approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The therapy involves transfusing plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient into a patient fighting the infection, to act as reinforcement for the latter’s immune system.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe became the first novel coronavirus patient in the state to undergo the clinical trial for plasma therapy. On the first day, a 200ml of plasma was transfused. Though he was critical, it helped improve the oxygen intake in his body. However, from the early morning of April 27, his condition started deteriorating. He developed infections and was kept on a high dosage of antibiotics.“We had to postpone the next two doses due to his deteriorating health condition. Sadly, he succumbed to the infection on Wednesday night,” said Dr Ravishankar.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19On Tuesday, the health ministry had categorically said that the plasma therapy was in the trials stage and not an approved treatment for coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-patient-to-receive-plasma-therapy-in-maharashtra-dies/story-Gxa8zmEzbF8UEKsKlQ19KN.html
30-04-2020||India||Govt to draft guidelines for PMAY post-lockdown||The Centre will draft special guidelines for key infrastructure projects, including the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (urban) while anticipating a higher demand in the housing and construction sector, after the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed from March 25 till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, are lifted, according to officials aware of the development. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri chaired a review meeting of key projects, including the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (urban) and the Swachh Bharat Mission (urban), on Tuesday. The ministry is looking at a higher demand in the realty sector after the lockdown is lifted and accordingly drafting standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the resumption of construction activities.“The government is expecting the demand in housing to go up after the lockdown is lifted and we’ve to be prepared accordingly. Our target is to sanction 1.12 crore houses. The Centre’s priority will be to provide housing for the poor,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity.According to the ministry’s data, 1.04 crore houses have been sanctioned so far under the scheme, out of which construction work has started in 64 lakh and completed in another 33.5 lakh. The Centre has a target to sanction1.12 crore houses and to deliver them to the intended beneficiaries by 2022.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a meeting on Thursday to discuss schemes to be developed to promote more plug-and-play infrastructure in the existing industrial lands, plots, and estates across the country and provide necessary financing support.“The PM directed that the action should be taken for a more proactive approach to handhold the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary Central and state clearances in a timebound manner,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement. The Centre will soon also issue an advisory to state governments and Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, (RERA) authorities on the measures required to protect the interest of homebuyers as well as the depressed real estate sector.An urgent meeting of Central Advisory Council (CAC), constituted under the provisions of RERA, was held Wednesday to discuss the impact of the pandemic on the real estate sector and to treat it as an event of ‘force majeure’ under its provisions. Puri and Niti Aayog chairman Amitabh Kant also attended the meeting. The concerns of the real estate sector, particularly the impact of Covid-19 and consequent nationwide lockdown restrictions, were deliberated in the meeting. “There was a demand for providing special relief to the real estate sector in a bid to help it cope with the adverse impact of the current crisis. Covid-19 has already disrupted construction activities due to reverse migration of labour at a large-scale and the disruption of the supply chain of various construction materials,” the ministry said in a statement. Puri said the Centre would issue an advisory to the RERA authorities and states about the special measures that need to be taken to safeguard the interest of homebuyers and all other real estate industry stakeholders.Maneesh Upadhyaya, chief business officer, 99acres.com, a real estate database website, put the industry’s expectations in perspective. “We expect homebuyers to return to the market gradually after the easing of social distancing norms, as real estate prices are likely to come down. The government’s pro-realty measures, including a voluntary three-month moratorium on the payment of home loans and .75 percentage-point cut in interest in borrowing rates, have calmed the homebuyers’ nerves, but we’re looking for more institutional support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-draft-guidelines-for-pmay-post-lockdown/story-4UHgdLlDO6ETI6rxn7yOFJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Rain, hailstorm lash parts of Delhi-NCR||Light showers lashed parts of national capital Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) on Thursday evening as an unusually pleasant month of April drew to a close.Hailstorms too were reported from certain parts of the national capital region .A fresh and intense Western Disturbance is likely to cause widespread rain and thundershowers over the Western Himalayan region, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during May 3 to 6. There will be thunderstorms, hailstorms, lightning, gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over north western India during the period, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A western disturbance, the seventh in April has been affecting the north-western region on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-hailstorm-lash-parts-of-delhi-ncr/story-6soIboxEcvwLt6EBLon2nN.html
30-04-2020||India||Prime Minister brainstorms to fast track growth as second lockdown nears end||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday discussed ways to fast track investments into India to spur economic growth hit by coronavirus pandemic outbreak as the country nears the end of the second phase of the 40-day-long national lockdown that has crippled most economic activity leading to a cut in the economic growth projections and forecasts of an economic downturn.The meeting chaired by the prime minister was also attended by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the home minister Amit Shah, the minister for commerce & industries Piyush Goyal along with minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur along with senior officials of the government of India.A release from the prime minister’s office said that the meeting underlined the need for a more proactive approach and to handhold investors to clear all bottlenecks for necessary approvals to start a business in the country.“During the meeting, the PM directed that the action should be taken for a more proactive approach to handhold the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary Central and State clearances in a time-bound manner,” the release said.The meeting comes one a day when agencies released data indicating the growth of eight core sector industries had contracted by 6.5 per cent in the month of March 2020, compared to 5.8 per cent growth registered last year.The meeting also comes in the backdrop of downward revision of GDP growth forecasts by several agencies including the IMF. In the light of the need for investments in the post-coronavirus economy, the prime minister has been stressing on attracting companies leaving China due to ongoing trade war with the US and the uncertainties created by coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan. He has also stressed on self-reliance as the best way to cope with such crisis. In the present scenario, the PM is said to have advised for the development of a scheme to create ready-to-use infrastructure and financing support to attract global and domestic investments.Today’s meeting comes a day after a task force headed by economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty forecasted an investment need of Rs 111 lakh crore over the next five years to build infrastructure projects and to drive economic growth.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the government release, the prime minister stressed on helping states evolve their own strategies and said they needed to be proactive in attracting investments.The meeting also decided to continue with the reform initiatives undertaken by the various ministries, including removal of any obstacles to the promotion of investment and industrial growth in a time-bound manner.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Earlier today, former RBI governor and noted economist Raghuram Rajan said that going for a second or third lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be devastating for the country’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-brainstorms-to-fast-track-growth-as-second-lockdown-s-end-nears/story-Gg4ipHFevAFQOrPbyIw0eJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Tripura CM says lockdown will exist in some forms until vaccine is developed||The Covid-19 lockdown will continue in some or the other form till a vaccine is developed for the coronavirus, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has said. “The lockdown is till May 3 as of now, and it is a long way to exit the lockdown. It is not possible now to restart inter-state bus, train or air services. Lockdown is the only way and people need to accept this as part of their lives,” he told reporters at the Civil Secretariat late on Wednesday evening.“The lockdown will continue in some form or other till a vaccine for the coronavirus is developed,” he said without specifying whether he was referring to restrictions across the country or in Tripura. Deb made the remarks after holding a meeting of all political parties at the Civil Secretariat. Representatives of 18 parties, including the CPI-M, Congress, INPT, BJP and its alliance partner IPFT, joined the meeting. Speaking about initiatives to tackle the economic crisis after the lockdown, Deb said the primary sectors, such as agriculture, horticulture, dairy and poultry farms, are the mainstay of the state’s economy and work has already started in these fields. Besides, 50 of the state’s 75 industrial units have resumed functioning. “Though Tripura is a small state, our government has adopted initiatives to revive the economy after the lockdown. We have started to work in the primary sectors and 50 industrial units have already started functioning,” he said.“We have helped all the poor people in terms of cash benefits and supplies of rations during the lockdown. They have received different amounts, ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 in their bank accounts and free rations,” said Deb. During the meeting, the CPI-M demanded the state government should provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to people engaged in cleaning and sanitation tasks, and food items such as potatoes, pulses and onions to poor families for three months. The Congress stressed that government benefits should reach people living in areas under the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC). Currently, Tripura has buffer stocks of rice for 76 days, wheat for 80 days, sugar for 42 days, lentil pulses for 17 days, and salt for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-to-continue-in-some-or-other-form-till-vaccine-for-covid-19-is-invented-says-tripura-cm/story-Y0hx7WjA8o6wGYSfdpQ6FL.html
30-04-2020||India||Season’s first cyclonic storm may form over Arabian Sea in couple of days: IMD||This season’s first cyclonic storm—Amphan — is likely to form over south Andaman Sea in the next couple of days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area will likely form over south Andaman Sea and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. Under its influence, there will be squally winds and heavy rainfall over south Andaman Sea, southeast Bay of Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands over the next five days.“The low pressure area is likely to develop in the next 24 hours and a depression is likely to form in the subsequent 24 hours. We have forecast that the depression is likely to intensify further. If it develops in to a cyclonic storm, it will be called Amphan,” said M Mohapatra, director general of IMD. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea along and off north Sumatra coast, south Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast Bay of Bengal from May 1 to May 3. The depression or cyclone is likely to move north-northwestwards during the first three days and north-northeastwards towards Myanmar coast thereafter.“The ocean parameters continue to be favourable for its strengthening while over the east-central Bay and neighbourhood. However, there is no consensus amongst the weather model over the timelines, area, and level of intensification,” Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said on its website on Thursday.A fresh and intense western disturbance is likely to cause widespread rain and thundershowers over the western Himalayan region, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during May 3-6. There will be thunderstorms, hailstorms, lightning, gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over north western India during the period, according to IMD.A western disturbance, the seventh in April, was affecting the north-western region on Thursday. “We have already started recording rain in many parts around Ghaziabad. There can be some thunderstorms and hailstorms too on Thursday and Friday. But the next WD will be intense because an area of low pressure will form, and on the night of May 3, a cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over west Rajasthan; there will be moisture incursion from Arabian Sea. The WD will bring rains, thunderstorms, squally winds of 40 to 50 kmph speed over the entire northwestern region 3 to 4 days. There may be snowfall in the upper reaches of Western Himalayas also,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/season-s-first-cyclonic-storm-may-form-over-arabian-sea-in-couple-of-days/story-ia6oBr9Nb1V4Oe72TUU8kM.html
30-04-2020||India||BCI should consider assisting its brethren, says SC on Covid-19 fund for lawyers||Bar Council of India (BCI) should “consider assisting its brethren” keeping in view the prevailing situation, the Supreme Court Thursday said while hearing a plea seeking creation of an emergency fund for independent practising advocates who are in need of financial assistance during the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana, which was hearing the plea through video-conferencing, said it cannot pass direction for creation of funds and set up a special category for lawyers when unfortunately the entire country is facing a difficult situation.“Having heard the petitioner-in-person and taking into consideration the grievance of the petitioner, we are of the opinion that the best course is that the Bar Council of India should consider assisting its brethren, keeping in view the prevailing situation,” the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai, said.The bench, which disposed of the petition, observed during the hearing that some bar councils have taken up this issue and have also decided to help independent lawyers.“This is something for the BCI to consider,” the bench told advocate Pawan Prakash Pathak, who filed the petition.The apex court, while referring to the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic, said the whole country is suffering and lawyers are also a part of it.Pathak referred to the provision of the Advocates Act and said the BCI, an apex body of lawyers regulating the legal profession, is responsible for safeguarding the rights, privileges and interests of advocates.He said that courts and tribunals are closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown and independent practising lawyers are left with no other source of income.He argued that the top court can direct the BCI to take action in this regard as also for the future.However, the bench said it is for the BCI to consider as to how well it is in a position to help.Pathak, who filed the plea along with advocate Alok Singh, said that “advocates are also hit by this lockdown and facing financial crunch and if the lockdown further extend then this pose a serious threat to the life and liberty of the advocates who have litigation as there only source of income.” The plea has claimed that various state bar associations across the country are coming up with financial aid scheme for advocates but there is “no uniformity or equality” in those policies.It has also sought a direction to the BCI and bar council of states to frame a policy for fund disbursal to independent advocates who are in dire need of financial assistance within specified time limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bci-should-consider-assisting-its-brethren-says-sc-on-covid-19-fund-for-lawyers/story-kRehcGo11XQnk4Zd7a7g7I.html
30-04-2020||India||Stranded in Uttarakhand for a month, 1,300 plus Nepalese finally reach home||A total of 1,357 Nepalese citizens, stranded in Uttarakhand’s remote district of Pithoragarh due to the lockdown crossed over to their country on Thursday through two bridges in Dharcula and Badiyakot on the Indo-Nepal border in the district, said officials.VK Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh said, “The Nepalese citizen who had been staying in six relief camps set up in Pithoragarh, Dharchula, Baram, Jaimini and Balakon in the district were handed over to Nepalese authorities at the Indo-Nepal border.”According to the district magistrate, the Nepalese citizens had gathered in the district in the hope of crossing over to their homes in Nepal from March 25 onwards. By then, a lockdown had already come into effect in both India and Nepal to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.AK Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate of Dharchula said that the Nepali citizens started crossing the border around 8 am on Thursday from Dharchula and Baram region.“They were sent maintaining social distancing and all precautions like medical examination were ensured while crossing over to their country,” said Shukla.“While they were staying in camps, we arranged for education facilities for their children, ensured they were busy and provided them with entertainment opportunities. They also had the option of doing yoga and physical exercise at the relief camp,” added the sub-divisional magistrate of Dharchula.Uttarakhand has reported 57 cases of Covid-19 out of which 36 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-in-uttarakhand-for-a-month-1-000-plus-nepalese-finally-reach-home/story-0d1PRhsENTeQ08d4JJ827O.html
30-04-2020||India||How good fortune and planning have helped Chennai avert water crisis this year||Amidst the dark Covid-19 clouds, there may be a silver lining for the 10.5 million citizens of Chennai. The unprecedented water crisis that crippled Chennai last summer is unlikely to revisit the city in 2020. Thanks to a combination of good fortune and planning, the four lakes that feed the city are nearly 14 times fuller than last year. The average ground water level at 5.3 metres is 1. 5m higher than it was in March 2019. “We are nowhere near the crisis we faced last year. The inflow into the lakes has been excellent and we’ve managed to significantly reduce the supply of freshwater to the industrial clusters by providing them recycled water,” said T Prabhushankar, executive director, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). The crisis of 2019 was yet another reminder for Chennai that efficient use and prudent management of water resources were as important as big-ticket investments in desalination plants. The city already has two desalination plants with capacity of 210 million litres a day that service the northern suburbs. A third 150 million litre plant costing nearly Rs 1300 crore would be ready next year.The city also took a raft of administrative measures. Two new tertiary treatment and reverse osmosis (TTRO) plants that recycle sewage into 90 million litres of potable water became operational by October 2019. The CMWSSB has now completely stopped supplying freshwater to the two big industrial clusters on the northern and western fringes of Chennai. Their requirements are met by the two recycling plants built at a cost of Rs 630 crore. The capacity of the plants would soon go up to 120 million litres a day. This has freed up domestic drinking water supplies and reduced the reliance on the already stressed ground water resources.According to CMWSSB, higher domestic consumption given the emphasis on frequent hand-washing and personal hygiene due to the lockdown may have evened out the lack of commercial demand for water. Commercial establishments account for close to 40-50 million litres of water a day. Even during the lockdown, the water utility has maintained the usual daily supply of 650 million litres. However, Prabhushankar said that given the storage levels, a further increase in demand could also be comfortably met.In 2019, the four reservoirs around Chennai — Poondi, Red Hills, Chembarambakkam and Cholavaram— with a combined capacity of 11.3 billion cubic feet (BCft) had dried up by May leading to one of the worst water crises faced by the city. CMWSSB could barely supply half the city’s daily demand of 1 billion litres. The deep groundwater aquifers too dried up in the face of excessive extraction of water. Hotels, factories and large IT parks had to shut down for several days.Although Chennai had made rainwater harvesting (RWH) mandatory in 2003 to get construction approvals and water connection, poor upkeep by citizens had rendered these structures non-functional. “Over the last nine months in collaboration with Greater Chennai Corporation we have inspected nearly 15 lakh households. We ordered nearly 500,000 households install new RWH systems. As a result, the ground waters levels we measure through 145 observation wells in the city have risen significantly,” said Prabhushankar. According to CMWSSB nearly 370 large community wells that had become defunct have been recharged as part of the groundwater renewal drive. But experts said that these efforts may be inadequate. “The audit of RWH systems is not as easy as the government thinks. A lot of factors such as soil quality have to be accounted for. Those who carried out the surveys were simply not trained to do it. It was an exercise to divert public attention in the midst of a crisis. The public too continues to think of RWH as a tamasha ,” says Sekar Raghavan, a scientist known as Chennai’s ‘rain man’ who through his NGO Rain Centre has been a RWH evangelist for nearly three decades. He has been campaigning for an audit of Chennai’s RWH readiness by independent, specialist agencies. By Raghavan’s estimates, only 40 per cent of Chennai’s buildings have RWH systems that actually work.The efforts of Chennai’s civic agencies notwithstanding, it is nature that has offered the biggest relief. The monsoon was only moderate in 2019. But the inter-river basin transfer of water to Chennai has ensured the city won’t go dry this year. Under the Telugu Ganga project initiated in the 1980s, Chennai’s four lifeline lakes are also fed by the waters of Krishna. The city also gets supplies from Veeranam, a giant lake 235 km to the south in Cuddalore district that depends on discharge from the Mettur dam on Cauvery river. Both Cauvery and Krishna river basins received such massive amounts of rain that storage levels in all dams on their course continue to remain healthy. Chennai’s lakes too, brimmed up with nearly 8 BCFt of Krishna water, the highest inflow in 25 years. Without the supply from the Krishna basin, Chennai’s lakes would have only had 1.4 BCFt of water even with normal rainfall. The combined storage of the reservoirs on April 24 was close to 6 BCFt compared to 415 MCFt at the same time last year.“Thankfully, we don’t have to tackle two disasters at once this year. We can fully focus on dealing with Covid-19 instead of worrying about water supply,” said Prabhushankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-good-fortune-and-planning-have-helped-chennai-avert-water-crisis-this-year/story-MStSLbmioc9GHynuRnkT2I.html
30-04-2020||India||Germany to provide India grants worth 20 million euros for Covid-19 response||Germany announced on Thursday that it will provide grants worth 20 million euros to support India’s efforts to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19.The provision of the grants had figured in a telephone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel on April 2.A statement from the German embassy’s spokesperson said Germany is also ready to offer loans on favourable terms that could be used for the social protection response of the Indian government.The statement said grants worth 5 million euros will be implemented through the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and will include equipping hospitals with medical equipment and materials and building enhanced Sars-CoV-2 test capacities in private laboratories.These grants will also be used in training nursing staff and creating infrastructure to meet challenges for the health sector.The KfW, a German state-owned development bank, is preparing a grant of 15 million euros for procuring urgently needed medical equipment that will be implemented along with Unicef.This could include the procurement of equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) and respirators, which are required in large numbers.“The specific financing items are currently being specified in consultation with the Indian ministry of health and tailored to the specific needs of the Indian government,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-to-provide-india-grants-worth-20-million-euros-for-covid-19-response/story-umBux0US57RHZkBemYwOCN.html
30-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, poaching spikes in western Rajasthan||Poaching of wildlife has increased in western Rajasthan during the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, forest department officials said Thursday.Among the wildlife targeted by poachers is Rajasthan’s state animal chinkara. The wildlife flying squad of the Rajasthan forest department has registered six cases of illegal hunting in Jodhpur district in the last one month and arrested six poachers. The chinkara is a protected animal under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. “Hunting incidents have increased in a month. We were informed of six cases and the accused have been arrested,” said Ashok Panwar, flying squad range officer. Experts say that due to the lockdown, wildlife in desert areas are moving closer to human habitations due to which there have been more cases of hunting and poaching.Another forest official who did not want to be named said the police were not able to prevent much of the poaching during the lockdown. Action is being taken only in those cases in which villagers give information. Some cases have also been registered by the territorial wing of the Forest Department and the police, he said.He said that many people in rural areas rendered unemployed by the lockdown are also hunting wildlife, including chinkara, blackbuck and sandgrouse.The forest department had registered 15 cases of chinkara poaching in the district of Jodhpur during the year 2019-20 till February. In the last one month the situation has become worrisome.Dr Hemsingh Gehlot, Assistant Professor in the Zoology department at Jodhpur’s Jai Naraian Vyas University, said hunting cases have increased due to food scarcity. He also said some particular communities in the rural areas are involved in the poaching.In the last one month, there have been four instances of poaching where chinkaras have been killed, one case of rabbits being poached and one in which sandgrouse were hunted, forest department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-poaching-spikes-in-western-rajasthan/story-WgUwwfLgceu7lOggvEX5mK.html
30-04-2020||India||No stay by Supreme Court on Central Vista redevelopment project for now||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined stay on the redevelopment of Delhi’s Central Vista for the time being, stating that there is no pressing urgency to grant any interim relief as the country is in a state of lockdown.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde was hearing a petition filed by Rajeev Suri challenging a notification issued by the central government on March 20 proposing changes in land use for the proposed redevelopment project.“During COVID-19 nobody is going to do anything. There is no urgency...”, CJI Bobde remarked when the case came up for hearing on Thursday.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, the central government second senior-most law officer, defended the redevelopment project.“Parliament is being constructed. Why is there a problem?”, he submitted.The Central Vista houses iconic buildings like the Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, the North and South Block buildings, which house important ministries, and the India Gate. The union government is proposing to redevelop the Central Vista by constructing a new Parliament house, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice President, besides several new office buildings.The bench, which also comprised justice Aniruddha Bose, noted that another petition on the same issue which the same petitioner had filed is pending before the Supreme Court. That petition, which was initially filed before the Delhi high court, had been transferred to the Supreme Court by way of an order passed by the top court on March 6.The court, therefore, disposed of the fresh petition filed by Suri while granting him the liberty to amend the pending petition which had been transferred from the high court to the apex court.“Mr. Shikhil Suri, counsel appearing for the petitioner prays for withdrawal of this petition with liberty to amend the writ petition which has been transferred to this court from the high court. Prayer is allowed”, the court ordered.“The Supreme Court has granted liberty to amend the writ petition challenging the Central Vista project which is pending in the Supreme Court. In the order today, there is no rejection of prayer. In this pending petition, the Supreme Court has already passed an order that the proposal of the government in regard to the Central Vista will be subject to the outcome of the pending writ petition. The Solicitor General had also accepted the notice and sought time to file a counter affidavit which it has not done so far. There is no refusal on stay,” petitioner Rajeev Suri said.Suri, along with another petitioner Lt Colonel Anuj Srivastava, had first moved the Delhi high court in February challenging a notification issued by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on December 21 last year regarding changes in land use for the redevelopment.Suri had challenged the alterations envisaged by the central government on the ground that it involves changes to land use and standards of population density and that the DDA is not vested with the requisite power to bring about such changes. He submitted that the power, if at all, for bringing about such changes lies with the central government.Srivastava, meanwhile, challenged the public hearings held to raise objections to the exercise, arguing that the hearings were a mere formality devoid of any meaningful exercise.A single-judge bench of justice Rajiv Shakdher had, on February 11, granted them interim relief ordering that the DDA should approach the high court before notifying any of the proposed changes in the land use.“In case a decision is taken to notify the proposed changes in Master Plan Delhi 2020-21, the DDA will approach the court before notifying such decision,” Justice Shakdher had ordered while issuing notice to the centre and DDA in both the petitions.However, a Division bench of the Delhi high court comprising Chief Justice DN Patel and justice C Hari Shankar stayed the order of the single judge on February 28.Suri then approached the Supreme Court challenging the denial of interim relief by the high court.The Supreme Court, however, transferred the entire case to itself on March 6.“…in larger public interest, we deem it appropriate that the entire matter pertaining to challenge pending before the high court is heard and decided by this court expeditiously,” the top court ordered.The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, subsequently notified change in land use on March 20 which Suri challenged in his fresh plea before the Supreme Court claiming violation of right to life under Article 21.“Central government brashly issued notification dated March 20, 2020, changing land use, (which) will deprive residents of Delhi and citizens of India a vast chunk of highly treasured open space in the Central Vista area, available for public, semi-public, social and recreational activity, (and) stands against Article 21, right to life and the right to enjoyment of a wholesome life”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-stay-by-supreme-court-on-central-vista-redevelopment-project-for-now/story-eGLnq100r6z8wOfK63ebTO.html
30-04-2020||India||Coroanvirus latest update: Covid-19 doubling rate in India reaches 11 days||In a positive sign, India’s coronavirus doubling rate has grown to 11 per cent as on Thursday, April 30, said union health ministry. It also pointed out that Delhi was among the 16 states and Union Territories that have registered better doubling rate than the national average.“If we look at the doubling time of Covid-19 cases, we find that the national average is 11 days now, compared to 3.4 days before the lockdown. This is a positive sign,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.He said Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Jammu Kashmir have doubling rate between 11 days to 20 days, while Karnataka, Ladakh, Haryana Uttarakhand and Kerala registered doubling rate between 20 and 40 days and Assam, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh were witnessing a doubling rate of over 40 days.Maharashtra with over 12,000 positive cases and Gujarat, which has close to 5,000 cases, are the two worst-affected states in the country. Agarwal added that a total of 1,718 new cases were reported nationally in the last 24 hours taking the total to 33,050 positive cases, total number of active cases in the country have reached 23,651, while 630 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours have taken the total number of recovered cases to 8,324.The health ministry official said that the fatality rate was at 3.2 per cent nationally. He added that 78 per cent of all Covid-19 fatalities suffered from comorbidities. 65 per cent fatalities were from among the male population and 35 per cent were from the female population. The official pointed out that the least number of deaths were seen among the young, aged under 45 years at 14 per cent, followed by 34.8 per cent for those in the 45 - 60 year age group and 51. 2 per cent fatality was noted among people above 60 years of age.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn other important information, the health ministry official said that states have been requested to ensure that non- Covid related essential services, including immunisation, maternal and child health services, services to prevent communicable and non-communicable diseases etc are provided to people. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coroanvirus-latest-update-covid-19-doubling-rate-in-india-reaches-11-days/story-sXGQjyjpbnlQvzy3evACmN.html
30-04-2020||India||Smart City Agra develops Covid-19 dashboard to monitor hot-spots, spread of virus||Agra has leveraged smart city technology to create a geographic information system (GIS) dashboard which shows various coronavirus hotspots, disease heat map, positive cases, recovered cases etc in the city famous as an international tourism destination. The dashboard allows a birds’ eye view of the city’s coroanvirus status and is also aimed to help in formulating a containment response depending upon the changing dynamics that can all be ascertained at one place. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs says, it showcases use of technology in a smart city for data collection, Covid-19 monitoring and containment efforts. One look at the dashboard helps identify zones with the most number of infections and other tools like heat mapping, cluster and point identification allow authorities to make assessments key to disease containment efforts. The dashboard lists all essential information including the total number of infected in the district on a given day, number of active cases, number of recovered patients and the total number of deaths, apart from providing a graph that provides a perspective on the rate of growth of the disease on a day to day basis. According to the dashboard, Agra has 401positive cases on Thursday including 318 active cases, 71 recovered cases and 12 deaths.The dashboard also lists all areas with positive cases and the number of patients in each area. It also collates other important information needed by the residents and the authorities, including total number of beds available in the district, community kitchens in operation, guidelines for quarantine facilities, resource material for dedicated Covid hospitals, apart from important government advisories and releases. The technology used for the development of the dashboard can be useful for creating solutions for several sectors like agriculture, defence forestry, disaster management etc to name a few, says the ministry of housing and urban affairs in the union government.For Coronavirus Live Updates“This dashboard is developed on IGiS platform an indigenous technology which brings GIS, Image Processing, Photogrammetry, and CAD together on a single platform which can also cater to a multitude of solutions across industries like Agriculture, Defence, Forestry, Disaster Management, Land Information, Mining, Power, Smart City, Urban Planning, Utilities and Location-Based Service,” said a government release. The dashboard is updated on a daily basis and can be accessed from the link: http://covid.sgligis.com/agraThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smart-city-agra-develops-covid-19-dashboard-to-monitor-hot-spots-spread-of-virus/story-eA0fT94m38WgkGv1WS8lWM.html
30-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘No hospital can turn away any patient in Maharashtra’, says Govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No hospital can turn away any patient in Maharashtra’: GovtAfter a number of complaints of hospitals denying admission to patients or delaying treatment, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued an order that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination and required intervention under any circumstances. Read more 23 Nanded pilgrims test Covid-19 positive, dist tally up by 164% in a dayTwenty-three persons from the district tested positive for Covid-19 at Amritsar’s Government Medical College (GMC) here on Thursday. Read more Rajasthan farmer used Rs 50 lakh life savings to feed needy during lockdownFew people would give up their life savings and family’s security to help others. But a farmer in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan has donated his life savings of Rs 50 lakh to help feed the hungry during the lockdown. Read more China says it has no interest in meddling in 2020 US Presidential pollsChina has no interest in interfering in the US presidential election, it said on Thursday, after US President Donald Trump said he believed Beijing would try to make him lose his re-election bid in November. Read more‘Only a captain like him can win the title’: Yusuf Pathan picks IPL skipper who can win league even without big playersEven though his international career has been really short, Yusuf Pathan has had an established career in the Indian Premier League. He has won three IPL titles while playing a pivotal role in his team’s success. Read more Delhi Police thanks AIIMS’ medical workers, performs sirened parikrama on bikes. WatchAs a gesture of respect towards the unwavering commitment of the doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals in the battle against coronavirus, Delhi Police’s ‘Covid Patrol’ performed a ‘parikrama’ of AIIMS. Read more RIP Rishi Kapoor: Designers Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Manish Malhotra pay their final respects to the legendary actorBollywood and India suffered another shock after Bollywood legend Irrfan Khan’s passing on Wednesday, when veteran actor Rishi Kapoor passed away today after battling leukaemia for the past two years, at the age of 67. Read more Indian govt working on a Covid-19 contact tracing solution for feature phones: IT MinisterThe Indian government has been aggressively pushing the national contact tracing app Aarogya Setu. After making it mandatory for all government employees and making it necessary for all inter-state travel, the government has also pushed to have the app pre-installed in new smartphones that will be sold after the lockdown lifts. Read more Watch: Amid lockdown, Gurugram citizens’ group steps up to feed the needy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-hospital-can-turn-away-any-patient-in-maharashtra-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AE1gDVIW1v83ROw0RVyGPP.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19 patients’ recovery rate climbs to 25.19% from 13% a fortnight ago||India’s recovery rate of Covid-19 positive patients has steadily climbed to 25.19%, up from 13% which was the recovery rate of infected patients about fourteen days ago, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Thursday. “A progressive trend in Covid-19 patients’ recovery rate has been noticed in the last few days. The number of recoveries in the last 24 hours stood at 630, taking the total number of people who have recovered to 8,324. The total recovery rate is at 25.19%. So the recovery rate of the country has increased from 13% fourteen days ago to over 25% currently,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said at the daily news briefing.The current case fatality rate is 3.2% for Covid-19 in India, with 65 per cent being men and 35 per cent women, the health ministry data revealed.ALSO READ | Over 1,700 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours take India’s tally to 33,050“As far as testing and treatment protocol is concerned we have to use RT PCR test only, according to government guidelines,” Aggarwal said.Barely a day earlier, on Wednesday, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had indicated that the country’s doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases is now 11.3 days since the last three days, and the country’s mortality rate due to the highly infectious disease is around 3 per cent.Although the global mortality rate of coronavirus patients is around 7 per cent, India’s mortality rate of 3 per cent extends hope for all those afflicted by the disease.About 86 per cent of those Covid-19 patients who have succumbed to the deadly disease so far also had co-morbid conditions like acute diabetes and hypertension, the minister, who is a doctor himself had said.In the last 24 hours, 1718 new coronavirus cases have been detected across the country taking the total number of positive cases to 33,050.The total number of active cases have climbed to 23,651. At least 1,074 people have succumbed to the highly infectious disease till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-rate-climbs-to-25-19-a-steady-increase-from-fortnight-ago/story-oN7Dt68VekMvtaZLI5qo7N.html
30-04-2020||India||‘I want hug my son’: Migrant workers hope CMs will not turn them down||Twenty-three year old Amir Sohail wants to hug his son and get a good night’s sleep on his charpai in the courtyard of his house in Muzaffarpur, Bihar. He is just waiting for the promised bus to take him there. After a nearly 40-day ordeal of skimming for food, Sohail, a migrant worker, is tired and all his hopes are now depended on the bus the government has said will ferry him home from Surat in Gujarat where he has been stranded due to the lockdown. “I just want to go home now. We have been struggling here. There is hardly any food. I keep thinking if I should have tried to return earlier like the others. But I am no good to my family if dead. I just hope I can return to my son. I want to hug him,” Sohail, who stitched clothes at a factory before the lockdown told PTI on the phone. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines to let migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims stranded in different parts of the country to get back home.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe inter-state movement of these stranded people will be facilitated by the state/UT governments by road only, the order stated. Anyone willing to be transported back home will have to be medically screened at the source as well as destination and will be kept in a home or institutional quarantine on arrival, the home ministry guidelines said.Suman who works as a labourer in Nagpur, Maharashtra had decided to walk back to his home in Meghnagar, Madhya Pradesh but was restrained by fellow workers after they got to know that some like them had been detained by the police. “I was ready to walk it. I was tired of waiting for food and basic necessities. When we earned, whatever little we did, we lived on our own terms. Here, we have to beg for everything. Now, when the buses come, I want to be the first to get on it. While I have been here for seven months, never have I longed for home like this,” he said.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“This uncertainty of the lockdown has made me long for the safety of my house.The first thing I would do when I get home is eat food cooked by my mother,” the 22-year-old said.While the protocols for ferrying these migrants will be chalked out in the next couple of days, workers stranded in distant lands are restless and want to ensure that their names feature on the lists of those granted access to the buses. “I was told we need a pass for it. Where will I get the pass? Can you tell me please. I don’t want to miss this opportunity to go home,” said 34-year-old Ramnath, a labourer from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur who is stuck in Mangalore with 21 other migrant workers since the lockdown.Ramnath, who has two children back home, never again wants to come back if he gets work in his home state.The MHA in its order has stated that state governments need to coordinate with each other to facilitate the movement of the migrant workers. It is not clear how that will be achieved, but migrants from different parts of the country hope that their respective chief ministers won’t let them down. “We saw on TV that our CMs will help us get back. I hope they do something quickly. I am ready to go however they take me, on a bus, train or car. I just want to leave. There is no food and no money,” said 23-year old Avinash Kumar from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh who works as a labourer in Nagpur. Others like him -- Ramashankar and Guddu stuck in Surat, Urmila Devi from Lakhisarai stranded in Faridabad, Anita Devi in Gurgaon -- are all waiting for the buses to take them home to their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-want-hug-my-son-migrant-workers-hope-cms-will-not-turn-them-down/story-C0GkEX9anwdlReUbgNIAAN.html
30-04-2020||India||What an Indian expert has to say about Remdesivir in Covid-19 treatment||The antiviral drug, Remdesivir, has emerged as the first successful treatment against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a US government-funded trial on 1,063 people found it could effectively block the virus and boost recovery. “The data shows Remdesivir has a clear-cut, significant, positive effect in diminishing the time to recovery,” said US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) director Dr Anthony Fauci, who likened the finding to the first retrovirals that worked with modest success against HIV in the 1980s.The US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) is expected to announce an emergency-use authorization for use of Remdesivir to treat patients.Remdesivir is an experimental antiviral drug developed by the US-based pharma major Gilead Sciences. It failed in trials against the Ebola virus and was found to have limited effects among patients in Wuhan, China, where the illness was first detected last year.Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, emeritus scientist and former director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, has gone through the findings of the soon to be published NIAID trial. He spoke to Sanchita Sharma on what these findings mean for India.Remdesivir has failed several trials in the past. How effective is it against Covid-19?The world finally has a drug against Covid-19, but it will not be a public health tool as it has to be given intravenously to hospitalized patients to hasten recovery.The drug was originally created as a pan-viral drug to treat RNA viruses, Marburg and Ebola, but it was not successful. In later trials, it has also been investigated for action against all coronaviruses, including those that cause Sars [Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome], Mers (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome), and now Covid-19 as well as it worked against animal coronaviruses. It was found to be clinically fulfilling Lipinski’s Rule [which give the probability of the success of a drug] and was found to work on viral replication in respiratory epithelial cells, which are the first target of infection. It does not promote mutation.The NIAID study has confirmed its effectiveness in hastening recovery, and Gilead now plans to expand trials to include 5,600 patients in seven countries. India does not figure in the list.However, it was not licensed in any country in the world. The USFDA has now recommended its use as an emergency drug. A small study done by Dr Aruna Subramanian, a clinical professor of medicine and infectious diseases at Stanford University School of Medicine in California, also found 50% patients given 5 mg of the drug improved in 10 days, and 60.6% were discharged in 14 days.If Remdesivir gets the USFDA nod, will India consider using it to treat Covid-19 patients?Results from the NIAID preliminary trial show Remdesivir reduced recovery time for Covid-19 patients from 15 to 11 days, which is similar to the effect that influenza drugs like Tamiflu, which don’t cure patients quickly, but help them recover.The NIAID trial used the drug for five days and 10 days in patients with pneumonia who needed oxygen, but did not need ventilator support at that given moment. The impact on death give a trend of 4% advantage, but this result was not statistically significant, the trend was visible.The first dose was 200 mg, followed 100 mg a day, give intravenously to hospitalised patients, with one group given the drug for five days and the other for 10 days. A significant number of patients given Remdesivir did not have to go on ventilator support, and at least 30% fewer patients needed ventilation. There was clear advantage of reduction in hospital stay, with patients given the drug being discharged in 10-14 days. Five days of therapy was as effective as 10 days, which is a critical advantage in terms of reducing hospital stay, cost of medication and risk of severe adverse events [side effects]. Should India consider using Remdesivir to treat patients?Gilead Sciences is reported to have drugs to treat 120,000 patients, and now plans to expand trials to many countries, excluding India. Available data shows it is one of the foremost potential drugs against the disease, and since the supply is limited, according to Gilead, India must plan to get access to Remdesivir.In this emergency situation, the USFDA has announced emergency use authorisation. India must consider ways to make this drug available to its population. In the past, India saved millions by providing affordable and effective anti-retroviral drugs to treat HIV and AIDS, not just to its own population, but also to other countries who needed them, including to many countries in Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-an-indian-expert-has-to-say-about-remdesivir-in-covid-19-treatment/story-s4ytM6dDUxguxmDmrm3fHJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Health minister says Covid-19 battle should be won in coming weeks: Key developments||Coronavirus cases in the country rose to 33,050 on Thursday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 23,651 active coronavirus cases in the country, 8,324 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,074 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 9,000-mark and now near 10,000. National capital Delhi is fast catching up with Gujarat, the second worst-affected state. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease.Here are the latest developments:1. The US announced on Thursday it will hand over aid worth $3 million to the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project as part of efforts to help India mitigate the spread of Covid-19.2. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday kicked-off a detailed interaction with Indian envoys abroad to compare notes on the battle against Covid-19, its impact on India and the road ahead. This is Jaishankar’s second round of meetings with top Indian diplomats abroad.3. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said India is doing better than other countries on all parameters in its fight against Covid-19, news agency PTI reported. “I am sure in the coming few weeks, we should be able to win the decisive war against Covid-19,” the minister claimed.4. In a conversation with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan said a second or third lockdown will be devastating for India’s economy.5. Ex-RBI governor Raghuram Rajan said Rs 65,000 crore is needed to help the poor during the Covid-19 crisis and the country can afford it.6. Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has said the state government is not considering withdrawal of the ongoing lockdown in near future but will weigh options to relax some restrictions in a phased manner.7. Kerala governor, Arif Mohammad Khan, on Thursday signed an ordinance brought by the state government to overcome a high court verdict and cut the salary of government employees to fund the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic.8. Heavy traffic was seen in three Tamil Nadu cities of Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai after the state government announced relaxation during the Covid-19 lockdown, news agency ANI reported.9. India’s Covid-19 doubling rate is slower and the mortality rate is lower than the US, Italy, Spain, UK, PTI reported citing data from the health ministry and Worldometer.10. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the administration is making arrangements to bring back students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-should-be-able-to-win-war-against-covid-19-in-coming-weeks-says-health-minister-as-cases-soar-in-india-10-points/story-q7wnsjm5FstwRm1tos6W9N.html
30-04-2020||India||‘No hospital can turn away any patient in Maharashtra’: Govt||After a number of complaints of hospitals denying admission to patients or delaying treatment, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued an order that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination and required intervention under any circumstances. All private and government hospitals in the state have also been directed to check any patient who is entering hospital premises and after scanning may be shifted or admitted depending on the patient’s medical condition.To decongest hospitals, the government has also ordered shifting of all asymptomatic patients without co-morbid conditions to Covid Care Centres whereas private hospitals can send such patients for home quarantine but after proper counselling, states the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday. The order will come in to force from May 2.The hospitals have been warned of action in case directives are not followed scrupulously.“Any patient entering hospital premises for any treatment of Covid-19 or non Covid-19 ailment should be immediately checked in to casualty or screening clinic. After triage the patient may be shifted or admitted. Depending upon the site condition, the staging area may be created for screening and triage of patients in isolation so that infections are not transmitted. No patient is to be turned away without examination and required intervention under any circumstances,” the order reads.The government has asked the directors of health services to prepare the standard operating procedure (SOP) for screening, transferring, admitting and discharging of patients. “Each patient needing hospital admission will be assigned a unique id by the round-the-clock onsite team of the disaster manage department (DMD) of the local body such as BMC, without which admission cannot be granted. DMD should use this as a more accurate and efficient bed management in all hospitals,” it further states.For this, the state government has given them two days of time and hence the provisions of the order will come in to force from May 2, said a senior official.“All the Covid-19 and non-Covid 19 hospitals are also directed to ensure that no admission is granted to asymptomatic positive patients without co-morbidity. Similar patients in private hospitals should be stamped and sent away for home quarantine after proper counselling, according to the Government of India guidelines,” it adds.The hospitals are also directed to collect swabs of all the suspected Covid-19 patients admitted on top priority and ensure that reports are collected within 12 hours and ensure that the patients are diagnosed as per clinical conditions and shifted to CCC, Dedicated Covid Health Centers (DCHC) for patients with mild symptoms and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for serious patients. In case of death of a Covid-19 positive patient, the hospital administrations are also directed to ensure that the body is shifted from the ward within 30 minutes and disposed off within 12 hours for which necessary processes have to be defined keeping in view the prevalent regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hospital-can-turn-away-any-patient-in-maharashtra-govt/story-ik2goQEyLfAZRTVTeRBcOP.html
30-04-2020||India||Its back to study time for India’s first Covid-19 patient||Her days in the isolation ward no longer haunts India’s first Covid-19 patient in Kerala and the 20-year old medico who has fully recovered is now busy attending online classes from her university in Wuhan in China as she completed three months since being diagnosed with the disease.She is not unduly perturbed by the fact that Wuhan turned out to be the epicentre of the deadly virus, which went on to affect most parts of the world, and eagerly waiting to go back to the Chinese city and resume her course once normalcy returns.“I am attending online classes of our university since February. The classes are held everyday depending on the subjects. We were told the portions now being taken would be take once again after the regular classes start as practicals have to be held”, the student told PTI from her home town in Thrissur district.It was on January 30 that the third year medical student from Wuhan university tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the country’s first Covid-19 patient, days after she had returned home following semester holidays.After nearly three weeks of treatment at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital, she had tested negative twice for the virus, confirming her recovery, and was discharged on February 20.Soon, she started attending the online classes of her university in Wuhan, which has been attracting several students from Kerala in view of its comparatively lower fees and other facilities.The classes begin at 5.30 am (Chinese time 8 am) and go on till 9 am with a 10 minute break, the woman said.“The faculty in the university include those from China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, but our faculty are mostly Chinese teachers and they take classes in English,” she said.Though the university has indicated that the classes would be conducted afresh once students return, no time-frame has yet been given.“It seems there are no patients in Wuhan now. That’s what we have been told”, she said adding the flight services have to commence first.Health officials in China on Sunday announced the last COVID-19 patient in Wuhan has been discharged and the hospitals in the epicentre of the global pandemic have no coronavirus cases for the first time after more than three months of arduous battle against the deadly virus that infected over 80,000 people on the mainland.The toll in Wuhan has recently been revised to 3,869.Asked how she was passing her free time since recovering from the disease, the Keralite said she was fond of cooking and been helping out her mother in preparing mouth-watering dishes.“I love cooking and in Wuhan hostel we have kitchen and I used to cook my meals. Now I assist my mother. We prepare samosas, cutlets and grilled chicken,” she said.The student was admitted to the district hospital on January 27 after she informed medical officials about symptoms like sore throat and dry cough.Asked if she was scared when she tested positive, the medico replied in the negative.“When my sample result came, many people world over had recovered. I was not scared and I did not have any health issues either,” she said.While returning from Wuhan, Indian embassy officials had told her and others to inform officials in Kerala that they were from China.“We were asked to approach health officials in case of any symptoms of the virus besides being strictly following the 28 day home quarantine as stipulated by the Kerala government,” she said.The health department officials were in constant touch with her on a daily basis enquiring about her health.“When I developed sore throat and dry cough, they were immediately informed and an ambulance was sent to pick me from my house”, the youngster said, recalling the turbulent times. All praise for the Kerala Health department for the care and treatment, she said “Our health care system is very good and I got excellent treatment leading to my recovery. I did not have fever at all during my hospitalisation.” Her classmate from Alappuzha and a senior from Kasaragod, who were the second and third positive cases in the country, have also recovered.The state, which saw arrival of several people from Covid-hit countries like Italy and Gulf region before the lockdown, reported more cases later, but did well to contain the spread with effective quarantine and treatment protocols, which have come in for praise.As of Wednesday, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala stood at 485 with 123 active patients.The Covid-19 first emerged in a food market in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, and later became a pandemic, affecting most parts of the world, including India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-back-to-study-time-for-india-s-first-covid-19-patient/story-YkLsskMXvfbF4Z0vD4TfCO.html
30-04-2020||India||Borders sealed, stopping infiltration of Covid-19 carriers our aim now: BSF chief||India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh haven’t witnessed any major illegal activities such as infiltration of terrorists, human trafficking, fake currency or drug smuggling for the past five weeks, according to the head of the BSF and ITBP.There were only a few negligible incidents as the frontiers are sealed, according to Surjeet Singh Deswal, who heads the world’s two largest border guarding forces – Border Security Force (BSF) and Indo-Tibet Border Force (ITBP).In an exclusive interaction with HT, the IPS officer of the 1984 batch said: “We have maintained high level of alertness at the borders, which are completely sealed with no movement of any kind.“Our priority during the lockdown has been to stop infiltration of Coronavirus carriers from across the border, while maintaining tight vigil on other activities.”Last week, Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbagh Singh had said Pakistan is pushing militants infected with Covid-19 to spread the disease in the Kashmir Valley. Intelligence agencies have pointed out that more than 300 Pakistani terrorists are waiting across the border to sneak into India. Pakistan resorted to unprovoked firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) for more than a week this month.Without going into specific incidents over the past month, Deswal said: “All the mischievous acts of Pakistan, be it on the international border or LoC, have been responded to with double impact.”Similarly, the Bangladesh border has witnessed very few incidents of smuggling or people sneaking across in the past month.According to the data compiled by BSF, 97 kg of heroin was seized along the Pakistan border in Punjab between January 1 and March 24, while only 17 kg of heroin was seized between March 25 and April 12.Another BSF officer, who didn’t want to be named, said: “There has been no infiltration of terrorists. A couple of incidents had taken places in Punjab, including when a Pakistani national was stopped from crossing over at Pulmoran in Amritsar on March 25, while another Pakistani was apprehended from Bamer in Ferozepur on March 26. Otherwise, the border is quiet.”BSF is posted along the 2,289-km international border with Pakistan from Gujarat to Jammu, and it manages 237 km of the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir with the army having operational control over its personnel. It guards the entire 4,092-km border with Bangladesh.Data on the Bangladesh border compiled by BSF showed that more than 20,000 heads of cattle were smuggled into the neighbouring country from January 1 to March 24. After the Covid-19 lockdown, the number dropped to 300.The smuggling of heroin, Yaba drugs, gold and silver too has drastically declined since March 25.Deswal said vigil is maintained along 100% of the India-China border as well.Referring to Covid-19 infections in BSF and ITBP, Deswal said both forces are now “corona free”, and the few BSF personnel who were infected have recovered.“We have told all troops and their families to indulge in extra physical exercise, as having a healthy body is the best medicine against Coronavirus,” Deswal said.He has also partially started calling personnel, who were on extended leave due to the lockdown, back to duty, especially from areas with no cases of Covid-19.The ITBP is making masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) in bulk for the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which may resume services at the Delhi Metro and airport soon.Deswal has also directed all his troops deployed at Indian missions in Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to follow safety measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borders-sealed-stopping-infiltration-of-covid-19-carriers-our-aim-now-bsf-chief/story-ubREWvMmQJtGIX07KtKPcM.html
30-04-2020||India||Month of May could be ‘make or break’ for Covid-19 fight, say medical experts||As the May 3 deadline for the lockdown nears, medical experts feel the next month can be “make or break” for the fight against Covid-19 and an aggressive containment strategy for hotspots along with insulation of green zones is essential while giving some relaxations.The experts also suggested that railways, air travel, inter-state bus services, malls, shopping complexes, religious places, among others, should be kept shut at least for the month of May. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had told chief ministers that the country will have to give importance to the economy while continuing the fight against coronavirus.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Centre on Wednesday gave clear indications that the ongoing nationwide lockdown will be extended beyond May 3, but with “considerable relaxations” to people and services in “many districts”.Medical experts feel an aggressive containment strategy in red zones and insulation of green zones is a must while giving relaxations.The number of Covid-19 hotspot districts in India has come down to 129 from 170 a fortnight ago, but in the same period the number of infection-free districts or green zones too decreased from 325 to 307, official sources said on Wednesday.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakDuring this time, the number of non-hotspot districts, also known as orange zones, increased from 207 to 297, they said.Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Additional Director, Pulmonology and Critical Care, Fortis Noida, said it is important to understand that the lockdown does not kill the virus, it only slows the spread. Gupta suggested that the lockdown should be continued in red zones for about two weeks or some more time, and curbs be lifted in green zones while ensuring that there is no intermingling between them.May could be the “make or break” month for the fight against Covid-19 and it is important to keep curbs on in places from where cases are being reported, he told PTI.Dr Arvind Kumar, a noted lung surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said it was important that railways, air services, interstate bus services, malls, shopping complexes, religious places etc., should be kept shut.The borders of green districts should be sealed and limited activities be allowed while ensuring social distancing with hand washing and wearing of masks being part of people’s lifestyle, he told PTI.In districts where cases have been reported, the lockdown should continue until such a time when there is a downward trend.May is very crucial in this fight against Covid-19 as India has done well till now and it is important to keep the cases in check and follow an aggressive containment strategy in red zones, while being very cautious in lifting curbs in green zones, Kumar said.Dr Rommel Tickoo, Associate Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, said any major relaxation at this juncture of the fight against Covid-19 could be “disastrous”.He advocated that restrictions remain in place at least for one more month, asserting “May could be the make or break month” in the nation’s battle against Covid-19.“Places like malls, schools, colleges, markets should remain closed through the month of May as one slip up could lead to major spread, undoing the good work,” he told PTI.“I would say lockdown should be in place for at least four more weeks. Numbers are increasing so it is not the time to remove it. Some economic activity can be allowed in green zones, but we have to be very careful,” he asserted.India seems to be better placed than the US and other western countries, but Prime Minister Modi has cautioned against complacency.At various benchmark numbers, India seems to have done relatively better than most advanced nations. At the 1,000 deaths benchmark, India had registered 31,332 cases, while Italy (15,113), UK (17,089), France (22,304), Spain (21,571) and Belgium (15,348), had registered lesser cases, according to official data.This shows that India’s death rate, the number of deaths with respect to the number of cases, remains low.Till now, India also seems to have done well in checking the increase rate of doubling of cases, which was three days when cases increased from 2,000 to 4,000 and went up to 10 days in doubling of cases from 16,000-32,000.India has the best rate of doubling of cases from 16,000-32,000 when compared with the US, Italy, Spain, France, Germany and the UK.The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 1,074 after 66 more fatalities and the number of cases climbed to 33,050 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry.To maintain the good work till now, focus is now on containment strategy in red zones.The government has already identified 15 districts in nine states, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, as having “high case load”. “These 15 districts are critical in our battle against Covid-19. Of them, 7 show particularly high case volumes. India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here,” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant tweeted on Monday.The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Modi on March 24 in to combat the coronavirus threat. It was extended till May 3.Travel restrictions and other curbs may remain for some time and will eventually go away, but looking at global trends and the spread of the pandemic, it seems wearing masks, washing hands and practicing social distancing would be a way of life from here on, experts say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/month-of-may-could-be-make-or-break-for-covid-19-fight-say-medical-experts/story-YHa40C5ldBC3beIk921lSP.html
30-04-2020||India||PM Modi’s popularity gets a huge boost for being face of Covid-19 efforts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s response to the country’s surging coronavirus epidemic may help him walk away unscathed from a host of political and economic problems that hounded his government just months ago.His approval rating on April 21 was 83%, up from 76% on January 7, according to Morning Consult, a US-based survey and research firm. A separate survey, the IANS-CVoter Covid-19 tracker also showed that trust in his leadership jumped to 93.5% as of April 21 from 76.8% on March 25.In early March, just as the number of people with Covid-19 began rising, Modi was presiding over an economy set to expand at the slowest pace in more than a decade, one of India’s biggest bank failures, riots on the streets of New Delhi and months of sustained street protests against a new citizenship law.Those issues seem to have been forgotten for now as Modi has placed himself front and center of India’s virus fight and bolstered his image as a world leader by promising to help other countries with medicines like the much-hyped hydroxychloroquine. The street protests have withered away amid the nationwide lockdown, as have criticisms of his government’s handling of the economy, with even the opposition parties focusing on the virus fight.But the battle to retain the tag of India’s most popular leader is still likely to be an uphill task for Modi at a time when millions have lost their jobs and small businesses have been shuttered in one of the world’s most stringent shutdowns. So far, a slower infection rate -- which virus experts say may be masked by low testing numbers -- and a contained death toll in the country of 1.3 billion people have earned him praise.“As the leader with the biggest megaphone, most agile political organization, and the full support of the government machinery, Modi will undoubtedly use the crisis as a way to consolidate his own position while also pinning the blame for India’s economic woes on the virus,” said Milan Vaishnav, director and senior fellow at the South Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.“Politics in India is in a state of suspended animation -- in that vacuum, Modi’s leadership has become even more visible while the center has used this crisis to further centralize decision-making authority,” Vaishnav said.Government spokesman KS Dhatwalia did not reply to an email seeking comments for this story.Soaring PopularityIndia has been under a stringent nationwide lockdown since March 25, even though some restrictions were eased on April 20 to allow farmers and some industries to resume operations in rural areas and in districts that were free of infections.The country had reported 31,360 infections, including 1,008 deaths as of Wednesday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.The 40-day mandatory stay-at-home for almost all of the nation’s 1.3 billion people -- is in place until May 3 -- has crippled business activity and put a lid on consumption, the backbone of the economy, which could be heading for its first full-year contraction in more than four decades.But through it all Modi has made regular televised appearances, asking for the nation’s cooperation in the virus battle and thanking citizens for their discipline and fortitude during the lockdown.Road AheadThe fight against rising infections may have silenced the opposition and pushed Modi’s many challenges to the back-burner, but the path ahead is less certain.When the country is eventually able to exit its lockdown, the prime minister will be questioned about a strategy to help the economy back on its feet, said Sandeep Shastri, a political scientist and Pro Vice Chancellor at Jain University in Bangalore.“The response to the questions will be the barometer to measure the success of the current leadership.”The main opposition Congress party says it is waiting for virus fears to abate before it puts Modi to the test. The pandemic makes political mobilization difficult, said Manish Tewari, a spokesman for the Congress party. “Nothing else focuses the mind more than the possibility of invisible and lurking death be it on a door knob or a mirror.”There’s been limited opposition from other political parties as well, although state governments have complained the federal government has corralled finances even as they struggle to find funds to scale up their medical infrastructure.And the protests that rocked India’s streets until just before the spread of the virus and the subsequent lockdown, are also still simmering.“The protests will not end,” said Muzakkir Zama Khan, a lawyer who was part of the demonstrations against the government’s new citizenship law. “The means of expressing our viewpoint may, however, have to change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-popularity-gets-a-huge-boost-for-being-face-of-covid-19-efforts/story-gNKhqIczAzZ3PqjmxFX2DO.html
30-04-2020||India||Rajasthan farmer used Rs 50 lakh life savings to feed needy during lockdown||Few people would give up their life savings and family’s security to help others. But a farmer in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan has donated his life savings of Rs 50 lakh to help feed the hungry during the lockdown.Ram Niwas Manda of Ummednagar village in Osian sub-district of Jodhpur has so far provided ration kits to 8,500 families in 83 gram panchayats.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former cricketers VVS Laxman and Virendra Sehwag have appreciated his efforts. PM Modi wrote to Manda on April 11, lauding his efforts to feed the poor and disabled families. The cricketers also called him and praised him.“Obviously I was thrilled when I got the mail from the PM. I was busy and saw the mail only on April 12. All this appreciation makes me feel humbled and encouraged to work harder to help people. I am glad I did the right thing,” he said.He denied any links to any political party. “I don’t have any political ambitions. I am not interested in propaganda. I only wanted to help people,” he said.Manda says his father, Paburam, inspired him“When the lockdown started, we heard of people going hungry as they did not have money to buy food. So, then, I thought I should do something and spoke to my father. He was very encouraging and said we should try to help others in this time of need,” says Ram Niwas, 39.Manda said his father offered his life savings and that inspired him to do the same. “So together, we contributed Rs 50 lakhs to provide food to people,” he says.“We formed teams of volunteers to prepare lists of the needy in 83 gram panchayats. I tried to reach out to those who are not covered under any government welfare scheme – such as daily wagers, labourers and the differently-abled.”Manda said one kit contains 10 kg wheat flour, 1 kg rice, 1 kg dal, 1 kg oil, spices, soaps and biscuits. The cost of each kit is Rs 790. He said the contents would last a family of 4-5 people for 8-10 days.Manda said after he began distributing the kits, other philanthropists in the villages too came forward and began contributing. “What began as an individual effort ended up becoming a collective one with others making their contributions in this time of distress,” said Manda.He said in the first round of ration distribution which began from April 2, 6000 kits were distributed. Then there was a demand from some villages where no one came forward to help those left out of the government aid, we carried out a second round of ration distribution and gave 1500 kits and in the third round, we distributed 1000 kits.He says he has around 1200 kits still in store and will continue to send them to villages from where there is demand. “In case the lockdown is extended further, then I will try to get people together to donate and provide food to those in need,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Manda does not have any qualms about giving up his life savings.“My brother and I have 83 bighas of land. We have money to meet our daily expenses. We don’t immediately need savings. Our children are young. My son is 13 years and my brother’s daughters are one and five. We will build up our savings again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-farmer-gave-away-rs-50-lakh-life-savings-to-feed-needy-during-lockdown/story-yya0NVLFZcCUxsmJA83f1M.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Not considering withdrawal of lockdown now’: Tripura CM||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has said the state government is not considering withdrawal of the ongoing lockdown in near future but will weigh options to relax some restrictions in a phased manner.He said it is impossible to “resume inter-state bus, train or air services immediately after May 3”, the date till which the nationwide lockdown has been extended.“We do not find any way to withdraw the lockdown as it is the only viable mean to break the chain of the coronavirus outbreak. It seems we have to continue with the lockdown and we have to withdraw some restrictions in a phased manner,” Deb said on Wednesday evening after an all-party meeting convened by the state government.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEighteen political parties including the ruling BJP, its ally the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), the CPI(M), the Congress and the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (INPT) had participated in the meeting.“It is impossible to resume inter-state bus, train or air services after May 3. People have to accept the lockdown.All the political parties in the state were briefed about the Covid-19 situation in the state,” Deb said, adding that “no political party” has stressed on immediate withdrawal of the lockdown.CPI(M) politburo member and leader of the Opposition Manik Sarkar and Tripura Pradesh Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas among others had attended the meeting.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“Almost all poor people of the state have received financial benefits ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 along with free ration during the lockdown,” the chief minister said.Deb said the state government has taken several initiatives to revive the economy, which has been hit by the ongoing lockdown.“Fifty out of 75 industrial units here have started operations. Primary sectors like agriculture are also working,” he said.Last week, Deb had said the state became coronavirus- free after its second Covid-19 patient tested negative.Senior minister Ratan Lal Nath said the state has adequate stock of essential commodities like rice, wheat and sugar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-considering-withdrawal-of-lockdown-now-tripura-cm/story-isUhm45FgsYfra1IaibBnO.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Darjeeling nurses face ostracism, say health workers are least appreciated||Anjali Rai and Pratika Pradhan had mixed feelings – whether to feel elated or sad – as they left a private nursing home in Siliguri on Tuesday evening after recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Both Rai and Pradhan, who belong to Lebong and Tindharia in the Darjeeling hills, respectively, and work as nurses at the state-run North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), had tested Covid-19 positive after attending the region’s first patient, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease. North Bengal’s first Covid-19 positive, a woman from Kalimpong, had died at the NBMCH on March 30.Rai and Pradhan were admitted to the NBMCH on April 4 and 11, respectively, and later shifted to the private nursing home that the West Bengal government has earmarked for Covid-19 patients in Siliguri.Later, Rai’s 22-month-old son, husband and mother also tested Covid-19 positive.Though she and her mother have recovered, her child and husband are still undergoing treatment.The two nurses said their sheer will power helped them face the ordeal and they were thankful to their colleagues for the support. However, they are hurt by people’s attitude towards Covid-19 patients. “Doctors, nurses, hospital staff, ward boys and sweepers – all those who at the frontline in battling the pandemic – aren’t getting the appreciation they deserve,” Pradhan said.“When I initially got the symptoms I requested many people in my neighbourhood to keep my son with them for a few days. But, they refused on the pretext that other residents might object,” Rai said. Rai’s neighbours, however, welcomed her and her mother when they returned to their apartment, which is located close to the NBMCH. Pradhan, too, received flowers when she returned to her parents’ home at Tindharia, which is located 27 kilometres north of Siliguri. But her relatives said some local people at Darjeeling More in Siliguri pressured the owner of the house, where she lives as a tenant, not to let her in.“She’d have loved to stay in her rented accommodation in Siliguri, if she’d have been allowed to go there,” said Anjana Sinchury, a Tindharia resident.“When I tested Covid-19 positive, I felt very low. But I didn’t break down because I knew that I’d have to face the crisis,” Pradhan said.Rai said had the NBMCH authorities were more cautious, her family members might not have been infected. Some of her colleagues, who didn’t wish to be identified, agreed with her assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cured-darjeeling-nurses-face-ostracism-say-health-workers-are-least-appreciated/story-M5u0kqrlgaNBCoOpoGW53N.html
30-04-2020||India||Rishi Kapoor’s daughter, 4 others allowed to travel to Mumbai by Delhi Police||Delhi Police on Thursday issued movement passes to 5 people, including late Bollywood veteran actor Rishi Kapoor’s daughter, to visit Mumbai, news agency ANI reported. Bollywood veteran actor Rishi Kapoor passed away in Mumbai on Thursday after losing his fight with cancer. Four other people were allowed to travel to Mumbai from Delhi along with Riddhima Kapoor, Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) RP Meena said. “Along with Ridhima - Bharat Sahni, Samara Sahni, Akshay Sahni and Drigalakshmi Rai - got permission to travel to Mumbai,” Meena added.National Film Award winner Rishi Kapoor, 67, breathed his last at the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital in Mumbai. Brother Randhir Kapoor confirmed the news. A message released by Kapoor’s family said, “Our dear Rishi Kapoor passed away peacefully at 8:45 am IST in hospital today after a two-year battle with leukaemia. The doctors and medical staff at the hospital said he kept them entertained to the last”. The nation mourned the passing away of the senior actor who is known to have entertained several generations over the decades. Actors, members of the film fraternity, diplomats, politicians and sports persons from across the country condoled Kapoor’s demise. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Kapoor as a “powerhouse of talent” and said that he is anguished by his demise.“Multifaceted, endearing and lively...this was Rishi Kapoor Ji. He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti,” PM’s tweet read.Multifaceted, endearing and lively...this was Rishi Kapoor Ji. He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti.Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan tweeted the news saying he was devastated. “He’s GONE .. ! Rishi Kapoor .. gone .. just passed away .. I am destroyed !” Bachchan posted. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwakl said Kapoor “entertained several generations of Indians throughout his career”.“What a terrible loss.. My condolences to the grieving family. May God bless his soul,” Kejriwal tweeted.Deeply saddened by the sudden demise of actor Rishi Kapoor. He entertained several generations of Indians throughout his career. What a terrible loss.. My condolences to the grieving family. May God bless his soul.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote, “This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor. A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans all over the world, at this time of grief.”Kapoor was diagnosed with cancer in 2018. The actor was in New York for more than a year for treatment and returned to India in September 2019. His health had frequently been in focus ever since his diagnosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rishi-kapoor-s-daughter-4-others-allowed-to-travel-to-mumbai-by-delhi-police/story-2mn4UKPhKr2kS7BbuO48NM.html
30-04-2020||India||In waiting, Shiv Sena hopes ‘message from Delhi’ reaches Maharashtra Raj Bhavan||As the window of time closes in on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to enter the state legislature, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi leaders and the Shiv Sena are examining all options to get him nominated to the upper house of the state legislature. Sena leaders said that they are also exploring their legal options and will be writing to the Election Commission.Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has remained non-committal on processing the recommendation of the state cabinet. The CM then reached out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening to resolve the crisis. Sena insiders said that they would wait for a couple of days to see if “the message from Delhi reached Raj Bhavan”.Thackeray’s fate as chief minister hangs in balance as he has to get elected to one of the two houses of the state legislature by May 27. As per constitutional provisions, a minister or chief minister has to get elected to the state legislature within six months of taking oath. Thackeray, who was sworn in as the CM on November 28, will have to resign if he fails to get nominated to the upper house in the state assembly..The elections on the nine seats of the legislative council were deferred due to the coronavirus outbreak.“Uddhav ji has spoken to PM Modi. Let us wait for a couple of days if the message reaches Raj Bhavan. Meanwhile, we are working on our options. We would write to the Election Commission requesting it to hold the legislative council polls. Another option is to approach the Supreme Court seeking it to direct EC to hold the polls,” a Sena leader said requesting anonymity.The Sena is hopeful that the governor would process the nomination soon and it would not come to the MVA’s last option of Thackeray resigning. “It would not come to that (Thackeray’s resignation as CM),” the leader said. If Thackeray resigns, he would be re-elected as the leader of the MVA coalition and form the government again amid the ongoing battle against the coronavirus outbreak in Maharashtra.During the phone conversation between Thackeray and Modi, the former expressed unhappiness over the “politics being played” over his nomination to the legislative council. “Uddhav ji discussed the current political uncertainty in the state with the PM. He expressed unhappiness over the politics being played over his nomination as MLC at a time when the state is combating the coronavirus outbreak in the state,” a senior Sena leader told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-waiting-shiv-sena-hopes-message-from-delhi-reaches-maharashtra-raj-bhavan/story-2mny9GgkginpG7TyFmcUdJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Before receiving people from outside, Assam govt decides to help those stranded across the state||With the Union Home Ministry allowing inter-state movement of persons stranded across the country due to the coronavirus lockdown, all states are bracing up to handle the task of screening and quarantining thousands.But before that happens, the Assam government is ensuring that thousands stranded across the state travel from one district to another to reach their homes, workplaces or bring back family members.Inter-district travel within stateThe process, which started on April 25 and will continue till May 2, involves coordination between various departments, huge logistical support and use of technology to ensure social distancing and safety norms related to Covid-19.Till Wednesday, 48,770 people had taken permissions from district authorities and used their vehicles to travel from one district to another. Applications of 50,626 others are under process.Similarly, around 28,000 persons were helped to reach their destinations within the state by over 1,200 buses belonging to the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) till Wednesday. The free service, which will continue till May 2, will benefit 13,000 more people.“This has eased one of the biggest problems we faced due to the lockdown. We will soon have to think about bringing back people stranded outside the state. But we need to be careful not to aggravate the Covid-19 situation in Assam,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Wednesday.Assam has recorded 41 Covid-19 positive cases. While 1 patient has died, 29 others have recovered and 11 others are under treatment.Transporting people while ensuring safetyThe exercise to allow people to travel and also transport them from one place in the state to another was a huge task. A website was started for those travelling on their own to register themselves for passes. WhatsApp numbers for each of the 33 districts were also given for applicants to register. For those travelling in ASTC buses, the department gave a helpline number where people could call and register. This was followed by the allocation of e-tickets, coordinate routes of buses, ensure travel on particular dates etc.“We have been able to undertake this challenging task in a short span of time due to a beautiful combination of human brain, technology and coordination between persons and departments involved,” said ASTC managing director Anand Prakash Tiwari.“There were some routes on which there were just one or two travelers and it was not feasible to send a bus for that. We had to keep every data in mind without getting confused as it could hamper operations on the ground,” he added.With a dedicated team of nearly 4,000 people - including call centre operators who handled queries to drivers and cleaners of buses who sanitized them - the department was able to plan routes of buses, passenger allocation and issue of e-tickets.“Despite the scale of the exercise, there was no laxity in the compliance of safety norms. Every passenger was screened before they boarded the buses. The police were present to ensure order and only 15-20 passengers were allowed to travel in each bus while maintaining social distance,” said Tiwari.Getting ready for those from outsideWith travel and transportation of people stranded within the state done, Assam is now gearing up for the arrival of those stranded outside the state.“Once lakhs of people start coming back to the state from outside, our health experts apprehend that a second wave of infections could close in on us in Assam,” Sarma said.The minister had earlier said that the state government wanted to take care of those stranded within the state first before those from outside come in and the health machinery gets busy in screening and quarantining them, if needed.The government’s initiative to reach-out to people stranded outside Assam has led to nearly 6 lakh people giving missed calls on a helpline number. It is assumed that 20% to 30% of them could return once travel between states is allowed.Assam is already planning a staggered entry of people from outside. Those who want to return will have to register themselves first following which they will be given permits allowing their return on specific dates. This will help keep a check on the number of people coming back and also ensure that they were quarantined properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-receiving-people-from-outside-assam-government-decides-to-help-those-stranded-across-the-state/story-E1T0SJCPh7Zepto8mFswCI.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: ‘Foot-operated sanitiser machine’ installed outside RPF Post in Delhi’s Nizamuddin||In a bid to prevent its personnel from contracting coronavirus, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Hazrat Nizamuddin Post has installed a “foot-operated sanitiser machine” outside its station here.According to officials, Hazrat Nizamuddin RPF Post has become the first station in the country where such a dispenser has been installed.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Since we are feeding and helping hundreds of people every day, our staff is at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, our staff came up with an innovative idea and developed these dispensers from waste products to maintain proper hygiene,” RPF inspector Krishan Kumar told ANI on Thursday.It dispenses soap and water to wash hands upon pushing foot pedals.“Therefore, we have put out two of these just outside our post. One is for the staff to wash their hands without touching anything with their hands and another that sprinkles sanitiser on their bodies,” Kumar said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Nizamuddin is a containment zone and a Covid-19 case was also reported here, an official said.Notably, the Indian Railway, along with the help of Railway Protection Force, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), and some NGOs, is distributing food to around 11,500 poor and needy people every day at railway stations across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-foot-operated-sanitiser-machine-installed-outside-rpf-post-in-delhi-s-nizamuddin/story-C1hG5nc7BgangonQMgLEvJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Rajasthan: Minor allegedly killed by kin for having an affair with boy from another community||A 16-year-girl from Pali district of Rajasthan was allegedly killed for having an affair with a boy from another caste. The girl was reportedly strangulated to death by her mother and uncle who later burned the body and buried it near the river banks.According to police officials, the girl used to live with her family members in Punay district of Rajasthan and was a native of Sonai Manji village - 10-kilometres from Pali district headquarters.  “The victim, identified as Rinku Sirvi, allegedly had an affair with a boy from Maharashtra with whom she had escaped three-months back. She was later found at Dadar railway station in Mumbai. The boy with whom she had escaped was arrested on charges of kidnapping and other relevant sections under the POCSO Act,” said Rahul Katakey, superintendent of police (SP), Pali.Also read: Rajasthan police starts dedicated helpline for ‘corona warriors’The boy, who was around 20-years-old, was granted bail a month later after which Sirvi told her mother that she wanted to get married to him once she is an adult. Her mother and uncle were allegedly completely against it. Irked by Sirvi’s persistence, her mother Sita and uncle Savaram made a plan to kill the minor. They took the victim to Sonai Manji village instead of visiting their deity’s temple.“On March 19, Sita and Savaram went to visit their deity’s temple located in isolated farms where they strangulated the victim’s neck and burned her body later. As the body was burnt partially, they packed it in a sack and buried it near a river bank located 1.5 kiolmetres away from the spot where the victim was killed,” the SP added.After disposing of the body, Savaram returned to Punay while Sita went to her parent’s home in Sodawas village of Alwar district.Few days back, the Pali police received a tip and recovered the body. The officers later interrogated the parents after which Sita and Savaram confessed to the crime and were arrested on Wednesday. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minor-allegedly-killed-by-kin-for-having-an-affair-with-boy-from-another-community/story-sxl9pKw5D8g1lWCQRs08cM.html
30-04-2020||India||Struck by Covid-19, India pushes pedal to the metal on virtual diplomacy||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday kicked-off a detailed interaction with Indian envoys abroad to compare notes on the battle against Covid-19, its impact on India and the road ahead. This is Jaishankar’s second round of meetings with top Indian diplomats abroad.A recurring theme in his last interaction on March 20 was the status of stranded Indians. He had then asked the envoys to urge Indian nationals to stay put and not panic, and look around to secure medical equipment supplies that India would need back home.The government’s evacuation plan to bring the stranded Indians home over the next few weeks could figure in Thursday’s interaction with the Indian envoys. Jaishankar has started with envoys from the Asia Pacific region; South-East Asian countries will be next and then, South Asia.Taking virtual diplomacy to the next level. Began the first of a series of regional reviews. A good video conference with our High Commissioners and Ambassadors in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua & New Guinea and the Pacific Island countries. pic.twitter.com/EqdaWcJfyKJaishankar isn’t the only one talking.Top external affairs ministry officials are holding a parallel global outreach campaign; interacting with foreign envoys posted in national capital Delhi. The foreign envoys are being told how India is fighting the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen.Indian diplomats are also taking notes on how other countries have dealt with the virus that has, in just about four months, killed 225,000 people, infected over 3 million and driven countries to go into lockdown mode and threatened to push the global economy into a recession.Diplomacy couldn’t afford to go in lockdown mode. Instead, it went virtual, shifted gears and went into an overdrive, a foreign ministry official told Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set the template early in the crisis and has been working the phones to scale up India’s diplomatic engagement with the world. That he had also held a video conference with the heads of Indian missions on 30 March was one step in this direction.In the next 30 days, PM Modi spoke to leaders of 30 countries. Had a good discussion with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. We discussed the evolving COVID 19 scenario and agreed to work together to address the challenges in the spirit of our excellent bilateral ties and India's neighbourhood first policy.Ditto for Jaishankar who has kept pace with the prime ministers and reached out to his counterparts, even in countries that may have been assumed to be off New Delhi’s radar.Grenada, a tiny Caribbean island - one of the smallest countries in the western hemisphere - has a population of just over 1 lakh. Comoros, a volcanic archipelago off Africa’s east coast, has a population of 8 lakh.Many of these calls were to offer support and help. Congratulated the newly appointed FM of #Angola, @amb_tete. Agreed on an early meeting of our Joint Commission. Will work on new areas of cooperation, including health. Recognised the importance of the #IndiaAfricaForumSummit taking place soon.Jaishankar told the G-20 foreign ministers conference this week that New Delhi is providing pharma assistance to nearly 85 countries on a grant basis, many of them in Africa to support their response to the pandemic.There have been occasions when the external affairs minister has spoken to counterparts in Russia, Brazil, the United States, Saudi Arabia and Oman in 24 hours. This was on Thursday last.Jaishankar calls it “virtual diplomacy”.“Strong friendships thrive even virtually,” he tweeted after wrapping up his video calls to leaders in five countries.Government sources explain that the stepped-up effort is designed ·to ensure that the diplomatic machinery doesn’t go into stall mode but is kept primed for big action.India will be moving into a lead role at the World Health Organisation next month when its nominee formally takes over as the director general of the World Health Organisation. Next year, India will also get a spot in the United Nations Security Council as one of the 10 non-permanent members.The last time India had made it to the UNSC ws in 2012; Hardeep Singh Puri, the ex-diplomat in PM Modi’s council of ministers, was then India’s face at the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struck-by-covid-19-india-pushes-the-pedal-on-the-metal-on-virtual-diplomacy/story-gkF4rCPIXciTZ1kUeYCOxM.html
30-04-2020||India||Amid uncertainty over Uddhav’s MLC nomination, experts differ on governor’s role||As uncertainty surrounds chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s nomination to the legislative council and Maharashtra stares at a constitutional crisis, experts differ on whether governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is duty-bound to nominate Thackeray to the House from his quota, as recommended by the state cabinet.Thackeray has to get elected to one of the two Houses of the state legislature --- legislative council or the legislative assembly --- by May 27. Since he is not a member of any of the houses, he will, according to Article 164(4) of the Constitution, lose his post unless is he elected within six months from the date of taking oath (November 28).Under Article 171 of the Constitution, the governor can nominate members to the legislative council from the fields of literature, science, art and social service. Social service has a wider scope and political leaders have been nominated in this category in the past. With the governor yet to take a call on the cabinet’s recommendation, Thackeray called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.In the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the Election Commission has put on hold elections to fill vacant seats in the Rajya Sabha, and all by-elections and civic body elections --- a development that has led to the uncertainty in Maharashtra. The ruling Shiv Sena-Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) combine has alleged that the governor is not taking swift action. Technically, Thackeray can resign and take oath again as the chief minister after getting elected the leader of the ruling combine comprising the three parties. While a section of constitutional experts said it is the governor’s decision alone, others argued that he has to go by the recommendations of the state cabinet. “If the governor decides that it will be his discretion under which the issue will be dealt with, then that cannot be questioned. The governor is bound to act on the advice of the council of ministers except when he chooses to address the issue under his own discretion,” constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said.Kashyap said the governor can also refer an issue to the President, who, in turn, can seek the advice of the Supreme Court. “The second issue is: should a nominated member be appointed a minister or the chief minister? At the Union level, no such appointments have been made in the last 70 years, but at the state level, there have been precedents in Bihar and Maharashtra. I personally feel that a nominated member being appointed a minister or the chief minister is against the spirit of democracy, though it is not illegal,” he said.But constitutional expert and former Lok Sabha secretary general  PDT Achary said the governor cannot sit on a decision on a matter such as this, and has to go by the advice or recommendation of the state cabinet.“The governor has no other option but to accept it [the cabinet’s decision] and can, at best, seek a clarification from the government. But once the government gives its clarification, the governor cannot sit over it. I don’t know why the governor is not taking a final decision on the issue,” he said.“In our constitutional scheme, a governor cannot act independently and has no discretion in this matter because it is an executive function. Nominating a member to the legislative council and the Rajya Sabha is basically an executive act. And a governor acts only on the advice of council of ministers,” Achary added.The first recommendation to the governor by the state cabinet on Thackeray’s nomination was made on April 9. A delegation of leaders, led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, met the governor a second time on Wednesday to reiterate its demand.Out of the total 78 members in the Maharashtra legislative council, 12 are nominated by the governor. There are two vacancies from the governor’s quota, after Rahul Narvekar and Ramrao Wadkute resigned from the council last year. While Wadkute resigned the NCP to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Narvekar got elected to the state assembly on a BJP ticket.The ruling side also argues that section 151A of the Representation of the People Act (RPA), 1951 --- which some see as an impediment to Thackeray’s nomination --- does not apply in the present circumstances, especially at a time when the election commission has put all polling processes on hold. This section mandates the election commission to fill vacancies in the Houses of Parliament and state legislatures through by-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of the vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term of a member in relation to a vacancy is one year or more. Terms of both the seats from where Thackeray can be nominated will end on June 6. The ruling side argues this section only deals with the election of member, and not his or her nomination. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said the provision does not necessarily mean that the seats in question will have to remain vacant.“The provision says elections need not be conducted if the term is less than a year, but if it is the Cabinet’s decision to fill those seats and since the governor is bound by the cabinet’s advice, there is nothing to say that the nomination would be illegal,” he said.Achary said there is no clarity in the law as far as the term of a nominated member is concerned.“…I would say that a governor has to act only by the aid and advice of the council of ministers, irrespective of the term of a member. That shouldn’t matter. Instead of sitting on the decision, the governor should seek clarifications from the council of ministers and take a decision,” he said.Mumbai-based political analyst Abhay Deshpande said the governor should accept the state cabinet’s recommendation because of the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“Thackeray’s matter is different from the past cases. Thackeray is not getting a chance to get elected because the election commission has deferred the scheduled polls in view of the prevailing situation. If elections are not held, you are denying him a chance to get elected. Had elections been held on time, the chances of his elections were very good. So, you can’t compare apples with oranges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-uncertainty-over-uddhav-s-mlc-nomination-experts-differ-on-governor-s-role/story-Gp22epms2gl1BpsC2AEyJP.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Heavy rush seen in 3 Tamil Nadu cities as ‘intense lockdown’ ends||Heavy traffic was seen in three Tamil Nadu cities of Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai after the state government announced relaxation during the Covid-19 lockdown, news agency ANI reported.ANI also tweeted photos from Coimbatore where traffic jams were seen on the road at a time when social distancing is the need of the hour.The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced relaxations for Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai where a four-day “intense lockdown” (starting April 26) was clamped to check the spread of Covid-19.Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said shops selling essential items, vegetables and fruits will open between 6 am and 5 pm in these cities.However, Palaniswami said the timings for shops will be between 6 am and 1 pm from May 1.“Our government is taking steps to curtail Covid-19 on a war footing. Except for Chennai, the spread of coronavirus is under control in all other districts in the state. All the district collectors are doing a good job,” Palaniswami said on Wednesday.The state government has urged people to strictly follow social distancing norms while going to shops and asked them to remain patient and calm. “People are directed to wear masks while visiting the shops,” it said cautioning them against the contagion. Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai were among the five cities in Tamil Nadu which were put under an “intense lockdown” to check the spread of the highly infectious coronavirus disease or Covid-19 on April 26.The lockdown was intensified for four days from April 26 till 9 pm on April 29 in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. Two smaller cities of Salem and Tirupur are under stricter restrictions for three days till 9 pm on April 28.The government decided to tighten curbs under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in select urban regions based on expert opinion as the number of infections rose.The “intense lockdown” in Tamil Nadu came in the middle of a nationwide shutdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month and extended to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-heavy-rush-seen-in-3-tamil-nadu-cities-as-intense-lockdown-ends/story-EBK1zCWgAWKjB5FGXSuNwK.html
30-04-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay Delhi Central Vista project for now||The Central Vista project will not be put on hold for now, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while hearing a petition challenging the Centre’s decision to notify a change in land use regarding the redevelopment plan. The renovation of the Parliament building is a segment in the Centre’s larger Central Vista project which includes a new Parliament house, a new Central secretariat complex for ministries, and new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.The Delhi Development Authority last December had changed the land use of a 15-acre plot from recreational to residential on Dalhousie Road near South Block where the PM’s new residence has been proposed.The opposition parties have criticised the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the project as the country battles the deadly coronavirus disease.Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote a letter to the PM, on April 10, in which she urged him to suspend the Rs 20,000 crore allocated to the project. “At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings. There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained,” she wrote.Trinamool leader and MP Mahua Moitra also slammed the move. “The government is suspending MPLADS funds for two years for generate resources to fight Covid-19 but wants to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the central vista project,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-put-stay-on-delhi-central-vista-project/story-eMgU2sLoZApx1J7dDOJPIN.html
30-04-2020||India||IT ministry asks MHA to consider mobile products as essential goods after industry demand||The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has urged the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to consider broadening the definition of essential goods and include information and communications technology (ICT) products while deferring to a plea from the mobile manufacturing industry.On Wednesday, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the ministry has taken note of mobile manufacturers’ concerns and has drawn the MHA authorities’ attention to them. The minister made the statement after holding a meeting with industry players, associations, and chambers of the electronics goods market.The mobile manufacturing industry, which is staring at an estimated loss of over Rs 20,000 crore because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, has urged the MeitY for broadening the definition of essential goods in a bid to allow online and offline sales of mobile device and networking products.They have also pleaded with the ministry that all authorised sales and service centres of all electronics goods be allowed to resume their services.Pankaj Mohindroo, chairman of the Indian Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA), said that the industry is facing a severe crisis due to the viral outbreak. “The industry is in deep trouble. Production losses are estimated to be around Rs 20,000 crore. All companies’ plants are closed. Exports losses have gone up to Rs 2,500 crore and 2.5 crore mobile phones are lying unrepaired. Our meeting with the minister ended on a note of cautious optimism. Hopefully, the government will take immediate action by including the mobile manufacturing industry as an integral part of essential goods,” Mohindroo said.Prasad announced during the meeting that Aarogya Setu, a Covid-19 tracking mobile application developed by the MeitY’s National Informatics Centre, has been downloaded a record eight crore times. The minister said that electronics factories should be opened in a calibrated manner.Prasad has asked the electronics goods companies to ramp up production of medical electronics such as ventilators because of the equipments growing demand to treat Covid-19 patients. He also urged the IT sector to take advantage of three new government schemes that would be launched soon to attract global investments and strengthen the industry in a post-Covid-19 world.“The minister said that the country’s domestic demand is going to be huge, as the lockdown restrictions have increased people’s dependence to transact via the digital medium. He asked the industry to increase exports to cater to growing global demands,” said an official, who was present at the meeting.Industry players told Prasad that major electronics manufacturing clusters in Noida, Greater Noida, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh are facing local restrictions because of their presence in high-risk Covid-19 zones. Prasad, however, allayed their concerns and told them that he has already had a word with respective states seeking their cooperation. Mobile phone manufacturers such as Apple, Samsung, Xiaomi, Foxconn, Lava, Wistron, Oppo, Flex, Sterlite, Micromax, Deki Electronics, Tejas Networks Ltd, and, Panasonic, etc., attended Wednesday’s meeting, which took place a day after Prasad held talks with all his state counterparts.Industry bodies, including the ICEA, Manufacturers Association for Information Technology (MAIT), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD), Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association of India (TEMA), Ph.D. Chambers, and Indian Telephone Industry Limited (ITI), among others, also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ministry-asks-mha-to-consider-mobile-products-as-essential-goods-after-industry-demand/story-wXAGKkKufrKuL5Uzn8pEGP.html
30-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: US hands over $3 mn to benefit health facilities under PM-JAY and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Covid-19: US hands over $3 mn to benefit health facilities under PM-JAYThe US announced on Thursday it will hand over aid worth $3 million to the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project as part of efforts to help India mitigate the spread of Covid-19. Read more.Kerala Governor gives nod to ordinance which allows govt to temporarily cut salariesThe Governor of Kerala, Arif Mohammad Khan, on Thursday signed an ordinance brought by the state government to overcome a high court verdict and cut the salary of government employees to fund the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Read more. Rishi Kapoor, Bollywood’s original chocolate boy, dies at 67, Amitabh Bachchan says ‘he’s destroyed’Actor Rishi Kapoor has died at 67 after a two-year battle with leukaemia. Rishi breathed his last at the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital in Mumbai. His wife and actor Neetu Kapoor was by his side. “Yes, he is no more,” Rishi’s elder brother Randhir Kapoor told Hindustan Times. Read more. ‘Powerhouse of talent’: PM Modi mourns death of Rishi KapoorPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday mourned the death of actor Rishi Kapoor, who after passed away in Mumbai after a two-year-long battle with cancer. He was 67. Read more.  Alia Bhatt visits Rishi Kapoor’s family at hospital, funeral today at Chandanwadi crematorium. Watch videoActor Alia Bhatt was spotted in her car, leaving the Mumbai hospital where veteran actor Rishi Kapoor breathed his last on Thursday. Rishi’s last rites will be performed at Chandanwadi crematorium in Kalbadevi on Thursday afternoon. Read more. India’s oil revenue loss in lockdown seen exceeding $5 billionIndia’s 40-day lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus is curbing oil demand and reducing the government’s tax income from the petroleum industry, which contributes about a fifth of budget revenue. Read more. Google Doodle pays tribute to Clara Rockmore and the theremin, a musical instrumentClara Rockmore used to play the theremin, an unusual instrument. The theremin is a gesture controlled instrument which has no strings or keys. Google’s Doodle today is a tribute to Ms Rockmore, who was the theremin’s most renowned performer and also helped in developing it. Read more. Man got caught for ‘walking’ his pet, it was indeed a fishy affairA picture posted on the official page of Spanish National Police has grabbed quite a few eyeballs. The photo shows a man surrounded by cops with a fish bowl kept on a bench near him. But that’s not what is unusual or strange, it’s the story behind the picture. Read more. Nuclear aggression...’: Russia slams US argument for low-yield n-warheadsMajor war of words broke out between USA & Russia over nuclear arms. Russia hit out at US for reportedly favouring deployment of low-yield nuclear warheads. Moscow said any attack, regardless of weapon type, would be nuclear aggression. A US State Dept paper reportedly favoured fitting low-yield nukes on submarines. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-us-hands-over-3-mn-to-benefit-health-facilities-under-pm-jay-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WoSR2b0SAtK9CxBduXzWRN.html
30-04-2020||India||Rajasthan police starts dedicated helpline for ‘corona warriors’||Rajasthan Police has launched helpline numbers for the ‘corona warriors’ of the state who are fighting against the deadly contagion (Covid-19).According to official data of the police department, between March 29 and April 27, 151 ‘corona warriors’ got injured in 116 attacks across Rajasthan.The maximum number of attacks were reported from Ajmer-9, Alwar-4, Bhilwara-7, Jaipur-6, Bharatpur-5, Chittorgarh-3, Hanumangarh-4, among other districts.Director General of Police (DGP), law and order, ML Lather said that after incidents of attack on corona warriors surfaced from different parts of the state, helplines have been started across all districts.“In the last few days, it has come to our notice that few anti-social elements are creating barriers in the work of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and other essential staff. Many of them have been attacked which is illegal and is a big hurdle to contain the spread of the virus,” Lather said.The DGP added, “This helpline number is created to help medical staff, paramedical staff and ASHA workers involved in door-to-door survey and screening of Covid-19. Also, nodal officers have been appointed to take up the grievances of the corona fighters,” said Lather.He further informed that Vishal Bansal, inspector general of police (crime branch), has been appointed as the nodal officer at the state level while for the districts, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) rank officer has been appointed.The nodal officers will also share the complaints with the state government and the Indian Medical Association, Lather said. Lather said he has also directed his subordinates to book those attacking corona warriors under relevant sections of the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act.On April 7, the Supreme Court had directed the Centre and state governments to provide security to doctors and medical staff who are treating Covid-19 patients. The court also ordered authorities to take action against those preventing doctors, medical staff or government officials from performing their duty amid the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-rajasthan-police-starts-dedicated-helpline-for-corona-warriors/story-sRd1pHTuE4rJL25nzmjQ6K.html
30-04-2020||India||White House explains why it followed Indian PM on Twitter, then unfollowed||The White House Wednesday explained that its Twitter handle typically ‘follows’ the accounts of officials from host countries for a brief period during a presidential trip to retweet their messages in support of the visit.During President Donald Trump’s visit to India in the last week of February, the official Twitter handle of the White House -- @WhiteHouse -- had started ‘following’ the accounts of President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Prime Minister’s office, the Indian Embassy in the US, the US Embassy in India and the US Ambassador to India, Ken Juster.Early this week, the White House ‘unfollowed’ all these six Twitter handles.“The White House Twitter account normally follows senior US government Twitter accounts, and others as appropriate. For example, during the time of a presidential visit, the account typically follows for a short time, the host country’s officials to retweet their messages in support of the visit,” a senior administration official told PTI on the condition of anonymity.Also Watch | China calls Trump advisor a liar over medical supplies comment | Covid-19 The official was responding to a question on the reasons for the White House ‘following’ and then ‘unfollowing’ the Twitter handles of President Kovind, Prime Minister Modi, the PMO and the other Indian officials.The White House ‘unfollowing’ the Twitter accounts of President Kovind and PM Modi drew reactions on social media in India.Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said he was “dismayed” at the development.“I’m dismayed by the “unfollowing” of our President & PM by the White House. I urge the Ministry of External Affairs to take note,” he said in a tweet on Wednesday. As of Wednesday, the White House had 22 million followers.It has traditionally been following 13 accounts including that of President Donald Trump and his official Twitter handle, the First Lady, the Vice President, the Second Lady, the new Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany, the National Security Council and the former White House Press Secretary, Stephanie Grisham, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/white-house-explains-why-it-followed-indian-pm-on-twitter-then-unfollowed/story-M1eleLwXAj9XgE9Ca3hXuJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19: US hands over $3 mn to benefit health facilities under PM-JAY||The US announced on Thursday it will hand over aid worth $3 million to the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project as part of efforts to help India mitigate the spread of Covid-19.The US Agency for International Development (USAID) has provided $5.9 million so far to assist India in responding to the Covid-19 outbreak. This aid will help India slow the spread of Covid-19, provide care for the affected, disseminate essential public health messages to communities, and strengthen case finding and surveillance.The US administration had said on April 16 it would provide the aid of $3 million through the USAID. These funds will be used in coordination with the Indian government for the PAHAL project, an innovative financing platform of IPE Global, according to a statement from the US embassy.Through the PAHAL project, USAID will support the National Health Authority to establish a financing facility that can mobilise resources from the private sector to assist more than 20,000 health facilities enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), the health insurance scheme for 500 million poor and vulnerable people.US ambassador Kenneth Juster said in the statement, “This additional funding to support India in its continuing efforts to combat Covid-19 is yet another example of the strong and enduring partnership between the US and India.”The US has been one of the world’s largest providers of bilateral aid in public health. In India, the US government, through USAID and department of health and human services agencies, including the Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, has provided more than $1.4 billion in health assistance and nearly $2.8 billion in total assistance over the past 20 years.“Because an infectious disease threat anywhere can become a threat everywhere, the United States calls on other donors to contribute to the global effort to combat Covid-19,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-hands-over-3-mn-to-help-health-facilities-under-pm-jay-fight-covid-19/story-6svP8Pw1AQwP70dGNGJObO.html
30-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu ambulance driver who drove couple to Tripura tests positive for Covid-19||One Tamil Nadu-based ambulance driver, who was among the two who drove five stranded Tripura residents, including a couple, from Chennai to the north-eastern state earlier this week, has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Wednesday.The couple and three other Tripura residents were stranded in Chennai after the central government imposed nationwide lockdown restrictions from March 25 initially for 21 days and then further extended it for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.On April 27, the five people entered Tripura in an ambulance via Churaibari check-post on the state’s border with neighbouring Assam. They reached Udaipur in Gomati district on the same day late evening. “There were two ambulance drivers, who took turns to drive over 3,000 kilometres by road from Chennai to Tripura. All seven people, including the drivers, were immediately quarantined after they reached here. We also collected their swab samples and sent them for tests. One of the drivers, who is from Tamil Nadu, has tested Covid-19 positive. The rest six have tested negative,” the minister told the media persons.“All the seven people were screened before they entered Tripura and none of them had shown any symptoms of Covid-19,” he added.The minister said that the Covid-19 positive driver is undergoing treatment in Siliguri, north Bengal. “All those, who came in contact with the driver during his stay in Tripura, will have to undergo tests,” the minister said.The state government, which is all set to begin rapid random community Covid-19 tests, urged people to volunteer for tests if they show any symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.Around 6,000 people, who are stranded outside Tripura, have registered with the state authorities in their bid to return home at the earliest, officials said. The state has conducted 4,613 tests to date, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-ambulance-driver-who-drove-couple-to-tripura-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-q8yLDFEzRxoOrcha6TZTMJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Kerala Governor gives nod to ordinance which allows govt to temporarily cut salaries||The Governor of Kerala, Arif Mohammad Khan, on Thursday signed an ordinance brought by the state government to overcome a high court verdict and cut the salary of government employees to fund the ongoing fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Opposition parties Congress and BJP had asked the Governor not to give his nod to the ordinance. The Opposition said that Kerala government was taking revenge on employees after it suffered a serious setback in the court.The government was forced to bring the ordinance after the Kerala High Court stayed its order to slash employees’ salaries for six days every month for the next five months (totalling 30 days). Reeling under severe financial constraints, the government is planning to save Rs 2,000 crore through this.“It is sad that a big controversy was created over this. It should have been avoided at this juncture. Opposition also provoked employees’ outfits,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac welcoming the Governor’s decision and adding that it was a temporary arrangement.The government order issued to that effect last week said the move will be applicable to employees of all state- owned enterprises, public sector undertakings, quasi-government organisations and universities, among others.“All are undergoing a difficult situation. So it is natural that employees will also be a part of the process. We have deducted 30% salaries of ministers, MLAs, board chairmen and others for one year,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday.Announcing the cabinet decision, Isaac had told mediapersons on Wednesday: “As per this ordinance, the state government has been empowered to defer 25% of the salary of government employees, in case of a disaster.”The minister, however, made it clear that 25 per cent of the salary would not be deferred and the state government would go ahead with its initial six-day cut plan. The employees’ outfits have, meawhile, said they will move the Supreme Court against the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-gives-nod-to-ordinance-which-allows-govt-to-temporarily-cut-salaries/story-kzJQz5utGzg4n5fhGuSiwK.html
30-04-2020||India||Can eating ice cream spread Covid-19? Here’s what govt has to say||The government on Thursday rubbished claims linking consumption of ice cream and chilled products with the spread of Covid-19. “The World Health Organization has clarified that there is no scientific evidence to support the claim,” PIB clarified in a tweet. “Claim: There is some information going rounds that eating ice creams and other chilled products can lead to spreading of #COVID19 infection. Reality: No,” the tweet read.  Claim: There is some information going rounds that eating ice creams and other chilled products can lead to spreading of #COVID19 infection.Reality: No. @WHO has already clarified that there is no scientific evidence to support this claim.#IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/m3n9G9Pb97This is one of the latest in the list of false claims and rumours that have been doing the rounds ever since the coronavirus pandemic broke out. The World Health Organization has a dedicated page on Covid-19 ‘myth busters’ that help people stay aware and informed about the deadly contagion. “Adding pepper to your soup or other meals DOES NOT prevent or cure COVID-19,” the WHO states. WHO had previously clarified that coronavirus does not spread through houseflies and cannot be cured by sunlight or spraying disinfectant on the body. It also rubbished rumours linking mosquito bites and Covid-19.  Taking a hot bath does not kill coronavirus, neither does extreme temperature. The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 33,050 on Thursday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 23,651 coronavirus cases in the country, 8,324 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,074 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 9,000-mark and now near 10,000 while national capital is fast catching up with Gujarat, the second worst-affected state. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-can-eating-ice-cream-spread-covid-19-here-s-what-government-has-to-say/story-sjEUVVL8Z8U2RsMSmcIwoO.html
30-04-2020||India||Rajasthan Covid-19 tally crosses 2,500-mark; Jaipur has highest number of deaths||The total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients reached 2,524 in Rajasthan after 86 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported on Thursday, citing a state health department report. Two more people died of the disease in the state, ANI further reported.It further said that 827 patients have recovered so far.Rajasthan has so far witnessed 51 deaths due to the virus, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The state health department says that Jaipur has the most number of fatalities - 32.The state health department said on Thursday that 59 new cases were reported in Jodhpur, 14 in Jaipur, four in Ajmer, three in Chittorgarh, two in Kota and one in Dholpur.Jaipur has reported the highest 892 positive cases, followed by 472 in Jodhpur, the state health department said.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran being put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.Rajasthan Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma said so far 98,000 samples have been taken while the daily testing capacity has also been increased to over 6,500 tests. He said the target of 10,000 tests per day will be met soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-500-mark-jaipur-has-highest-number-of-deaths/story-ghnHjOvtUeL8z9uA6m57tK.html
30-04-2020||India||‘We will fly again’: Private carriers salute pilots in a special way during Covid-19 lockdown||The airline industry undertook a special activity to motivate its pilots and cabin crew as flights are grounded due to the coronavirus pandemic.The feature was a result of a joint activity by all domestic carriers like SpiceJet, IndiGo, Vistara, Go Airways and AirAsia. It had a simple message: We will fly again.The featured, posted on IndiGo’s Twitter handle, had been created in the form of in-flight passenger announcement which is done every time a flight takes off. It featured pilots and cabin crew from various airlines who asked people to stay at home and work from there.The video was posted with the hashtag #StayingParkedStayingSafe on April 26, the World Pilots’ Day, and saluted the pilots. We have a special announcement this World Pilots’ Day, from our pilots and pilots from @flyspicejet @AirAsiaIndian @airvistara @goairlinesindia Watch it, chuckle and remember soon it will be time to fly again, till then #StayingParkedStayingSafe pic.twitter.com/4KyUiK1GTdThe Covid-19 crisis has severely affected the aviation sector with all passenger flights grounded. This has led to losses for the industry.But the private carriers have joined the government’s initiative to ensure transport of life-saving medical supplies during the Covid-19 lockdown.Minister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, on Sunday said on Twitter that 383 flights have flown across 3,76,952 km to transport over 684 tons of essential and medical cargo delivered across the country under ‘Lifeline Udan’ scheme.The statement said domestic cargo operators SpiceJet, Blue Dart and IndiGo are operating cargo flights on a commercial basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-fly-again-private-carriers-salute-pilots-in-a-special-way/story-MdUklJlT5GeSpt1xHDlffP.html
30-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: US announces additional $3 million aid to support India’s Covid-19 efforts||The US government, through its aid agency USAID, has announced an additional grant of $3 million to help India combat the coronavirus pandemic.On April 6, the USAID had announced a grant of $2.9 million to India to mitigate the spread of the deadly virus.US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster said the additional funding will further support India’s response to Covid-19.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“This additional funding to support India in its continuing efforts to combat Covid-19 is yet another example of the strong and enduring partnership between the United States and India,” a release issued by the US Embassy here quoted the envoy as saying.The US Agency for International Development (USAID) is one of the leading aid agencies globally. The USAID is providing these funds to the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project, an innovative financing platform, the release said. To date, USAID has provided $ 5.9 million to assist India in responding to the Covid-19 outbreak. This assistance will help India slow the spread of Covid-19, provide care for the affected, disseminate essential public health messages to communities, and strengthen case finding and surveillance, it said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Through the PAHAL project, USAID will support the National Health Authority to establish a financing facility that can mobilize resources from the private sector to assist over 20,000 health facilities enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), India’s health insurance scheme for 500 million poor and vulnerable people,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-us-announces-additional-3-million-aid-to-support-india-s-covid-19-efforts/story-Inwtyyq6i2emJ0AKpbPCZI.html
30-04-2020||India||Rishi Kapoor endured illness with dignity, grace: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor and said that he had endured his illness with dignity and grace.Kapoor died of cancer in a Mumbai hospital on Thursday, his brother Randhir Kapoor said. He was 67.“Deeply shocked & saddened at the demise of the iconic & versatile film actor #RishiKapoor. A National Film Award winner, he acted in more than 150 films.” “He endured his illness with dignity and grace. My condolences to his family, friends, fans & the entire film fraternity,” Banerjee tweeted.Kapoor was admitted to the H N Reliance hospital by his family on Wednesday.The actor had returned to India last September after undergoing treatment for cancer in the US for almost a year.In February, he was hospitalised twice.Kapoor’s death comes a day after actor Irrfan Khan’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rishi-kapoor-endured-illness-with-dignity-grace-mamata-banerjee/story-isFvcFOPi6g69GHKxhXzZM.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Powerhouse of talent’: PM Modi mourns death of Rishi Kapoor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday mourned the death of actor Rishi Kapoor, who after passed away in Mumbai after a two-year-long battle with cancer. He was 67.“Multifaceted, endearing and lively... this was Rishi Kapoor Ji. He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said on Twitter. Multifaceted, endearing and lively...this was Rishi Kapoor Ji. He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti.His wife and actor Neetu Kapoor was by his side. His brother Randhir Kapoor confirmed the news.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said he is anguished by Kapoor’s death. “Anguished by the passing away of noted film actor Rishi Kapoor. He carved a special place in the hearts of his fans with his inimitable style and performances. My thoughts are with his family and fans in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” Singh tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called him a wonderful actor and a legend. “This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor. A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans all over the world, at this time of grief,” Gandhi said on Twitter.In 2018, Rishi Kapoor was diagnosed with cancer, following which the actor was in New York for more than a year to receive treatment. He returned to India in September 2019 after recovering.Kapoor’s death comes a day after actor Irrfan Khan’s demise. Khan passed away on Wednesday after a two-year battle with a rare form of cancer. He was 53.Rishi was the second son of late actor Raj Kapoor and the sibling of Randhir, Ritu Nanda, Rima Jain and Rajeev Kapoor. He made his film debut with Bobby opposite Dimple Kapadia in 1973 and was also seen as a child actor in films such as Shree 420 and ‘Mera Naam Joker’.The actor was last seen in Emraan Hashmi’s The Body and had recently announced his next project, a remake of Hollywood film ‘The Intern’, also featuring Deepika Padukone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/powerhouse-of-talent-pm-modi-mourns-death-of-rishi-kapoor/story-wbaywfS2Yv0igFR1qcj4wK.html
30-04-2020||India||MP govt sets up facilitation centre to redress farmer’s grievances, stirs controversy||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Madhya Pradesh (MP) on Wednesday stoked another controversy when its agriculture department set up a Kamal Suvidha Kendra in its directorate’s information technology (IT) cell in a bid to redress farmers’ grievances.The main opposition, Congress, was quick to seize on the nomenclature and the timing of the launch, as kamal (lotus) is the ruling party’s electoral symbol.The Congress accused the BJP of hankering after publicity amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“The BJP leaders’ hunger for publicity amid the Covid-19 tragedy has astonished the people. State agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who has a kamal ring to his name, couldn’t have come up with a more inappropriate name than Kamal Suvidha Kendra. The minister used the opportunity to not only publicise his own name but also the BJP’s electoral symbol,” alleged Narendra Saluja, state Congress president’s media coordinator.“Earlier, CM Chouhan’s photograph was inserted in ayurvedic herbal packets that were distributed by the state government. The BJP has launched a campaign selfie with a mask as if the mask is a symbol of entertainment. The BJP leaders are rejoicing the occasion and busy with their self-promotion when MP has emerged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the country,” he added.Saluja was referring to CM Chouhan’s announcement on Monday, where he had said that the state government’s Amrit Jeevan Yojna aims to distribute 10 million packets of ayurvedic herbs to help people boost their immunity to combat SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and other viral infections. Chouhan’s photograph is printed in a leaflet that’s inserted in each of herbal product’s packets.State Congress spokesperson Ajay Singh Yadav alleged that the BJP was pushing its electoral agenda via this herbal therapy scheme.State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai, however, countered the Congress for its bid to “raise irrelevant issues and demeaning the role of an effective opposition”.“If the Congress is so averse to the name Kamal, then will it ask the party’s state president Kamal Nath to drop his first name?” he asked.The state government’s order to redress farmers’ grievances across the state got lost amid the political slugfest.“A true friend of farmers ­­--- Kamal Suvidha Kendra --- has been set up in the agriculture department’s directorate’s IT centre to receive suggestions and redress grievances of farmers across the state,” said the order issued by the department’ director.The centre would function between 10.30am and 5.30pm on all working days and two employees would be posted there, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-sets-up-facilitation-centre-to-redress-farmer-s-grievances-stirs-controversy/story-M1Amid8KIXxnFmsJoiHMPM.html
30-04-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally inches towards 10,000-mark, Mumbai worst-hit in country||Maharashtra recorded 597 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, and is inching towards the 10,000-mark, the Union health ministry data showed on Thursday. The exact number of cases in Maharashtra stand at 9,915, according to the health ministry website.Mumbai leads in the number of new Covid-19 cases - the city recorded 475 cases on Wednesday - taking its tally to 6,644. It is now the worst-affected city in the country.On Wednesday, Maharashtra also recorded its single highest-day toll with 32 deaths reported, of which 26 were in Mumbai.Mumbai’s situation continues to be grim as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) projected that the cases in Mumbai (city and suburban districts) will reach 28,859 cases by May 15. The total number of cases in Mumbai city, suburbs, Pune, Palghar and Thane may collectively cross 37,000 by May 15, the ministry projects. The state government has, however, dismissed the projection and said that the multiple mathematical models have given various projections and the state’s plan is being based on a realistic model. Maharashtra till date has tested 1,37,159 samples in total, of which 1,26,376 were negative. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the doubling rate in Mumbai has improved from seven days to 10 days now, and the mortality rate has also reduced. The ministry on Wednesday also said that stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students will be allowed to move with conditions during the lockdown. The Maharashtra government is preparing guidelines to transport the stranded migrants in the state. The number of Covid-19 cases in the country increased by 1,718 in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally up to 33,050. The number of deaths went up to 1,074 after 66 more people died of the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-inches-towards-10-000-mumbai-worst-hit-in-country/story-E5GFRPnVlZ5U2rPycVSUvM.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Rs 65,000 crore needed for poor during Covid-19, we can afford it’: Raghuram Rajan||Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan has said that India needs Rs 65,000 crore to feed the poor during the Covid-19 pandemic, insisting the country can afford to do that with a GDP (Gross Domestic Product) of about Rs 200 lakh crore.Rajan also said India needs to be “cleverer in lifting the lockdown and open up its economy in a measured way” as it does not have the capacity to support the people across the spectrum for too long.Rajan was in dialogue with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi as part of his series of video conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Asked by Gandhi how much would be required to be distributed among the poor to tide over the crisis triggered by the deadly coronavirus, Rajan replied, “Approximately Rs 65,000 crore. Our GDP is Rs 200 lakh crore and out of that Rs 65,000 crore is not a huge amount. So, we can do it. If this is for the poor and to save their lives and livelihood, we must do it.”On lifting the lockdown, the former RBI governor said, “We have to be cleverer about opening up...We need to open up in a measured way but as fast as possible so that people start having jobs. We don’t have the capacity to support people across the spectrum for too long. Being a relatively poor country, people start out with significantly lower reserves. It is all too easy to have a lockdown forever, but obviously that is unsustainable for the economy.”To contain the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to April 14 and later extended it till May 3.Rajan agreed with Gandhi that aggressive testing is at the heart of the management of Covid-19. “I don’t think we have to aim for 100% success and have zero cases when we open up. That is unachievable. What we have to do is to manage the reopening so that when there are cases, we isolate them,” he added.Asked by Gandhi that India is a big country and its ability to test like the United States or the European countries is comparatively limited, the former RBI governor said, “You are talking about 2 million tests a day in India if you have to get the level of confidence that you have in the United States. And clearly, we are nowhere near that. I think we are somewhere around 25,000 or 30,000 tests a day at this point.”Gandhi and his Congress party have repeatedly urged the government to scale up testing, calling it the biggest weapon against the Covid-19.Rajan evaded direct responses to questions on centralisation of power and the authoritarian way of governance in India.“I do believe that decentralisation is important both for bringing more local information to work but also about giving empowerment to the people. What you see across the world is a great sense of disempowerment. Decisions are being made elsewhere, but not by me,” he said.However, Rajan stressed the need for social harmony, saying India cannot afford to have its house divided in challenging times.“Social harmony is a public good. Having everyone believe that they are a part of this system, an equal part of the system is essential. We cannot afford to be a house divided especially in these times when our challenges are so big,” he said.For his part, Gandhi said infrastructure connects people and that gives opportunity, but if there is division and hatred, that disconnects people.“There is an infrastructure of division and hatred and that causes as big a problem,” the former Congress chief added.On opportunities after the Covid-19 situation, Rajan said India can help mould dialogue post-pandemic to make space for multi-polar global order. “There will have to be rethinking on everything in global economy once we are out of this pandemic. India can find opportunity for its industry and supply chain in the world. It can also help make its voice heard in the global order,” he added.However, Rajan sounded caution when Gandhi asked him if India can take advantage of the situation due to pandemic.“These kinds of incidents rarely have positive effects for any country, in general. There are ways countries can take advantage of. What I think we can say is that there will have to be a rethinking of everything in the global economy once we are out of this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-65-000-crore-needed-for-poor-during-covid-19-we-can-afford-it-raghuram-rajan/story-0VIr0BAoK1w81Y6N4V4p6M.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Entertained several generations’: Politicians, leaders condole Rishi Kapoor’s demise||Bollywood veteran actor Rishi Kapoor passed away in Mumbai on Thursday after losing his fight with cancer. Kapoor, 67, breathed his last at the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital in Mumbai. Brother Randhir Kapoor confirmed the news.Scores of politicians and diplomats took to Twitter and expressed their grief on the passing away of the great actor. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Kapoor “entertained several generations of Indians throughout his career”. “What a terrible loss.. My condolences to the grieving family. May God bless his soul,” Kejriwal tweeted. Deeply saddened by the sudden demise of actor Rishi Kapoor. He entertained several generations of Indians throughout his career. What a terrible loss.. My condolences to the grieving family. May God bless his soul.Union minister Smriti Irani recalled her last meeting with the actor. “... and that’s how i’ll remember him. Prodding you to do your best, caring for the little things, teaching you the craft no matter how old you were on the job,” Irani tweeted. This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor. A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans all over the world, at this time of grief.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote, “This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor. A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans all over the world, at this time of grief.”In 2014 he told me ‘bhag jaldi Dilli pagal ‘ for he knew I’ve been summoned to take oath. The last I saw him was on a set and that’s how il remember him. Prodding you to do your best, caring for the little things, teaching you the craft no matter how old you were on the job.. pic.twitter.com/ZDtGr7etxHCongress MP and senior leader Shashi Tharoor condoled the sad demise of his “senior schoolmate at Mumbai’s CampionSchool”.Saddened to hear that my senior schoolmate at Mumbai's CampionSchool, Rishi Kapoor, whom i competed with in "inter-class dramatics" in 1967-68, has gone to a better world. From the romantic hero of "Bobby"to the mature character actor of his last films, he evolved remarkably. RIP pic.twitter.com/9eyzE0qP38“Rishi Kapoor, whom i competed with in “inter-class dramatics” in 1967-68, has gone to a better world. From the romantic hero of “Bobby”to the mature character actor of his last films, he evolved remarkably. RIP,” Tharoor posted on Twitter. “You made a little hut in Gulmarg an iconic place with one song,” former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee paid her tribute to the actor. She said that Rishi Kapoor endured his illness with dignity and grace. From Bobby to Karz to Zamane Ko Dikhana Hai, your movies & some of the dialogues have been such an integral part of my childhood. You made a little hut in Gulmarg an iconic place with one song. Farewell @chintskap & thankyou for the memories. #riprishikapoor“Deeply shocked & saddened at the demise of the iconic & versatile film actor #RishiKapoor. A National Film Award winner, he acted in more than than 150 films. He endured his illness with dignity and grace. My condolences to his family, friends, fans & the entire film fraternity.A message released by Kapoor’s family said, “Our dear Rishi Kapoor passed away peacefully at 8:45 am IST in hospital today after a two-year battle with leukaemia. The doctors and medical staff at the hospital said he kept them entertained to the last”. National Film Award winner Rishi Kapoor was diagnosed with cancer in 2018. The actor was in New York for more than a year for treatment and returned to India in September 2019. His health had frequently been in focus ever since his diagnosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-evolved-remarkably-entertained-several-generations-politicians-leaders-condole-rishi-kapoor-s-demise/story-WgGJQT1MQzuCYh2yj9G5wN.html
30-04-2020||India||India can lead global dialogue on ‘rethinking’ economy after Covid-19 crisis: Raghuram Rajan tells Rahul Gandhi||In an interaction on Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan discussed the many aspects of the coronavirus crisis that plagues the world and has gripped the country.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said people’s minds are full of questions around the ongoing coronavirus crisis and what is going to happen with the economy.“I thought an interesting way to answer some of those questions would be to have a conversation with you,” the Congress leader said.In one of his questions, Gandhi asked if there will be any strategic changes after the coronavirus pandemic which India could use to its advantage. Rajan said that incidents like the Covid-19 pandemic rarely have any positive results for any country. However, the crisis will enable a “rethinking of everything in the global economy”.“India can assume the leadership role in shaping that dialogue, to be a leader in that dialogue,” Rajan said.“There will have to be a rethinking of everything in the global economy once we are out of this. If there is an opportunity for India, it is in shaping that dialogue and in being the leader in that dialogue. India is not one of the warring parties but a country big enough to have its voice heard in the global economy,” the ex-RBI governor told Gandhi. Rajan also said that going for a second or third lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be devastating for the country’s economy.“Second or third lockdown will be devastating. It does diminish our credibility. We don’t have to aim for 100 per cent success - it is not possible too - we have to manage the reopening,” Dr Rajan stated.The dialogue with Rajan was first in the series that Gandhi plans to hold with public intellectuals. The session was pre-recorded and shared on Congress party’s social mediums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-lead-global-dialogue-on-rethinking-economy-after-covid-19-crisis-raghuram-rajan-tells-rahul-gandhi/story-qiMSQ4qsQKNs9nXYh98MnN.html
30-04-2020||India||‘Progress in Panchayati Raj lost, moving towards bureaucratic structure’: Rahul Gandhi||A lot of progress made in the Panchayati Raj has been lost, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday.“I am sorry to say, it’s a retreat. A lot of forward movement in Panchayati Raj that had taken place, we are now moving to a sort of bureaucratic, DM-based structure. If you look at the southern states, they are doing a better job because they are actually more decentralised. The northern states are centralising power,” Gandhi said while speaking to former RBI governor Dr Raghuram Rajan on a video dialogue.“I do believe that decentralisation is important, both for bringing local information for work and giving empowerment to the people. What you see across the world is disempowerment, decisions are made elsewhere. Not by me (the common man), I have a vote but that elects somebdy else and my local government or state government has less power,” said Dr Rajan.“The more decisions are taken to people, the more ability they have to keep a check,” he added.During the conversation, Gandhi asked Rajan ways and means on how to revive the economy currently in the grip of a crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic.This is the first in a series of dialogues that Gandhi plans to hold with intellectuals and other public intellectuals.The dialogue was pre-recorded and disseminated by the Congress on social media.Gandhi will also be later having dialogues with health experts on how to deal with the pandemic, besides talking to experts in different fields on the effect of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/progress-in-panchayati-raj-lost-moving-towards-bureaucratic-structure-rahul-gandhi/story-iyXFip7GTQDSDtOY2eQQYL.html
30-04-2020||India||Second or third lockdown will be devastating for India’s economy, says Raghuram Rajan in conversation with Rahul Gandhi||Former governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Dr Raghuram Rajan, has said that if India has to go for a second or third lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, it will be devastating for the country’s economy.“It’s very important to have as much information about the issue as possible. We have to start thinking about starting people’s livelihoods, and it has to be sequenced. The reopening is not just about office, it is also about following social distancing on the way to and coming back from your workplace,” Dr Rajan said while speaking to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on a video dialogue.“Second or third lockdown will be devastating. It does diminish our credibility. We don’t have to aim for 100 per cent success - it is not possible too - we have to manage the reopening,” Dr Rajan added.The dialogue with Rajan was first in the series that Gandhi plans to hold with public intellectuals. It included a detailed discussion on the state of the economy and how to revive it in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic.“To really be confident about reopening up of economy, you have to triple up the number of tests which is currently happening in India. You have to have about a million tests, if you want a confidence like the United States,” Dr Rajan added.The dialogue was pre-recorded and disseminated by the Congress on social media.A slew of changes in the Congress party has recently been interpreted by many party leaders as a sign of Gandhi’s return to presidency. Most recently, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi constituted an 11-member consultative group under former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s leadership to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic and to formulate the party’s views on them.The group also includes Rahul Gandhi, Randeep Singh Surjewala, KC Venugopal, P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari, Jairam Ramesh, Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate and Rohan Gupta. This is the first time Rahul Gandhi has become a member of a party panel since he stepped down as the Congress chief last year. The group has been holding extensive meetings and offering suggestions to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on how to address the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-or-third-lockdown-will-be-devastating-for-india-s-economy-says-raghuram-rajan-in-conversation-with-rahul-gandhi/story-IDgqUS9ISnvCC2xzsaHNEJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Over 4000 cases in Gujarat, Maharashtra heads towards grim milestone||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 33,050 on Thursday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 23,651 active coronavirus cases in the country, 8,324 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,074 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 9,000-mark and now near 10,000 while national capital Delhi is fast catching up with Gujarat, the second worst-affected state. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 9915 Covid-19 coronavirus cases, Maharashtra inches towards another grim milestone - of 10,000 cases. It already has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 432 deaths so far while 1593 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 4082. While 197 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 527 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 3439 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 56 people have died from the infection while 1092 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2438 on Thursday. The state has reported 51 fatalities, and 768 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2561 positive cases of coronavirus. 129 people have died from Covid-19 here while 461 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2162 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1210 recoveries and 27 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar Pradesh2134 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 510 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 39 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1332 positive Covid-19 patients and 287 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.TelanganaOver 1,000 (1012 to be exact) positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 367 people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 758 on Thursday. There have been 22 deaths and 124 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 581. Eight people have died from the infection while 192 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 535 Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths. 216 people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 495 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 369 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 310 and 357 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 19 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. Two hundred nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 90 in Punjab.In Bihar, 392 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 65 patients have recovered. Odisha has 125 Covid-19 positive patients, 39 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 107 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 19 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 55 coronavirus patients, 36 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 25 have recovered. Assam has reported 38 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 29 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 38 cases of coronavirus and 34 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 56 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 15 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 16 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-over-4000-cases-in-gujarat-maharashtra-heads-towards-grim-milestone/story-Wow8sJbBseKsWE6uTSnZXL.html
30-04-2020||India||Over 1,700 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours take India’s tally to 33,050||The number of Covid-19 cases increased by 1,718 in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally up to 33,050, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of deaths went up to 1,074 after 66 more people died of the disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8 am on Thursday.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 23,651, while 8,324 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals, the ministry said.Maharashtra has the highest number of cases, and is inching towards the 10,000-mark.Out of the 66 deaths reported since Wednesday evening, 32 were from Maharashtra, 16 from Gujarat, 10 from Madhya Pradesh, three from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Tamil Nadu and Delhi, and one from Karnataka.Maharashtra now tops the tally with 432 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 197, Madhya Pradesh at 129, Delhi at 56, Rajasthan at 51, Uttar Pradesh at 39 and Andhra Pradesh at 31.The toll reached 27 in Tamil Nadu, 26 in Telengana, 22 in West Bengal while Karantaka has reported 21 deaths and Punjab 19.According to the ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra with 9,915 infections, followed by Gujarat with 4,082, Delhi with 3,439, Madhya Pradesh with 2,561.Meanwhile, the Union government on Wednesday issued guidelines to enable the return of migrants to their home states by buses - a move welcomed by many states.In a tweet late on Wednesday night, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, “New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come.”A person familiar with the development said that the ministry had a comprehensive meeting on the lockdown, scheduled to end on May 3, and assessed that there had been “tremendous gains” so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-700-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-take-india-s-tally-to-33-050/story-8Ln2eeX10ly4kmB6SEVQrK.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: India set for biggest repatriation op of stranded diaspora, releases online forms||With the registration forms being active today on the Indian embassy website, an exercise to gather the exact number of stranded Indians in the United States, the Indian government has given a clear indication that it is all set to undertake what could be the biggest repatriation operation of stranded Indian diaspora from not just the United States but also from other countries amid the coronavirus crisis.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here A senior official told ANI that the Indian missions will be asked to compile a list through this registration and repatriation will be coordinated with respective states. This registration exercise would help the Government of India to obtain relevant information in respect of Indian nationals wishing to travel to India for “compelling” reasons.As the clamour for repatriation is rising from hundreds of thousands of Indians in the virus-hit countries, ANI learns that the GoI has listed some categories, who would be given priority and will get the first seats in special repatriation flights, followed by the students stranded in foreign countries.As the government is continuously assessing the situation and working on all possible options, it is still not certain when and how will Indian citizens stranded in the United States will return home.“The Middle East will first be the focus. We are still formulating if the citizens stranded will be airlifted by the Air India or commercial flights,” the source further told ANI“On landing in India, every citizen will be screened to figure out if the person should be sent to quarantine centres or straight to the hospital,” the official added.The source further said: “The exact number of Indians stranded in the United States is still to be gathered, but the New York jurisdiction of the Indian mission alone has more than a million Indians, who have shown a willingness to return to their homes.”Click here for complete coronavirus here Amid the coronavirus fears, thousands of Indians have expressed willingness to come back to India, but due to the suspension of air operations and other modes of travel, they have been stuck there.Despite media speculations, there is no official confirmation of any evacuation flight from the US to India till now. ANI learns the main purpose of this information sheet is to collect actionable data on Indian nationals willing to travel to India urgently, should an opportunity like this arise.The Indian government would ideally want this data/ information sheet to be filled preferably by Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-india-set-for-biggest-repatriation-op-of-stranded-diaspora-releases-online-forms/story-KiTwSs6yBbuvuDOz1vrZIL.html
30-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Coronavirus RNA airborne, but unlikely to be infective, shows Study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Coronavirus RNA airborne, but unlikely to be infective: StudyScientists in China have found genetic fragments of the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in airborne droplets in medical and staff areas during the outbreak in February and March in two Wuhan hospitals, but they stopped short of saying the disease is airborne. Read more. Tremendous gain in Covid-19 situation, considerable relaxations after May 3, hints CentreThe Centre has indicated that after the Covid-19 lockdown ends on May 3, there will be “considerable relaxations” in many areas.The Centre’s announcement - the first such official indication of what to expect after May 3 - came hours after the government relaxed the norms for migrant movement. Read more. Nations that mandate TB vaccine may have lower Covid death ratesCountries that mandate the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine for newborns to prevent tuberculosis, including India, Peru, Portugal and Saudi Arabia, have fared 3.4 times better on the Covid-19 fatality rate (CFR) than nations that haven’t made the vaccine obligatory. Read more. Antiviral drug remdesivir could hold promise in fight against Covid-19: StudyAn investigational antiviral drug could hold promise in devising a treatment for Covid-19. In a trial, evaluating 5-day and 10-day dosing durations of the drug remdesivir in coronavirus patients, it was found that the administration of the drug in patients with a severe manifestation of Covid-19 achieved improvement. Read more. ‘Happened due to a misunderstanding’: Kamran Akmal on Asia Cup clash with GambhirPakistan’s wicket-keeper batsman Kamran Akmal has been known in cricketing circles both for his ability with the gloves and bats as well as for being a chatterbox behind the stumps. Read more. Natalie Portman, Angelina Jolie on Irrfan Khan’s death: ‘I remember the intensity of his commitment, and his smile’Hollywood actors Natalie Portman and Angelina Jolie have shared condolences on the death of Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan. He died on Wednesday in Mumbai at 53. Read more. Facebook hits record 3 billion monthly users on its servicesFacebook earlier today reported its Q1 2020 earnings where the company witnessed a slow growth owing to the pandemic.It however hit a record 3 billion monthly users who are on its suite of apps including Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. Read more. RIP Irrfan Khan: The actor par excellence and his famous quotes on society, work and the craft of actingAs we bid adieu to the master of the craft, here are some of his famous lines that he shared on acting, life, success, society, hope and just being human at the end of the day. Read more. Covid-19: India begins testing possible cure on patients at PGI ChandigarhIndia’s premier scientific research body announced Covid drug trial. CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine’s director spoke on the trials. Sepsivac, a new drug used against sepsis, being tried on Covid patients. There are going to be 3 different kinds of trials on various sets of patients. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-coronavirus-rna-airborne-but-unlikely-to-be-infective-shows-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UjayEZEYn8monmhv4UFpRJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Mumbai Police pays tribute to Irrfan Khan with an important message||The Mumbai Police found a creative way to remember actor Irrfan Khan, who passed away on Wednesday.In a tweet early on Thursday morning, the Mumbai Police paid tribute to the actor as well as conveyed a message to stay at home during the Covid-19 lockdown.“Re-Meme-Bering Irrfan. You have given the world many ways & means to keep you alive in our memories!” the Mumbai Police tweet said. It was posted with hashtags #RememberingIrrfan #StayHome #StaySafe #TributeToTheLegend #RIPIrrfanKhan. Re-Meme-Bering Irrfan You have given the world many ways & means to keep you alive in our memories! #RememberingIrrfan #StayHome #StaySafe #TributeToTheLegend #RIPIrrfanKhan pic.twitter.com/cxQfmrcKOAThe tweet had two pictures of Irrfan Khan with the actor gesturing in negative to the message of ‘loitering during lockdown’ and smiling at ‘Irrfan Khan movie marathon at home’ message.Khan died on Wednesday after a two-year battle with a rare form of cancer. He was 53.One of India’s finest and most versatile actors, Khan is survived by his wife Sutapa and his sons Babil and Ayaan.The actor, who died at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, was buried at the Versova graveyard around 3 pm in the presence of his family and friends such as directors Tigmanshu Dhulia and Vishal Bhardwaj. The numbers were restricted in view of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The Rajasthan born actor was diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumour in 2018, a rare form of cancer that attacks various parts of the body.There was an outpouring of grief from all quarters, including politicians, sport stars, civil servants as well as his colleagues and his many fans in India and abroad.President Ram Nath Kovind said the actor was a “rare talent” and his characters will always be remembered by the audiences.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Irrfan will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. His demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre, Modi wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-pays-tribute-to-irrfan-khan-with-an-important-message/story-KCtJ2v1p1XmmnhoqkT8tbP.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Plan to use malaria drug in Mumbai slums temporarily shelved||A plan to give the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to thousands of people in Mumbai’s crowded slums to prevent coronavirus infections has temporarily been shelved, officials said Wednesday.Health officials in Mumbai said that a test to prove the efficacy of the much touted but largely untested drug was still in the cards, but that for now they would follow federal Indian guidelines.India, which reached the grim milestone of over 1,000 deaths from the virus on Wednesday, is one of the few countries that has pushed for the use of hydroxychloroquine, as a precautionary measure among high-risk groups such as health care workers or people who have come in close contact with COVID-19 patients.Mumbai, one of the world’s most densely populated cities, has struggled to contain the spread of the virus, and has over 3,000 cases. In Mumbai slums like Dharavi, which is Asia’s largest, social distancing is nearly impossible. In response, the state government had said it would conduct a clinical trial to test the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine on slum residents.But experts pointed to the scant evidence for the efficacy of the drug and the risks it poses, and questioned the ethics of using hydroxychloroquine on a vulnerable population. Dr. Daksha Shah, Mumbai’s deputy executive health officer, said that officials would now follow guidelines set by India’s top medical research body, and that they were waiting for approval to test the drug.The state government has now said that hydroxychloroquine — which has been touted by President Donald Trump — can be given only after patients consent to taking it while knowing the risks involved. It added that adverse reactions need to be immediately reported to authorities, and that doctors must sign off on giving the drug to those with heart ailments, diabetes or blood disorders.But concerns remain over India’s policy of using the drug as a precautionary measure. India’s National Task Force for COVID-19 issued a statement on March 22 that said its decision to allow the use of the drug was based on “risk-benefit considerations, under exceptional circumstances” and was “derived from available evidence of benefit as treatment and supported by preclinical data.”After the statement was issued, health workers in Mumbai, like other parts of India, began taking hydroxychloroquine. The drug was also given to healthy police officers in the city.But experts say there is no evidence that the drug is a preventative tool against COVID-19. Even for the treatment of diagnosed patients, hydroxychloroquine has shown no benefit.An analysis of 368 patients in U.S. veterans hospitals published earlier this month reported more deaths among those given the drug versus standard care.“If there is no evidence ... why are scientific bodies pushing this drug and giving the impression to the public that there is a magic bullet, and this is your last hope?” said Dr. Shriprakash Kalantri, an epidemiologist in the west Indian state of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-plan-to-use-malaria-drug-in-mumbai-slums-temporarily-shelved/story-8tgG6ToV6y4KNefQ3qURwN.html
30-04-2020||India||India hints curbs will be eased, migrants to return home: Covid-19 news today||India indicated on Wednesday that restrictions will be eased in many districts after May 3, when the extended national lockdown is scheduled to end. The government also issued guidelines to enable the return of migrants to their home states by buses. Meanwhile, scientists in China said they found genetic fragments of the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in airborne droplets, but stopped short of saying the disease is airborne.Considerable easing next week, says govtIn a tweet late on Wednesday night, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, “New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come.” Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia, Peru, Portugal, and Ecuador are clustered between the 15th and 20th positions in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases. The number of cases in the four countries, on Wednesday morning, was 31332, 31190, 24322, and 24258 respectively. Read more 9 districts with high case loads lack adequate facilities: CentreA document created by the health ministry and shared with states and union territories on Wednesday caused a flutter after it was circulated on social media and showed that nine of the 23 districts with a high load of Covid-19 cases don’t have enough health facilities. Read more Areas not affected by Covid mostly in rural areas: DataWhen the nationwide lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease ends, restrictions are likely to be first eased in predominantly rural areas of India, a Hindustan Times analysis shows. This is because the green zones, or districts not affected by the pandemic, are mostly in rural areas. Read more Metro trains to have contactless ticketing to curb Covid-19 spreadThe government is likely to do away with single token tickets and plans to allow the use of only contactless individual smart cards for travelling on metros when these services resume, officials aware of the matter said. Read more Punjab extends lockdown till May 17; curbs to ease for 4 hoursPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday that a curfew will stay in force in the state for two weeks beyond May 3, when the national lockdown for the Covid-19 is due to be lifted. Read more Airport guidelines to bring more checks, reduce rushOnce restrictions on passenger flights are lifted, airports will facilitate limited domestic and international flights in phases, may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said in a set of guidelines for resumption of services once the lockdown is lifted. Read more UGC issues new guidelines to keep academic year on trackStudents can be graded based on their performance in internal assessment tests and the previous semester, the University Grants Commission said on Wednesday, in one of many suggestions aimed at keeping the academic schedule on track in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreInside Dharavi: India’s largest slum and a major Covid hotspotIn the past month, Mumbai’s Dharavi, India’s largest slum, has emerged as a major hot spot of Covid-19 cases. The first case was reported in this slum on April 1; the number of cases have since rapidly increased -- to 344 in a span of just 29 days, along with 18 deaths. Read more Nations that mandate TB vaccine may have lower Covid death ratesCountries that mandate the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine for newborns to prevent tuberculosis, including India, Peru, Portugal and Saudi Arabia, have fared 3.4 times better on the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) than nations that haven’t made the vaccine obligatory. Read more Antiviral drug shows some hope in US govt-run studyGilead Sciences Inc. said early results from a US-government-run study showed its experimental drug to treat coronavirus helped patients recover more quickly than standard care. Read more Study finds fragments of virus in airborne dropletsScientists in China have said they found genetic fragments of the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in airborne droplets in medical and staff areas during the outbreak in February and March in two Wuhan hospitals, but they stopped short of saying the disease is airborne. Read more The collective punch to get Dingko to Delhi for treatmentOn March 25, the Covid-19 pandemic brought upon a countrywide lockdown and the closure of air travel for three weeks. On April 14, the lockdown was extended by another three weeks; fiery boxer turned coach Dingko Singh Dingko was trapped at home, with no way to get treatment. He was running a high fever and was growing weaker. Read more Half of the world’s workers could lose livelihoods: ILONearly half of the entire global workforce is in immediate danger of having their livelihoods destroyed by the coronavirus pandemic, the International Labour Organization (ILO) warned on Wednesday. Read more US GDP shrinks, set to worsenThe record-long US economic expansion is over after almost 11 years, with what’s likely to be the deepest recession in at least eight decades now under way. The world’s largest economy shrank at a 4.8% annualised pace in the first quarter, the biggest slide since 2008. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hints-curbs-will-be-eased-migrants-to-return-home-covid-19-news-today/story-0zHF3sBTNlj0l3IJJooYHO.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Haryana to adopt district level strategy to start industrial operations||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday that the state would be divided into two zones for giving impetus to economic activity. Khattar said that in 15 districts where the number of coronavirus positive cases is less than 10, a district-level strategy would be adopted to start industrial operations. In the remaining seven districts, namely Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh, Sonipat, Panipat, Palwal, and Panchkula, the strategy would be made as per the block and town level. No economic activity would be allowed in the containment zones, the chief minister said.Khattar said that those industrial units that follow social distancing norms and carry out their operations with less than 50% labour strength, can extend their working hours from 8 to 12 hours. The CM added that such industrial units should pay double salary to their workers for working overtime as per section 59 of the Factories Act, 1948.CM Khattar also said that all brick kilns have been allowed to function and presently around 2.07 lakh labourers are working at these kilns. Besides this, various industrial units have been restarted wherein approximately 5.5 lakh workers are employed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-haryana-to-adopt-district-level-strategy-to-start-industrial-operations/story-y4XhLs794i8UPhvLmL9wcI.html
30-04-2020||India||Tremendous gain in Covid-19 situation, considerable relaxations after May 3, hints Centre||The Centre has indicated that after the Covid-19 lockdown ends on May 3, there will be “considerable relaxations” in many areas.In a series of tweets, the Union Home Ministry spokesperson said that a comprehensive review meeting was held on the lockdown situation in the country where it was found that there have been tremendous gains and improvement in the Covid-19 situation due to the lockdown till now.“New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come,” the home ministry spokesperson tweeted.However, in the same series of tweets, the MHA spokesperson said that there was a need to maintain a strict lockdown till May 3 so that the gains are not squandered away. New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come.#Corona Update#StayHomeStaySafe @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIAThe Centre’s announcement - the first such official indication of what to expect after May 3 - came hours after the government relaxed the norms for migrant movement. The decision on migrants came on the 36th day of the national lockdown, amid hundreds of thousands of migrant workers stranded away from their home or returning home on foot, and demands by states seeking policy clarity.The MHA, in an order, said that migrant workers, students, tourists, pilgrims and other persons stranded in other states, should be allowed to move, and issued a protocol on how this should be done.The first guidelines were issued on March 24 immediately after the prime minister announced the lockdown for 21 days.The guidelines, issued under the Disaster Management Act by the Union Home Secretary, specified the people and services exempted from the lockdown.On Wednesday, the number of Covid-19 hotspots in India came down to 129 from 170 a fortnight ago, but in the same period the number of infection-free districts or green zones too decreased from 325 to 307.During this time, the number of non-hotspot districts, also known as orange zones, increased from 207 to 297.On April 15, the Centre had declared 170 districts across 25 states and Union Territories as coronavirus hotspots or red zones. Of these, 123 were hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 with clusters.The government has already allowed industrial activities in rural areas with conditions. Similarly, apart from the shops for the essential commodities, standalone business establishments of non-essential goods were also allowed to open during the lockdown.According to the Union Health Ministry, the number of coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 31,787 and the number of fatalities rose to 1,008 on Wednesday, registering a record jump of 71 deaths in 24 hours.The number of cases too increased by 1,813 between Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremendous-gain-in-covid-19-situation-considerable-relaxations-after-may-3-hints-centre/story-cflUAZp53UhqEIDz5USkBL.html
30-04-2020||India||Warships on standby to evacuate Indians||India has kept three warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indians stuck in West Asian countries as New Delhi works towards implementing an evacuation plan that will also include special flights amid the coronavirus outbreak, officials said Wednesday.These warships are INS Jalashwa and two other amphibious warships, the officials said. “The ministry of external affairs (MEA) is steering the plan. The navy is prepare,” one official said.As reported by HT on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation — India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home.Students will be next, followed by everyone else, including those who were travelling for work, or pleasure.The officials said that the MEA is also in touch with the Indian Air Force (IAF), which has conveyed how it can contribute and what assets can be deployed to bring back the stranded people. The officials said the IAF’s C-17, IL-76 and C-130J aircraft could be pressed into action but it would make more sense for Air India to send its aircraft as they are “better configured to carry passengers and cargo”. “Nothing has been finalised yet,” a second official said.MEA officials refused to comment on the matter.The three warships can accommodate around 1,500 people in all. The Jalashwa can bring back around 800 and the warships can together accommodate 700, the officials quoted above said.“The warships can carry more people but social distancing norms will have to be followed during the proposed evacuation,” one said.A navy spokesperson refused to comment on the development.Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, said, “The military has time and again shown that it has the capabilities to come to the aid of stranded diaspora. We saw that in Yemen recently and in Libya and Kuwait evacuations earlier. With the available capability, we can actually declare ourselves to be a regional HADR (humanitarian assistance and disaster relief) provider.”The armed forces have played an important role in the fight against Covid-19, setting up quarantine centres, providing healthcare facilities and evacuating Indian nationals from other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warships-on-standby-to-evacuate-indians/story-oR8IJSvJy0AM31NDpXEP8I.html
30-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India, Peru, Portugal, and Ecuador are clustered between the 15th and 20th positions in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases. The number of cases in the four countries, on Wednesday morning, was 31332, 31190, 24322, and 24258 respectively; the number of deaths, 1008, 854, 948, and 871. The corresponding death rates were 3.21%, 2.73%, 3.90%, and 3.59%. There is a wide variance in testing rates — from a low of 559 per million population in India, to 37,223 per million population in Portugal — and, of course, the countries are very different, in terms of population and economic development; yet, here they are, clustered together in terms of number of cases and deaths. (All the data is from worldometers.info).Correlation isn’t causation, but it’s interesting to note that India, Peru and Portugal have almost universal coverage of the BCG vaccine — given to children to fight tuberculosis, and which helps them build immunity to several other respiratory ailments. Ecuador used to give its children the vaccine, but stopped it. There has been a lot of speculation, and some research on whether people who have been administered the vaccine have some level of immunity to the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. Australia has started a study that will cover 4,000 health workers (who will be administered the vaccine) to assess whether there is a relationship between the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin injection and the rate of Covid-19 infection.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHow does one read the death numbers in India? The country crossed 1,000 deaths on Tuesday and on Wednesday night, the number stood at 1,076, which translated into a death rate (as a proportion of those infected) of 3.25%. This works out to 0.9 deaths per million population. Any which way you look at the number, it is low. Sweden, where the number of cases stood at 19,621 on Tuesday (2,355 deaths) presents an interesting comparison. The death rate (as a proportion of those infected) in Sweden is over 12%; per million of population it is 230. Yet, because it did not lock down (even school terms continued) — it did issue guidelines on social distancing, but left the enforcement to its people and businesses — the country likes to see its response to Covid-19 as a success (and indeed, this is evident in some of the coverage regarding Sweden’s strategy in dealing with the pandemic). At this point in time, at least to this writer, those numbers do not indicate a success at all; in the trade-off between lives and livelihoods, Sweden seems to have swung too much towards the latter.Sweden, an entire country, has a population of a little over 10 million.Dharavi, Mumbai’s biggest slum, has a population of around 850,000, 8.5% of Sweden’s. The slum has a population density of around 354,167 people per sq km (it is spread across 2.4 sq km). On Wednesday, the number of cases of Covid-19 in the shanty town, which is also home to thousands of small businesses, and where almost all residents use communal toilets, touched 344(18 deaths). That should worry the local corporation and the Maharashtra government (see page 6).Anecdotally, across Indian cities such as Ahmedabad, Indore, Jaipur, Agra, Delhi, and Mumbai, clusters of infections have appeared in neighbourhoods that are crowded and congested, and which are, in most cases, not exactly the cleanest. The link between hygiene and health was always known, but many people chose not to act on it. The Covid-19 pandemic will no longer give them that choice — and the onus is as much on municipal corporation and city officials as it is on the residents of these boroughs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-uWRar73hAXk490HdznG49J.html
30-04-2020||India||IT min asks MHA to consider mobile goods as essentials||Responding to demands from the mobile manufacturing industry, the IT ministry has asked the home ministry to consider broadening the definition of essential goods to include information and communications technology (ICT) products. In a meeting with industry players, associations and chambers of the electronics goods market on Wednesday, Union minister of electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said the ministry had taken note of the demand from mobile manufacturers and taken it up with the home affairs ministry. The mobile manufacturing industry, which is staring at losses of over Rs 20,000 crore asked that the definition of essential goods be broadened to include mobile and networking products, and allow their online and offline sales. Pankaj Mohindroo, chairman of the Indian Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA) said that the industry has come to a standstill. “The industry is in deep trouble with production losses of ₹20,000 crore, and as all plants are closed, exports losses have mounted to Rs 2500 crore and 2.5 crore phones are lying dead or unrepaired,” Mohindroo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-min-asks-mha-to-consider-mobile-goods-as-essentials/story-xyU6TJPXaXuxutynVNHsjP.html
30-04-2020||India||Kerala bizman killed himself: Dubai cops||Dubai Police have confirmed that a prominent businessman from Kerala committed suicide last week, Gulf-based media outlets reported on Wednesday.Brigadier Abdullah Khadim Bin Sorour, director of Bur Dubai police station, told Khaleej Times that businessman Joy Aarakkal committed suicide by jumping from the 14th floor of a building on April 23.Arakkal was the managing director of Dubai-headquartered Innova Group of Companies. He is survived by his wife Celine and children Arun and Ashly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bizman-killed-himself-dubai-cops/story-zptFV7gXWsgs8LET2FNaOK.html
30-04-2020||India||One of Indian cinema’s greats takes his final bow||Irrfan, the virtuoso Bollywood actor who made a mark in Hollywood as well, died on Wednesday in the presence of his family in Mumbai, having added to his legacy until the final rounds of a hard-fought battle with cancer over two years.The 53-year-old actor was on Tuesday admitted to the intensive care unit at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital where he was under observation for colon infection. He had been battling cancer since 2018, when he was diagnosed with a neuroendocrine tumour.Irrfan had lost his mother on April 25 but could not be present for her funeral in Jaipur due to the nationwide lockdown. Filmmaker Shoojit Sircar was the first to tweet about Irrfan’s death. “My dear friend Irrfan. You fought and fought and fought. I will always be proud of you.. we shall meet again...” Sircar wrote.Irrfan’s family later issued an official statement, saying: “...A man of few words and an actor of silent expressions with his deep eyes and his memorable actions on screen. It’s saddening that this day, we have to bring forward the news of him passing away. Irrfan was a strong soul, someone who fought till the very end and always inspired everyone who came close to him...”Irrfan, who dropped the surname Khan in 2016, was buried at the Versova burial ground. He is survived by his wife, writer-producer and his NSD classmate, Sutapa Sikdar, and sons Babil and Ayan. In March 2018, Irrfan shared the news of being diagnosed with a rare form of cancer for which he underwent extensive treatment for a year in the UK. He returned to India in February 2019 and shot for Angrezi Medium, his last film. Released in March, the film bore the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic and was later re-released on an OTT platform.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Irrfan will be remembered for his versatile performances across different mediums. His demise is a loss to the world of cinema and theatre, Modi wrote on Twitter. Superstar Shah Rukh Khan called him a “friend...inspiration & the greatest actor of our times”.Born in Jaipur, Irrfan aspired to become a cricketer and was even selected for the CK Nayudu Tournament for emerging players under 23, but fate had something else in store, as the tournament was shelved, and in 1984, he joined the National School of Drama. Though Irrfan made his acting debut in 1988 with a small role in Mira Nair’s Salaam Bombay!, it took him more than a decade to be recognised as a commercially viable actor and secure his place in the Hindi film industry. In between, he worked in a number of TV soaps including Banegi Apni Baat, Chanakya, Chandrakanta, Shrikant, Bharat Ek Khoj and Darr.With a career spanning three decades, Irrfan is celebrated for Hindi films such as Haasil (2003), Maqbool (2003), Life in a... Metro (2007), Paan Singh Tomar (2012), Lunchbox (2013), Haider (2014), Piku (2015), Hindi Medium (2017), Blackmail (2018), among others.One of the most recognizable Indian faces in the West, Irrfan also worked in a bunch of British and American films including Slumdog Millionaire (2008), Life of Pi (2012), The Warrior (2001), A Mighty Heart (2007), The Amazing Spider-Man (2012), Jurassic World (2015) and Inferno (2016).Irrfan won the National Film Award for Paan Singh Tomar and, in 2011, was conferred the Padma Shri, India’s fourth highest civilian honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-indian-cinema-s-greats-takes-his-final-bow/story-F11heE2sPTSN7NmKu5Cu1L.html
30-04-2020||India||BJP, Congress blame each other for protecting wilful defaulters||The government and the opposition Congress sparred over technicalities of dealing with India’s bad loan mess and economic offenders on Wednesday. Top leaders in the BJP camp contended that the central government did not waive loans of wilful defaulters, while the Congress stuck to its guns and alleged that the government’s handling of the issue benefited economic fugitives such as Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has sought to corner the government over the issue, should take economics lessons from his party colleague and former finance minister P Chidambaram.“The Narendra Modi government has not waived off any loan (as alleged by the Congress). Write-off (what has been done) is a normal accounting process. It doesn’t stop recovery or action against defaults,” Javadekar said. According to a finance ministry official who did not want to be named, such write-offs are a “technical necessity to keep banks’ books in order”. “It should not be anyway construed that the government has waived these loans. In fact, legal actions have been initiated against all the wilful defaulters,” this person added. But veteran Congress leader Chidambaram wondered why the government wrote off loans of embattled businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya, who are fugitive economic offenders. “You can technically write off the loan…One is not denying that there is such a rule…But why do you apply that rule to wilful defaulters who have fled India…that is the question,” he told reporters.Chidambaram said he asked the government in Parliament to divide non-performing assets, or NPAs, based on three periods — given before 2004 in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, between 2004 and 2014 (in the Congress rule) and after 2014 (in the present government). He said he did not get any answer.The controversy erupted on Tuesday after the Congress party alleged that the Centre waived loans worth ~68,607 crore of 50 top defaulters, including Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. Citing a right to information (RTI) reply from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Congress said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in power waived loans worth ~6.66 lakh crore after coming to power in 2014 till September last year.Explaining the difference between writing off and waiving a loan, Pavan Kumar Vijay, the founder of legal and corporate advisory firm Corporate Professionals Group, said: “Waiving is like a loan amnesty where a borrower has no liability against the loan. Write-off is an accounting procedure in case of a bad loan where a lender (bank) takes a hit only in its book but the liability of the borrower continues.” A loan account is declared NPA if a borrower is unable to service the loan for over 90 days, Vijay said. “In that case, the lender has to make a provision in its book for accounting purpose as per RBI IRAC (Income Recognition and Asset Classification) Guidelines. As per RBI, in case of insolvency the minimum write-off is 50%. But, the liability of borrower or the defaulter continues in full,” he said.Defending her government, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman took to Twitter late on Tuesday, detailing the action taken against Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. She too argued that no loan was waived. Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi are facing legal action for a ~13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud. Vijay Mallya, who is facing extradition proceedings in London, defaulted on loans worth ~9,000 crore and fled India in March 2016. Modi is too is facing extradition proceedings in London. Sitharaman said the government attached or seized properties worth ~18,332.70 crore in cases involving the three fugitive economic offenders. The government is pursuing wilful defaulters, and has filed 9,967 recovery suits and 3,515 first-information reports (FIRs) against such offenders, she added in a series of tweets.Sitharaman said the Congress “attempted to mislead people in a brazen manner”, adding that it’s typical of the party that resorts “to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context”.“@INCIndia and Shri. @RahulGandhi should introspect why they fail to play a constructive role in cleaning up the system. Neither while in power, nor while in the opposition has the @INCIndia shown any commitment or inclination to stop corruption & cronyism,” Sitharaman said.She said commercial banks wrote off ~145,226 crore between 2009-10 and 2013-14, when the Congress-ruled United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power. “Wished Shri. @RahulGandhi consulted Dr. Manmohan Singh (who was then the prime minister) on what this writing-off was about,” she said.Referring to media reports and quoting former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, she said a large number of bad loans originated in the 2006-2008 period in the Congress rule, and “too many loans were made to well-connected promoters who have a history of defaulting on their loans...”Her response triggered a series of tweets by Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala. He asked whether the RTI reply from RBI to activist Saket Gokhale stated the facts, and questioned why the government was writing off “bank loans of absconders and frauds”.“And @nsitharaman ji, Cleaning the Banks of people’s money by writing off loans of absconders & fraudsters is not called ‘cleaning the system’. ... It’s called weakening the entire Bank architecture fiscally & imprudently, if not maliciously,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-blame-each-other-for-protecting-wilful-defaulters/story-pJsA06m4KLEQTSrCEhxQGJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Considerable easing next week, says govt||Even as it indicated that restrictions will be eased in many districts, after May 3, when the extended national lockdown is scheduled to end, the Union government, on Wednesday, issued guidelines to enable the return of migrants to their home states by buses — a move welcomed by many states. Both suggest that the Centre is now looking at relaxing the lockdown, in a phased manner. In a tweet late on Wednesday night, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, “New guidelines to fight #COVID19 will come into effect from 4th May, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come.” A person familiar with the development said that the ministry had a comprehensive meeting on the lockdown, assessed that there had been “tremendous gains” due to the lockdown so far, full strictness shall be observed till May 3; and that there will be new guidelines with relaxations which will he communicated soon. While no specifics were offered, in the backdrop of statements that the government is focusing on resuming normal economic activity in green zones — which are currently unaffected by the coronavirus disease — it is likely that restriction will be eased in these regions. The centre’s announcement — the first such official indication of what to expect after May 3 — came hours after the government relaxed the norms for migrant movement. The decision on migrants came on the 36th day of the national lockdown, amid hundreds of thousands of migrant workers stranded away from their home or returning home on foot, and demands by states seeking policy clarity. The MHA, in an order, said that migrant workers, students, tourists, pilgrims and other persons stranded in other states, should be allowed to move, and issued a protocol on how this should be done. All states, the order said, should appoint nodal authorities who should register stranded individuals in their states. The sending and receiving states should then consult and agree with each other about “movement by road”. Those who wished to travel had to undergo screening, and only those who were asymptomatic could proceed. The order said that buses shall be used for enabling movement — and these should be sanitised and social distancing maintained in their seating arrangements. The states and union territories on the way shall allow the movement of such buses. On Wednesday, Hindustan Times reported that Uttar Pradesh was planning to embark on an exercise to transport a million of its residents, all migrant workers, stuck outside the state back. Emphasising the protocol to be followed once the stranded individuals get home, the order said, “On arrival at their destination, such person(s) would be assessed by the local health authorities, and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires the person(s) to be kept in institutional quarantine.” The order stipulated periodic health check ups, and encouraging all such individuals to download the Aarogya Setu app. The move comes just days after chief ministers in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the plight of migrant workers and difficulties they were facing. This was also a concern voiced by state chief secretaries in a meeting with the cabinet secretary, Rajiv Gauba, over the weekend. Close to five million workers would have to be brought back to their respective states, as per the data collected by the state governments till Tuesday afternoon. There have been reports of thousands of migrants walking hundreds of kilometres to get home; in other instances, there have also been reports of disquiet and anger building up among migrant workers, and even spilling over on to the streets, as happened in Surat, where workers clashed with security personnel. An official involved in the discussions in framing the guidelines pointed out that such a federal framework was necessary to ensure smooth transit through different states and setting a standard protocol for such operations. The guideline will be useful for states that were grappling to find ways to bring back its workers or students stranded outside. Some states had, in consultation with each other, began the process of getting back their residents — while others, such as Bihar, had wanted the Centre to frame guidelines. Officials also pointed out that while the Centre had imposed a federal ban citing provisions under The Disaster Management Act (NDMA), 2005, the same law also stipulates Centre’s role in “evacuation, rescue, temporary shelter or other immediate relief”— the one which has been used to erect temporary shelters across the states for migrant workers. According to a second official, the government also looked into a 1979 law, the inter-state migrant workmen act, while trying to find solutions to the migrant worker crisis. The law also gives the Centre sweeping powers to give directions to the states.Commenting on the fresh guidelines for migrants, Yamini Aiyar, president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research, said, “The MHA guidelines to facilitate inter-state travel for migrant labour to go home, if they choose to do so, is significant step in the direction of restoring the rights and dignity of hundreds of thousands of Indians who have suffered deeply since the lockdown was imposed.” The next crucial measure, Aiyar said, that needed to be implemented “on a war footing” was the universalisation of food distribution and building a portable social security architecture. “This will ensure that the crisis India has witnessed this last month is never repeated.”The move was welcomed by the states. Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the decision of the Centre was in keeping with state’s request. “The Centre has taken a positive decision on our request. This will help a great deal in bringing back the interested migrant population stranded in different states. Following the Centre’s guidelines is in the interest of everyone. Bihar government has always followed the directions issued under the disaster management act,” he added. Others also pointed to the challenge involved in the exercise. Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said it would be a huge task as over 900,000 people, including workers and students, from the state were stranded and willing to come back. “I have seen the notification. It’s big number. We need to deliberate on their safe transit and post-transit measures as per covid-19 protocols,” he said.Earlier in the day, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren spoke to railway minister Piyush Goyal requesting him to provide train service to bring back students and migrant workers stuck in other states. But the Centre’s guidelines have clearly specified that movement has to happen through road, using buses, and thus has ruled out the possibility of resumption of immediate rail services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/considerable-easing-next-week-says-govt/story-VoiwbtleylpCfk4wp3lcpL.html
30-04-2020||India||SC says minority colleges not exempt from NEET||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that colleges run by religious minorities will not be exempt from the common National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to graduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses across India.Institutions like Vellore’s Christian Medical College (CMC) have been at the forefront of efforts to ensure their right to hold separate entrance examinations. The college cited Constitution’s Articles 25, 26, which relate to the freedom of religion, and the specific right of religious minorities to administer their educational institutions under Article 30 to seek an exemption from NEET.A host of private educational institutions and deemed universities joined the CMC in challenging the NEET, saying it violated their rights under Article 19(1)(g) that relates to the practice of any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. “Minorities are as much part of the nation as the majority, and anything that impinges upon national interest must necessarily in its ultimate operation affect the interests of all,” a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and MR Shah said in a unanimous 108-page order against the exemption. The court noted Parliament introduced the NEET to eradicate corruption in medical admissions, whose victims were meritorious students.The Supreme Court upheld the NEET in 2016 and the only question left for consideration was whether the common test infringed upon the minority rights. It accepted the right of religious minorities to govern their institutions but made it subject to the larger public interest to promote merit, achieve excellence, and curb malpractice prevailing in the admission process including the sale of seats. Several Constitutional decisions have laid down strict protection for minority institutions. The bench cited a 2016 Constitution bench ruling in Modern Dental College case in which the top court said that minority rights must give way to the larger public interest of students. Moreover, if an exception is made, there will be no end to such claims for holding multiple examinations, the bench said.The NEET came into force within a month after the Supreme Court upheld it in April 2016. By way of amendment, it was incorporated as Section 10D in the Indian Medical Council Act and Dental Council Act.The court ruled that rights available to minority institutions under Article 30 and that of private colleges under Article 19(1)(g) will not be impacted by imposing NEET as the uniform test is intended for the proper functioning of institutions and to ensure the maintenance of high standards of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-minority-colleges-not-exempt-from-neet/story-3cELZCkNByCQq56gfsE8YO.html
30-04-2020||India||Scrap Dibang Valley project: Activists||Nature conservationists on Wednesday petitioned the environment ministry to reject the 3,097 megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley that will entail the diversion of luxuriant forest land, felling of tens of thousands of trees and pose a threat to the region’s rich biodiversity.Conservation India, a non-profit website on wildlife and nature conservation, sent a memorandum with 4,305 signatures to the ministry, asking it to deny environmental clearance for the project. The signatures were received only in the past three days, the portal said.Wildlife biologists and scientists including Nandini Velho; Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; Aparajita Datta, senior scientist at the Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF); Anindya Sinha, a professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, and others wrote at least four letters last week to the ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) flagging massive biodiversity loss if large hydropower projects were allowed to go ahead in Dibang Valley.FAC has considered granting forest clearance to the Etalin hydropower project at a meeting last Thursday; the minutes of the meeting are yet to be released. The project will involve diversion of 1,150.08 ha of forest land and clearing of .270,000 trees in subtropical, evergreen and broad-leaved rainforests.Dibang Valley is home to a genetically distinct population of tigers, over 75 species of other mammals, and 300+ species of birds, including many endangered ones, Conservation India said in its memorandum. The valley is part of the Eastern Himalayan Global Biodiversity Hotspot, which is one of only 36 such hotspots in the world. In addition to tigers, the greater region of Dibang Valley harbours mammals including the clouded leopard, Asiatic golden cat, Asiatic wild dog, red panda, Mishmi Takin, red goral, and Gongshan Muntjac.Rapid bird assessments in the region have found endangered species such as the Blyth’s tragopan, Sclater’s monal, rufous-necked hornbill, Ward’s trogon, Hodgson’s frogmouth, beautiful nuthatch, wedge-billed babbler and the recently discovered Mishmi wren-babbler. “There is consensus amongst scientists that the rise in zoonotic diseases (such as Covid 19) and acceleration of climate change is linked to biodiversity and forest destruction,” the memorandum said, adding that the proposal should be scrapped.According to FAC’s own factsheet, the project falls under the richest biogeographical province of the Himalayan zone and one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions with luxuriant forests and rich flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”“We have received some letters and memorandums from people but we don’t know if they are from scientists. They are all in the same format and have similar wording. Some have names signed, others don’t,” said a senior environment ministry official and FAC member. “To be absolutely sure about the project we have asked for some information from agencies on the area. The minutes of the FAC meeting will be out soon. We haven’t taken a decision on the project yet.”HT reported on April 23 that an FAC subcommittee, which visited the site in February, had recommended in its report dated April 21 that the Etalin project be allowed on condition that the developer deposits money for wildlife conservation in the area.The project is proposed to be developed by Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited and Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is about Rs 25,296.95 crore, according to the factsheet.“We have been eagerly waiting for this clearance which is a must for grant of forest clearance for the project. The proposal for grant of forest clearance to Etalin project was submitted to environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the FAC meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on grant of FC to the project. We are hopeful that FAC will finally be recommending the proposal for grant of FC,” Bharat Rohra, MD & CEO, Jindal Power Limited, said on April 22 in response to queries from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrap-dibang-valley-project-activists/story-TErkLQh6zvHJgFW3rWdhdO.html
30-04-2020||India||His nomination stuck with Guv, Thackeray sends a distress message to PM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday called Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss his nomination to the state legislative council which has been hanging fire, people aware of the development said.Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is yet to take a call on the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the legislative council.According to a person familiar with the development who requested anonymity, the Shiv Sena chief, in his conversation with Modi, referred to a possible constitutional crisis should the governor not accept the recommendation.Thackeray urged the Prime Minister to intervene in the matter, noting that the country is battling the deadly Covid-19 pandemic and that Maharashtra is the state with the most number of positive cases of the disease.A Shiv Sena leader said on the condition of anonymity that Thackeray apprised the Prime Minister of attempts allegedly being made to create political instability in Maharashtra through non-acceptance of the state cabinet’s recommendation that he be nominated to the legislative council.Because Thackeray is not a member of the legislative council or the legislative assembly, the Maharashtra cabinet had recommended to Koshyari that he be nominated to one of the two vacant seats in the state’s upper house under the governor’s quota.The law demands that a chief minister or a minister who is not a member of either of the two houses be elected within six months of being sworn in. Thackeray took the oath as the chief minister in November soon after his Shiv Sena broke away from the Bharatiya Janata Party and forrmed a post-poll alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress.The Shiv Sena and the BJP fell out because of differences over power sharing.Commenting on the development, a senior BJP functionary said the governor had taken time to seek legal counsel on the recommendation.“Section 151A of Representation of the People Act 1951 lists the rules for the governor’s discretionary power to nominate a person to the legislative council. Legally, election or nomination to vacant seats in the legislative council cannot be done if the remainder of the term of a member in relation to a vacancy is less than one year,” he said.The BJP functionary, who requested anonymity, declined to comment on Thackeray’s phone call to Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-calls-pm-seeking-intervention-into-mlc-nomination/story-VdJvuHjyNeJMPZYuDUwe9H.html
30-04-2020||India||MP count crosses 2,500, experts ask state govt to make testing data public||The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has gone up to 2,560 as 173 patients more people have been diagnosed with the disease since Tuesday even as the government has stopped giving information on testing for three days. The state has so far reported 130 Covid-19 related fatalities.According to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin on Wednesday, 104 fresh cases were reported from Indore alone that has taken the city’s infection tally to 1,476. Indore has reported a bulk of the Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 deaths--65.Bhopal has reported 483 Covid-19 cases. The 14 people who have died of the disease in the city include at least 13 survivors of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, said Rachna Dhingra of the Sambhavna Trust. “The state and the central governments should immediately act to protect the lives of the tragedy survivors.”In a joint statement, public health experts Amulya Nidhi and SR Azad sought a comprehensive bulletin daily citing the government’s move to withhold the testing data since April 27. “Till April 26, there were 8,439 pending test results. A lot of patients have been waiting for a number of days for their test results. But now, as there is no data being given on pending test results and availability of test kits, there is no transparency around the testing...”The statement said the death rate in Madhya Pradesh is the highest in the country. “The India death rate is 3.21%, whereas the fatality rate in Madhya Pradesh is more than 5%. The death rate has been stagnant at around 5% for the last two weeks. The death rate in Delhi is 1.62%, Maharashtra 4.29%, Gujarat 4.79%, and in Rajasthan 2.11%.”Additional chief secretary (health) Muhammad Suleman could not be reached for his comments.An official, who did not wish to be named, said health minister Narottam Mishra has said there would be a jump in the number of cases once or twice before the situation improves. He said the government is not hiding the data but getting information gradually from the districts. “Hence it is difficult to give a clear picture as to how many samples have been collected across the state.”Madhya Pradesh has drawn flak for its handling of the pandemic and is among the states, where the Centre has deputed interministerial teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-count-crosses-2-500-experts-ask-state-govt-to-make-testing-data-public/story-vqZdZTiMLiWMlb4LAIdTPL.html
30-04-2020||India||Access to internet not a fundamental right: J-K||Right to access the internet is not a fundamental right and the degree of access for exercising free speech or for carrying on any trade or business can be curtailed, the administration of Jammu and Kashmir said in the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The submission by the newly created Union territory came in an affidavit it filed in a case seeking restoration of 4G mobile internet services in Jammu & Kashmir.High-speed Internet as been suspended even after the easing of restrictions, including a communication blockades, imposed after erstwhile state was divested of its special status with the revocation of Article 370 of the constitution in August last year. Simultaneously in August, the Centre pushed through provisions reorganising the state into two UTs -- J&K and Ladakh --- with effect from October 31. .Protection of the sovereignty and integrity of India and ensuring security of the country are sound grounds to reduce the speed of the internet, the affidavit said.“The right to access the internet is not a fundamental right and thus the type and breadth of access for exercising the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and/or to carry on any trade or business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India (CoI) through the medium of internet can be curtailed”, it stated.The centre’s affidavit was in response to a plea by a not-for-profit organisation, Foundation for Media Professionals, which said the lack of high-speed mobile internet was causing difficulties during the Covid-19 outbreak with patients, doctors, and the public in general remaining in the dark about the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions related to the pandemic.The petitioner challenged the order issued by the J&K administration on March 26 restricting the internet speed in mobile data to 2G and prayed that 4G internet services be restored in the Union territory.“Various public health practitioners, medical professionals, and doctors have repeatedly expressed their concern about wasting precious time trying to download the latest studies, protocols, manuals and advisories on treatment and management of COVID 19. In some cases, doctors are not able to access these resources at all, due to the internet speed being too slow to download heavy files”, the petition stated.The J&K administration claimed that the submission was misconceived because most of the information relating to Covid-19 can be accessed through fixed line high-speed internet which is available in the Union territory without any speed restrictions.“The information regarding COVID-19 is also available on various social media platforms which can be easily accessed on low speed 2G internet. Various Government websites like website of WHO, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, etc. associated with timely information flow in the form of awareness/advisories/orders can also be easily accessed at Low Speed internet”, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court in a judgment passed on January 10, had held that access to information and the freedom of trade and commerce via the internet are fundamental rights under the Constitution of India. It had, therefore, ordered the central government and J&K administration to periodically review the orders restricting Internet services in J&KJ&K, in its affidavi,t told the court that after the January 10 judgment by the apex court, various orders were passed by the administration gradually lifting restrictions in J&K. Mobile phone services - initially post-paid and thereafter pre-paid – were restored and restrictions on internet access were progressively lifted.The affidavit said a decision as to whether controlled access to the internet is still warranted depends on an assessment of the ground situation.“..post August 2019 constitutional developments, Pakistan handlers, either directly or indirectly, have increased activity on Social media intending to and aiming at disturbance of peace in the region , inciting violence and abetting terror activities”, the document claimed.Increase in internet speed, the centre submitted, will lead to swift uploading and posting of provocative videos and other heavy data files.“High speed internet services (4G) decrease the time of circulation of various photographs, videos, propaganda audios and hence enable the associated content to go viral, with the reaction time of law enforcement agencies to such situations decreasing”, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/access-to-internet-not-a-fundamental-right-j-k/story-BdQq5e5PGmeQsxb5lFWXAN.html
30-04-2020||India||Digital platforms cornering ad revenue from news, govt told||Unfair commercial terms of tech platforms such as Google and Facebook have resulted in these giants cornering 85 % of digital advertising while Indian media companies, whose journalists continue to report fearlessly even in the most challenging circumstances (during the current pandemic), are at the receiving end, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has told the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry.The body and a grouping of radio operators have separately written to the government highlighting the financial crisis their members are facing and sought a support package.In a letter to I&B secretary Amit Khare, INS president Shailesh Gupta has sought the creation of a level playing field for the Indian media organizations vis-a-vis foreign platforms operating beyond the law. If corrective action is not taken, there could be closure of many regional or even national titles, he added.In his letter, Gupta said the operational costs of Indian media organizations were increasing year on year. “More than 85% of the digital advertising of Rs. 15,000 crore last year went to these tech giants, leaving almost nothing for Indian media companies. Indian media companies have been raising this unfortunate situation for years. There is also no transparency regarding advertising rates and the commission from these companies,” Gupta said.The letter reflects growing concern in many parts of the world around how these platforms operate. Last week, after the tech platforms and media companies could not arrive at an agreement on the payment to news media companies from advertising placed around content generated by them but used on these platforms, the Australian government asked the country’s competition watchdog to come up with a solution to how this can be done. In France, the competition watchdog has asked Google to hold talks with news media to arrive at a similar arrangement. In his letter, Gupta mentioned that the Indian media is going through troubled times because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown.“As an essential service, we continue to work overtime during this lockdown to bring the latest news and information pertaining to the pandemic. We are also battling the fake news virus that is prevalent on social media,” Gupta said. His reference is to unsubstantiated and sometimes inflammatory content that sometimes finds its way onto such platforms , which do not have the same responsibility or liability as media firms for the content they showcase. Indian media companies report and produce the news and these tech giants walk away with all the revenue, the INS letter said.Google and Facebook were not immediately available for comments.Gupta’s letter listed several issues which the INS has been raising: tax status of tech platforms, jurisdiction of Indian laws over them, fake news, search results hurting quality journalism and lack of copyright recognition for use of content.Meanwhile, the Association of Radio Operators of India (AROI), has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterating the need for support. The body previously wrote to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar seeking waiver of a year on all licence fee and government charges; the restoration of government advertising on radio; clearance of past government dues; and the deferment of advance payments for 2020-21. AROI said that the I&B ministry had responded to the request with a three-month extension of license fee payments without interest. While this will reduce the pressures on the industry to some extent, the support is much less than what was requested, it said in its letter. The radio operators’ body appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider its demand for a support package for the industry that directly and indirectly employs over 20,000 people. It has requested the Prime Minister’s Office to consider the four points it made in its original letter to the I&B minister. Being a free to air medium, radio again becomes critical for reaching out to the masses regarding government and policy announcements, AROI said adding that the prime minister himself had effectively used the medium.Looking at the current situation, Government support is critical to help radio companies survive the on-going emergency in the short term, till the economy stabilises itself, AROI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-platforms-cornering-ad-revenue-from-news-govt-told/story-BR4ZdosVU2E5TEtDmaMFOK.html
30-04-2020||India||Centre tells its employees to download Aarogya Setu app||The central government has ordered all of its departments to ensure their staff install the Aarogya Setu mobile application and attend offices only if they have been classified as “safe” or “low risk” according to it, according to an order issued on Wednesday.The measure comes ahead of what may be a phased return-to-work period over the next month when the nationwide lockdown meant to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is relaxed in some places. According to the order, all officers and staff, including outsourced resources, must install the application. “Before starting for office, they should review their status on Aarogya Setu and commute only when the app shows ‘safe’ or ‘low risk’ status,” the order says.The order, issued by the Department of Personnel and Training, instructed joint secretaries (administration) across departments to ensure the directions are strictly followed. The Aarogya Setu detects others mobile devices running the programme in its proximity, creating a digital trail of close contact between people that, officials say, can speed up the identification and isolation of people who may have been exposed to Covid-19. The application is similar to what has been rolled out in several countries, such as Singapore. It uses the Bluetooth module in modern-day smartphones to transmit its presence to, as well as record that of others, running the Aarogya Setu programme in close proximity. According to its developers, it creates a risk profile of users by querying the list of devices they came close to against a centralised database of Covid-19 infected persons. Those regarded high risk are advised to self-quarantine for 14 days.The application, downloaded by roughly 80 million Indians, has triggered criticism from privacy experts who say that there is no transparency in how the sensitive personal data collected by the app – address book details and location history – will be used. “There are many problems with the app,” said Apar Gupta, a lawyer at the Internet Freedom Foundation. “There is a privacy concern, and a cyber security one. All the information is stored on a backend server. There may be a possible security threat. People who are working with the government, their movements will be tracked at all times. The only form of restraint is the privacy policy which may be changed anytime,” Gupta said. Independent security researcher Srinivas Kodali said that the app collects “information but doesn’t not provide essential information.” “The app has security features, yes,” Kodali said. “It is an experiment with a good aim that may fall flat. The question remains how is data used and who has access to the data collected. The essential problem is a trust deficit when it comes to the government. It is a surveillance app.” Kodali added that the app isn’t very useful unless a majority of the people download it.According to Arnab Kumar, program director and a member of the Aarogya Setu core team, “the benefit of the app lies in its ability to automatically contact trace”. The app collects the name, phone number, sex, and travel history of the person over the last 30 days. According to officials in government think tank NITI Aayog, the data is stored for around 45 days after which it is deleted if a person is not at risk.“Security and privacy concerns have been paramount while designing the app,” Kumar said. “Each phone number is assigned a unique id and once someone is found Covid-19 positive, the app traces other unique ids the person has come in contact with. Using Bluetooth technology we can determine the time and distance the persons maintained and thus, warn others who may be at risk.” Kumar added that the data is stored with the government and accessible to only those who are directly involved in battling the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-its-employees-to-download-aarogya-setu-app/story-RugfI9ofUzcDKyrGX71pTN.html
30-04-2020||India||Bringing food, dignity to a Bengal village||Each night of the past two weeks of the lockdown, 36-year-old Shyamal Maji has been making frequent trips to the villages and outskirts of Santiniketan and Bolpur town in Bengal’s Birbhum district.His trips were meant to be a secret: he would carry food packets and other essential items like soap and masks, and leave them outside the doors of the huts and shanties of poor residents.“These people are mainly wage labourers, who have lost their livelihoods. They still go out during the day with the hope of earning a living. But at night they return home. I don’t want to earn fame and want to remain behind the wings. I just want to help these poor people. Third, not all of these people would stand in a queue as some feel ashamed to take help. They would rather go hungry,” said Maji.Maji has been running a coaching centre in Bolpur since 2006; each year, his institute receives almost 250 higher secondary and undergraduate students, who receive tuitions on everything from Bengali language to history and political science. It was this network that Maji turned to, in order to get both supplies and help in distributing them. By the middle of the month, Maji formed a team comprising 10 students, who would help distribute rations. “My students, who are scattered everywhere, helped identify the neediest persons in their respective areas. Help pours in from the students itself. Some are employed, and a few come from well-to-families. All of them donate generously. Many chip in with whatever they can, even packets of puffed rice,” Maji said. Till date they have been able to distribute around 250 kilos of rice and 50 litres of cooking oil, he added.Puffed rice is an important ingredient of a popular Bengali dish called, jhal muri, made with vegetables, spices and mustard oil.Each packet that Maji and his students left at doorsteps contained two kilos of rice, potatoes, a few vegetables, cooking oil, salt, puffed rice and a soap. Since the donations are made daily, the distribution team aims to reach at least 10 houses every day. As the police have stopped issuing travel passes, the team tries to arrange for as many two-wheelers as possible, as only one person can ride one vehicle. During the day, they plan out the areas they will cover at night.“Sometimes I see people clicking photos while providing relief to poor people. They will provide one kilo of rice to a poor needy man and 15 people will gather to take a photo. Is that what you are providing the relief for?” he asked. Maji added that without his wife’s support — she helps him pack the kits, for instance — he would not have been able to do this each night. The duo has a four-year-old daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bringing-food-dignity-to-a-bengal-village/story-ltzEVgWie8igFPuyhtOAYJ.html
30-04-2020||India||New govt app for labs to report test data quicker||With discrepancies in reporting of sample testing data found from certain labs, the Union health ministry on Wednesday launched a dedicated real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) mobile based application, for labs to fill the data at the point of sample collection.“It is an app for collection centres to fill data at the point of sample collection, to minimise error in reporting real time data to the government authorities. It was seen that the data was being duplicated as it was sent separately to various authorities involved, such as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and the state government. Now just one time entry will help reach the information everywhere, which will also save the time and reduce other errors such as address, name, and so on,” said a health ministry spokesperson.This application is linked to the main data base operated by the health ministry that will automatically keep updating it.The director general of ICMR, Dr Balram Bhargava, who is responsible for overseeing Covid-19 testing, said, “The app has been made functional and needs to be put to use immediately.”So far, a total of 7695 people have been cured, which takes India’s current total recovery rate to 24.5%. The total number of confirmed cases now stands at 31,332.In the past three days, the doubling rate has been 11.3 days in the country. “…although global mortality rate is around 7%, India is having a mortality rate of around 3%, and around 86% of the fatalities are of persons with co-morbidity. Only 0.33% patients are on ventilators, 1.5% patients are on oxygen support and 2.34% patients are in ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country. In case of any further eventuality, the country is well equipped with isolation beds, ventilators, PPE [Personal Protective Equipment], and masks,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.A present, 288 government laboratories are working along with 97 private laboratory chains, with around 16,000 sample collection centres, and testing around 60,000 samples per day. The government is working to increase the testing capacity to 1 lakh tests per day within next few days.The health secretary, Preeti Sudan, held a review meeting with states through video conferencing on Wednesday, and discussed the functioning of the systems dashboard, Covid-19 portal, apart from releasing the RT-PCR application.The health secretary again directed to states that medical treatment to non-Covid-19 patients should not be denied, and essential care, such as dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetic care, anti-natal care for pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments and other chronic conditions, must continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-govt-app-for-labs-to-report-test-data-quicker/story-5j7ZLU6MteBiFYcfUFrpkO.html
30-04-2020||India||Strong link between coronavirus count, bad air: Study||A University of Verona and Stanford School of Medicine study has found a statistical correlation between highly-polluted areas and Covid-19 infections in Italy, which is among the worst-hit countries by the pandemic. The study, which is yet to be published, has concluded that cities and provinces, where coarse particulate matter (PM 10) exceeded standards for over hundred days a year, were found to be associated with a three-fold higher risk of the disease.The analysis is limited to Italy and does not mention how air pollution and testing positive for Covid-19 are linked. Air pollution in Indian cities is among the worst in the world; capital New Delhi regularly tops the listing of cities with the worst air. Such studies may give researchers and governments an idea about what to look for, but independent scientists underlined that their conclusions cannot be generalised. This is the second study from Italy, which has linked air pollution with Covid-19. Air pollution is likely to be a major risk factor for the lethality of Covid 19, scientists from Italy had concluded in a paper that probed whether atmospheric pollution can be considered a co-factor in the extremely high level of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, lethality in Northern Italy. The paper was published in Elsevier’s journal of Environmental Pollution on April 4. Prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy, which makes people living in polluted areas more susceptible to developing complications. The lethality was 12% in Italy’s Lombardy and Emilia Romagna compared to 4.5% in the rest of the country, the study found.In the latest study, scientists collected air pollution data in Italy from 2019 and the number of Covid-19 cases per province till April 5. The extent of pollution within each specific Italian province was expressed in terms of days per year during which PM 10 or Ozone exceeded their safe levels. “Since several lines of evidence also attest that Lombardy region has an extraordinarily high level of environmental pollution, we aimed to explore the potential epidemiological association between the number of cases of Covid-19 and environmental pollution in Italy…the association remained statistically significant even when the number of days above pollutant limits was correlated with the number of Covid-19 cases per 1000 inhabitants,” said the latest paper published in Medrxiv, a pre-print server for health sciences on April 27.Kalpana Balakrishnan, the director of ICMR Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Sri Ramachandra Institute for Higher Education and Research, cautioned against merely looking for a correlation without adjusting for anything, saying it is not helpful. “The paper does not provide a basis for their analysis,” said Balakrishnan. “I note that this paper is not yet peer-reviewed, and is only available as a preprint.”People with underlying respiratory conditions are more vulnerable to Covid-19 and people in areas with higher air pollution areas are more likely to be affected.Pallavi Pant, a staff scientist at Boston’s Health Effects Institute, said during the earlier severe acute respiratory syndrome episode in the early 2000s, studies had pointed towards such a relationship. “Ideally, we would like to see multiple studies showing these results for the scientific process to work.” Pant has been compiling peer-reviewed and pre-print studies on the link between air pollution and Covid-19. Among the peer-reviewed studies, one in Germany based on spatial analysis of nitrogen dioxide pollution on a regional scale and combined with the number of death cases taken from 66 administrative regions in Italy, Spain, France and Germany, also found a relationship between pollution and Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-link-between-covid-count-bad-air/story-ja0dF98Pt1nJHsiQ7wBdcM.html
30-04-2020||India||Bengal man dies day after Covid-19 negative result||A 70-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, a day after he was readmitted to a hospital in West Bengal when it as found that he had been discharged on Sunday after having wrongly been declared to have tested negative for the infection, his son said on Wednesday. The son said the gross negligence has endangered their family, including a seven-month-old child, as they spent time with him after he was discharged from Kolkata’s designated Covid-19 M R Bangur Hospital.A health department official, who did not want to be named, said all members of the family would now be tested for coronavirus. “It was a human error. The report came positive but got wrongly listed as negative,” said a doctor at the hospital, who did not want to be identified.West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, state health services director Ajay Chakraborty and health secretary Vivek Kumar did not respond to questions about the alleged negligence and whether an inquiry had been initiated.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday admitted to “minor clerical mistakes” and added they should not be highlighted. She did not mention the Bangur Hospital or the alleged negligence. The son said his father was admitted to the hospital on April 22 as he complained of dry cough. “On April 25, I received a call from the hospital at night, saying my father has tested negative and would be released. He was discharged on the morning of April 26 and the discharge certificate had ‘Covid-19 negative’ written on it. However, that very night, hospital authorities telephoned me again, this time to say that there had been a mistake and he was actually [Covid-19] positive. They asked me to bring him back to the hospital,” said the son.The man was readmitted to the hospital on April 27 and died the next day.“Who is responsible for this mistake? They killed my father. Also, what if my children now test positive? My father spent time with them after coming back home. My mother is 63. They are all vulnerable,” said the son.Banerjee said there could be some errors and must be forgiven for the time being. “People are not making mistakes deliberately. This is a new task and a new initiative. Some minor mistakes may happen,” she said without naming the hospital or the patient. “How can you expect that each and every health worker will be totally trained in this short span of time? They can also make mistakes. They can make errors in what they write. There can be a minor error in a notice; a printing mistake. Some are trying to malign the government... All these health workers need at this hour is some appreciation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-man-dies-day-after-negative-result/story-PkMmM06KZhxUY1IPgsXXRN.html
30-04-2020||India||Study finds fragments of virus in airborne droplets||Scientists in China have said they found genetic fragments of the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in airborne droplets in medical and staff areas during the outbreak in February and March in two Wuhan hospitals, but they stopped short of saying the disease is airborne.An important finding of the study was that ventilation and sterilisation brought down airborne genetic shards (RNA) of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, to undetectable levels and reduced the risk of airborne exposure.Small droplets expelled while breathing or talking can remain airborne and infect people who inhale them, said the study, but it could not determine whether the Sars-CoV-2 RNA were harmless or infectious. The study was published in the journal, Nature.“Although we have not established the infectivity of the virus detected in these hospital areas, we propose that SARS-CoV-2 may have the potential to be transmitted via aerosols,” concluded the study that did an aerodynamic analysis of Sars-CoV-2 in two Wuhan hospitals.“Viral RNA of positive strand is theoretically infectious but there are no known cases to my knowledge of RNA-mediated infection. Thus, practically, only intact virus/virion is infectious. Many of these studies that look at viral RNA should be interpreted with caution,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.“Viral RNA is not infective,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organization (WHO), Geneva.Covid-19 spreads primarily from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth, which are expelled when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or speaks, according to WHO. These droplets are relatively heavy and quickly sink to the ground, but people can get infected if they inhale droplets from a sick person or touch contaminated objects and surfaces, then touch their eyes, nose or mouth, said the global health agency.Earlier this month, a high-level US scientific panel said that the virus that causes the disease is airborne and can spread through just breathing and talking, which makes its spread easier and sustainable. The scientists from the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine said the virus can stay suspended in air in the ultrafine mist that is produced when people exhale.On March 17, a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found the virus stayed suspended and infective in aerosol droplets that are below 5 microns across for up to three hours in lab conditions. The aerosolized virus had a median half-life of about 1.1-1.2 hours, similar to the related Sars-CoV, the coronavirus that causeD Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), the study found. The half-life indicates how long a virus can survive in different environments, regardless of how much virus happens to be present at the time of sampling. Infected people, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms of fever, cough or fatigue, also spread the disease to others, with a study from China published in Nature Medicine on April 15 estimating that 44% of infections are spread by people who are not obviously ill.The study from China found that the concentration of Sars-CoV-2 RNA in aerosols detected in isolation wards and ventilated patient rooms was very low, but it was elevated in the patients’ toilet areas, indicating that they need the same level of sanitisation as the intensive care units and isolation wards.“Levels of airborne Sars-CoV-2 RNA in the majority of public areas were undetectable except in two areas prone to crowding, possibly due to infected carriers in the crowd,” said the study, which also found high concentrations of viral RNA with aerosol size distributions in some medical staff areas.The viral RNA, however, reduced substantially to undetectable levels after implementation of rigorous sanitisation procedures. “Our results indicate that room ventilation, open space, sanitisation of protective apparel, and proper use and disinfection of toilet areas can effectively limit the concentration of Sars-CoV-2 RNA in aerosols. Future work should explore the infectivity of aerosolized virus,” the study said.It recommended that for public health prevention and medical staff protection, hospitals must focus on ventilation and sterilisation of toilets as a potential spread source of the virus; personal protection measures for the general public, such as wearing masks and avoiding crowded placed to reduce the risk of airborne virus exposure; and the effective sanitisation of the high risk area in the hospital to limit the transmission of airborne Sars-CoV-2 and protect the medical staff.It highlighted that conversion of a naturally ventilated stadium into a field hospital for patient quarantine and treatment limited aerosol transmission of Sars-CoV-2; as did surface sanitisation of the personnel protection equipment before they are taken off, which reduced the potential infection risk of medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-finds-fragments-of-virus-in-airborne-droplets/story-n1gogl072H2khfCt1zo7AN.html
30-04-2020||India||Red Cross plans log of recovered patients||The Indian Red Cross Society is starting a dedicated database of people who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , and who can therefore be potential plasma donors for convalescent plasma therapy (use of blood from the recovered patients to treat severely sick patents) which can be done under the clinical trial mode. The therapy isn’t approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research as a regular line of treatment and the health ministry said on Tuesday that it can only be done as a trial, with requisite clearances from regulators. Still, the Indian Red Cross’ blood bank has already started receiving queries from relatives of Covid-19 patients looking for plasma from a recovered patient. The society plans to online counselling of short-listed recovered patients to encourage them to donate their plasma for the study.“In a day or two, the Red Cross of India will begin psychosocial counselling of shortlisted recovered Covid-19 patients to prepare them as plasma donors. Our job is to look through the pile of recovered patients, and screen those who could be potential plasma donors. Once shortlisted these people will be counselled by our experts,” says Dr Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), Indian Red Cross Society.The society plans to speak to hospitals to get details of patients who recovered in past one month. After they get the list, it will be narrowed down further to those who will be eligible to donate, and the final list will be recommended to the government.“Ideally we will be looking at the recovery time of 28 days, but anything over 14 is good. Our regular blood donation criteria will apply along with the fact that they should have completely recovered from Covid-19. Eligible donors have to be between 18 and 50 years (of age), with no co-morbid conditions such as heart, kidney disease, diabetes etc. Even women can donate but not those with more than one children as their antibodies don’t work. Unmarried women who fulfil other criteria can also donate,” said Dr Singh.The Red Cross will forward the list of shortlisted possible donors to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi because the actual donation will only happen in a hospital setting.“These people need to be bled in the intensive care unit (ICU) settings because in a stand-alone blood bank one can’t provide the kind of medical support that these people might require. So, the blood donation has to be done in a hospital,” Dr Singh said. The Red Cross will be sharing the database only with approved government facilities.As convalescent plasma therapy has shown promise in helping very sick Covid-19 patients recover, various countries including India are conducting trials to know its true potential as a treatment .Hospitals and research facilities can enrol patients as part of a clinical trial after receiving necessary approvals from the drugs controller general of India.  Union health minister Harsh Vardhan last Tuesday held a video meeting with the Indian Red Cross Society and asked it to contact recovered patients and encourage them to donate blood . However, health ministry has made it clear that the treatment is to be conducted only as part of a trial with the requisite permissions.A section of experts say if the therapy has shown promise then clinical trials can be skipped to save time.“I have been arguing for plasma therapy without a clinical trial, as it is safe to give as compared to other medicines. However, it is critical to properly document the results,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, CMC Vellore.Dr Dharma Choudhary, a senior specialist in bone marrow transplant in India isn’t so sure: “It is a crude way of giving immunoglobulin, which are virus specific antibodies, with a belief that it will probably give some protection. I’d say it will be better than giving a placebo to a dying patient with no hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-cross-plans-log-of-recovered-patients/story-XWtD2N5RtHUYC0SlzXSCmL.html
30-04-2020||India||Nations that mandate TB vaccine may have lower Covid death rates||Countries that mandate the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine for newborns to prevent tuberculosis, including India, Peru, Portugal and Saudi Arabia, have fared 3.4 times better on the Covid-19 fatality rate (CFR) than nations that haven’t made the vaccine obligatory, like Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Ecuador, though the last two still appear to be benefitting from their past use of the vaccine. That’s the finding of a HT analysis of the current fatality rate (CFR) in the eight nations that had between 20,000 and 50,000 Covid-19 cases each on Wednesday morning.The analysis appears to support an yet-to-be peer-reviewed study conducted by a group of US researchers which found that countries without universal policies of BCG vaccination (Italy, the Netherlands and the United States) have been more severely affected compared to countries with universal and longstanding BCG policies such as India and China. The study was published in the preprint health sciences server, medRxiv, on March 28 . Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTo be sure, scientists have not been able to determine a clear correlation between the severity of the coronavirus disease and neonatal BCG vaccination. The World Health Organization (WHO) says that two clinical trials addressing the question of BCG offering protection against Covid-19 are underway.On average, 2.65% of people who have been infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus in the four nations that have mandatory BCG vaccination programmes have died, according to the study. In the four that do not prescribe mandatory neonatal BCG vaccination, an average of 9.19% of confirmed Covid-19 patients have died. This means that on average, a person is 3.4 times more likely to die if he or she gets infected by Sars-Cov-2 in Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Ecuador than in India, Peru, Portugal and Saudi Arabia, .Portugal,which reported 948 deaths from 24,322 cases, has the highest CFR (3.9%). India, with 1,007 deaths from 31,329 cases, has a CFR of 3.2%. Peru (31,190 cases and 854 deaths) has a CFR of 2.7% and Saudi Arabia has a CFR of 0.8% (20,077 cases and 157 deaths). (Chart 1)Ecuador and Switzerland had mass BCG vaccinations programmes until as late as the 1980s. This may be the reason why these two countries fare better than Belgium and Netherlands which have not had mass BCG immunisation in the recent past.Of the four counties that do not insist on mandatory BCG vaccination of newborns, Belgium has 47,334 cases and 7,331 deaths (CFR: 15.5%). The Netherlands has reported 38,416 cases with 4,566 deaths (CFR of 11.9%). Switzerland has a CFR of 5.8% with 29,264 cases and 1,699 deaths and Ecuador has a CFR of 3.6% with 24,258 cases and 871 deaths.The study by US researchers also found that the onset of the coronavirus disease had been abrupt in the non-BCG nations while cases of the disease emerged more gradually in countries with the mandatory vaccination programmes. (Chart 2)Experts, however, said that besides than BCG vaccinations other factors like age, comorbidity, social distancing and lockdowns may be influencing the outcome of Covid-19 cases.“Developing countries may have BCG vaccinations but they also have a younger population. If say 30% of the population is above the age of 60%, then you may expect higher mortality. So, you may think that it is BCG vaccination that is causing the lower death rate, but it just may be the age or the fact that younger people have fewer comorbid conditions. We can’t know for sure just yet,” said T Jacob John, former head of the Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nations-that-mandate-tb-vaccine-may-have-lower-covid-death-rates/story-73iR73VtrWeIqKINhfxkeP.html
30-04-2020||India||Punjab has a turbulent history... we know how to handle this crisis: Manpreet Singh Badal||Punjab on Wednesday announced the extension of the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread until May 17. Manpreet Singh Badal, the state’s finance minister, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about it. Edited excerpts:Why have you extended the lockdown and how will it work?...Punjab has a very large immigrant population and most of them are settled in the first world, which is currently the hotspot of the infection. We were aware of this and we had anything from 70,000-90,000 NRIs [non-resident Indians] visiting their families. We were aware that Punjab could be the troubled spot. So we went for a lockdown before others... At the same time, we are aware that economic activity has to start and we have allowed construction activities to go ahead in rural areas. ... 90% of India’s bicycles, 60% of India’s tractors, 90% of India’s hosiery are produced in Punjab. So we have also allowed the industrial activity to start as long as they can ensure the transportation of labour or the labour can actually be housed within the premises of factories. We are into the harvesting season of wheat and we supply large parts of India’s surpluses. Luckily for us, harvesting wheat is 99% mechanical...Have you ever played chess? There are 32 pieces in a chess game but there are a billion moves that you can play as long as you know how to play. Culturally and historically, Punjab has a very turbulent history... we have been through very turbulent times and we know how to handle this crisis. We know a billion moves, we will try each one of them and hopefully, something will work.How are you responding to the migrant crisis?Punjab has had a culture of langars [community kitchens] and feeding people. So that is not a problem. Most of the migrant labour is also seasonal and come for the paddy transplant season. So we have plan B ready in case we cannot get migrant labour. Before Punjab was forced to become a rice-growing state, we were a major state in cotton production. We are trying to shift a lot of areas from rice to cotton cultivation. And we also will be experimenting with the seeding of rice mechanically. Hopefully, we will be able to overcome the problem of migrant labourers not coming.Are your people being stuck abroad a concern?Our immediate concern was the pilgrims stranded in Nanded in Maharashtra and some of them have tested positive. We have sent government buses to fetch them. We are also concerned about students stuck in Kota and other places. There is pressure on the government to get them back. ...we need our kids back. Punjab has had 330 [Covid-19] cases and it started with the NRIs. I am not blaming them...How are the people likely to react to the lockdown extension?...Punjab is an agricultural powerhouse... those [agricultural] operations are going unimpeded. We have allowed industry and construction activity to start which leaves very little workforce which is not involved in some meaningful activity. Obviously, there are challenges like keeping people at home and away from depression. Second is to get money and food into their houses. The third is trying to move the wheels of the economy and fourth is to try to get some scientific solution so that this can be permanently done away with. So, we are fighting on four fronts. It is a crisis like this that brings out the character of nations and individuals. Every generation has gone through some kind of suffering. So, we are not the first and would not be the last. This also gives an opportunity to Punjab... farmers will have to work in their fields now that there are no migrant labourers. I am happy about that. The entire drug trade supply chain has been broken. We were sitting on two lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains and this is being transported out of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-has-a-turbulent-history-we-know-how-to-handle-this-crisis-manpreet-singh-badal/story-XC9qLJ3MIGTKEZg21dNzCK.html
30-04-2020||India||Govt predicts 3% agri growth in FY 2020-21||India’s farm-sector is poised to grow at least 3% in 2020-21 on the back of robust output and prices, despite the coronavirus pandemic, helping the country escape a potential recession, a top official of the state-run think-tank Niti Aayog said Wednesday.“In this kind of a situation, will agriculture be the sector to rescue the Indian economy? I will share some projections,” Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand, flanked by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said in a webcast. Chand, a farm economist, said indicators show that “the farm sector will grow at least 3%”. This farm growth will contribute at least “0.5% or a little more” to India’s overall gross domestic product (GDP) growth, he said, helping to stave off a recession. In 2019-20, the farm sector grew 3.7%, according to Central Statistic Office.Despite these robust projections, the ongoing lockdown, set to run until May 3, has pressured farmers. The announcement of a nationwide curfew caught farmers by surprise on March 24. During its the initial days, labour shortage and shut markets led farmers to dump new harvest, especially perishables items. Of the 2069 nationally important agricultural wholesale markets in the country, less than 500 were functioning during the first weeks of the lockdown. Within agriculture, restrictions have especially hurt the animal husbandry sector, which accounts for 5% of the country’s GDP. Rumours that chicken were a carrier of the novel coronavirus tanked poultry sales. “With restaurants and hotels shut, there has been at least 25% drop in demand for various farm commodities. Many eastern states, such as Bihar and Jharkhand, aren’t allowing ice cream sales. This has caused a surplus of milk, prompting dairies to offer lower prices to dairy farmers,” said Siraj Hussain, a senior visiting fellow at the New Delhi-based Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Chand’s presentation, however, struck a positive note. “Many countries are expected to post zero or negative growth. For India also, there are many estimates. But the support from Indian agriculture to the economy is going to be very strong,” Chand said.The International Monetary Fund earlier this month slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% estimated in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% earlier. Chand said ground-level indicators point to a robust farm sector. A normal monsoon will see a “strong resurgence” of the agriculture sector, aside from encouraging prices and acreage trends.The India Meteorological Department had forecast a normal June-to-September monsoon, critical for summer crops because 60% of India’s net sown land doesn’t have access to irrigation and nearly half of Indians depend on a farm-based income.Summer sowing is up 38%, Chand said, while fertiliser “offtake” or sales were 5% higher in April from a year ago. Water levels in the country’s main reservoirs were 40-60% higher than the last 10 years’ average, he said. “(Wholesale) prices of various commodities are higher than last year and the prices of vegetables are significantly higher,” Chand said. Tomar said despite a universal lockdown, the agriculture has seen “minimal disruptions” because the government had exempted all farming-related activities. “I think agriculture would perhaps be the only sector which will contribute to India’s GDP growth in FY21. Therefore, agriculture and food processing should receive high priority from the government,” said Siraj Hussain, a senior visiting fellow at the New Delhi-based Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.According to Hussain, although the Centre had issued orders on 27 March and 30 March to ease restrictions on agriculture and related activities, in “many places the orders were not implemented by district magistrates and the local police”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-predicts-3-agri-growth-in-fy-2020-21/story-Fr6mSsB7seDeBR7BaSzKPK.html
30-04-2020||India||Metro trains to have contactless ticketing to curb Covid-19 spread||Passengers travelling in metro trains may not be allowed to use tokens anymore as Centre plans to implement a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards once restrictions on public transport are lifted.The central government is planning a slew of measures to introduce social distancing during metro travel and to ensure minimising risk of spreading Covid-19 by managing space between two passengers, zone-wise queueing, screening and controlling crowds at the stations. These recommendations are part of a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for resumption of metro rail services that are being drafted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. “We are planning to allow the use of metro cards only, make ticketing as contactless as possible and avoid queues at the counter,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.Also read : Don’t allow entry into Delhi without Aarogya Setu App, Lt Guv Anil Baijal toldThe Centre has imposed a lockdown in the wake of coronavirus crisis, suspending all public transport till May 3. Metros, along with passenger trains and flights, have been suspended since March 25. “A review meeting was held on Tuesday by the minister to begin planning on how to run metro services once restrictions are lifted. Please note, services will only resume once the order comes from the home ministry. We have to formulate a plan for whenever services resume,” the official said. “We will need to manage crowds first and foremost. We will need to manage the frequency of the trains depending on the crowd. Unlike railways, we don’t get reserved passengers and hence can’t anticipate the exact rush. We used to get peak rush at this time of the year due to the reopening of the schools and colleges etc. We are not expecting that this time, but it will also depend on the guidelines that are issued for the resumption of offices,” the official said. “We will have to plan our trains accordingly and will also have to figure out ways of maintaining social distancing inside the train. We are monitoring what other countries that have resumed services are doing and should be able to factor all that in. Our guidelines will be ready this week,” the official added. Also read: CISF to go for contactless frisking of passengers at airports, Delhi metroWhile it remains unclear whether the Centre plans to resume public transport from May 3, the railways and aviation ministries are working on plans to resume services once the restrictions are lifted. Travelling in train may come with additional measures of social distancing - arriving early at the railway stations, mandatory usage of masks and thermal screening of passengers. These norms are already being followed for special trains deployed for military personnel. In terms of passengers movement at airports, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) prescribing strict social distancing norms including leaving the middle seat empty.A ‘business continuity plan’ drafted by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has proposed to increase the reporting time for passengers at the airport to 120. The measure has been proposed to ensure smooth passage of travellers through all channels like access control, random screening, check-in, immigration while maintaining appropriate social distance. An SOP being prepared by the CISF for its security personnel also proposes contactless frisking, the use of Aarogya Setu app to identify Covid-19 patients entering security gates, and reduction in passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-trains-to-have-contactless-ticketing-to-curb-covid-spread/story-jf0Lq9exqKLQVUBtxFNC3L.html
30-04-2020||India||Rs 1 lakh crore assistance for MSMEs must: P Chidambaram||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to 63 million Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to help them pay wages and salaries to 110 million people for the month of April.For larger companies, he added, the government should announce a “Paycheque Protection Programme” on the lines of the one done by the United States.“This is not a legislation but a financial assistance package,” Chidambaram said, addressing a news conference through video-conferencing.“It is bewildering that there has been absolutely no financial package or assistance announced for businesses since the onset of Covid-19. The government may have the luxury of time but the MSMEs do not. They need to know right away whether they will be helped to stay afloat and thereby pay salaries and wages to those dependent on these businesses,” he said.“Tomorrow is the last working day of the month. More than 120 million people of India are waiting with bated breath. They want to know if they will be paid their salaries and wages for the month of April. There is palpable tension and rising uncertainty among the working people of India and their families,” Chidambaram said.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on April 25 wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package for the revival of MSMEs and warned that if problems of the sector are not addressed it could have a devastating effect on the country’s economy.She said MSMEs are suffering a loss of around Rs 30,000 crore every day due to the nationwide lockdown and efforts should be made to revive these as they are the backbone of the economy.The letter followed deliberations within the party’s 11-member consultative group, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, on the revival of the MSME sector hit hard by the ongoing nationwide lockdown being implemented to contain the deadly coronavirus pandemic.“How will these people feed themselves and their families without an income? These 110 million people’s livelihoods are in danger now because most of the employers are unable to pay wages and salaries. The businesses have had no sales this month and their payments to their vendors are also stuck, leaving the vendors also in distress,”Chidambaram said.“Large swathes of the private sector are faced with what economists call an extreme liquidity shock. Furthermore, these businesses are also unsure about their future. They do not know whether they can continue their businesses or will be forced to shut down permanently. The time to make bold decisions to save the MSMEs is now. If businesses do not see hope, they will decide to close.” The former finance minister also recommended a “Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for MSMEs that will help them to go to the banks and borrow money.” Elaborating on the Paycheque Protection Programme, the former finance minister said according to the income-tax department, there are roughly 10 million people with a salary income of less than Rs 3,50,000 a year or Rs 30,000 a month.“Assuming an average salary of Rs 15,000 a month for these 10 million people, the total cost comes to Rs 15,000 crore for the month of April. This is not a large sum to protect the livelihoods of 10 million people who have filed tax returns and paid taxes in the past, and can be easily found. The government must announce a Paycheque Protection Program right away to protect the salaries of these 10 million employees.”The Congress also suggested waiver of employers’ contributions to the employees provident fund (EPF) and employees state insurance (ESI), on a temporary basis, for the next three months, he said, adding this will assist in reducing the payroll costs of employers and retaining the workforce.“Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large scale retrenchments and layoffs which will devastate livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people,” Chidambaram said.“We urge the Prime Minister to step in urgently and announce an assistance package to protect the wages and salaries and pay cheques that are due in the next few days,” he added.A BJP functionary said the government is already working out the plan for helping MSMEs. “MSME minister Nitin Gadkari has already assured that the government is thinking of formulating policy to help the sector in all possible ways. The government is also looking at setting soon setting a Rs 1-trillion revolving fund for MSMEs to bring in much-needed liquidity,” the BJP functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1l-cr-assistance-for-msmes-must-p-chidambaram/story-NFVCyls151IRWOzyPJKhIJ.html
30-04-2020||India||12 pilgrims, 4 students test +ve in Punjab||Twelve pilgrims and four students, who have returned to Punjab from Hazur Sahib shrine in Maharashtra’s Nanded and Kota (Rajasthan), have tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, and Faridkot. Ludhiana’s civil surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga, said all patients from the district tested positive were asymptomatic. He said their reports have been received from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and shared with the Indian Council of Medical Research, which will issue an official statement. The authorities have quarantined 56 pilgrims and 25 students, who returned from Nanded and Kota, in Ludhiana while test results of around 50 people were awaited. Two women and a child were found positive for the infection in Hoshiarpur’s Moranwali. In Faridkot, two women in their 60s were admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said two of the 20 people, who returned to Faridkot from Hazur Sahib, have tested positive while reports of 18 others are awaited. “These pilgrims were quarantined at a government school after their return and we have initiated the contact tracing.”A group of 20 returned from Maharashtra on Sunday and belong to Faridkot’s Sandhwan village. They had gone for the pilgrimage there in March and got stranded because of the Covid-19 lockdown.Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said around 50 more people are expected to arrive from Nanded and they have made arrangements to quarantine them as well.Around 3,000 pilgrims from Punjab had been stranded in Hazur Sahib after the imposition of the lockdown. They have been returning in batches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-pilgrims-4-students-test-ve-in-punjab/story-rFm1ZLehz9IsCtcqRVpoMO.html
30-04-2020||India||Airport guidelines to bring more checks, reduce rush||Once restrictions on passenger flights are lifted, airports will facilitate limited domestic and international scheduled flights in phases, may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said in a set of guidelines for resumption of service once the lockdown is lifted. Flight operations are likely to be scaled up in a gradual manner towards their previous level, according to the government’s plan. Airline operations are likely begin in Tier-I cities first, the statement added. “Initially it is presumed that airline operations will be limited to Tier-I cities i.e. metros and some of the state capitals & major Tier-II cities. The flights schedule may be cleared on city pair basis, so the origin and destination airports are open fully ,” said the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for recommencement of operations at AAI airports after the lockdown. At airports with more than one terminal, initially only one terminal shall be used and larger terminals can be scaled down to reduce cleaning area, considering limited availability of material resources, the SOP stated. “Immediately after the lockdown is lifted, or as per government directives in this direction, the scheduled flight operations will commence. Hence, all airports are required to be in preparedness to handle the flight operations,” it added. Strict social distancing norms will be introduced inside the planes to ensure space between two passengers, Hindustan Times reported on April 9. According to the SOP, passenger seating arrangement shall be done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing (1- 1.5 m) between passengers. “Sufficient staff shall be deployed near washrooms (in airports), X-Ray machines, conveyor belts etc. to guide passengers to maintain sufficient distance,” it said. Alternate check-in counters may also be introduced to avoid congestion. “Queue at counters shall be managed by airlines staff to manage sufficient distance among passengers. Also, check-in counters may be opened well in advance to stagger the crowd,” it said. Social distancing (1-1.5 meter) markings and stickers will be provided at airports. Based on social distancing norms, airports will work out terminal building capacity and forward it to AAI so that the slots can be accordingly allocated by airline operators for the scheduled flights can be done. Food and Beverage Services and retail outlets will be limited till operations of airlines gradually increase. “Initially they should serve tea/coffee etc. with take away snacks in boxes,” it said. India has suspended international flights since March 22 while domestic flights were grounded from March 25. The current lockdown period is scheduled to end on May 3 , although it is not clear if flights will resume immediately. There will be a need for coordination with respective state governments and local administrations to ensure availability of proper public transport and private taxis for passengers and airline staff to reach the airport, the SOP said. “Also, coordinate with the respective local administration to ensure that petrol and diesel is adequately available for sustaining operations at airport,” it added. The guidelines also said that the hours of operation of airports would initially be limited. “Airlines are required to file their schedule with DGCA and simultaneously apply for slots at CHQ for approval well in advance to operate within the limited watch hours to be made available at airports, as initially the summer 2020 schedule cannot be fully implemented. The slots will be provided for ensuring staggered operation based on capacity restriction of terminal buildings to facilitate required social distancing,” the SOP said. CHQ stands for Central Headquarters.Recommencement of international flights should be also done in a similar coordinated manner, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airport-guidelines-to-bring-more-checks-reduce-rush/story-tElVXAaxr04fJCJNJTlRfJ.html
30-04-2020||India||Areas not affected by Covid-19 mostly in rural areas: Data||When the nationwide lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the Coronavirus disease ends – for now it is expected to end on May 3 – restrictions are likely to be first eased in predominantly rural areas of India, a Hindustan Times analysis shows. This is because the green zones, or districts not affected by the pandemic, are mostly in rural areas. This also means the economy of these regions is largely agriculture driven; they are also not hubs of migration.The government on April 15 classified 170 districts as Covid-19 hotspots -- those which have reported large outbreaks or multiple clusters of cases -- and 207 other districts as non-hotspot areas, those where only limited clusters of cases were reported. This leaves more than 300 of the country’s 731 districts which were not affected by the pandemic, classified as non-infected districts or green zones.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, in a meeting with chief ministers, placed particular emphasis on green zones, saying these regions would contribute to economic activity while practising social distancing, which is widely seen as a sign that lockdown will continue in red zones while there can be further relaxations in the less affected regions.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAlthough nearly every second district in the country is classified as a green zone, these districts are home to only a third of India’s population, according to the 2011 Census. Of India’s 1.21 billion people, about 376 million people live in the districts now classified as green zones. These are predominantly rural areas – while nearly 69% of India’s population lives in rural areas, the share of rural population in the green zones is relatively higher at 84%.To be sure, this is a close approximation for present times because the population figures would have changed since the Census was last conducted, and some district boundaries have also changed since then.That more than half of the confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported from 15 predominantly urban districts of India – including in Delhi and Mumbai – also points to the fact that it is the rural areas that are relatively less affected by the pandemic.The pattern is similar across big states, which is to say that the share of rural population in a state’s green zone districts is relatively higher than the overall share of rural population in the state. For instance, the overall share of rural population in Maharashtra is 55% but the share of rural population in its green zones is nearly 74%. Kerala is the only exception to this among big states where the share of rural population in green zones is less (33%) than its share in the total population (52%).No big urban cluster is part of the green zones. In fact, there are a very few green zone districts with significant urban population, such as Yaman district of Puducherry (no rural population), the uni-district union territory of Lakshadweep (22% rural population), Kozhikode district of Kerala (33% rural population) and Imphal West district of Manipur (38% rural population).The working population in the green zones is largely engaged in agriculture. According to the 2011 Census data, the green zones were home to nearly 150 million workers, of whom about 100 million (or 67%) were cultivators or agricultural labourers. The share of cultivators and agricultural labourers outside the green zone was 18 percentage points less at 49%.Also, there were more than 37 million people who had migrated between states for reasons other than marriage, according to the 2011 Census. Of these, only 13% (or 5 million) had migrated to any of the green zone districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/areas-not-affected-by-covid-mostly-in-rural-areas-data/story-hR05kiFItBP7oq7nC2u9EM.html
30-04-2020||India||Most states back easing of restrictions in green zones post-lockdown||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced that businesses like hardware, tea, mobile, book and electrical appliance shops will be allowed to operate in green zones that have reported no Covid-19 cases in the state. “No relief can be offered to salons and barber shops,” said Banerjee. She said buses can ply in green zones if they carry only 20 passengers to ensure social distancing. West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said 16 jute mills have been allowed to resume operations.Achyut Chandra, vice president of the Eastern India Corrugated Box Manufacturers Association, said some industries located outside the containment zones in Kolkata and Howrah were operating with limited manpower. Officials in Andhra Pradesh said 80% of the total 676 revenue blocks in the state come under green zones, where all activities could be allowed after May 3 when the national lockdown to check the pandemic spread is scheduled to end. Most of the red zone areas are located in Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna, and Chittoor districts.“We are hopeful about the restoration of more activities in green zones including that of private transport services and other economic activities,” an official in Andhra Pradesh chief minister’s office said. “We hope to see some spurt in the industrial activity after May 3 when more red zones became green.”Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said a modified lockdown would be enforced from May 3 even as all industries activities would be allowed with some restrictions. He said the state government was looking at sectors, such as hospitality and stone mining, that can resume operations with social distancing norms. Jharkhand has directed officials in green zones to resume all industrial activities in consultation with local businesses. “We have initiated several measures in villages... The economy will pick up in rural areas soon,” said rural development minister Alamgir Alam.He said the government will come up with norms to restart the bidi industry, which is the third biggest employer in rural India, especially in West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. Alam said the government was thinking about permitting sweet and meat shops to start businesses. “We will not allow non-essential commercial vehicles and passenger cars to ply.”Chhattisgarh plans to restart interdistrict public transport after May 3 to enable small industries to resume operations. “All government offices would resume normal operations from May 4,” said an official on condition of anonymity. He added a final decision in this regard will be taken at a cabinet meeting on May 3.In Bihar, the government is likely to allow some more relaxations to engage migrant workers, who have returned to the state. “It is unlikely that schools, colleges and offices will get back to normal functioning soon but more infrastructure projects may be allowed,” said an official. Goa will allow resumption of all industrial activities from May 3. “Let the borders be sealed. But let local activity start,” a government official said. He added after May 3, they plan to start public transport within the state. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said he will wait for the Centre’s guidelines to ease restrictions after May 3.Himachal Pradesh’s principal secretary (revenue), Onkar Chand Sharma, said the state government has lifted several restrictions on industrial and agriculture activities in the green zones. He added the government will review the situation after May 3 and decide on easing more restrictions.Uttarakhand government spokesman, Madan Kaushik, said the state will take a call on more relaxations in green zones after the Centre notifies new regulations. Most of the industries in Uttarakhand, which have been given permission to operate, have not resumed operations because of tough conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-states-back-easing-of-restrictions-in-green-zones-post-lockdown/story-hdwGrhZ2LhRs3dP0sQLvdL.html
30-04-2020||India||Kerala brings law for temporary salary cuts||A day after the Kerala high court stayed its decision to slash employees’ salaries, the government decided on Wednesday to bring an ordinance in order to make the deductions as part of efforts to raise funds for fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Announcing this, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said extraordinary situations need extraordinary actions, while also giving an assurance to state government employees. “You can’t call it a salary cut. We have made it clear that the amount collected in five instalments will be repaid once the economic condition of the state improved,” he said.The move came a day after the high court stayed Kerala’s decision to deduct salaries of government employees for six days every month for the next five months (totalling 30 days).“All are undergoing a difficult situation. So it is natural that employees will also be a part of the process. We have deducted 30% salaries of ministers, MLAs, board chairmen and others for one year,” Vijayan said.The government order issued to that effect last week said the move will be applicable to employees of all state- owned enterprises, public sector undertakings, quasi-government organisations and universities, among others.Several employees’ organisations owing allegiance to opposition parties moved the court, saying a salary cut at this juncture will trigger more problems for them. Announcing the cabinet decision, finance minister TM Thomas Isaac told reporters on Wednesday: “As per this ordinance, the state government has been empowered to defer 25% of the salary of government employees, in case of a disaster.”The minister, however, made it clear that 25% of the salary would not be deferred and the state government would go ahead with its initial six-day cut plan. Now, governor Arif Mohamad Khan will have to give his assent to the ordinance.“The state government has taken the decision on the ordinance as per the Kerala high court order. We could have gone for an appeal. But, the court said that the government order on deducting salary does not have a legal backing. So, we have decided to make it legal,” he said.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress criticised the move and said the government was taking revenge on employees after it suffered a serious setback in the court.In the backdrop of the controversial government decision, the Registrar General of the High Court has said the state government cannot recover any amount from the emoluments of the Chief Justice and judges through an executive order.The Registrar General wrote to the chief secretary in this regard after the government on April 22 ordered deferring disbursement of salaries for six days every month from April to August of all officials who draw their wages from the consolidated fund of the state.“It may be noted that, as per Article 221 of the Constitution of India, the salaries are paid to the Honourable judges as determined by Parliament and they shall not be varied to their disadvantage after the appointment. Therefore the salaries and allowances of the Hon’ble Chief Justice and judges cannot be varied or deferred by the Government, through an executive order,” the letter dated April 27 said.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-brings-law-for-temporary-salary-cuts/story-pbrfgPK7f64ZvyQrYiQe3H.html
30-04-2020||India||9 districts with high case loads lack adequate facilities: Centre||A document created by the health ministry and shared with states and union territories on Wednesday caused a flutter after it was circulated on social media and showed that nine of the 23 districts with a high load of Covid-19 cases don’t have enough health facilities to cope with the projected number of cases on May 15. While officials from at least four states confirmed the existence of such a document and said it was mainly about the caseloads , health ministry spokesperson Manisha Verma clarified in a statement that the document was “an exercise to tell states to be regular with uploading information on case numbers, health infrastructure, manpower, etc. ... so that it shows on the central database in real-time.” She further added that the document was “not reflective of the actual situation on the ground, in terms of cases vs beds, ventilators, doctors, etc,” and that the document “was created for internal discussion and not meant to be a public document as this doesn’t portray the real picture. “ That doesn’t appear to be the impression the states walked away with, though . One senior health official from a large state said on condition of anonymity that the presentation was to get the states to do more to control the pandemic and to highlight districts where the most pressing challenges would likely be faced in terms of medical infrastructure. “Luckily, we don’t have any district in Punjab in this list as of now. But, to use the old adage, forewarned is forearmed,” said Punjab’s special chief secretary, SBS Sidhu.The total Covid positive cases in these 23 districts on Tuesday were 19,254 on Tuesday, about 62% of the total 31,329 positives cases in the country. By May 15, the health ministry has projected that the total cases with the current rate of growth will increase to 80,210. However, health ministry spokesperson Verma underplayed the accuracy of the numbers and said “the number crunching was done internally just to get a sense of the situation” and that “it doesn’t mean these will be the actual numbers”. However, what’s probably more important is that the document points out the expected shortages of isolation beds with oxygen, intensive care unit beds and ventilator facilities on specific dates for each of these cities. “The projections have been based of the weekly increase in cases in these districts since April 9. The calculation is based on slowing down of the doubling rate in these districts,” a government functionary, who was not willing to be named, said. He said the projection on gaps in health infrastructure was derived from state health department’s daily report on Covid infrastructure. The presentation named Case Load and Infra Gap Analysis showed that Mumbai and its suburban areas, Indore, Surat, Chennai, Krishna, Kanpur Nagar, Kasaragod, Agra and Kolkata are expected to see shortage in health infrastructure between April 27 and May 15, if the Covid cases increased as per the projection.The 28-page presentation was sent to the states a day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) revised its guidelines saying the asymptomatic patients should be put in home quarantine, thereby creating more space for symptomatic and more serious patients in hospitals. Mumbai, which has the highest number of Covid-19 patients, could fall short isolation beds with oxygen supply by May 11, the projection said. With the spike in the cases, Mumbai would be short of 421 ventilators and Pune will be short of 40 ventilators by May 11. Besides, Mumbai will be short of 20,462 isolation beds with oxygen.The state health department, however, dismissed the projection and said that multiple mathematical models have given various projections and said that it is basing its plans on “realistic” assessment.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state may plan to shift asymptomatic patients in Mumbai into home quarantine as per the revised guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“It is being said that beds aren’t available in Mumbai; there have been no such complaints. As per the new guidelines of the ICMR, asymptomatic patients can be kept into home quarantine. In Mumbai, 83% of patients are asymptomatic, it may be possible to shift some of them who are not that severe into home quarantine. Those beds would be made available for more serious patients,” he said.The officials in Pune, where the ministry projected that there can be shortage of ventilators by May 11, said they were working hard to ensure adequate health facilities. Pune’s divisional commissioner, Deepak Mhaisekar, said, “If the present Covid condition of the Pune city worsens I will urge private hospitals to come forward and help. I can assure private hospitals that the administration will support them. We are facing shortage of health workers”A Madhya Pradesh government official said there was no reason to get scared as health facilities in Indore were being ramped up. “In Indore, we have 4704 isolation beds with 200 ICU beds and availability of 65 ventilators,” the official, who was not willing to be named, said. The health ministry presentation said that with cases in Indore likely to double by May 15 from present 1,208, there would be shortage of isolation beds. “Only 32% of the isolation beds are occupied (now). We have informed the health ministry about it,” said the official.According to Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan, an infectious disease specialist at Apollo Hospital who is part of a committee of healthcare and medical experts that consults with the Tamil Nadu government, the state needs more Covid-19 centres to deal with the rise in cases. According to the document, Chennai which has a current case load of 496 (as of April 28) and projected case load of 4141 on May 15 may face shortage of ‘Isolation Beds by May 11.Andhra Pradesh special chief secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said all major government hospitals in the state are fully equipped and if required, the government would take over all the private super specialty hospitals in the state for treating Covid-19 patients. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the number of positive cases in the state would almost become negligible by first week of May as per the health ministry’s projections. Responding to the ministry’s document, Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said the state has made adequate arrangements for equipment and protective gear in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. “I have asked for 1500 more ventilators for the state at a video conferencing with union health minister (Harsh Vardhan),” he said.(With inputs from Sowmiya Ashok in Chennai, Swapnil Rawal in Mumbai, Urvashi Dev Rawal in Jaipur, Ranjan in Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-districts-with-high-case-loads-lack-adequate-facilities-centre/story-nGL2dTUUL0jDHvYKx3Dc9M.html
30-04-2020||India||Access to internet not a fundamental right, Jammu and Kashmir administration tells Supreme Court||Right to access the internet is not a fundamental right and the degree of access for exercising free speech or for carrying on any trade or business can be curtailed, the administration of Jammu and Kashmir said in the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The submission by the newly created Union territory came in an affidavit it filed in a case seeking restoration of 4G mobile internet services in Jammu & Kashmir.High-speed Internet as been suspended even after the easing of restrictions, including a communication blockades, imposed after erstwhile state was divested of its special status with the revocation of Article 370 of the constitution in August last year. Simultaneously in August, the Centre pushed through provisions reorganising the state into two UTs -- J&K and Ladakh --- with effect from October 31. .Protection of the sovereignty and integrity of India and ensuring security of the country are sound grounds to reduce the speed of the internet, the affidavit said.“The right to access the internet is not a fundamental right and thus the type and breadth of access for exercising the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and/or to carry on any trade or business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India (CoI) through the medium of internet can be curtailed”, it stated.The centre’s affidavit was in response to a plea by a not-for-profit organisation, Foundation for Media Professionals, which said the lack of high-speed mobile internet was causing difficulties during the Covid-19 outbreak with patients, doctors, and the public in general remaining in the dark about the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions related to the pandemic.The petitioner challenged the order issued by the J&K administration on March 26 restricting the internet speed in mobile data to 2G and prayed that 4G internet services be restored in the Union territory.“Various public health practitioners, medical professionals, and doctors have repeatedly expressed their concern about wasting precious time trying to download the latest studies, protocols, manuals and advisories on treatment and management of Covid-19 . In some cases, doctors are not able to access these resources at all, due to the internet speed being too slow to download heavy files”, the petition stated.The J&K administration claimed that the submission was misconceived because most of the information relating to Covid-19 can be accessed through fixed line high-speed internet which is available in the Union territory without any speed restrictions.“The information regarding Covid-19 is also available on various social media platforms which can be easily accessed on low speed 2G internet. Various Government websites like website of WHO, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, etc. associated with timely information flow in the form of awareness/advisories/orders can also be easily accessed at Low Speed internet”, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court in a judgment passed on January 10, had held that access to information and the freedom of trade and commerce via the internet are fundamental rights under the Constitution of India. It had, therefore, ordered the central government and J&K administration to periodically review the orders restricting Internet services in J&KJ&K, in its affidavit, told the court that after the January 10 judgment by the apex court, various orders were passed by the administration gradually lifting restrictions in J&K. Mobile phone services - initially post-paid and thereafter pre-paid – were restored and restrictions on internet access were progressively lifted.The affidavit said a decision as to whether controlled access to the internet is still warranted depends on an assessment of the ground situation.“..post August 2019 constitutional developments, Pakistan handlers, either directly or indirectly, have increased activity on Social media intending to and aiming at disturbance of peace in the region , inciting violence and abetting terror activities”, the document claimed.Increase in internet speed, the centre submitted, will lead to swift uploading and posting of provocative videos and other heavy data files.“High speed internet services (4G) decrease the time of circulation of various photographs, videos, propaganda audios and hence enable the associated content to go viral, with the reaction time of law enforcement agencies to such situations decreasing”, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-access-internet-not-a-fundamental-right-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-15PF5bFyoXuoS17FKz5beI.html
30-04-2020||India||Police crack down on Covid-19 ‘misinformation’, activists concerned||Till Wednesday, around 640 cases have been lodged across the country for allegedly spreading rumours and fake news via social media on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic since the government enforced nationwide restrictions --- first, on March 25 for three weeks, and then for another 19 days till May 3 , according to the information provided by police officers from various states.Free speech activists, however, took exception to these nationwide arrests, as they contended that the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been randomly invoked to curb criticism against authorities in the name of the health care emergency.The colonial pandemic law gives sweeping powers to a state government, including arresting people for spreading misinformation, while the Disaster Management Act, 2005, is stricter against any kind of dissent, activists argued.“Sometimes criticism of lack of preparedness or of certain local issues has also resulted in people being booked. Some of these social media posts fall within the permissible limit of freedom of speech under the Constitution. However, state governments are using a high degree of power that goes beyond public health issues to serve the government’s political objective. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Apar Gupta, a lawyer and internet freedom activist.“Bal Gangadhar Tilak was also booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, when he had criticised the then British government for its lack of preparedness to deal with the Spanish flu in 1918-19,” Gupta said. On April 15, Maharashtra Police arrested a local journalist for airing a story claiming that railways had arranged special trains for migrant workers to return home, which led to commotion among labourers at Mumbai’s Bandra station. The reporter, who is based in Osmanabad, Maharashtra, was booked under various sections of IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the police said. In Uttar Pradesh, the police are preparing a charge sheet against a Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and a former member of Parliament (MP) for allegedly spreading misinformation about the viral outbreak after a video surfaced purportedly showing him ridiculing the Yogi Adityanath-led state government’s social distancing advisory.Triveni Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Azamgarh, said the video was an apt case of spreading misinformation and misleading people amid the pandemic. The police would file a charge sheet against the ex-MP shortly, Singh said.In West Bengal, over 100 people have been arrested for spreading fake news and rumours related to Covid-19. Many, however, have been let off after a warning, West Bengal Police officials said.The arrested people include homemakers, students, school teachers, government employees, and traders. The police are scanning social media pages for incriminating posts, said Gyanwant Singh, the inspector general (law and order), West Bengal Police.In Manipur, which doesn’t have a single Covid-19 case at present, the police have lodged cases against 27 people, including a person who allegedly mocked PM Modi’s nine-minute blackout call at 9 pm on April 5, claiming it would result in a breakdown of the national grid, a concern that was also raised by several experts. “We booked the person for spreading false information,” said K Meghachandra, SP, Imphal West. In that district, two office-bearers of the Youth’s Forum for Protection Human Rights were booked for issuing a statement questioning the location of a proposed quarantine facility by the state government. “Later, they were released on bail,” said a police officer.In Assam, the police registered 87 cases against people for spreading fake news on social media related to Covid-19. Altogether, 46 people have been arrested till date. While 12 of them have been released on bail, 16 others have been released under section 41A of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC).Police have removed nearly 1,000 posts from social media that allegedly spread misinformation on Covid-19 over the past month in Assam. Hundreds of youth, who have posted or shared those posts, have also been counselled, a police officer said.The Assam government also filed a case against Jugasanka, a Bengali daily published from Silchar, for carrying a what it said was a false news report about the state’s first Covid-19 positive patient. While the patient was still admitted at Silchar Medical College Hospital, the news story mentioned that he had recovered. It stated that the second test carried on the patient was found negative.The Assam government has constituted a five-member committee “for monitoring and checking of fake news in all forms of media.In Madhya Pradesh (MP), where the Covid-19 positive cases have crossed over 2,000, 108 cases have been registered against people for spreading rumours and misinformation via social media posts. “There is no case against any high-profile person in MP,” said D Sreeniwas Verma, the Covid-19 in-charge and inspector general of police (IGP), MP.On April 18, Telangana Police filed cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, against two Telugu television news channels and their reporters for carrying a report that stated a person, who had tested Covid-19 positive, was staying in Neredmet area in Medchal-Malkajgiri district because he wanted to evade treatment.Both the Telugu channels ran the report for a while, quoting the local police authorities but withdrew it after they failed to confirm the news source.Telangana Working Journalists’ Union state general secretary Virahat Ali said it was not proper to register the cases against the channels and journalists who had carried the report based on the information they had got from the authorities concerned. According to Rajasthan government official data, 177 first information reports (FIRs) were registered in which 251 people were named and 179 have been arrested for spreading misinformation and fake messages.In Himachal Pradesh, 53 people have been booked for spreading false information and fake news via social media posts, said the state’s director-general of police (DGP), Sita Ram Mardi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-500-cases-lodged-in-india-for-social-media-posts-on-covid-19/story-PBaxt7oNs9IdPNUCVRiUUM.html
30-04-2020||India||Man tests covid-19 negative, then positive, called back to hospital. He dies||In a case of alleged negligence, a Covid-19 patient at M R Bangur hospital, a designated Covid hospital in Kolkata, was told he had tested negative and discharged on April 26. Later that very night, the patient was told that there had been a mistake, that he had tested positive and readmitted to the hospital. He died on April 28 at the hospital.The deceased’s son has alleged gross negligence, pointing out that after returning home and the assurance of having tested negative, his father had spent time with his granddaughters, one of whom is a seven-month-old baby.Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, director of health services Ajay Chakraborty and health secretary Vivek Kumar did not respond to questions sent by text messages and WhatsApp about the incident.However, at the state secretariat, without mentioning Bangur hospital, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Wednesday that minor clerical mistakes do take place.“There could be some errors at the ground level. Those must be forgiven for the time being. This is not a deliberate mistake. This is a new task and a new initiative. Some minor mistakes may happen.” She, however, did not mention the name of the hospital or patient.“...There can be a minor error in a notice, a printing mistake. Some are trying to malign the government with these. All that health workers need at this hour is some appreciation,” she added.The man was admitted to the hospital on April 22 as he was suffering from a dry cough.“On April 25, I received a call from the hospital at night, saying my father had tested negative and would be released. He was discharged on the morning of April 26 and the discharge certificate had ‘Covid-19 negative’ written on it. However, that very night, hospital authorities telephoned me again, this time to say that there had been a mistake and he was actually positive. They asked me to take him back to the hospital,” said the son of the deceased, a resident of Bechu Chatterjee Street in North Kolkata.The man was readmitted to the hospital on April 27 and died on April 28.“Who is responsible for this mistake? They killed my father! Also, what if my children now test positive? My father spent time with them after coming back home. My mother is 63. They are all vulnerable,” said the deceased’s son.A senior doctor at the hospital said that the error was not due to defective kits, since those had been sent back. It could not be ascertained whether the hospital is using kits of Chinese origin.“It was a human error. The report came positive but got wrongly listed as negative,” said the doctor, who did not want to be identified.A senior health official, who did not want to be named, said that all members of the family would be tested for novel coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-then-negative-then-sent-home-called-again-then-dead/story-L1BpWpHjpRETX2eDC4tQ8I.html
30-04-2020||India||Coronavirus RNA airborne, but unlikely to be infective: Study||Scientists in China have found genetic fragments of the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in airborne droplets in medical and staff areas during the outbreak in February and March in two Wuhan hospitals, but they stopped short of saying the disease is airborne.An important finding of the study was that ventilation and sterilisation brought down airborne genetic shards (RNA) of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, to undetectable levels and reduced the risk of airborne exposure.Small droplets expelled while breathing or talking can remain airborne and infect people who inhale them, said the study, but it could not determine whether the Sars-CoV-2 RNA were harmless or infectious. The study was published in the journal, Nature.“Although we have not established the infectivity of the virus detected in these hospital areas, we propose that SARS-CoV-2 may have the potential to be transmitted via aerosols,” concluded the study that did an aerodynamic analysis of Sars-CoV-2 in two Wuhan hospitals.“Viral RNA of positive strand is theoretically infectious but there are no known cases to my knowledge of RNA-mediated infection. Thus, practically, only intact virus/virion is infectious. Many of these studies that look at viral RNA should be interpreted with caution,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.“Viral RNA is not infective,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organization (WHO), Geneva.Covid-19 spreads primarily from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth, which are expelled when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or speaks, according to the WHO. These droplets are relatively heavy and quickly sink to the ground, but people can get infected if they inhale droplets from a sick person or touch contaminated objects and surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth, said the global health agency.Earlier this month, a high-level US scientific panel said that the virus that causes the disease is airborne and can spread through just breathing and talking, which makes its spread easier and sustainable. The scientists from the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine said the virus can stay suspended in air in the ultrafine mist that is produced when people exhale.On March 17, a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found the virus stayed suspended and infective in aerosol droplets that are below 5 microns across for up to three hours in lab conditions. The aerosolized virus had a median half-life of about 1.1-1.2 hours, similar to the related Sars-CoV, the coronavirus that causes Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), the study found. The half-life indicates how long a virus can survive in different environments, regardless of how much virus happens to be present at the time of sampling.Infected people, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms of fever, cough or fatigue, also spread the disease to others, with a study from China published in Nature Medicine on April 15 estimating that 44% of infections are spread by people who are not obviously ill.The study from China found that the concentration of Sars-CoV-2 RNA in aerosols detected in isolation wards and ventilated patient rooms was very low, but it was elevated in the patients’ toilet areas, indicating that they need the same level of sanitisation as the intensive care units and isolation wards.“Levels of airborne Sars-CoV-2 RNA in the majority of public areas were undetectable except in two areas prone to crowding, possibly due to infected carriers in the crowd,” said the study, which also found high concentrations of viral RNA with aerosol size distributions in some medical staff areas.The viral RNA, however, reduced substantially to undetectable levels after implementation of rigorous sanitisation procedures. “Our results indicate that room ventilation, open space, sanitisation of protective apparel, and proper use and disinfection of toilet areas can effectively limit the concentration of Sars-CoV-2 RNA in aerosols. Future work should explore the infectivity of aerosolized virus,” the study said.It recommended that for public health prevention and medical staff protection, hospitals must focus on ventilation and sterilisation of toilets as a potential spread source of the virus; personal protection measures for the general public, such as wearing masks and avoiding crowded placed to reduce the risk of airborne virus exposure; and the effective sanitisation of the high risk area in the hospital to limit the transmission of airborne Sars-CoV-2 and protect the medical staff.It highlighted that conversion of a naturally ventilated stadium into a field hospital for patient quarantine and treatment limited aerosol transmission of Sars-CoV-2; as did surface sanitisation of the personnel protection equipment before they are taken off, which reduced the potential infection risk of medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-rna-airborne-but-unlikely-to-be-infective-study/story-pnv241Yy7oEFpCJJYzOA7H.html
30-04-2020||India||Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam: The story of a Chinese girl stuck in India||With coronavirus turning life upside down all over the world, Chinese citizens are facing a double threat. As they grapple like everyone else with how to escape the virus itself, they are also facing growing racism. There has been an alarming rise in anti-Chinese sentiment across the world.In such a charged atmosphere, Zhang Aixi, a Chinese citizen found herself stuck as the lockdown was announced. Zhang had come to India on a solo trip in January.As travel came to a halt worldwide with the outbreak of COVID-19, she realised she was going to be away from her family for a very long time. It became increasingly difficult for her to keep in touch with her mother in China. Zhang felt homeless and restless in a new country and suffered a serious mental and emotional breakdown. Some people even mocker her by calling her ‘China Virus’, when she ventured out of the PG. Zhang went into severe depression, and sometimes started having episodes of aggression. With her deteriorating mental state and no medical support, she was soon thrown out of the PG she was living in Gurugram.When the Gurugram police got to know about her condition, they decided to put her up in an NGO. But none of the NGOs or shelters agreed to keep her due to coronavirus scare. Finally, Earth Saviours Foundation, in Bandhwari village in Gurugram, agreed to take her in. Ravi Kalra, founder, says “My NGO takes care of people who have been abandoned, depressed or mentally challenged. When Zhang came here, we welcomed her with open arms. I believe in selfless seva. We never discriminate between human beings. Her being Chinese doesn’t make her any less of a human being, and mental illness is no taboo.” “Many other NGOs that look after such individuals refused to her help as she was Chinese. We are glad that here she has found a home away from home,” he adds. Zhang can’t thank Indians enough for their kindness. As we connected her to Hem Kusum, assistant professor in the Department of Chinese Language and Culture, Visva Bharti University, Santiniketan, West Bengal on phone, she said, “I am so grateful to India for all the love that people gave me here. I am so lucky that I got to experience such compassion in this birth. Ravi Kalra has a heart of gold. He helps everyone selflessly, and there’s so much positivity here.” She also spoke about how badly she misses her mom and wants to be with her soon.Karan Goel, ACP, DLF, Gurgaon, says there is so much negativity and gloom around, and such real life stories of compassion give us strength in these distressing times. “We are happy that we could do something good by helping Zhang. Four lady constables have been assigned to ensure the security of the Chinese tourist. Earth Saviours Foundation has the manpower, resources and expertise to host the foreigner.” With Zhang Aixi being tested negative for Covid-19, Kalra says, “I am happy that she is doing well and there is a lot of improvement in her mental state as well. It is my duty to serve my nation, taking care of our guests has always been our tradition. In this time of crisis, hosting Zhang and ensuring that she takes back happy memories to China is the least I can do.” The NGO is in constant touch with the Chinese Embassy and they have assured that they would initiate the process of sending Zhang back to her mother as soon as possible. Kalra has arranged Zhang’s meeting with the officials and the process of sending the Chinese girl back to her country in a rare case has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vasudhaiva-kutumbakam-the-story-of-a-chinese-girl-stuck-in-india/story-T13TTa46Rzt9W3jLm4eNeK.html
