01-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress jittery as voter turnout low in Mandi stronghold areas||Tribune News ServiceShimla, October 31The low voter turnout in Congress stronghold areas in Mandi is giving anxious moments to party leaders even as they assert that price rise was the single most important factor which decided the voting pattern in their favour.The ruling BJP seems confident of retaining the Mandi parliamentary seat with relatively better voting in their strongholds like Seraj, Assembly segment of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Nachan and Sundernagar. The fact that the Chief Minister has decided to remain in Mandi for counting on November 2 also shows the BJP’s confidence.Even though the overall polling of 57.17 per cent in the Mandi segment, comprising 17 Assembly constituencies, was much along the expected lines, relatively low turnout in Rampur, Congress citadel, has become a cause of worry for the Congress camp.The Congress was hoping to get a massive lead from Rampur, which happens to be the hometown of six-time Chief Minister Virbhdara Singh so that it could negate the lead the BJP would get from Seraj, Chief Minister’s home turf.“Normally in a bypoll, the polling percentage is less. In 2013 Mandi parliamentary bypoll, there was 51 per cent polling, so this time it is better at 57.17 pc,” said the Chief Minister here today. He reasoned that in any by-poll, the enthusiasm among voters is less as compared to the general election.However, Thakur also said the Congress tried its level best to make price rise a big issue. “But I want to say that prices were high even during the Congress rule when onion was sold at Rs 110/kg. So people do understand the issue,” he remarked.The polling this time has, however, been better that the by-poll in 2013 when it was a mere 51.80. The highest poling in Mandi has taken place in 2019 when it touched 73.60, giving BJP candidate Ram Swaroop a record win by almost four lakh votes.The Congress, on the other hand, is confident that it will win Mandi Lok Sabha as well as Fatehpur and Arki seat due to a very strong undercurrent against price rise and unemployment.In Jubbal-Kotkhai, political analyists feel that it could be a close game between Congress candidate Rohit Thakur and BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, son of former minister Narinder Bragta.However, BJP leaders on condition of anonymity say they had expected higher polling turnout as such they too are keeping their fingers crossed.The lowest polling in the 17 Assembly segments under Mandi seat took place in Sarkaghat with a mere 46.72 per cent polling, which could upset the BJP calculations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-jittery-as-voter-turnout-low-in-mandi-stronghold-areas-332654
01-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Congress leadership crisis deepens in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 31The death of senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali has deepened the leadership crisis in the Congress in Kangra, the politically most significant district of the state having 15 Assembly constituencies. With his death, the Congress has lost the second senior leader after Sujan Singh Pathania, a prominent Rajput leaderfrom Kangra district.With state set to go to Assembly elections next year, the party would have to prepare new leadership in Kangra to fill the political vacuum created by death of its two senior leaders.The senior leaders of Congress from Kangra, including former Rajya Sabha member and HPCC president Viplove Thakur, former union minister Chandresh Kumari, BBL Butail and former MP Chander Kumar have already withdrawn from active politics.New leaders of the party who have potential to take the leadership, including Ashish Butail MLA from Palampur, Ajay Mahajan, district president of Congress and Pawan Kajal, MLA from Kangra, are limited to their own constituencies and have not made any effort to provide leadership at the district level.Sudhir Sharma, former minister and AICC secretary, had hurt his own prospects within the Congress by withdrawing from contest in the Dharamsala Assembly bypoll in 2019 at the last movement.A senior Congress leader, while talking to The Tribune, said that the party would face problem in putting forward a leader who can represent the entire Kangra district or parliamentary constituency.Any leader who wants to take the leadership of the entire district would need resources and mass base. The party would have to look for someone who has resources and can also take along the entire lot of Congress leaders from the district.Earlier, the Congress leadership in Kangra was divided into camps of Virbhadra Singh and GS Bali. After the death of former CM Virbhadra Singh and now Bali the party is left leaderless in Kangra.In such a scenario the party might have to rely on some old warhorse to revive its fortunes in Kangra before 2022 elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leadership-crisis-deepens-in-kangra-332655
01-11-2021||Dharamsala||GS Bali cremated with state honours||Thousands from Nagrota Bagwan and different parts of Kangra district today paid tributes to former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali. The mortal remains were taken from his house in Kangra to OBC Bhawan in Nagrota Bagwan this afternoon.Also read: GS Bali: A void difficult to fillHis supporters gathered at the bhawan to pay last respects to the leader, who represented the constituency for four consecutive terms from 1998 to 2017.CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress MLAs Rajinder Rana, Ashish Butail and Pawan Kajal, former BJP leader Chetan Bragta attended the funeral. Bali was cremated at the crematorium in the Chamunda Devi temple complex. His son and AICC secretary RS Bali lit fire to the pyre. The former minister was cremated with state honours with DC Nipun Jindal and SP Khushal Sharma representing the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gs-bali-cremated-with-state-honours-332656
01-11-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Polling team’s boat stuck in fishing net in Pong Reservoir Island, saved||Nurpur, October 31A polling party comprising five government employees deployed in the Pong Reservoir Island polling station had a sigh of relief late last evening when their boat sailor showed his presence of mind and managed to rescue the polling team.The polling party after completing polling process in the Sath Kuthera polling station in the island of Pong Reservoir in Fatehpur Assembly byelection, was on its way back on a fishing boat. Just around 50 m away from the reservoir bank the boat got trapped in a fishing net in the reservoir water.Sailor’s presence of mindSensing some danger, the polling team got unnerved. But the boat sailor Nanak Chand showed the presence of mind. He swung into action and managed to extricate the boat trapped in the fishing net. Presiding officer Sandeep Kumar, who led the polling team, said the timely action by the boatman saved the team from any untoward happening.The boatman after bringing his boat a few meters away from the reservoir bank landed in the shallow water and removed the fishing net trapping the boat, he said.Meanwhile, out of total 96 voters in Sath-Kuthera polling station 66, including 36 males and 30 females, cast their votes.The 103-year-old freedom fighter Captain Rumel Singh (retd) of Baroh village reached his village polling station by driving his scooty and cast his vote without taking any physical support. Khiali Ram (107) is the oldest voter and a resident of Golwan panchayat in Fatehpur who voted through postal ballot facility provided by the EC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/polling-teams-boat-stuck-in-fishing-net-in-pong-reservoir-island-saved-332657
01-11-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur pays tributes to Vallabhbhai Patel, Indira Gandhi||Shimla, October 31Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today paid tribute to India’s first Deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 146th birth anniversary.Thakur said Patel sacrificed his life for Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat. Earlier. He also paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi, who laid down her life for the unity and integrity of the nation. The Chief Minister also administered Rashtriya Ekta Diwas pledge to the people on the occasion.While addressing the people on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that Patel always wanted India to be strong, inclusive and developed. “This day is observed as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas or National Unity Day since 2014, marking the birth anniversary of Patel, who is credited with uniting all the 562 princely states of the pre-Independent country to build the Republic of India,” he remarked.Thakur said it was the Prime Minister Narendra Modi who decided to construct the Statue of Unity, world’s tallest 182 m statue as a mark of respect to the colossal statue of Patel.While remembering Indira Gandhi on her 37th death anniversary celebrated as Rashtriya Sankalp Divas, the Chief Minister said the former PM played a major role in maintaining the unity and integrity of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-pays-tributes-to-vallabhbhai-patel-indira-gandhi-332658
01-11-2021||Legal Correspondent||HC notices to Himachal on house allotment by Parwanoo MC||Shimla, October 31The High Court yesterday issued notices to the Principal Secretary (Urban Development), Secretary, HIMUDA, and the Executive Officer of the Parwanoo Municipal Council (MC) in a matter related to the allotment of houses by the civic body in violation of rules.Issuing notices, the court directed the authorities to file their replies within six weeks.A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Sabina, passed this order on a petition filed by Satish Berry. The petitioner stated that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation had formulated guidelines for the Integrated Housing and Slum Development Programme in 2008-2009 with an objective to strive for a holistic development of slums by providing adequate shelter and basic infrastructure facilities to slum dwellers.He stated that about 192 families were identified in Parwanoo in 2013 and under the programme, 36 families were allotted flats in the first phase. The flats were completed in 2016. In 2017, 23 families were allotted flats in the second phase. Since 2017, 133 flats were lying vacant despite the fact that about 192 families were identified at the initial stage and about 88 to 98 applications were lying under consideration with the Municipal Council, Parwanoo, which were received in 2014 and 2015.He alleged that as per rules of allotment, the person to whom the benefit is to be extended under the programme should not have a house. Besides, a certificate has to be issued by a competent authority and further the person to whom the benefit is to be extended should be residing in the MC area for the last 15 years.However, he stated, the Parwanoo MC had not allotted flats in accordance with the rules and a pick-and-choose policy was adopted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-notices-to-himachal-on-house-allotment-by-parwanoo-mc-332659
01-11-2021||---||Leh road restored, stranded persons allowed to move||Mandi, October 31The Lahaul and Spiti administration has allowed one-way traffic on the Manali-Leh highway from Darcha towards Leh paving the way for evacuation of stranded people.A large number of people had been stranded in Lahaul and Manali since October 17 due to the closure of Manali-Leh highway after heavy snowfall near the Baralacha pass. As the Border Roads Organisation has restored the highway as many as 136 persons in 76 vehicles moved towards Leh from the Darcha check post.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said, “There is forecast of inclement weather from November 2. The Manali-Leh highway and the Gramphu-Kaza highway which have Baralacha and Kunzum Pass, en route may receive heavy snowfall anytime during the winter.”“In view of public safety, we have decided to restrict the traffic movement on these routes from November 2. People are advised to avoid journey on these routes because the roads are slippery due to the deposit of snow on the ground,” the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leh-road-restored-stranded-persons-allowed-to-move-332660
01-11-2021||Shimla||85 new Covid cases, 1 death in Himachal||A total of 85 new Covid cases were reported today. One person in Kangra succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. As many as 40 cases were recorded in Kangra, 11 each in Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur and four each in Mandi, Solan and Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/85-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-himachal-332661
01-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Number of oxygen plants in Himachal rises to 35||tribune news serviceShimla, october 31Himachal is unlikely to face shortage of oxygen even if the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 is bigger than the second wave. In the aftermath of the second wave in April and May, the state has added 28 more PSA oxygen plants to its repertoire, taking the total number to 35 plants. “We just had six oxygen plants during the second wave. Now, we have 35, and all of them are operational or nearly operational,” said Dr Jitender Chauhan, the state nodal officer for oxygen. “While 28 have been set up by the government, the remaining have been sponsored through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme,” said Dr Chauhan.Keeping stock for emergencyIt’s difficult to say how much oxygen we will need in case the third wave hits us. If the situation gets as bad or worse than it was during the second wave, having surplus oxygen will not hurt us. —Dr Jitender Chauhan, State nodal officer for oxygenThere are a few more oxygen plants under consideration but many have begun to feel that the state probably has more plants than it would ever require. “It’s difficult to say with certainty how much oxygen we will need in case the third wave hits us. If the situation gets as bad or worse than it was during the second wave, having surplus oxygen will not hurt us,” said Dr Chauhan.Putting the current situation in terms of oxygen in perspective, Dr Chauhan said the highest per day oxygen consumption during the second wave was 34 metric tonne. “The minimum generation from these 35 plants would be around 48 metric tonne per day,” he said. “Also, we now have over 10,000 Type D cylinders and around 4,700 beds have the facility of uninterrupted oxygen supply. We are far more comfortable now as far as oxygen is concerned,” he said. All 12 districts and six medical colleges have operational oxygen plants at the moment.While the Centre has paid for all 28 plants, roughly around Rs 1 crore per plant, the required civil work and maintenance cost is being borne by the state. “The state has spent around Rs 66 lakh per plant for civil work, generator set and 125-KV electricity line etc,” said Dr Chauhan. The other costs the state will have to bear will be that of maintenance and staff needed for operating these plants.“These plants will still be useful one the Covid threat is over. With the availability of uninterrupted oxygen at different health facilities, people will get better and more health services in their nearby hospitals. This will reduce the burden on tertiary healthcare centres,” said Dr Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/number-of-oxygen-plants-in-himachal-rises-to-35-332662
01-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor flags off run for unity in Shimla||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar flagged off a run for unity from the Ridge on National Unity Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, here today. A large number of people, including sports personalities, sports enthusiasts, police personnel and students participated in the event. The run was organised jointly by the State Red Cross Society and the district administration, Shimla.Secretary to Governor Priyatu Mandal, Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi and Superintendent of Police Monika Bhutungru were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-flags-off-run-for-unity-in-shimla-332663
01-11-2021||---||High density apple plantations key to raising productivity, say scientists||Solan, October 31High density apple plantations will be a key tool for enhancing productivity and socio-economic status of the tribal peasantry of Kinnaur district, owing to its high gains.Dr Divender Gupta, Director of Extension Education, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, who visited the Regional Horticultural Research and Research Station and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kinnaur, to monitor their activities made these observations.The scientists informed that out of various cultivars being evaluated at an elevation of around 2,740 meters above the sea level, Super Chief, Red Velox and Jeromine showed promise in terms of productivity and quality.The research outcomes of High-Density Plantation of Apple are being demonstrated at four locations — namely Sungra (Nichar), Telangi (Kalpa), Chitkul (Sangla) and Nako (Pooh).Dr Gupta also visited the demonstrations on apple and other crops at research farms and farmers’ fields and interacted with progressive farmers at Kalpa, Roghi and Telangi villages to seek their feedback on various activities undertaken by scientists.He advised them to consult them for technical advice and follow recommendations for apt results.Dr Ashok K Thakur, Associate Director, and Head Dr Arun Kumar, Dr DP Bhandari and Dr Budhi Ram co-ordinated the visit and explained various research and extension activities of the station.Dr Gupta directed the scientists to lay stress on training and pruning awareness among farmers along with the necessity of pollinisers and honey bees to improve the productivity of apple and pear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-density-apple-plantations-key-to-raising-productivity-say-scientists-332664
01-11-2021||Hamirpur||Hamirpur residents resent ‘haphazard’ road widening||The residents of Tippar village in Barsar subdivision of the district are agitated over the alleged haphazard widening of the road leading to the village. They allege that the construction company is using cultivated land in violation of the norms and is not taking villagers into confidence before using heavy machinery. A 10-km road from Budhawin village to Tippar will be widened under a road improvement project of the government at a cost of Rs 10 crore.Rajender, a landowner in the village, says that the Public Works Department (PWD) authorities are not listening to the grievances of people and cutting fields in an unplanned manner. He alleges that the road can be made straight through village fields but the PWD has curved it to benefit some people. He says the villagers have given their land without seeking any compensation but still the PWD is not listening to their request.Another villager says people have small landholdings in the village and if the PWD does not take people into confidence, it can lead to litigation and the whole project can be stalled. He adds that the villagers favour the construction of a road, but the stakeholders should be kept in the loop.Rajan Kaushal, Sub-Divisional Officer of the PWD, says that he has received some objections from villagers and will visit the site to address their grievances. The road is for people and will be constructed with their consent, he adds. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-residents-resent-haphazard-road-widening-332665
01-11-2021||Kullu||Kullu gau sadans’ infrastructure to be improved||Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said focus would be laid on strengthening the existing gau sadans. An estimate of Rs 20 lakh had been prepared for the improvement of the gau sadan at Raison.Garg, while presiding over a meeting with the operators in the district here, said sheds had been built at the gau sadan at Tirthan, and four boundary walls would be constructed there for the protection of animals. He gave instructions to the officials of the Electricity Department to change the structure near the gate of the gau sadan at Bandrol, so that there was no threat to animals and people.He told the operator of the gau sadan at Dhaman, near Larji, to prepare an estimate for the construction of a water tank.He told the operators to identify land for the gau sadan and transfer it in the name of the department. The operators were instructed to take necessary steps to rehabilitate destitute animals, so that road accidents could be avoided. He said that panchayat representatives related to the gau sadans would also be called to the upcoming meeting for the speedy resolution of the problem of stray animals.The gau sadan operators raised issues related to infrastructure, boundary walls and water and the Deputy Commissioner assured them of finding solutions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-gau-sadans-infrastructure-to-be-improved-332666
01-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Archana Thakur first-ever woman to head Himachal PWD||Palampur, October 31Archana Thakur of Palampur is the first woman engineer of the state to head the state PWD. She was appointed the Engineer-in-Chief, PWD, by the state government yesterday.Archana did her schooling from St Paul’s Senior Secondary School, Palampur, and then joined Government College for Girls, Chandigarh. She completed her engineering from PEC in 1987. Her first posting was at Palampur as Assistant Engineer (Designs) in 1988. Her father DS Parmar was also an engineer and retired as Estate Officer of the CSK HPKVV.Her husband Diljit Thakur is an IPS officer and posted as the Inspector General of Police. Archana belongs to a small village Sulaha near Palampur.She said it is the dedication to service that had brought her the honour of heading the prestigious PWD, which faced the toughest challenge of cutting hills to make roads, which are a lifeline in a state like HP that has negligible air and rail connectivity,” she said. Earlier, Archana Thakur had assumed various posts in the PWD, as Superintendent Engineer, Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojna (PMGSY), for more than four years; SE, Solan, and Chief Engineer, National Highways, for over three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/archana-thakur-first-ever-woman-to-head-himachal-pwd-332667
01-11-2021||The death of Congress leader and senior minister GS Bali is a major setback to the party in the biggest and politically significant district of Kangra. Bali||GS Bali: A void difficult to fill||How sweet is Bragta’s apple?BJP rebel and Independent candidate from Jubbal-Kotkhai Chetan Bragta have got an apt election symbol, an apple, because he is contesting from the apple heartland. His late father Narinder Bragta, who remained a Horticulture Minister, did a lot for apple growers. Bragta’s pictures holding an apple with his ink-marked finger after casting his vote have gone viral. Now, it remains to be seen whether the apple symbol will change his political fortunes.Anger over price riseWhile BJP leaders were putting up a brave face and claiming victory in the byelections, ground workers are disheartened. Many refused to work claiming that they were not ready to face people’s anger over price rise. The BJP, which was proud of its ground level machinery, faced challenges from its own workers due to price rise.Contributed by Pratibha Chauhan, Lalit Mohan and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gs-bali-a-void-difficult-to-fill-332668
01-11-2021||The Department of Mathematics and Statistics||Admissions to maths course at Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla||National Unity Day celebratedCommemorating the contribution of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to unity and integrity of India, DAV Senior Secondary Public School, Rehan, in Nurpur, celebrated National Unity Day. Students participated in various activities such as quiz and debate. Speeches highlighting the selfless services and patriotism of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel were delivered. Principal Rashmi Jamwal administered the pledge of unity to students and staff.Workshop on medical ethicsA three-day workshop comprising attitude, ethics and communication (AETCOM) module was conducted for the faculty of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College from October 27 to 29, under the supervision of National Medical Commission (NMC). As many as 26 faculty members of the medical college were imparted training in various methods of teaching and assessment of MBBS students. The training will raise teaching and training standards of MBBS students.ABVP starts membership campaignThe ABVP has started a membership campaign at the professional institutes of the states such as ITI and medical colleges. The ABVP activists are visiting these institutes and making the students aware of the work and history of the organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/admissions-to-maths-course-at-himachal-pradesh-university-shimla-332671
01-11-2021||---||Himachal power board employees seek bonus||Shimla, October 31The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) Employees’ Union has demanded bonus on Diwali from the management. Union secretary HL Verma said it was mandatory to disburse 8.33 per cent of the annual payment as bonus to the employees, but the electricity board had not paid it for many years.The board was in profit this year, so it must pay bonus to the staff, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-power-board-employees-seek-bonus-332674
01-11-2021||Solan||Two detained  for selling spurious ‘bidi’ in Baddi||The Baddi police recovered 15 boxes containing spurious ‘bidi’ of a popular brand ‘Loha’, during a raid conducted at two store houses in Baddi today.Sub Divisional Police Officer, Baddi, said a case under Sections 63 and 65 of the Copyright Acts and Section 103 and 104 of the Trademark Act was registered on September 18, where the trademark of Loha brand of ‘bidi’ was found forged by a local manufacturer. The case had been registered by the manufacturers of Loha brand. Surendra Kumar and Rajesh Kumar Singh have been detained and further investigation is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-detained-for-selling-spurious-bidi-in-baddi-332675
01-11-2021||The foul smell emanating from the water flowing on the Chandigarh-Manali highway||Check seepage from sewage lines||Garbage tanks overflowingThe garbage tanks near Kufri and Charabra overflow most of the time. The garbage attracts stray dogs and monkeys from the nearby forest, who littler the place around the tank. Also, moneys get aggressive when people try to shoo them away. The authorities concerned should clean these tanks at regular intervals. — Vikram Kumar, SanjauliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-seepage-from-sewage-lines-332677
