02-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Assembly bypoll: Congress registers impressive victory in Arki||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 2Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthy won the Arki byelection by 3,219 votes and defeated BJP’s Rattan Pal who suffered his second consecutive defeat since 2017.Sanjay Awasthy secured 30,798 votes which was 50.86 per cent of the total votes polled, while BJP’s Rattan Pal secured 27,579 votes, 45.55 per cent of the total votes. An independent candidate, Jeet Ram, polled 547 votes while 1626 votes were polled for NOTA which was 2.69 per cent of the votes polled.Awasthy secured lead right from the first round and held on to it till the 26th round, while BJP’s Rattan Pal failed to put up an impressive fight. He not only trailed in all 26 rounds but proved to be a poor match to Sanjay Awasthy.Awasthy began on a winning note and secured a lead of 735 in the first round and it increased consistently to 943, 1364, 1942 and 2239 in the second, third, fourth and fifth rounds, respectively.BJP’s defeat has come as a major embarrassment to its senior leaders who had begun their campaign before the Congress had put its house in order.Awasthy had been assiduously working amidst the masses for the last over a decade and had managed to garner the support of large section of youth and elders. He is the lone candidate hailing from a non-political background to win the byelection.He attributed his victory to the voters and said the BJP’s anti-people policies like price rise and mere announcements of development had exposed them before the people.Since the electoral fight saw a direct battle between the BJP and the Congress, polarisation on the basis of Rajput and Brahmins votes was also registered. While Congress’ rebellion from the block congress committee failed to have any impact, undercutting by the BJP rebels proved dear to the ruling party.Rattan Pal, who was elevated as the chairman of the State Cooperative Development Federation, in October last year, had earned the animosity of the BJP cadres owing to his indifference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/assembly-bypoll-congress-registers-impressive-victory-in-arki-333366
02-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Congress wins Fatehpur bypoll in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 2The BJP on Tuesday suffered a setback in Kangra district as it lost the Fatehpur bylection. Congress candidate Bhawani Singh Pathania defeated his nearest rival Baldev Thakur of the BJP by 5,789 votes.Independent candidate and former BJP MP and five-time party MLA Rajan Sushant dealt a severe blow to the prospects of the ruling party in the byelection as he polled 12,927 votes.The winning Congress candidate got 24,449 votes whereas the BJP candidate managed 18,660 votes.Congress campaign incharge for Fatehpur, Rajinder Rana, told The Tribune that the people of the state and Fatehpur had given a clear mandate against price rise. The people had punished the BJP for causing unprecedented price rise in the country in petrol, diesel, LPG and edible oils. The overall increase in prices had severely hit the poor and middle classes. A person earning Rs 10,000 per month was finding it hard to even meet his monthly family expenses, said Rana.Minister for forest, sports and youth affairs, Rakesh Pathania, said price rise was a major issue during the byelection. “The people were angry at the price rise though we tried to explain to them the reasons,” he said. When asked if infighting in the BJP was a reason for the defeat, Pathania said it was not a major issue. “Though the defeat is a setback, we will bounce back in the 2022 Assembly election,” Pathania said.The BJP was in the lead after 10 rounds of counting. The areas in which the BJP got initial lead of about 1,300 votes were the strongholds of the party. These areas were merged in the Fatehpur Assembly constituency from the Nurpur constituency in the last delimitation exercise. Thereafter, the Congress candidate got a comfortable lead in all remaining 15 rounds of counting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-wins-fatehpur-bypoll-in-himachal-333336
02-11-2021||---||Poor quality pulses being sold under PDS in Kangra district||Ravinder SoodPalampur, November 1In the absence of any checks, ‘substandard’ foodgrain, especially pulses, are being sold at fair price shops in Kangra district. The pulses have high moisture content and are not fit for human consumption. The state government supplies subsidised foodgrain to consumers through over 4,500 outlets, including fair price shops.Sources say that the commodities being supplied at the fair price shops are directly purchased by the HP State Civil Supply Corporation (HPSCSC), a government undertaking, from private and government agencies. These items are then cleaned and packed bearing HPSCSC stickers. However, the quality of foodgrain is far from satisfactory.Beneficiaries rue that despite the food security scheme ensuring access to quality food at affordable prices, they are getting ‘substandard’ commodities.The Joint Director, Food and Civil Supplies, was not available for comments. However, a junior official said the department had received complaints of poor quality pulses being supplied at fair price shops and necessary action was being taken against the suppliers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-quality-pulses-being-sold-under-pds-in-kangra-district-333181
02-11-2021||---||Baijnath residents resent garbage dumping in Binwa||Our CorrespondentPalampur, November 1The residents of Baijnath have lodged a protest over dumping of garbage in the Binwa by the Baijnath Municipal Council. They said garbage was polluted the river, which was a source of drinking water in lower areas of Baijnath. This was affecting the environment and people’s health.The Municipal Council has been regularly dumping its waste in the river for the past some months, despite opposition by various environment bodies. The district administration, Pollution Control Board (PCB) and the officials of Municipal Council are aware of the situation, but no action has been taken to stop the problem.The Tribune had last year highlighted the issue in these columns, after which the PCB had initiated action. The board had imposed a penalty of Rs 7.5 lakh on the Municipal Council and ordered to deposit it within a month. However, even as the fine was paid, it failed to have any impact on the officials and dumping of garbage is still going on.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has banned dumping of garbage in water bodies and ordered state governments to impose a minimum fine of Rs 25,000 on those violating the order. However, garbage dumping in the river has become a routine affair.Executive Officer, Baijnath Municipal Council, said there was no place for dumping garbage in the area. A new garbage site developed by the Municipal Council, near Paprola, had been closed following opposition of villagers. Therefore, the civic body was temporarily dumping garbage in the river, he said. The machinery worth crores of rupees purchased by the state government for garbage treatment plant was lying unused. He said the higher authorities were aware of the situation, but no other land had been allotted to the civic body by the government which could be used as dumping site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baijnath-residents-resent-garbage-dumping-in-binwa-333182
02-11-2021||---||Gaggal airport expansion likely to be put on hold||Ravinder SoodPalampur, November 1The proposed expansion of the Gaggal airport, located 35 km from here, is likely to be put on hold following the recent decision of the Central Government to privatise its operations. Earlier, the airport was under the control of the Airports Authority of India (AAI).Setback to tourism industry in stateAAI sources told The Tribune that the paperwork for handing over the operations of the airport along with its liabilities and assets was underway and a private company was expected to take it over by March 31, 2022.The Central Government recently issued a notification to privatise 13 airports, including the Gaggal airport. For economic viability, this airport has been attached with the Amritsar airport. It is the only airport in the state where six flights land and take off everyday. The two other airports at Kullu and Shimla have no regular air traffic because of small airstrips and other technical reasons. Besides, there is also no scope of the expansion of these airstrips.The Gaggal airport is spread over 1,269 acres situated at an altitude of 2,492 feet. It has one asphalt runway, 1,376 metre long and 30 metre wide. This is the only airport in the state where 85-seater aircraft could easily land.In the proposed draft plan for the airport expansion, the AAI had decided to increase the runway’s length from 1,376 metre to 2,450 metre for easy landing of bigger aircraft like an Airbus and Boeing to boost tourism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gaggal-airport-expansion-likely-to-be-put-on-hold-333183
02-11-2021||---||Five trains restored on Pathankot - Jogindernagar line||Ravinder SoodPALAMPUR, November 1The railway authorities today restored the train services on KV rail line between Pathankot and Jogindernagar which have remained suspended since April 2021 because of Covid-19 crisis. The railways today gave green signal for five trains on this rail section. One train will also touch Jogindernagar daily.New time table made availableA spokesman for the Indian Railway told The Tribune that out of seven trains, five had been made operational while the remaining two will also be restored in the near future. He said a new time table of the trains had been made public and it was also available on the website of the railways.In the absence of train services, people were facing a lot of difficulties in commuting to various destinations. The daily travellers were the worst hit. Besides, the tourist were missing the toy train of Kangra valley.The narrow railway line of the Kangra valley plays a significant role in strengthening the economy of this region of the state. The British had laid down the narrow gauge railway line in 1932, linking all important and religious towns of Kangra and part of Mandi district.Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, seven trains were running on this route daily, covering 33 stations and passing through important places like Nurpur, Jwali, Jwalamukhi Road, Kangra, NagrotaBagwan, Chamunda, Palampur, Baijnath and Jogindernagar, which are also the major tourists attraction centres of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-trains-restored-on-pathankot-jogindernagar-line-333185
02-11-2021||---||Diya sellers in Mandi district expect good business||Dipendar MantaMandi, November 1Potters in Mandi district are expecting a good business of earthen lamps (diyas) ahead of the Diwali festival this year. Around 100 families are engaged in the profession.They have set up their sale counters in the town at key locations. To meet the demand of the market, they have designed earthen lamps in different designs, costing from Rs 30 to Rs 50 per dozen.Lalit Kumar, a potter, said the demand was picking pace slightly.However, he said, they were facing a bleak future in view of the arrival of Chinese products. A few years ago, there was a huge demand of earthen lamps made by local potters. But with the passage of time, the demand had shrunk.Raj Kumar, another potter, said unlike previous years, when people had chosen Chinese lights and other products to decorate their houses on the festival, now they were preferring to buy local earthen lamps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/diya-sellers-in-mandi-district-expect-good-business-333187
02-11-2021||---||Commuters, locals irked at frequent traffic jams on Pathankot-Mandi NH||Our CorrespondentPalampur, November 1Frequent traffic jams on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway between Gaggal and Baijnath are causing inconvenience to tourists and locals. The highway linking Mandi, Kullu, Manali, Shimla and Leh and Ladakh bears heavy traffic but it has virtually become a nightmare to travel on this 60-km narrow stretch of the highway.No steps takenDespite manifold increase in traffic, no efforts have been made to construct bypasses in towns like Gaggal, Mataur, Nagrota Bagwan and Baijnath. Several accidents have taken place on the stretch. Mostly,two-wheeler riders are victims but the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which looks after the maintenance of the highway, has failed to take any remedial steps. Encroachments on both sides have narrowed down the highway. Emergency vehicles such as ambulances and fire brigades can also be seen struck for hours on the road.A senior police officer said traffic constables had been deputed to regulate traffic but jams are a regular feature because of narrow road and heavy volume of traffic.A spokesman for the state government said the road repair work was transferred to the NHAI from the state PWD three years ago. It was now the sole responsibility of the highway authority to maintain the road and construct bypasses.However, a senior officer of the NHAI said land for construction of bypasses or widening of the highway had not been acquired by the state government even after four years. “Until or unless land is transferred to the NHAI, it cannot proceed further.”He admitted that the situation was alarming because of heavy volume of traffic but the NHAI was helpless in the absence of land and environment clearances, which was a state subject. The detailed project reports (DPRs) of the bypasses had already been prepared and the matter was in the final stage, the spokesman added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/commuters-locals-irked-at-frequent-traffic-jams-on-pathankot-mandi-nh-333188
02-11-2021||---||Himachal govt urged to extend MIS for apple by 15 days||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 1The Horticulture Department has written to the state government to extend the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) for the procurement of C grade apple till November 15. “The procurement scheme was scheduled till October 31. The HPMC, the procurement agency, has written to us demanding that it be extend by another 15 days as some farmers in higher-altitude areas still have some fruit left with them,” said Gyan Verma, deputy director, Horticulture Department.Highest procurement since 2010The HPMC and Himfed have already procured 73,000 MT of apple, which is the highest since 2010, when the state witnessed a record yield. The two agencies will procure another 2-3 MT apple in another 15 days — Gyan Verma, Dy Director, Horticulture Department“We have written to the government and the scheme will in all probability be extended so that all growers are able to sell their produce,” said Verma.The Horticulture Department has decided to keep its control rooms at Fagu and Kudu operational for another 10 days. “We had planned to shut the intra-state barriers by October 31 but these barriers are still registering the arrival of 3,000 to 4,000 boxes every day. So, we have decided to keep these barriers operational for another 10 days,” said Verma.Till November 1, 2.96 crore boxes have been marketed in and outside the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-urged-to-extend-mis-for-apple-by-15-days-333190
02-11-2021||---||Spike in Covid cases, govt can reimpose restrictions||Shimla, November 1The state government can reimpose restrictions following a continuous rise in the number of Covid cases and deaths.Decision in Cabinet meet on Nov 8 likelyIf Covid cases continue to rise, we will have to reimpose restrictions. We will take a decision at the Cabinet meeting on November 8. We will have to look into the reasons for the spike in cases in some areas.  — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThe Cabinet, which will meet on November 8, can take the final call on the restrictions to be imposed. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also hinted today that some restrictions could be reimposed, especially in areas where Covid cases had risen suddenly.“If Covid cases continue to rise, we will have to reimpose restrictions. We will take a decision on restrictions at the Cabinet meeting on November 8. We will have to look into the reasons for the spike in cases in specific areas. Himachal is one of the few states in the country where the positivity rate remains high and the Central Government, too, has cautioned the state government against a major spike in Covid cases”.In fact, the Chief Minister has urged people to celebrate Diwali by bursting crackers but not to an extent that it pollutes the environment. Also, in view of Covid, there was need to keep a check on the bursting of excessive firecrackers, he added.The cases have risen the most in Kangra, Hamirpur, Mandi, Bilaspur and Shimla districts. Yesterday, a hotel in the Ram Bazaar area of Shimla was declared a micro-containment zone after its five staff members tested positive for Covid. The testing of the hotel staff was done after one of the workers was found infected. All those staying at the hotel were quarantined and would be allowed to leave only when they test negative.The government has declared a week-long Diwali break in schools and colleges from November 1 to 6. A large number of schoolchildren have tested Covid positive in the past one month. Big political rallies held during the recent byelections can also lead to a spike in cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spike-in-covid-cases-govt-can-reimpose-restrictions-333191
02-11-2021||Shimla||GST collection rises by 44% in Himachal till October||The GST collection improved in October to Rs 375.73 crore compared to Rs 328.55 crore in September.A spokesperson for the Excise and Taxation Department said today that the cumulative GST collection in the current financial year till October stood at Rs 2,431.19 crore against Rs 1,694.04 crore during the corresponding period last year. He added that the cumulative GST revenue growth so far in the current year is 44 per cent.“The GST revenue has continuously grown in the current financial year despite curbs imposed due to the second wave of Covid,” he added.He said that some of the reasons for the positive growth rate are monitoring of top taxpayers, and regular review of the performance of field functionaries.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-collection-rises-by-44-in-himachal-till-october-333192
02-11-2021||Shimla||Drug Prevention Policy in Himachal soon||The government will soon implement the Integrated Drug Prevention Policy to check the growing drug menace in the state.HP State Nasha Nivaran Board convener Om Prakash Sharma said at a webinar the board headed by the Chief Minister had prepared a multi-dimensional strategy to deal with the challenge. Sharma was the main speaker in the webinar on ‘Drug Menace, Human Rights Violation and Solution’ organised by Umang Foundation, Shimla.Sharma said 10 of 12 districts were in the grip of drug menace. “About 300 MT charas and 10 MT heroin are illegally produced in the state. A large quantity of drugs is smuggled into the country from across the border,” he said.According to a survey, 37 per cent inmates admitted to drug deaddiction centres in the state are addicted to ‘chitta’ and 36 per cent are alcoholic.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drug-prevention-policy-in-himachal-soon-333193
02-11-2021||Mandi||Sardar Patel varsity, NIT Hamirpur ink pact||Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University, Mandi, and the NIT, Hamirpur, today signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to promote mutual cooperation in academic and research field.CL Chandan, Vice-Chancellor, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University, Mandi, and Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, signed the MoU.Chandan outlined the importance of mutual cooperation with the NIT-Hamirpur.He said students of the university will visit the NIT and would get exposure in latest research and lab facilities. They would be able to opt for online courses from the NIT and its students would also offered online courses by Sardar Patel University.Besides senior faculty member of Sardar Patel University, Dean, Academic Affairs, Prof Deepak Pathania, Dean, Student Welfare, Dr Sanjay Narang and Amar Negi, Registrar of the university, were present.The NIT team included Registrar of the university, Associate Dean, Academic, Dr Rajesh Sharma and Dr Pamita Awasthi, head of the chemistry department.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sardar-patel-varsity-nit-hamirpur-ink-pact-333194
02-11-2021||---||145 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 1As many as 145 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 224,251. Besides, three persons died of the virus—two in Kangra and one in Mandi.The highest number of 59 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 28 in Hamirpur, 21 in Bilaspur, 14 each in Una and Mandi, five in Kullu and one each in Solan, Shimla, Kinnaur and Chamba.The number of active cases declined to 1,865 while total deaths rose to 3,741. The number of persons recovered from Covid also rose to 218,628.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/145-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-333195
02-11-2021||---||EVMs airlifted from Killar, Kaza, says CEO||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 1The electronic voting machines (EVMs) from Kaza were airlifted to Keylong yesterday.Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) C Palarasu said that the EVMs had been brought safely to be kept in the strongroom at Keylong. Besides, EVMs from Killar had been brought to Chamba for counting.“The EVMs from the remaining polling areas, too, had been placed safely in strongrooms, under a three-tier security,” Palarasu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/evms-airlifted-from-killar-kaza-says-ceo-333196
02-11-2021||---||CEO: Preparations complete, counting today||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 1Chief Electoral Officer C Palrasu today said that all preparations have been completed for the counting of votes for by-elections to the Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Arki assembly constituencies.He said the counting of votes would begin tomorrow from 8 am amidst tight security at the respective centres. “A counting assistant and a counting supervisor will be posted at each table other than the returning officer in the counting centre,” he stated.Palrasu said 11 counting observers had been deployed for Mandi parliamentary constituency, whereas for Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies, three general observers have been posted as counting observers. Apart from this, one micro observer has also been deployed at each counting table.He said that two separate centres had been set up for counting of the postal ballot papers of Mandi parliamentary constituency. Similarly, a separate centre has also been set up in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies for counting of postal ballots.He said that in compliance of the guidelines issued in view of the Covid-19 epidemic, there will be a complete ban on taking out victory processions by the winning candidates or their supporters after the declaration of the result. Besides, not more than two persons will be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his authorised representative at the time of taking the election certificate from the returning officer, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ceo-preparations-complete-counting-today-333197
02-11-2021||Hamirpur||State badminton championship begins at NIT in Hamirpur||The state badminton championship started at the recreation complex of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) here today. As many as 81 shuttlers from across the state, including 57 men and 24 women, would participate in the event.The championship was inaugurated by former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. He said the state and the Centre were committed to encouraging sports in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given special honour to the Olympic and Para-Olympic teams. This was for the first time that the PM had organised special dinner for the Olympians, he stated.Rajinder Sharma, secretary of Himachal Pradesh Badminton Association, said the winners of the championship would represent the state at the national championship. The association was thankful to the NIT for providing the state-of-the-art indoor court to host the event. The government should build more indoor arenas to improve the standard of sports, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-badminton-championship-begins-at-nit-in-hamirpur-333198
02-11-2021||Solan||Stress laid on promoting Pahari language||The Department of Language, Art and Culture (DLAC) organised the State-Level Pahari Diwas at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni.Dr Parvinder Kaushal, VC, was the chief guest while renowned writer Vidyanand Sairak presided over the function. Over 40 writers and scholars were present for the two-day event.Kusum Sangiak, assistant director, DLAC, briefed about the significance of the day. Alka Kainthla, assistant director, welcomed the chief guest in the Himachali tradition and presented a book to him.“More events should be organised in schools, colleges and universities using Pahari language and electronic media should be used for its promotion,” he said.Dr Surat Thakur presented a paper on ‘Himachali dialects in the current context and New Education Policy’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stress-laid-on-promoting-pahari-language-333200
02-11-2021||---||CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University celebrates 44th founder’s day||Our CorrespondentPalampur, November 1CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University celebrated its 44th foundation day here today.While chairing the function, Vice-Chancellor Prof HK Chaudhary said with the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), the university was faced with many challenges. It had initiated steps to involve PhD scholars and research associates in academic programmes with remuneration.Around 200 research projects worth Rs 212 crore had been submitted to the funding agencies, Prof Chaudhary said.The Vice-Chancellor said 60 per cent of the rooftop area on the campus had been covered under solar system, work was underway for a clean and green campus and the students’ centre, with complete facilities, would be made functional soon. Around 20 Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) had been signed and several international collaborations had been entered into to make scientists globally competent.To mark the golden jubilee of HP statehood, the university had envisaged 51 programmes. A conference of 75 agricultural ambassadors (krishi doots), a state-level farm women fair etc were other programmes envisaged by the institute, Prof Chaudhary added.Chief Guest Dr Tej Partap, Vice-Chancellor, GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Uttarakhand, said dedication was a must to develop institutions. “The country has expanded exponentially in terms of students and institutions but the quality of education has suffered. There are plenty of jobs but not competent human resources,” he stated. Social, economic and technological changes were taking place at a faster pace, the VC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csk-himachal-pradesh-agriculture-university-celebrates-44th-founders-day-333201
02-11-2021||---||Five hurt in Mandi road accident||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 1Five persons were injured when the vehicle they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge at Kandlu in Mandi district on Sunday evening.According to the police, when the incident took place the injured were returning from Prashar lake and were heading towards their native places in Sundernagar.“Abhay Kumar, Aman Kumar, Mukesh Kumar, Ashutosh Kumar and Mukul Kumar, all natives of Sundernagar, were injured. They were rushed to a nearby hospital at Kataula, from where they have been referred to the Mandi zonal hospital.Their condition is stated to be stable,” a police officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-hurt-in-mandi-road-accident-333202
02-11-2021||Solan||The Baghat Urban Co-operative Bank board poll: Papers of ex-chief, deputy rejected||The nomination papers of former chairman, former vice-chairman and three others, filed for the election of the board of directors (BoD) of The Baghat Urban Co-operative Bank here, have been rejected.As many as 50 candidates have filed papers for seven posts of BoD representing seven zones.The papers of former chairman Pawan Gupta, former vice-chairman Dharmender Thakur, Ramesh Aggarwal, Kripal Singh and Shashi Inder Ahluwalia were rejected last evening following objections filed against them.The last date of withdrawal is, however, November 3 and the poll will be held on November 14.Pawan Gupta is a senior BJP leader, who had been contesting the poll for the last two decades. All five candidates were also members of a nominated committee constituted to probe the financial irregularities in the bank a few months ago.The committee was, however, suspended on October 10 and an administrator was appointed to look after the bank. Though their papers were found correct in the scrutiny held on October 29, objections were filed against them on October 30 by shareholders. After hearing, the objections were upheld.Though the candidates contested the rejection, stating that those objecting their candidature had not given their complete address, their plea did not hold water before the returning officer.Pawan Gupta had filed nomination from zone 5, Dharmender Thakur from zone 6, Rakesh Aggarwal from zone 1, Kirpal Singh from zone 4 and Shashi Inder Ahluwalia from zone 2.Securing the top posts and maximum members is a prestige issue for the BJP. Senior leaders are holding parleys to ensure the victory of their candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/the-baghat-urban-co-operative-bank-board-poll-papers-of-ex-chief-deputy-rejected-333203
02-11-2021||---||Vikas, Manisha, Priya get best athlete titles in Hamirpur||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, November 1Vikas Kumar was adjudged the best athlete in the senior men’s category while Manisha Kumari and Priya Thakur shared the best athlete title in the women’s category at the district athletics championship, which concluded today.The championship was organised by the Hamirpur Athletics Association at the athletic complex here.Narendra Thakur, MLA, felicitated the winners with medals and said games inculcated discipline and sportsmanship in players. Sportspersons must refrain from drug abuse. He expressed hope that like previous years, athletes from the district would perform to retain top positions in the state championship this year too.Pankaj Bhartiya, president of the district athletic association, said last year three players from the district went for the national games, six for north zone games and 55 participated in state-level athletic games.Apart from this, Hamirpur district also became the overall champion at the Himachal athletics competition last year.Three athletes, including Ambika Rana, Divya Rajput and Priya Thakurm who participated in the national competitions last year, were also felicitated.In the U-20 category, Kishan and Shivali were adjudged the best athletes in boys’ and girls’ category, respectively. In U-18 category, Kartikeya Sharma (men) and Sanjana (women) were adjudged best athletes. In U-16 category, Krishiv Rajguru (men) and Ishita Sharma (women) were the best athletes while in U-14 category Nishant Thakur (men) and Ambika Rana (women) were declared the best.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vikas-manisha-priya-get-best-athlete-titles-in-hamirpur-333204
02-11-2021||---||Self-immolation by woman in Indora||Our CorrespondentNURPUR, NOVEMBER 1Salochna Devi (27), a woman at Chhani-Beli in Indora, immolated herself last evening when her in-laws were away. Before sprinkling kerosene and setting herself on fire, she sent a WhatsApp message to her brother and left a seven-page suicide note before taking the extreme step.On hearing her screams, the neighbours rushed to rescue her and doused the fire but she succumbed to burn injuries on the spot. The victim had married to Rahul, the accused, in 2013.According to Sub Divisional Police Officer, Nurpur, Surinder Sharma, the deceased in her dying statement had alleged that her husband had extra-marital affairs with someone and accused him and in-laws of mentally torturing her.He said a case had been registered against six persons whose names were figured in the suicide note. Rahul was arrested late last evening.He said the family’s internal dispute was the reason behind her suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/self-immolation-by-woman-in-indora-333205
02-11-2021||Chamba||Development council sought for Pangi||The Pangwal Ekta Manch of Pangi has demanded the constitution of the Pangi Autonomous Hill Development Council for the tribal region on the pattern of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council.Chairman Trilok Thakur, co-chairman Bhagat Barotra and secretary general Khajan Thakur said the people of Pangi, known as Pangwal, had been denied the representation in the Legislative Assembly since 1967 after the merger of the Pangi with the Bharmour constituency in 1962. They had handed over a memorandum to the CM at Killar in Pangi on August 17. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/development-council-sought-for-pangi-333206
02-11-2021||Solan||Truck driver gets interim bail for marriage||An Una court today granted interim bail to truck driver Amir Khan for his marriage. He was arrested by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau on October 16 for transporting 900 boxes of country-made liquor on a forged permit.Amir hails from Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district and is slated to get married on November 5. He was in judicial custody after the completion of his three-day police remand and had applied for interim bail for his wedding.He, along with two others, was booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy and under the HP Excise Act. Anil Mehta, DSP, Vigilance Bureau, said an Una court granted interim bail to Amir beginning tomorrow and he would report back on November 11 after his wedding.Two policemen have been deputed to accompany Amir to his native village. They would also ensure his return to judicial custody on November 11. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/truck-driver-gets-interim-bail-for-marriage-333207
02-11-2021||The Himachal Pradesh National Law University||Virtual moot court competition at Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla||600-kg plastic waste collectedThe NSS unit of Government College, Sanjauli, collected 600-kg plastic from various parts of the city as part of the Swachh Bharat campaign. The students also tried to raise awareness about the perils of plastic through a street play. The NSS unit ran the Swachh Bharat campaign from October 1 to October 31. Praising the volunteers for their efforts, college principal CB Mehta wished for a bright future for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virtual-moot-court-competition-at-himachal-pradesh-national-law-university-shimla-333208
02-11-2021||The Lower Bazaar has become extremely crowded in the ongoing Diwali season. Not only are there too many people in the bazaar||Decongest Lower Bazaar in Shimla||No compensation to apple growersThe Horticulture Department undertook an extensive survey to assess the damage apple growers suffered earlier in the year due to snow and hailstorm. Many months have passed but the growers have not received a single penny in compensation. What's the point of doing all the assessment if growers are not to be given any compensation? — Sushant, JubbalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decongest-lower-bazaar-in-shimla-333209
