07-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Air quality worsens in Nalagarh, Baddi, Una industrial clusters||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 6The air quality index (AQI) deteriorated in the three industrial clusters of Una, Baddi and Nalagarh this Diwali as compared to last year, as per the rating released by the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) today.As per the SPCB, the Baddi industrial area recorded the highest AQI of 165 compared to 133 registered last year.In Nalagarh, an AQI of 110 was registered against 105 recorded last year while the Una cluster witnessed 99 AQI compared to last year’s 86.The AQI in these three clusters, which account for nearly 85 per cent of the state’s industry, had started deteriorating since October 30.In other industrial clusters of Kala Amb, Paonta Sahib, Damtal and Parwanoo, an AQI of 92, 133 , 95 and 90 were registered, respectively, this year, an improvement from the AQI of 101, 139, 97 and 109 last year.The air quality index also improved in other places such as Shimla (40), Dharamsala (77), Sundernagar (62) and Manali (70) this Diwali compared to 68, 113, 123 and 102 registered last year.Though the SPCB had restricted the use of firecrackers for two hours and allowed the use of green crackers, the directions were not adhered to.No mechanism had been developed by the authorities to check the sale of non-green crackers or to restrict their timings in the field. Besides issuing a notification restricting their use, the SPCB did little to ensure its adherence.Local administrations, which issue licences to the cracker sellers, did not ensure the sale of only green crackers or restrict their use for two hours. The ban remained only paper and also reflected the lack of seriousness in the authorities in checking air pollution.Member Secretary, SPCB, Harikesh Meena, said, “We will identify gaps in the implementation of the ban on firecrackers and review the situation for effective implementation in future”. The situation worsened in the Baddi and Nalagarh industrial belts where residents complained of exceptionally poor air quality.An AQI between 51 and 100 is rated as ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 moderate and between 201 and 300 as poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/air-quality-worsens-in-nalagarh-baddi-una-industrial-clusters-335013
07-11-2021||---||Paonta Sahib farmers resent tardy lifting of paddy||Solan, November 6Farmers are upset at the delay in the procurement of paddy at Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) centres in Paonta Sahib and Nalagarh. They say that they had registered on the FCI’s portal in advance but the procurement is abysmally slow.Around 15,637 quintals of paddy was procured at Malpur while 11,223.27 quintals was lifted at Nalagarh in Solan district till last evening. Growers rued that the delay in procurement was leading to losses as the inclement weather had led to blackening of the crop, resulting in lower returns.“The FCI has strict conditions for procuring paddy such as an adequate moisture content, which causes rejection of the produce. The delay also leads to additional cost of tractors parked at the centres,” Ranjit Singh, a paddy grower from Nalagarh, said.The farmers said that owing to the slow pace of procurement, those registered for October 31 were yet to sell their produce. This was giving them anxious moments as they feared further losses. It being the FCI’s first procurement in the region, the farmers were hoping for speedy lifting.A similar situation was witnessed at the Haripur Tohana procurement centre in Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur where farmers resented that little procurement had taken place between October 31 and November 5. “Power Minister Sukhram Chawdhary ensured some lifting after Diwali, but the process was far from smooth. Those who failed to sell their crop on October 31 have not been given slot for future procurement,” a farmer said.Paonta Sahib SDM Vivek Mahajan said, “Efforts have been made to ensure quick procurement by coordinating with the FCI. Initially, the produce of 25 farmers was procured everyday but later it was increased to 40 farmers and now to 55. It will be ensured that all paddy is procured by the month end”.The FCI has procured 40,239.65 quintals of paddy at the rate of Rs 1,960 per quintal at its Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib centre till this evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-farmers-resent-tardy-lifting-of-paddy-335015
07-11-2021||---||CM pulls up officials for delay in execution of  development works||Shimla, November 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today pulled up administrative secretaries at a meeting here for showing slackness in the execution of development projects.He said that special emphasis should be laid on resolving the issues of recruitment under various categories that had been delayed for various reasons. He added that focus must also be laid on recruitment on the compassionate ground, as this would not only benefit the family members of the deceased but also provide employment to the needy.Thakur said that all development projects that had been hanging fire due to cases pending in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) should be expedited. He added that the projects of various departments were getting delayed, depriving people of their benefits and resulting in cost escalation.The Chief Minister said that the government would not tolerate laxity in the execution of projects and would not hesitate from taking stern action against erring officials. He added that special focus must be laid on achieving the targets related to various projects. The work on the projects of the Public Works Department with regard to NABARD and the PMGSY should be completed in time.He asked the officers to maintain better coordination between various departments so that the work on the projects was not hampered. He also directed them to ensure that roads in the state were properly maintained.Thakur said all announcements made by him should be effectively implemented and slackness in this regard would be viewed seriously. He also directed the Administrative Secretaries to identify chronic issues related to their departments and redress them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-pulls-up-officials-for-delay-in-execution-of-development-works-335016
07-11-2021||Shimla||124 new Covid cases, 6 deaths  in Himachal||As many as 124 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 224,830. Besides, six persons died of the virus—three in Kangra, two in Hamirpur and one in Una.The highest number of 44 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 24 in Hamirpur, 12 in Mandi, 10 each in Una and Bilaspur and eight in Shimla. The number of active cases declined to 1,375. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/124-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-in-himachal-335017
07-11-2021||---||BRO jawan dies in landslide||Mandi, November 6A jawan of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) was killed in a massive landslide on the Sansari-Killar-Thirot road at the Kadhu Nullah in Lahaul and Spiti district on November 4. He was engaged in the road clearance work when he was hit by the landslide.Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said, “When BRO jawan Karthik Kumar stepped down from the dozer to check the debris on the road, another landslide occurred and he was killed”. He expressed condolences to the bereaved family and said that Karthik showed unparalleled dedication and courage towards service to the nation and duty. “The spirit with which the BRO carries out works in adverse conditions shows its commitment,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-jawan-dies-in-landslide-335018
07-11-2021||---||Form Swarn Aayog, Kaul Singh asks CM||Mandi, November 6Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur said today that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur should constitute a Swarn Aayog for upper caste communities in the state.He said, “It has come to my notice that the Chief Minister had made a commitment to the office-bearers of the Samanya Varag Sayunkat Manch to constitute a Swarn Aayog in the state. Now, it is time for him to fulfil the demand of the manch and honour his commitment”.“We also request the Central Government to make changes in the Constitution of India to make a provision for the constitution of the Aayog,” said the Cong leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/form-swarn-aayog-kaul-singh-asks-cm-335019
07-11-2021||---||CM has lost people’s faith, should resign: Harshvardhan Chauhan||Dharamsala, November 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has no moral right to continue in office after the BJP’s defeat in all four byelections, said Harshvardhan Chauhan, chairman of the media committee of Congress, while addressing mediapersons here today.He said that in fact voters in 17 Assembly constituencies of the Mandi parliamentary segment and three other Assembly seats cast their votes in the byelections.“This means that one third of the voters of Himachal have rejected the BJP government in the state. The vote share of the BJP, which was 52 per cent in the 2019 parliamentary elections, dropped to 28 per cent in the byelections held last month. This clearly indicates that the the Chief Minister has lost the support of people and he should resign,” he added.Chauhan said that besides the price rise, unemployment was another major issue in the byelections. “In the past four years, just 28,000 jobs have been given in the government sector, as per the official data. These jobs include those given on contract and the outsourcing basis. Practically, the government has not given even 10,000 permanent jobs to the youths of the state in the past four years. Even Class III and IV jobs that are reserved for the residents of the state have been given to outsiders,” he alleged. He alleged that the state government had ignored Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-has-lost-peoples-faith-should-resign-harshvardhan-chauhan-335020
07-11-2021||Dharamsala||Voters forced BJP to cut fuel rates: Cong||Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma on Friday said that the voters of Himachal Pradesh had forced the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel.“The voters of Himachal has handed the worst-ever election defeat to the BJP in the history of the state. In the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituency, BJP candidate Neelam Saraik lost her security deposit. It was for the first time that the candidate of a national party in the state lost her security deposit. People has punished the BJP for making the poor and the middle class suffer due to an unprecedented price rise,” he said while addressing mediapersons here. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/voters-forced-bjp-to-cut-fuel-rates-cong-335021
07-11-2021||Shimla||WB approves fiscal outlay for Shimla water, sewerage work||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the World Bank (WB) had approved the negotiation package of a financial outlay of Rs 1,825 crore ($250 million) for the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Delivery Programme for improving water supply in the Greater Shimla area.“Out of Rs 1,825 crore, the World Bank will provide a financial assistance of Rs 1,168 crore and the remaining Rs 657 crore will be borne by the Himachal Pradesh Government,” he said.Thakur said the project would ensure round-the-clock water supply in the Shimla Municipal Corporation areas, besides strengthening sewerage facilities.“Under the project, Shimla water supply from the Sutlej will be augmented with additional 67 MLD to meet the demand up to 2050,” he added.He said bulk water supply to Shimla peri-urban areas would also be ensured to meet the demand in Kufri, Shoghi and Ghanahatti, which fall under the Special Area Development Authority and additional planning areas, up to 2050.Thakur said that it would also provide round-the-clock water supply to all domestic and commercial consumers and improved sewerage facilities within the Shimla MC area. He added that the project also envisaged the replacement of the distribution pipe network in the MC area for its upgrade to a 24x7 water supply system. Additionally, a sewerage network will also be provided in Mehli-Panthaghati, Tutu and Mashobra, he said.“The project will be completed by 2026. The agreement between the WB, Department of Economic Affairs, Centre and the state Urban Development Department will be signed soon,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wb-approves-fiscal-outlay-for-shimla-water-sewerage-work-335022
07-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Despite ban, illegal mining goes unchecked on Neugal riverbed||Palampur, November 6Despite a complete ban on mining and quarrying in the Neugal river, large-scale illegal mining and quarrying is going on unchecked in Naun, Dhook, Dhaniara, Lahar and Umri areas of Thural tehsil. Besides, the state government has also decided not to allot mining leases on the directions of the NGT.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that the government had auctioned two sites in Dhook, Dhaniara and Lahar areas in January 2019, but no mining lease had been granted to date.However, in the absence of any check from the mining authorities, these two sites have become major points for illegal mining. The state government is losing royalty in lakhs on a daily basis. Hundreds of tractor-trailers, tempos can be seen lifting material from these areas situated on the banks of the Neugal river.Though the Mining Department had dismantled illegal roads constructed by the mining mafia to riverbeds to extract stone and sand many times, these are restored by the mafia. District Mining Officer Rajiv Kalia said the Mining Department alone could not check illegal mining. Other stakeholders like the IPH Department, Forest Department and the PWD should also come forward to help the mining department and protect their properties from damages being caused by the mafia, he said.Illegal mining not only creates environmental imbalance, but also causes a huge loss to the state exchequer as the state is losing royalty in crores every year.In the current monsoon season, illegal and unscientific mining and quarrying has resulted in flash floods, large scale deforestation and landslides. Official sources confirmed that over 25,000 hectares of land had been seriously affected by mining and quarrying in Palampur, Jaisinghpur and Baijnath subdivisions, resulting in drastic reshaping of the landscape.Besides, it has also posed a serious threat to the existence of power substations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-ban-illegal-mining-goes-unchecked-on-neugal-riverbed-335023
07-11-2021||Una||Cellphone radiations adversely affect flora, says study||Shikha Chandel, a botany scholar of Una district, recently completed a research concluding that cellphone radiations adversely affects plants. The study was part of her PhD thesis, submitted to Panjab University.Shikha, a resident of Bilaspur, lives in Una. She says that flora plays a significant role in the sustenance of life on the earth. Flora is stationary and not covered, due to which, it is more exposed to radiations emitted from cellphones and their base stations, she adds.She says that she has carried out her research on rice and onion crops by subjecting their seedlings to radiations at two frequencies measuring 2,100 MHz and 2,350 MHz, which corresponded to the signals emitted from the 3G and 4G cellular technologies, respectively. She adds that the experiments proved that the exposure to radiation for a long duration hampers the growth and development of plants.The research states that the seedling length and biomass of irradiated seedlings are reduced in comparison to the non-radiated ones, and the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic efficiency are also affected. She adds the cells of the exposed plants showed cytotoxic and genotoxic alterations.The radiations also affected the rate of cell division and induced various chromosomal aberrations, while affecting the dignity of the DNA, says Shikha.Shikha says the paper has been published in various international science journals such as ‘Protoplasma’, ‘Journal of Environmental Health Science and Engineering’ and ‘Journal of Microscopy and Ultrastructure’. — OCSeedling length is reducedThe researcher, Shikha Chandel, says the seedling length and biomass of the irradiated seedlings are reduced in comparison to the non-radiated ones, and the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic efficiency are also hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cellphone-radiations-adversely-affect-flora-says-study-335024
07-11-2021||---||Raw material, goods gutted in Baddi fire||Solan, November 6Raw material and finished goods worth several crores of rupees were destroyed in a fire incident at Sania Engineers Private Limited in the Phase-III industrial area of Baddi last evening. However, no loss of life was reported, as the factory was closed for Diwali break.The fire reportedly started at the second floor of the factory and spread to other sections where inflammable material were kept. The firefighters had a difficult time controlling the blaze. A five-member team reached the factory while five other firemen arrived after 15 minutes to control the blaze that was spreading fast, said an official.The assistance of the staff of Vardhman Textiles was also taken, besides the fire engines of Birla Textiles and the Nalagarh fire station were also requisitioned.The preliminary investigation revealed that the factory lacked fire safety certification and it had no no objection certificate (NOC), said DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh.SHO, Baddi, Daya Ram said that it was being ascertained whether the factory had any fire hydrant and whether it was in a working condition or not. He urged all industrial units to ensure a provision of fire hydrants on their premises to avoid heavy loss to property and life in fire incidents.As fire safety certification is not mandatory, industrialists either do not install adequate fire fighting equipment or do not maintain it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raw-material-goods-gutted-in-baddi-fire-335025
07-11-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Nurpur hospital faces shortage of specialists||Nurpur, November 6Several posts of radiologist, physician, ophthalmologist and gynaecologist are lying vacant in the 200-bed Civil Hospital here for a long time.The hospital caters to patients from Nurpur, Indora, Jawali, and Fatehpur subdivisions in lower Kangra district and Bhatiyat in neighbouring Chamba district. In the absence of specialist doctors, the patients have to travel to Pathankot or take treatment at local private hospitals.Interestingly, the hospital has three surgeons against one sanctioned post. The Health Department had posted some specialists to the Civil Hospital in the past few months but they managed to either get the orders cancelled or get themselves adjusted in other government hospitals.Dr Sushil Sharma, Medical Superintendent, says that the hospital has 34 sanctioned posts of medical officer, including specialists, but there are only 19 of them at present. He adds that the Health Department has made temporary arrangements of a radiologist on deputation, who visits the hospital twice a week, and a physician. He admits that a physician and a gynaecologist are urgently needed in the hospital and he has brought the issue to the notice of the higher authorities.In the absence of a gynaecologist, expectant mothers, who are assured of free clinical tests and safe institutional deliveries in government hospitals under the Janani Suraksha Yojana, are the worst sufferers.The hospital had once taken the lead in conducting institutional deliveries but now expectant mothers are dependent on nearby private hospitals or private nursing homes at Pathankot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-hospital-faces-shortage-of-specialists-335026
07-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Pathankot-Mandi NH stretch faces neglect||Palampur, November 6After the change in the alignment of the Pathankot-Mandi road widening project, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has literally abandoned a 50-km stretch of the busy highway that lies between 61 Mile and Jogindernagar.In this section of the highway, no maintenance work has been carried out in the past two years. The road is full of potholes and the drainage is choked or covered with bushes.State to maintain roadThe NHAI has changed the alignment of four-laning work. The part of the highway passing through Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Jogindernagar, will not be part of the new alignment. The state will have to do maintenance work. —Local NHAI officerThe stretch was to pass through Palampur, Baijnath, Maranda, Paprola and Jogindernagar but the NHAI changed the alignment of the four-laning from Paror (near Palampur).The old highway passing through these towns is neither being maintained nor repaired by either the NHAI or state government. This has led to increase in accidents owing to heavy traffic.The road is narrow and in a bad shape. Most bridges in this part of the highway are over 100 years old.A senior officer of the Public Works Department told The Tribune that the 220-km Pathankot-Mandi national highway was transferred to the NHAI three years ago and it was now the responsibility of the NHAI to maintain the road.However, a local officer of the NHAI, says the authority had changed the alignment of new four lane and the part of the highway passing through Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Jogindernagar, would not be part of the new alignment. “The NHAI will not use the old highway and therefore, any widening, repair or maintenance of the road will have to be carried out by the state government,” he asserts.Local MLA Ashish Butail says the state government should take the responsibility of maintaining this part of the highway and widen it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-mandi-nh-stretch-faces-neglect-335027
07-11-2021||---||Conference on global warming tomorrow||Mandi, November 6A public conference will be organised at Banjar in Kullu district on November 8 to make people aware about global warming and its adverse effects on climate in the Himalayan region.The event is being organised jointly by the Sahara Association, Himalya Niti Abhiyan and MGNREGA Workers Association.Rajender Chauhan, director of Sahara Association, said global warming was a burning issue across the world. It had forced the top leaders of different countries to sit together and ponder over it to find a solution.“We are experiencing flash floods, storms and drought-like situations, which indicate climate change in this region,” he said.“We will organise a public conference (sammelan) at Banjar on November 8 to make people aware about this important issue. Discussions would be held on how they can make significant contributions to reduce the pollution level in their respective areas,” Chauhan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/conference-on-global-warming-tomorrow-335028
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Dy Speaker meets Churah fire victims||Dalhousie, November 6Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj on Saturday met with the families whose houses were destroyed in a fire on Diwali at Bhadoga village in Guwadi gram panchayat of Churah subdivision in Chamba district.He took stock of the damage caused by the fire and announced a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 each to three affected families from his discretionary fund. He instructed the Block Development Officer, Tissa, to take necessary action to provide houses to the fire victims under the Chief Minister’s Housing Scheme. The Deputy Speaker also issued orders for providing essential daily use items to the affected families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dy-speaker-meets-churah-fire-victims-335029
07-11-2021||Kullu||‘Chhidra’ held in Kullu to placate angry deity||A cleansing ceremony known as ‘Chhidra’ was held to placate the Dhumbal Naag deity at Dhalpur Ground here today. The deity was “angry” with his ‘Haryans’ and ‘Devalus’ over some issue at the conclusion of the Dasehra festival. The deity had given orders to perform ‘Chhidra’ by prophesying through his ‘Gur’ (oracle). The deity had expressed the desire to soon come to the Dhalpur Ground and perform ‘Chhidra’.The deity, along with ‘Haryans’ (residents of deity’s area) and ‘Devalus’ (volunteers), reached here on Friday night and first visited the temple of chief deity Raghunathji. The deity then proceeded to his temporary camp at Dhalpur Maidan and stayed there for the night. The ‘Chhidra’ was organised in the morning by performing various rituals. The deity returned to his temple after the ceremony.Jawahar Thakur, the ‘Kardar’ (caretaker) of the deity, said the activities of the cleansing ceremony were performed as per the deity’s orders. He added that the deity had also given orders to the ‘Haryans’, which would be followed strictly.Dhumbal Naag is the ‘policing’ in-charge who manages the crowd during the historic rath yatra on the opening and closing days of the Kullu Dasehra festival. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chhidra-held-in-kullu-to-placate-angry-deity-335030
07-11-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Deity culture— Passed on by generations, driven by faith||KULLU, NOVEMBER 6The deity culture and traditions in Kullu, known as ‘Valley of Gods’, have been passed on through the ages only orally, through legends and fables. However, there is no documented information about the parable and fables of around 600 gods and goddesses of the district. The basis of the Dev Samaj here is the unwavering faith of the people in the deities.own rules and lawsResidents said there is no concrete information about the real past regarding the legends of the deities. The only thing the people know about the traditions is what the elders have told them.There have been many research works by scholars on Dev traditions and culture, but the historians have not been able to clarify or document these legends properly.Yatin Pandit, who is researching deity culture, said the folk culture is conveyed orally and each deity has its own rules and customs. The traditions that have been going on for centuries are being carried out accurately.A Dev Sanskriti Charitable Trust was formed by former zila parishad member Om Prakash Sharma to research the deity culture and traditions. He said the trust was merged with the Dev Sadan Samiti, headed by Kullu DC. The museum and library related to the culture would be improved. Various traditions and culture would be documented after research, which will take some time.Sharma said the deities have a defined area and every person, who comes within the area, is considered to be the ‘Haryan’ of the deity. The ‘Haryans’ are ]informed by their elders about the rules of their deity. Besides, many karkoons, including gurs (oracles), priests, kardars (caretakers), ‘bhandaris’ etc are considered to be the flag-bearers of the customs of the deities, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deity-culture%E2%80%94-passed-on-by-generations-driven-by-faith-335031
07-11-2021||Kullu||Tourist booked for threatening driver||Hooliganism by tourists was witnessed at famous tourist destination Jibhi in the Banjar valley last night. According to information, a Delhi tourist driving a BMW car (HR-13P-0001) along with a woman was coming from Banjar to Jibhi. He did not give pass to a taxi and instead started intimidating the cab driver.On reaching Jibhi, the duo created a ruckus. When local residents intervened, the tourist took out a country-made pistol from his car and threatened to shoot the taxi driver. However, local residents overpowered him, snatched his pistol and informed the police.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said that the police seized the gun, which was an unloaded air pistol. A case under Sections 341, 504, 506(2) of the IPC has been registered against Ajay Dalal, a resident of South-West Delhi. He added that the details of the air pistol were being verified and an investigation was underway. Meanwhile, Jibhi residents condemned the incident. They said that it was a matter of concern that tourists were coming to the state with weapons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-booked-for-threatening-driver-335032
07-11-2021||Kullu||Bank manager held for fraud||The police have arrested the branch manager of the Gramin Bank, Dohranala, for embezzlement of over Rs 50 lakh from the bank accounts of customers. Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said nine customers of the bank had filed complaints that several lakhs of rupees had gone missing from their bank accounts.The SP said the police checked the bank records. The bank manager and other employees were questioned. After the preliminary investigation, the bank management suspended the manager and started an inquiry. After checking the facts, the police arrested the bank manager. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bank-manager-held-for-fraud-335033
07-11-2021||---||Mandi man arrested on murder charge||Mandi, November 6The police yesterday arrested Joginder Kumar on the charge of murdering a person at Chhatri village in Mandi district.According to the police, on the intervening night of November 2 and 3, Joginder Kumar, a local resident, and Praveen Kumar, a native of Punjab, were drinking liquor together. In an inebriated condition, they had a heated argument and later entered into a scuffle. Joginder allegedly pushed Praveen into a deep gorge and the latter died.“The deceased has been identified as Praveen Kumar. He was working as a JCB machine operator in the area. A murder case has been registered and investigation is going on,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-man-arrested-on-murder-charge-335034
07-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Basic amenities missing, Panchrukhi people suffer||Palampur, November 6Panchrukhi, a small town 15 km from here, is crying for immediate attention. Potholed roads and streets, overflowing drains, contaminated drinking water depict the sorry state of affairs.Besides, houses in the town have been constructed in an unplanned and haphazard manner. Successive state governments have also given a step-motherly treatment to the town.The Palampur-Jaisinghpur highway, passing through the town, has become a major traffic hazard, resulting in frequent jams. In the absence of parking facilities, most of the vehicles are parked on the highway, disrupting traffic.A railway crossing in the town is big inconvenience to people. Most of the times, the crossing gates are closed half an hour before the arrival of the train, resulting in the harassment of commuters.Due to the lack of funds, the demand for the construction of a flyover has been hanging fire for the past 20 years. Residents Hem Raj, Dr Ashwani Kumar, Satish Kumar and Ritesh Jaura say that keeping in view the high volume of traffic, the state government should construct a flyover without further delay.At present, the town is governed by a panchayat. Interior roads and streets in the panchayat areas are in bad shape. Due to overflowing drains and leaking water supply pipes, streets and roads get waterlogged, and often stink, making it difficult for residents to move around.Garbage can be seen littered in every nook and corner of the town. Also, no sewerage system is in place.Residents say a sewerage should be laid in the town on priority, as the prevailing conditions are alarming.There has been a manifolds increase in the population of the town in the past 10 years and the panchayat is finding it very difficult to maintain it with meager funds allotted to it every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/basic-amenities-missing-panchrukhi-people-suffer-335035
07-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||It was Green Diwali in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 6Even as major cities across North India registered an alarming spike in the Air Quality Index (AQI) on Diwali, Shimla recorded a surprisingly low AQI level of 40 and was categorised as “good”.From a “moderate” 125.7 on Diwali in 2019, the city’s AQI level dipped to a “satisfactory” 68 last year, and to “good” 40 this year.Incidentally, Shimla is the only place in the state to be in “good category”, which ranges from 0-50. The city’s AQI on November 2 and November 3 was 36 and 38, respectively.The fact that the AQI went up by just two points on Diwali shows that Shimla residents showed a lot of restraint in bursting crackers. “Bursting less crackers has become a trend in the city over the past couple of years,” Municipal Commissioner Ashish Kohli said.Councillor Rakesh Sharma said, “Most people stopped bursting crackers around 10 pm, the deadline set by the government.”“Moreover, schools are closed and most students have gone back home. This may also be one of the reasons behind bursting of less crackers and low AQI in the city this time,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/it-was-green-diwali-in-shimla-334807
