08-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal schools to reopen for classes 1 to 7||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools, which were closed in view of the Covid pandemic, for classes 1 to 7, an official spokesperson said on Monday.The decision to reopen schools was taken in the state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Monday.The schools from class 8 and above have already reopened in the state.It was decided in the meeting to reopen schools for students of classes 3 to 7 from November 10 and for students of classes 1 and 2 from November 15, the spokesperson said.The Cabinet also decided to resume transport buses with full capacity instead of the earlier 50 per cent norms, he added.The state cabinet also decided to recommend the governor to convene the Winter session of the state Vidhan Sabha from December 10 to 15 at Dharamshala. It will have five sittings.The cabinet also decided to hold ‘Janmanch’ programme on November 21 in different parts of the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-to-7-335598
08-11-2021||---||Himachal bypoll debacle: Effective changes to be made, says state BJP chief||Shimla, November 7State BJP president Suresh Kashyap today said effective changes will be made in the party organisation after looking into the reasons for defeat in the bypoll.Addressing a press conference here today, he said the party would introspect the reasons for defeat. “Whatever changes need to be made as part of our preparations for the 2022 assembly polls will be made in the party organisation. As far as the changes at the government level, these will be done by the chief minister,” he responded to a query.To gear up for 2022Whatever changes need to be made as part of our preparations for the 2022 Assembly polls will be made in the party organisation. As far as the changes at the government level, these will be done by the CM. — Suresh Kashyap, State BJP presidentWhile admitting that the BJP had fared badly in the bypoll, he said the BJP had technically only lost two seats and not four as two were already with the Congress. The Mandi Lok Sabha and Jubbal-Kotkhai seats had been won by the BJP but in the recently concluded bypoll the Congress wrested bot seats from the BJP.Kashyap also listed various achievements of both the Modi regime at the Centre and the state government in health, education and social sectors.Earlier, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, state president Suresh Kashyap and organization general secretary Pawan Rana joined the BJP national executive held in Delhi from here. BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon joined from Chandigarh and Union Minister Anurag Thakur from Delhi.Kashyap listed the ongoing party programmes in Himachal and the future plans. He said such campaigns help in strengthening the party organisation and preparing them for the forthcoming poll.This meeting took place after one and a half years due to coronavirus outbreak.Several important issues were discussed in the meeting.Kashyap highlighted the success of the central government in dealing with the Covid epidemic, the vaccination campaign and the initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the development of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bypoll-debacle-effective-changes-to-be-made-says-state-bjp-chief-335419
08-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||No end to parking woes at Dharamsala’s Bhagsunag||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 7The parking problems at Bhagsunag, a tourist hub area of Dharamsala, seem unending. Despite the fact that the area comes under the Smart City Dharamsala project, no solution has been found to the problem.At present, an open area measuring about 6 kanals of land at the centre of Bhagsunag is being used for parking of vehicles. Though there is no tree cover on the land being used for parking of vehicles, in revenue papers the area is classified as forest land. Due to this, the proposal of bringing up a multi-storey parking lot on the area has not moved ahead.Divert land already used for parkingWe do not know why the land being used for parking of vehicles for past two decades cannot be diverted for construction of a multi-level parking. —Ashwani Bamba, President, Upper dharamsala hotel and restaurant associationAshwani Bamba, president of Upper Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, said that the proposal to bring up the multi-level parking at Bhagsunag has been caught in red tape for the past many years.“We do not know why a small piece of land that is located in hub of Bhagsunag, and is being used for parking of vehicles for past two decades cannot be diverted for construction of multi-level parking. The government has been diverting hundreds of acres of forest land for projects but just about 6 kanals land in Bhagsunag is not being diverted. The hoteliers of the region have proposed that in case the land is provided by the government they can construct multi-level parking on their own,” he said.Dharamsala Mayor Onkar Nehria, who also belongs to Bhagsunag area, said the local body had sent a case for transferring 6 kanal forest land to be used for construction of multi-level parking. However, the forest department had rejected the case both times.“We will again send the case and request Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania to get the land transferred for construction of multi-level parking in Bhagsunag,” he said.Besides the multi-level parking, many projects in Dharamsala city are not getting through for want of permission to transfer small patches of forest land for other purposes. The road connecting Dharamkot with Naddi and the road from Dharamkot to Galu Mata temple have not been metaled as these are forest lands in revenue papers.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania had recently announced that the permissions for diversion of up to 44 hectares forest land would be given in Shimla. The cases for all diversion of forest lands were earlier sent to Dehradun. “We now hope that the permission for diversion of forest land in Bhagsunag would be given by the Forest Department from Shimla so that the parking problems of the area could be resolved,” Nehria said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-parking-woes-at-dharamsalas-bhagsunag-335420
08-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||MGNREGA workers in Himachal sans wages for over 2 months||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 7Payments have not been made under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) over the past two months, leaving lakhs of workers in distress. While the payment for material component has seen delays in the past as well, panchayat pradhans claim it is for the first time that the wage component has been delayed for this long. As per the Act, the beneficiaries should receive their dues within 15 days of the completion of the work.“It’s been more than two months since the muster roll for works has been submitted, but the beneficiaries haven’t got the payment yet,” said Dinesh Jagta, pradhan, Gram Panchayat, Cheog. “It’s for the first time there has been such a long delay in the release of the wages. Besides affecting the workers, it has also slowed down several development works,” said Jagta.Development hitIt is for the first time there has been such a long delay in the release of wages. Besides affecting the workers, it has also slowed down several development works. —Dinesh Jagta, Pradhan, Gram panchayat, CheogAdmitting that payments have not been released for over two months now, Rural Development Director Rugved Thakur said the issue cropped up after the state “overachieved its half-yearly targets”. “We achieved our half-yearly targets in August, instead of September, which necessitated some reallocation of budget. We have anyway taken up the matter with the Centre and hopefully the issue will be resolved in the next few days,” said Thakur.The impact of the delayed payments has been more in a district like Mandi, where around 5.50 lakh people have the MGNREGA job cards. “You can imagine the plight of people if they don’t get paid for over two months,” said Bhupinder Singh, state secretary of MGNREGA and Construction Workers Association. Singh said a large number of people, especially from the Scheduled Caste, are dependent on MGNREGA for their day-to-day expenses. “We have a mixed group of MGNREGA workers, with some having alternative source of income but many entirely dependent on it. The delay of three months in disbursing the wages is too long for the people entirely dependent on MGNREGA,” he said.With the loss of jobs because of Covid, the dependence on MGNREGA has increased manifold. “The scheme has been a great support during the pandemic. We are not out of it and many still need the MGNREGA support. So the government should ensure smooth flow of payments,” he said.There are 26.91 lakh MGNREGA job card holders in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mgnrega-workers-in-himachal-sans-wages-for-over-2-months-335421
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Phase 2 of crop diversification project to begin in Himachal soon: Minister||UNA, NOVEMBER 7Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today said the second phase of the Himachal Pradesh Crop Diversification Promotion (HPCDP) Project, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will be launched soon in the state.In a press release issued here today, Kanwar said about 25,000 farmers of the state would be covered under the Rs 1,010 crore project, which would focus on bringing rain-fed land under irrigation, crop diversification and bringing new cultivation techniques for the farmers in their fields.New cultivation ways to be promotedAbout 25K farmers will be covered under the Rs1,010-cr project, which will also focus on bringing rain-fed land under irrigation and bringing new cultivation techniques. — Virender Kanwar, agri ministerThe minister said the project objectives had been designed to encourage the farmers to adopt cultivation of cash crops so as to boost their economy. He said the first phase of the HPCDP project had been successfully implemented in five districts of the state, which culminated in June this year. Going by its success, he said the scope of the project had now been extended to all 12 districts through the second phase.Kanwar said 306 new irrigation schemes would be implemented in the state which, when complete, will have a total irrigation command area of about 9,000 hectares. He added that new irrigation techniques like drip and sprinkler irrigation systems would be adopted to conserve water.Besides, high-yielding varieties of seeds will be introduced to the farmers to boost their produce. In order to provide road connectivity for transportation of produce from remote areas, the construction of village roads has also been proposed, he said, adding that a sum of Rs 30 crore had been set aside for strengthening 13 existing agriculture produce marketing yards.Kanwar said the duration of the second phase of the HPCDP project would be from 2021 to 2029, adding that five farmer training centres would be set up under the project in different districts. He said 10 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) would be constituted during the project implementation period and expressed hope that the project would boost the farm sector and attract more and more educated youth towards agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/phase-2-of-crop-diversification-project-to-begin-in-himachal-soon-minister-335422
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Government backing out on promise on land relief, alleges Cong||NURPUR, NOVEMBER 7Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) general secretary Kewal Pathania and Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan issued a joint statement here today. They said after losing all four byelections in the state, it was high time that the Jai Ram Thakur government addressed the grievances of the people hit hard by the Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project. They had been agitating for the past three years for fair compensation.They alleged that the government had goneback on its party’s vision document promising factor-2 compensation to the affected people whose land was being acquired by the National HIghway Authority of India (NHAI) for the road-widening project.The people in Fatehpur Assembly byelection had given their verdict against the ruling party forthe general assembly elections to be held nearly after one year.“The government is backing out on its vision document’s promise of factor 2 compensation by giving factor 1 compensation to the affected people. The indifferent attitude of the government will boomerang on the BJP in the coming Assembly elections. The state government has failed even to clear the file pertaining to procuring forest clearance needed for the construction of the fourlane-widening project,” they stated.Terming the Cabinet subcommittee constituted by the state government to address issues of the fourlane-affected people an eyewash, the Congress leaders said the committee had failed to take any initiative.They said that a large number of Pong Dam oustees who had settled on the roadside of the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway-154 after their displacement around five decades ago were going to face another displacement but the state government was being a silent spectator.“It clearly shows thatthe state government is least concerned about the development and grievances of the people of the largest district in the state,” they lamented.‘Giving factor 1 compensation’HPCC general secretary Kewal Pathania and Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan said the government was backing out on its vision document’s promise of factor 2 compensation by giving factor 1 compensation to the affected people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-backing-out-on-promise-on-land-relief-alleges-cong-335423
08-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Oxen die after consuming plastic at sanctuary in Nalagarh||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 7About 70 oxen have died at the Handi Kundi-based cow sanctuary in Nalagarh since February this year due to the consumption of plastic, the use of which is banned in the state.As much as five to 10 per cent mortality is being registered in this sanctuary every month owing to the consumption of waste material like plastic. The post-mortem examination of the dead oxen revealed they had consumed huge quantities of polythene bags, metallic wires, ropes and cotton material.In one case, as much as 10 kg of polythene bag had infected the gastrointestinal tract of a seven-year-old oxen. The presence of such material cause cardiovascular failure, owing to ruminal impaction in an animal, informed veterinary officials.“Contrary to reports of deaths due to the lack of fodder in the cow sanctuary, about 70 oxen deaths have been reported at the Handa Kundi-based cow sanctuary since February due to the consumption of waste material like plastic,” confirmed Nalagarh SDM Mahendra Pal, who also overlooks the upkeep of cow sanctuaries.He added that there were 416 animals at this sanctuary, which had adequate stock of 260 quintals of fodder. There were 575 animals in this sanctuary when it had resumed operations and about six or seven deaths have been taking place every month.Though the district was declared free of stray cattle a year ago, instances of stray cattle being seen roaming on roads are common. The state government extends Rs 500 per cattle per month to cow sanctuaries.A majority of these animals have been dropped here either from other parts of the district or the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana owing to their proximity to the sanctuary. Animals brought here from the hills also face a climatic shock owing to the hot climatic conditions and this too aggravates the hardships of the animals, said officials. The increasing deaths have rung alarm bells among officials who rue that plastic continues to be used and strewn around callously by people.“In a bid to maintain a strict check on the use of plastic, stringent measures like assigning field officials, including revenue officials, and keeping targets to challan such offenders will be introduced soon,” said the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxen-die-after-consuming-plastic-at-sanctuary-in-nalagarh-335424
08-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal-Haryana border controversy awaits resolution||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 7An inter-state dispute between Himachal and Haryana where a Survey of India report had claimed that Himachal Pradesh had encroached upon some land belonging to the neighbouring state at Parwanoo, is awaiting resolution for the last about a year.In a bid to settle this pending boundary dispute pertaining to the state’s gateway at Parwanoo, a joint spot inspection was conducted by the officials of the revenue and forest departments and the report was sent to the state government earlier this year.MHA examining issueAs per this report, an examination of the revenue records of 1908-09 had revealed that the dividing line between Haryana and Himachal Pradesh has been shown in the shape of a nullah in khasra number 332. This line divides Mouja Gumma of Himachal and Khera Sita Ram of Haryana and it has been entered in equal share of both states.The report had further pointed out that the proposed dividing line drawn by the Survey of India and reflecting pillars 11, 12, 13 and 14 in the illegal possession of Himachal Pradesh is not correct as per the revenue records of both the states. These pillars exist in R-56 area, which is reserve forest number 56 of Parwanoo Forest Range and it is hence not accepted by the state.Officials observed that R-56 was measured during the forest settlement of 1937-38, when none of the states was in existence. Hence the issue of encroachment on the boundaries of Haryana was not applicable. The notification dated December 24, 1952, by the then Pepsu government and published on January 4, 1953, notifies that the diving line between the two states is Taksal Nallah Bridge and Kalka Shimla Road and pillar number 13 is a boundary to mark existing in the nallah.Thus, the proposal of the Survey of India regarding the ridges being the diving line between the two states is incorrect keeping in view the field position, points the report accessed by The Tribune.Various offices of the state forest department, a circuit house and a PWD rest house are situated in the R-56 area. Besides, the state police barrier, state forest barrier, barrier of the excise and taxation department, and offices of the assistant and junior engineers of the state Public Works Department also exist on this forest land. All these offices are claimed to be in Haryana.The issue is before the Ministry of Home Affairs which is examining its various aspects. Since a Survey of India report had shown some parts of the bordering areas in Haryana, a fresh survey was got re-done on the basis of available record. Its report was sent to the government of Himachal Pradesh along with relevant documents like the survey sheets for further action which was awaited.Sub Divisional Magistrate, Kasauli, Sanjeev Dhiman, when quizzed said, “No information has been received about this issue from the union government after relevant information was sent to them from the state government. The issue has also figured at the inter-state meetings with Haryana.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-haryana-border-controversy-awaits-resolution-335425
08-11-2021||Hamirpur||Bilaspur woman helping Singapore govt on Artificial Intelligence||Kirti Chandel, an electronics and communication engineer from Bilaspur, is helping the Government of Singapore on use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in its programme ‘Expression of Artificial Intelligence’.A student of the local Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Kirti did her B.Tech from Baddi University and M.Tech in Missile Communication from Kurukshetra University. She had worked for Smart Bing, a USA-based company, and then shifted to Singapore. She is partner head of Woo-Hoo Al company, which provides consultancy to Government of Singapore on Artificial Intelligence.Kirti said AI had changed the working of all enterprises. Its best use was in health, tourism and industrial sectors. The scope of growth of AI was immense and now experts across the world were exploring to make best use of AI to benefit humans. Countries in Asia Pacific region were working hard to use it for national security and global peace, she stated.Kirti’s father Pardeep Singh Chandel is an advocate and mother Madhu Chandel is a housewife. Kirti wants to establish a centre of quality education at Bilaspur and has offered to extend every possible help required for this purpose. The students in the town need more facilities and exposure to prove their potential, she added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bilaspur-woman-helping-singapore-govt-on-artificial-intelligence-335426
08-11-2021||Shimla||60 new cases, five deaths in Himachal||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/60-new-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-335427
08-11-2021||---||Upgrade Mandi cluster varsity to state varsity, ABVP urges Himachal CM||Mandi, November 7The ABVP has requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to upgrade Mandi cluster university into a state university.Gaurav Attri, district coordinator of the student body, said for the past two years, they were staging protests to persuade the state government to declare the cluster university a state university but to no avail.“Since the inception of Himachal Pradesh, there has been only one state university, which is at Shimla,” he said.“Due to the tough geographical conditions of the state, each student cannot opt to go to HP University for higher studies. Due to the long distance from Shimla, many students end up not pursuing higher studies,” he claimed.“Apart from this, due to the limited number of seats in post graduate courses, many students fail to get admission in HPU. As a result, they are forced to take admission in private universities and end up paying hefty fees or move out of the state,” Attri stated.“So, we urge the state government to declare the cluster university as a state university, which will directly benefit the students of six districts of the lower region of Himachal,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/upgrade-mandi-cluster-varsity-to-state-varsity-abvp-urges-himachal-cm-335428
08-11-2021||---||Shimla: Rs 10L relief sought for kin of kids killed by leopard||Shimla, November 7Shimla Nagrik Sabha has demanded a compensation of at least Rs 10 lakh each to the two families whose children were killed by a leopard recently. A five-year-old child is suspected to have been killed by a leopard on the Diwali night in the Down Dale locality, while another child was killed about three months ago in Kanlog area.Slamming the Municipal Corporation and Forest Department for these tragedies, the Nagrik Sabha urged the government to ask these agencies to take strict measures to ensure such incidents are not repeated.Sabha’s secretary Vijender Mehra said it was surprising that a leopard was on the prowl in localities such as Nabha, Down Dale and Kanlog but the Forest Department was hardly doing anything to check the loss of human lives. “If the Forest Department had taken some action after the Kanlog incident, the Down Dale incident could have been avoided,” he said. “The MC is also to be blamed. In many areas, there are either no streetlights or they are not functioning,” Mehra added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-rs-10l-relief-sought-for-kin-of-kids-killed-by-leopard-335429
08-11-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Poor response to rafting at Nadaun||Hamirpur, November 7Poor response to rafting at Nadaun has discouraged young entrepreneurs to take up rafting as a business proposition in Beas near Nadaun in the district.Significantly, the state government had spent over Rs 28 lakh and organised a national rafting marathon at Nadaun about a month ago under the aegis of Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation to promote rafting in Nadaun. The event was inaugurated by Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania and it was expected that the four-day rafting event would attract not only tourists to the town but also encourage local youth to adopt rafting as business proposition.But unfortunately the efforts of the tourism corporation and the local administration to boost the activities including rafting and paragliding could not bear the desired fruit.Ashok Kumar, a rafting enthusiast from Nadaun, said that after the championship was organized the rafting activity in the river was not encouraging. A few tourists were seen enjoying rafting occasionally but there was no regular rafting activity here.Sachin Sood, who had rafting facility at Nadaun, said the town is now a new rafting destination and people would start coming here for rafting. He said that the sail up to Chamba Pattan takes over two hours and it was hectic. He said that he was working on reducing the length of the sail so that it could be made more enjoyable and attractive. The patience would be key to success here, he added.Debashweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, said that the National Rafting Marathon was a milestone in establishing Nadaun as new rafting destination. She said that the government had planned to add more facilities that would attract young entrepreneurs to take up rafting at Nadaun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-response-to-rafting-at-nadaun-335430
08-11-2021||Chamba||Seven weather monitoring devices installed in Chamba district||Seven Automatic Weather Monitoring System devices have been installed at the remote Kundi, Kuranh, Baat, Gulera Kiyani, Chandi and Kalhel areas of Chamba district in collaboration with NGO Pragya. These will provide necessary data and information for effective management of natural calamities in the district.Launching the automatic weather system equipment here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said these automatic weather system centres would be important for providing useful information related to weather in the district. He said these devices would not only provide information related to pre-disaster weather but would also be significant for farmers and orchardists in forecasting rain.The DC said a ‘doppler radar’, with a capacity of 120 sq km, was also being installed by the India Meteorological Department at Jot in the district; adding that with the functioning of this radar, detailed weather information would be available.The DC asked for linking the radar with India Meteorological Department, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, thereby ensuring the utilisation of these instruments installed in automatic weather system centres for early disaster warning. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seven-weather-monitoring-devices-installed-in-chamba-district-335431
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||CSK HP Agriculture University to develop Sangla as model research centre: VC||Palampur, November 7CSK HP Agriculture University organised a field day on potential crops and farmer-scientist interaction at its Regional Research Station in Sangla, in tribal area of Kinnaur district today.Chief Guest Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, while addressing around 150 farm\ers and farm ladies from the valley, suggested them to grow ‘Kala Zeera’ (black cumin) as intercrop in apple orchards and saffron as a sole crop. It would enhance their income and the university would extend them technical knowledge, besides providing improved plant material and training. He appreciated the tribals for their hardwork and assured them all technical support to grow exotic vegetables, like broccoli, lettuce, red cabbage, off season vegetables, improved fodder like fescue grass, red clover and improving animal production with quality breeds and feed.He directed scientists to develop a calendar on apple spray schedule and make it available to the growers. The university would develop Sangla as a model farm and research the station. It would be strengthened with scientific and technical manpower in the near future, Dr Chaudhary added.Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor inspected the station and directed scientists to introduce intercropping of ‘kala zeera’ in the apple orchard at the station.Dr SP Dixit, Director of Research, Dr Satish Paul, Director of Extension Education, Dr Mandeep Sharma, Dean, Dr GC Negi COVAS, Dr Desh Raj Chaudhary, Head, Deptt of Vegetable Crops, Dr VK Sood, Head, Deptt of Genetics and Plant Breeding, and other scientists also interacted with the farmers.Pardeep Negi, pradhan of Gram Panchayat Batseri, and Karuna Negi, Mahila Mandal pradhan, Kamru, thanked the Vice-Chancellor and the university for taking efforts to revive potential crops in the region. Dr Parveen Lata Chaudhary, first lady of the university, was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csk-hp-agriculture-university-to-develop-sangla-as-model-research-centre-vc-335432
08-11-2021||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released a book ‘Saudade- A Love Everlasting’||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur releases poetry book||Award for ProfessorThe Universal Group of Institutions, Chandigarh, in collaboration with the Conference World, Delhi, conferred the Academic Award for Teaching and Research Excellence - 2021 on Professor Kanwar Dinesh Singh, who heads the Department of English at Government College, Arki. The award was conferred during an international conference on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Singh has been teaching English language and literature for over two decades. Besides being an active researcher, he has also guided research scholars for M Phil and PhD. His books are among recommended readings in syllabi for several universities, including NCK University, Taiwan. Also a recipient of the HP Sahitya Akademi Award, Singh has published several volumes of poetry, haiku and short fiction in English and Hindi, besides 12 books in literary criticism and translation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-releases-poetry-book-335433
08-11-2021||KULLU||Kullu to host mixed martial arts championship||Internationally renowned wrestler ‘The Great Khali’ will be the chief guest during the mixed martial arts (MMA) championship to be held at Dhalpur Ground in Kullu on December 5. Khali is the brand ambassador of Ultimate Fighting League (UFL), which is organising the event.UFL chairman Nakul Khullar said MMA fighters from seven countries, including India, would participate in the event which would have 10 fights among 20 fighters, including four women, two of whom would be from India. The aim of the event was to motivate the youth to adopt sports to remain fit and healthy and refrain from drug abuse. A few Bollywood stars would also be special guests during the event, he stated.UFL CMD Master Bhupesh said limited tickets would be sold and Covid protocol would be followed. The teams would ensure end-to-end adherence of the guidelines. Ticket prices had not been confirmed yet and these would be made available online also. The UFL was providing a platform to the youth to make a professional career in sports. It required a lot of struggle and hard work to become an MMA fighter, he added.Khullar said the event had been planned for April last year but was postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Now, as normalcy was returning, the competition would be organised following Covid safety rules. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-to-host-mixed-martial-arts-championship-335437
08-11-2021||Solan||Infant found dumped in Nalagarh hospital toilet||In a bizarre incident, a five to six-month-old infant’s body was fished out of a toilet at the Community Health Centre, Nalagarh, by a sweeper around 8:30 am today.The sweeper who cleans the toilets in the hospital found one of the toilets blocked. When she attempted to clear the blockage with a pump, the infant’s body came out. The child, when examined by the doctors, was found dead and was emitting a foul odour. It weighed 400 gm and was dumped there by an unknown woman.“A case has been registered and further probe is underway. The CCTV footage installed in the hospital is being examined to find the culprit,” Baddi DSP Navdeep Singh said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infant-found-dumped-in-nalagarh-hospital-toilet-335438
08-11-2021||Stray dogs at the Indira market in Mandi town are giving nightmares to people. The canines can be seen roaming on the market premises throughout the day||Stray dogs cause trouble in Mandi||No parking at IGMCThe lack of parking facility at the IGMC is a huge concern for those visiting. There is hardly any space to park vehicles. The police promptly issue challans and sometimes even tow away the vehicle, causing trouble to the patients and their attendants. The government and the MC should provide parking space close to the hospital as early as possible. — Sohan Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-dogs-cause-trouble-in-mandi-335441
