09-11-2021||Many HRTC buses release plumes of smoke||Roadways buses causing pollution||— Rakesh Mehta, ShimlaMonkeys disrupt power supplyMonkeys have become a menace in Kasumpti. They jump on electricity wires, cutting off the supply for hours. And when this happens late in the evening, there is no one from the electricity department to fix the problem. It forces owners of shops and other business establishments to shut down.— Roshan Thakur, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadways-buses-causing-pollution-335770
09-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu teams selected for cross-country race||Kullu, November 8The district teams in the Under-18, Under-20 and senior categories were selected for the state-level cross-country race through a competition conducted by the Kullu District Athletics Association (KDAA) here today.Association president Gaurav Bhardwaj said Ravinder Kumar, Akshay and Sunil stood first, second and third, respectively, in the senior boys’ category race of 10 km. Menka was the winner, Ankita first runner-up and Neelam second runner-up in the senior girls’ category race of 10 km in the tournament. He said Pankaj stood first, Vinod second and Anuj stood third in the U-20 boys’ 8 km race while Seema, Kavita and Diksha won the top three positions, respectively, in the U-20 girls’ category 6 km race.Bhardwaj said in the U-18 boys’ race of 6 km, Vishal bagged the first place, Kanish stood second and Chand Kishor third. In the U-18 girls’ category, Sangita, Rita and Sangeeta were adjudged first, second and third, respectively, in the 4-km race.Bhardwaj said the state-level cross-country race would be held in Kullu on November 14. Teams from various districts would participate in the tournament and adequate arrangements had been made for the sportspersons and the officials. The team selected in the state-level event would represent Himachal in the national championship, scheduled in January 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-teams-selected-for-cross-country-race-335761
09-11-2021||The NSUI on Monday launched 'Shiksha Bachao||NSUI launches campaign||Foundation Day celebratedThe 71st Foundation Day of Bharat Scouts and Guides was celebrated on November 7. On the occasion, representative of the organisation, under the leadership of Amarjeet Sharma, Director Higher Education, met Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and presented him the scouting scarf and the badge of the 71st Foundation Day. Besides, the group also apprised the Governor of the works being done by the Bharat Scouts and Guides in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-launches-campaign-335755
09-11-2021||Kullu||Kullu  college PTA formed||Senior journalist Shyam Kulvi was unanimously elected president of the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) of Government College, Kullu, during elections held on the college premises here. Principal Dr Roshan said Joginder was appointed chief adviser, Yashoda vice-president, Associate Professor Govind Singh secretary, Pooja co-secretary, Sant Ram treasurer and Chandra Rekha, Thakur Chand, Mangal Anand and Mahender Singh were inducted into the executive committee on behalf of parents.Associate Professors Seema Sharma and Vinta Thakur and Assistant professors JP Sharma and Lokesh were also made executive members.Kulvi said the PTA would raise the issues of students, parents and teachers on appropriate platforms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-college-pta-formed-335750
09-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Revision of voter lists to start tomorrow||Chamba, November 8The list of polling stations of five Assembly constituencies, namely Churah (SC-reserved), Chamba, Dalhousie, Bhattiyat and Bharmour (ST-reserved), for the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections was published on Monday on the directions of the Election Commission of India.An official communiqué issued here stated that the list of the polling stations could be inspected in the offices of electoral registration officers such as Additional District Magistrates (ADMs), and SDMs at Churah, Bharmour, Chamba, Dalhousie and Bhattiyat and the assistant electoral registration officer at Pangi and the District Election Officer.Similarly, the work of the special brief revision of the voter lists pertaining to electoral photo identity cards would commence on November 10 and continue till December 9, it said. The names of the prospective voters, who have completed or are going to complete 18 years of age on the qualifying date of January 1, 2022, would be enrolled in the voter lists of their areas, it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revision-of-voter-lists-to-start-tomorrow-335748
09-11-2021||Our Correspondent||DIG inspects arrangements for recruitment from Nov 9||Chamba, November 8Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police (Northern Range), Dharamsala, Sumedha Dwivedi, who is also the chairperson of the District Recruitment Committee, on Monday inspected various arrangements with regard to police recruitments starting from November 9 at the district headquarters of Chamba. The DIG also held a meeting with police officers and gave proper guidelines regarding recruitments.This police recruitment will start first from Chamba district, the police communiqué said. It added that a physical proficiency test for 102 posts of constable, including 71 male, 24 female and seven male driver posts, from this district would be conducted from November 9 to 20.Police personnel posted on duty for various works in recruitment were given various directions. The DIG also inspected the police ground to be used for the recruitment process and took stock of the events planned for recruitment.Chamba Senior Superintendent of Police S Arul Kumar, along with other police officials, was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dig-inspects-arrangements-for-recruitment-from-nov-9-335742
09-11-2021||---||DRDA offices to shut by March 31||Ravinder SoodPalampur, November 8All District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) offices, which oversee the implementation of different anti-poverty programmes of the Central Government, in the state will be closed permanently by March 31, 2022. The zila parishads are now being directed to take over the assets and liabilities of the DRDA from April 1, 2022.The primary objective of the scheme was to professionalise the DRDA so that it could effectively manage the poverty alleviation programmes of the Union Ministry of Rural Development and interact effectively with other agencies. DRDA offices were set up in all districts of the state. They are headed by Project Directors, who are assisted by a team of officers and other staff members.According to information, a committee set up by the Union Ministry of Rural Development last year to restructure this key institution had recommended its abolition. The committee found that the DRDA was in direct conflict with the constitutional mandate of panchayats, which are increasingly being assigned the responsibility of implementing rural development programmes.At March-end this year, the Union Ministry of Rural Development circulated the committee’s report to the state secretaries in-charge of rural affairs for comments. Most states supported the proposal but because the transition required extra financial allocations, the Union Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission were to give the go-ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drda-offices-to-shut-by-march-31-335738
09-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Panchrukhi health centre faces acute staff shortage||Palampur, November 8The Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Panchrukhi, 15 km from Palampur, is facing an acute shortage of doctors and paramedical staff. This is the only health facility in this remote area of Kangra district that caters to around 50,000 patients every year. The authorities have spent lakhs of rupees on creating health facilities in the past few years, but services here are far from satisfactory.The state government had sanctioned three posts of medical officer, but two posts are lying vacant for many years. Only one doctor is attending to patients here. Similarly, four of seven sanctioned posts of paramedical staff are vacant.The posts of sweeper, midwife, and class IV staff are also vacant. Even amid the outbreak of Covid-19, people are being forcedto go to other hospitalsin Baijnath, Palampur, Tanda and Dharamsala for the treatment of even minor ailments.In 2015, the then Chief Minister, Virbadhra Singh, had laid the foundation stone for the additional accommodation for the PHC and also sanctioned Rs 1 crore for the project. However, in the past six years, not even one brick wad added.Local residents complain that there is none to attend to emergencies at the PHC. Patients, including those who are critically ill, are either referred to Tanda medical college or the Palampur Civil Hospital.Subhash Tyagi, a resident of Panchrukhi, says that 10 panchayats of the area had sent a joint memorandum to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and the local MLA for the upgrade of the PHC to a 30-bed Civil Hospital so that critically-ill patients are treated here.Jaisinghpur MLA Ravinder Dhiman says that tenders for the construction of new buildings have already been finalised and the construction of the new block will be taken up soon. He adds that he is also making efforts for the upgrade the PHC to a Civil Hospital.Posts lying vacant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchrukhi-health-centre-faces-acute-staff-shortage-335735
09-11-2021||---||Justice Sabina HPSLSA executive chief||Legal CorrespondentShimla, November 8The Governor has nominated the senior-most Judge of the HP High Court, Justice Sabina, as the Executive Chairman of the HP State Legal Service Authority (HPSLSA).As per the order, the Governor in consultation with the Chief Justice has nominated Justice Sabina to the post with effect from the issuance of the notification.Justice Sabina was appointed as an Additional District Judge on January 21, 1997. She was elevated as an Additional Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 12, 2008, and as a permanent Judge on February 23, 2010. She was transferred from the Rajasthan High Court to the Himachal High Court and she took oath here on October 8, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-sabina-hpslsa-executive-chief-335734
09-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Master plan sought for constructions in Lahaul||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 8The Hoteliers Association of Lahaul has urged the state government to regulate the construction of residential and commercial buildings under a master plan in the Lahaul valley. After the opening of the Atal Tunnel, more hotels and residential buildings are being constructed in the region.The association is concerned about haphazard constructions in the Lahaul valley. It believes that haphazard constructions will mar the beauty of the valley. Therefore, the government must bring in a master plan here.Tashi Barongpa, secretary of hoteliers association, Lahaul, told The Tribune, “After the opening of the Atal tunnel, there has been a significant increase in tourist influx. As a result, the residents of the valley started constructing homestays, restaurants, huts and hotels for commercial activities.”“At present we, have open space for the construction of commercial and residential buildings. The people are constructing commercial buildings on the roadside though on their own land. We want the government to ensure constructions here in a regulated manner. Big structures should be discouraged,” he said.Rigzin Samphel Heyreppa, president of Lahaul Eco Tourism Society, said “The panchayat authorities should allow constructions in a controlled way. The outer structure of the buildings should be in Lahauli architecture. It will play a crucial role in attracting tourists.”Maintain beautyWe do not want the Lahaul valley to look like other townships which have lost their beauty due to haphazard constructions. It is the right time for the authorities to step in to ensure constructions under the master plan. — Tashi Barongpa, secretary of hoteliers association Lahaul||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/master-plan-sought-for-constructions-in-lahaul-335730
09-11-2021||---||Tourists flock to Bir Billing for paragliding||Our CorrespondentPalampur November 8Hundreds of tourists flocked to Billing during the weekend to enjoy paragliding. Earlier, during the monsoon season, the state government had banned paragliding. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, too, paragliding activities had come to a standstill.Most of the hotels in Bir Billing are full to capacity. For the first time in the past six months, such a huge inflow of tourists has been witnessed there.As the government has withdrawn the restrictions, businesses and other activities have reopened in most of the tourist destinations like Palampur, Bir Billing and Gopalpur of the Kangra valley. Hotels have been directed to follow the guidelines and take proper precautions to check the spread of Covid. The state Tourism Department is trying its best to revive the tourism sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-flock-to-bir-billing-for-paragliding-335724
09-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Increased footfall delights Kullu-Manali hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 8Hoteliers of Kullu-Manali are a delighted lot these days as the region is experiencing an increase in the tourist influx. The room occupancy has increased to 50 per cent and ithas brought a ray of hope to those linked with the hotel industry.A hotelier said, “Tourists are making a beeline for Kullu-Manali these days. The Atal Tunnel and the Rohtang Pass have become new tourist hotspots.Abundant snowfall is attracting enthusiasts towards the Rohtang Pass, Solang Nullah, Atal Tunnel and Sissu to enjoy skiing and other activities”.Gajender Thakur, former president of the Hoteliers Association, Manali, said “After Diwali, I have experienced slight increase in room occupancy in my hotel, which is almost 40 per cent now. Earlier, there was a huge decline in tourist footfall and room occupancy had dipped below 20 per cent.”“We are expecting good business in the coming days as online inquiries for room bookings have started pouring in. There is sufficient snow available on the ground at Rohtang Pass and Atal Tunnel for the recreation of tourists,” he added.Mukesh Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association, Manali, said “Hoteliers are delighted because the tourist arrival is picking up pace after Diwali. Room occupancy has gone up to 50 per cent in hotels here, which was quite low earlier. Online inquiries for room bookings have also started coming in, which is a good sign for the industry”.Since the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, the tourism industry of the state had suffered immensely. The hoteliers have been demanding relief packages from the state and Centre to cope up with the financial losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/increased-footfall-delights-kullu-manali-hoteliers-335722
09-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan MC’s plan to slash water tariff hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 8The Solan Municipal Corporation (MC) has not slashed the water tariff as the state government is yet to approve its new policy proposed in August this year. The Congress had promised cheaper water supply to the residents before the civic body elections in March this year.Solan Municipal Commissioner LR Verma says, “The resolution on reduced water tariff, which was passed by the MC in August, is yet to be approved by the government. As the councillors have held only one meeting, the resolution is also awaiting the completion of formalities. A meeting of the councillors is usually convened on a quarterly basis”.As per the new policy announced in August, Rs 100 will be charged for 12,500 litres of water per month from domestic consumers. Additional water usage, however, will attract the existing rates.As per the present arrangement, there are two parameters for water charges in the MC area. While Rs 24 is charged per 1,000 litre of water in a majority of the wards, residents of the newly merged areas as well as some other wards, like Ward number 1, pay Rs 13 per 1,000 litre.As per the resolution passed by the councillors, the residents have been granted a month to get their domestic connections regularised. Those failing to do so will be imposed Rs 20,000 as penalty. New charges will only be imposed on metered connections from October 1.The MC employees look after water distribution while its supply is the responsibility of the Jal Shakti Vibhag (JSV), which is paid Rs 4 crore annually. With limited sources of revenue, the MC has failed to pay these charges regularly and Rs 78 crore is already due towards the Jal Shakti Vibhag.Meanwhile, the MC officials are skeptical that the government will approve the new water policy. Verma says, “With Rs 78 crore payable to the Jal Shakti Vibhag, reducing water bills will further hit revenue. A proposal was mooted before the Director Urban Development to take up the issue of waiving the Rs 78-crore liability with the JSV and also give it the task of distributing water, which has led to undue liability”.Rs78 cr payable to Jal Shakti Vibhag||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-mcs-plan-to-slash-water-tariff-hangs-fire-335721
09-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Rohru farmers to get Rs10 lakh award for red rice cultivation||Palampur, November 8Farmers of the Rohru subdivision in Shimla district will receive the prestigious Plant Genome Saviour Award carrying a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh for their contribution in developing red rice, a rare variety of paddy grown in Himachal Pradesh, said Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor of CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University here today.The VC said university scientists had gathered all data and helped the farmers growing red rice register the traditional variety ‘Chhohartu’ with the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPVFRA) eight years ago. The researchers, in the past one year, helped the farmers pursue the matter again with renewed efforts to conserve, develop, popularise and further spread the rice variety, bringing laurels to the state. The university had even helped the farmers form a society as the award is given to societies only.Chaudhary said the award, carrying a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh, a citation and a memento, would be presented to the farmers’ society on November 11 by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. It is the country’s highest award for farmers, in recognition of their contribution to conserving and developing plant varieties.Prof Chaudhary said red rice is under cultivation in about 1,000 hectares in various villages of Rohru subdivision. It is cultivated on both sides of the Pabbar river, adapted to cultivation from 1,300 m to 2,100 m, and is categorised under Japonica red rice. ‘Chhohartu’ has red pericarp (outer layer) and it fetches a premium price in the market, setting an example of ‘vocal for local’ The VC also appreciated the efforts of university scientists, Dr Ajai Srivastava and his team, including retired breeder Dr RP Kaushik, for their consistent efforts to help farmers with relevant scientific data and other formalities for the award.A couple of years ago, the university scientists had helped farmers of Bhedal panchayat in Chamba district get the Plant Genome Saviour Community Award-2019 for conserving land races of maize ‘Haachi’ (white), ‘Retti’ (red) and ‘chitkuri’ (popcorn).Being cultivated in 1,000 hectares||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohru-farmers-to-get-rs10-lakh-award-for-red-rice-cultivation-335719
09-11-2021||---||Mysterious disease kills 13 animals in Fatehpur||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, November 8Residents of Patta village adjoining the Pong Reservoir in Fatehpur subdivision of Kangra district are living in panic for the past one week after a mysterious disease killed their milch cattle.So far, 12 buffaloes and a cow have died of the disease in the village.When the disease affects the animals, they first get fever and then mysterious white foam emanatesfrom their mouths before they die. Rekha Devi, pradhan of Patta-Jattian gram panchayat, says adequate compensation should be provided to the affected villagers.Meanwhile, the villagers say that there is a possibility that the victim milch cattle might have consumed some poisonous substance while grazing on the land close to the reservoir.Some farmers used to cultivate this land illegally and used chemical fertiliser for growing crops, they said.The panchayat pradhan informed the authorities and a veterinary doctor from the Bharmar veterinary hospital was rushed to Patta village. Veterinary doctor Manav Guleria told The Tribune that he had informed the district authorities and a team of doctors from the Veterinary Polyclinic, Shahpur, would visit the village to examine the ailing animals. He didn’t rule out the possibility of the animals consuming some poisonous substance.Krishan Singh and Ashok Kumar, both residents of Patta village, have lost three buffaloes each while Onkar,Gagan, Koushlya Devi, Kewal, Chain Singh and Sham Lal have lost one milch animal each to the mysterious disease in the past one week.Docs from Shahpur to conduct check-up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mysterious-disease-kills-13-animals-in-fatehpur-335718
09-11-2021||Mandi||Mandi administration gears up for 100% vax target by November 30||The Mandi administration has geared up for 100 per cent vaccination target against Covid by November 30. As per the direction of Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, committees have been constituted at the sub-divisional level for the purpose.The DC stated that a committee had been constituted under the chairmanship of SDMs in every subdivision of the district. These committees would work in coordination with public representatives to achieve the target.He said the committee would ensure basic facilities like drinking water, proper seating arrangement etc. to the people in each vaccination centre. He urged all eligible people to come forward to get the vaccine.CMO Dr Devender Sharma said, “There are about 2.5 lakh people in Mandi district who are to be given the second dose of the vaccine. Of these, about 1 lakh people had taken the first dose 84 days ago. Efforts will be made to cover all such people by November 30”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-administration-gears-up-for-100-vax-target-by-november-30-335716
09-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Year-round power for Lahaul via Atal Tunnel||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 8The residents of Lahaul in Himachal Pradesh can expect uninterrupted power even during winter months as cables supplying electricity to the tribal valley have been routed through the all-weather Atal Tunnel.Lahaul was earlier fed power through a 33-kV transmission line that emanated from a substation in Palchan (Kullu district), passed though Rohtang Pass and had its endpoint in Sissu (a town in Lahaul).New grid laidAs Rohtang remained inaccessible for three to four months due to heavy snow, restoring power was difficult in case of a breakdown, said Sanjay Kaushal, HP State Electricity Board’s (HPSEB) Superintendent Engineer at Kullu. “The 4.5-MW Thirot powerhouse in Lahaul used to light up the tribal valley whenever a snag occurred at Rohtang. But due to its limited generation, a large portion of the tribal belt went without power for weeks or even months,” he said. Kaushal said work on the project to provide alternate and reliable 33kV grid connectivity for Lahaul had been completed by routing XLPE (cross linked polyethylene) cable through the tunnel. “A joint team comprising HPSEB and BRO engineers was testing the power line for the past around a fortnight. The installation has been completed a week ahead of the November 15 deadline. The supply load to Lahaul valley has been shifted to the new transmission link,” he said. About 8,000 consumers under Keylong electrical division are expected to benefit from the new line. Hailing the government and the HPSEB for fulfilling their long-pending demand, Lahaul residents said it would prove a boon for the valley, which had emerged as a tourist hub after the opening of the Atal Tunnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/year-round-power-for-lahaul-via-atal-tunnel-335705
09-11-2021||Shimla||145 new Covid cases, five deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 145 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally 225,035. Besides, five persons died of the virus—three in Kangra and one each in Shimla and Hamirpur.The highest number of 42 cases was reported in Kangra, and 37 in Hamirpur.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/145-new-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-335715
09-11-2021||---||Police need to engage more with media: Rajesh Ramachandran||Shimla, November 8Delivering a lecture on ‘Power of media and its role in shaping the future’ at the Police Headquarters here today, Rajesh Ramachandran, Editor, The Tribune, exhorted police officials to engage more with newspersons and the public at large.The lecture, a part of the series being held by the Himachal Pradesh Police, was attended by senior functionaries. Other officers, including Superintendents of Police, attended through teleconferencing.Must be responsive tooBesides putting out information, the Police Department needs to be responsive too. A huge number of queries will come but the department can decide which one merits a response. It has to be a two-way traffic. — Rajesh Ramachandran, Editor, The Tribune“Police officials must engage with newspersons and have their version of the story covered,” Ramachandran stressed. The officials must also engage actively with the public at large through social media, especially at the time of newsbreak. “Presence on at least one social media platform is a must. Any information put out on this platform by the department will act as a corrective force amidst various versions of events floating around,” he said.While praising the police officials for always being on their toes, Ramachandran advised them to be mindful of their image and reputation while carrying out the orders, and to figure out a way to let officers from other services and politicians know when it’s “immoral to unleash the police on law-abiding citizens”.The Editor talked about the evolution of the media from newspapers to TV channels to digital explosion. He said these platforms could not be ignored and even the legacy media brands were using them. Ramachandran said that social media platforms were no substitute for serious and well-researched news. “The circulation of our newspaper crashed during the lockdown and people consumed news through smartphones. But the circulation numbers are up again, meaning people want to read the newspaper.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-need-to-engage-more-with-media-rajesh-ramachandran-335711
09-11-2021||---||Three Himachal Pradesh MLAs administered oath||Shimla, November 8Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar administered oath to three newly elected legislators here today.MLAs Rohit Thakur from Jubbal-Kotkhai in Shimla, Sanjay Awasthy from Arki in Solan district, and Bhawani Singh Pathania from Fatehpur in Kangra district, all belonging to the Congress, took the oath.“The newly elected legislators should expedite development works in their constituencies and conceive and implement new projects and schemes for the benefit of people,” said Parmar while congratulating them on their victory in the byelections. He added that the MLAs should participate in debates in the Assembly and effectively raise issues concerning people so that these could be addressed.The number of BJP members in the Assembly now stands at 43, Congress 22, CPM one and Independents two. Congress Legslature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, and MLAs Harshwardhan Chauhan and Vikramaditya Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-himachal-pradesh-mlas-administered-oath-335710
09-11-2021||---||Himachal Government decides to reopen schools for Class III to VII from Nov 10||Shimla, November 8The Himachal Government today decided to open schools for the students of Class III to VII from November 10 and for the students of Class I and II from November 15. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here.The Cabinet also allowed the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses to carry passengers to full capacity instead of 50 per cent, as per the Covid safety guidelines.The government had opened all schools for Class VIII to XII, but junior classes were not resumed eversince the outbreak of Covid pandemic last year. Initially, the students of Class IX to XII were called to schools for three days a week alternatively but later they were asked to attend classes regularly.There was delay in opening junior classes as a large number of senior schoolchildren as well as teachers had tested Covid positive, resulting in containment zones being declared and many schools being closed. In fact, the government had declared one-week Diwali holidays in all schools from November 1 to 7 to break the chain of transmission.At present, there are 1,216 active cases in the state and the fatality figure stands at 3,762. There has been a decline in the number of new cases but the fatality figure still remains high. However, the number of daily cases has declined to below 100 in the past one week, prompting the government to open schools.The Cabinet also approved the resumption of the Janmanch programme from November 21 to address public grievances in different parts of the state. It reviewed the progress made on the Swarnim Drishti Patra (Vision Document) of the BJP, which the government had adopted as a policy document. The General Administration Department (GAD) made a detailed presentation in this regard at the meeting.The Cabinet also gave approval to enhancing the stipend of the PG-MDS students of Himachal Pradesh Government Dental College, Shimla, by Rs 5,000 per month from April 1, 2021. Now, the MDS students of first year would get Rs 40,000 instead of Rs 35,000, second year students Rs 45,000 instead of Rs 40,000 and the third year students would get a Rs 50,000 stipend per month instead of Rs 45,000.It gave nod to the inclusion and addition of more items in the existing schedule of the Himachal Pradesh Agricultural and Horticultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2005 to achieve the growth of the diversified agriculture and allied sector in the larger interest of the farming community.Earlier, there were 131 items in the existing schedule of the Act and now 259 items, including cereals, pulses, oil seeds, fruits, vegetables fibres, animal husbandry products and livestock, condiments and species, medicinal and aromatic plant species, flowers, potted plants and their seeds and other produces, have been included in it.Panel formed for state university in Mandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-decides-to-reopen-schools-for-class-iii-to-vii-from-nov-10-335709
