11-11-2021||Solan||Five schoolchildren injured as slab of ramp caves in at government school in Sirmaur||Five students — Rahul, Saurabh, Nidhi, Prachi and Siddharth — were injured , two of them critically, when the slab of a ramp at Government Senior Secondary School in Dartidhar area of Sirmaur district caved in while they were going from the ground floor towards their classrooms. They fell about 10 to 12 feet below the ground.An atmosphere of chaos prevailed in the school as staff tried to rescue the children who were sent to Nahan medical college for treatment.The condition of two students — Prachi and Siddharth — is stated to be critical.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Gautam said one girl, Prachi, has received a thigh fracture while two other students are undergoing treatment at Nahan medical college for minor injuries.Tehsildaar has been directed to enquire and send a report into the cause of this incident.They are students of classes 11 and 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-schoolchildren-injured-as-slab-of-ramp-caves-in-at-government-school-in-sirmaur-336815
11-11-2021||Mandi||Freak truck mishap kills 2 in Sarkaghat||Two persons were killed when a loaded truck parked on the roadside overturned at Bahi village in Sarkaghat in Mandi district today.According to police, the driver of the truck was changing a punctured tyre when suddenly it slipped down from the jack. As a result, the truck overturned and the driver and the woman were crushed under it and they died on the spot.The deceased were identified as Rakesh Kumar, a native of Panyali village and Brahmi Devi, a native of Bahi village in Mandi. The woman was waiting for the bus on the roadside to join her duty at Baldwara in the office of the Jal Shakti Department.“The bodies were handed over to the bereaved families after a post-mortem,” said a police officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/freak-truck-mishap-kills-2-in-sarkaghat-336543
11-11-2021||Shimla||154 new Covid cases, five deaths in Himachal||As many as 154 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 225,319. Besides, five persons died of the virus—two each in Hamirpur and Kangra and one in Mandi.The highest 58 cases were recorded in Kangra and 26 in Hamirpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/154-new-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-336544
11-11-2021||Legal Correspondent||Patna High Court Chief Justice meets Himachal Pradesh HC Bar members||Shimla, November 10Justice Sanjay Karol, Chief Justice of the Patna High Court, visited the Himachal Pradesh High Court Bar Association here today.President of the Bar Association Lovneesh Kanwar welcomed Justice Karol. The association also hosted a tea party in the honour of Justice Karol, who shared his experiences with the members of the Bar.Justice Karol belongs to Garli village of Dehra Gopipur tehsil in Kangra district. He obtained a degree in law from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, and enrolled as an advocate in 1986.He was the Advocate General of Himachal Pradesh from 1998 to 2003. He was elevated as a Judge of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh on March 8, 2007, and as the Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court on November 9, 2018. Thereafter, he was transferred to the Patna High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patna-high-court-chief-justice-meets-himachal-pradesh-hc-bar-members-336545
11-11-2021||Shimla||Shimla: PM Modi to address Speakers’ conference||The Speakers and the Deputy Speakers of 36 Vidhan Sabhas and Vidhan Parishads will attend the 82nd All India Speakers Conference being held here from November 16 to 19. The conference is being organised after 100 years though Shimla had hosted it on six occasions earlier, said Speaker Vipin Parmar while addressing mediapersons here today.“The conference was held in Shimla in 1921, 1926, 1933, 1939, 1976 and 1997 but this being the centenary year, it holds special significance,” said Parmar. Om Birla, Speaker of the Lok Sabha, would be chief guest on November 16 .Prime Minister Narendra Modi would address the conference virtually on November 17. The Deputy Speaker of the Rajya Sabha, Harivansh Nartayan Singh, would also be present. “The Speakers and the Deputy Speakers of 36 Vidhan Sabhas and Vidhan Parishads, besides the Secretaries will take part in the conference,” he added.Parmar said, “I have urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to hold the event at the Vidhan Sabha complex in Dharamsala but as the first conference was held here from November 14 to 16 in 1921, he felt it would be more appropriate to organise it in Shimla”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-pm-modi-to-address-speakers-conference-336546
11-11-2021||Solan||Himcon booked for cheating, forgery||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against the Himachal Consultancy Organisation (Himcon) at its Shimla office today.DIG Rameshwar Thakur said an inquiry was conducted by the bureau over the allegations of embezzlement and siphoning off public money in skill development programmes meant for SC candidates, which was conducted by Himcon.It was found that training was shown as conducted by Himcon on fruit-processing from 2013 to 2014 at Nirmand in Kullu district, Karsog in Mandi district, Barot in Mandi district and Nerwa in Shimla district.As many as 25 participants were shown to have been trained at each of these stations for which Rs 7 lakh was sanctioned by National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation Ltd (NSFDC).The inquiry, however, found that a large number of such participants were fictitious and false records had been prepared to claim money. Neither the stipends had been paid to the participants, nor had they received any training certificate.The company was booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himcon-booked-for-cheating-forgery-336547
11-11-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Funds missing, allege customers of Dohranala Gramin Bank, demand relief||KULLU, November 10As many as 24 people have reported embezzlement of over Rs 74 lakh from their accounts, in a fraud allegedly committed by the branch manager of Gramin Bank, Dohranala. The accused was arrested on November 2 and is in judicial custody. The duped customers are worried about their money and have demanded quick relief in the matter.Residents of Barahar and Khadihar panchayats said as the winter had started, they needed money to stock ration for three to four months. But the amount deposited in their bank accounts was gone. They alleged that the manager had embezzled their money and lost it in online gambling.The embezzled money included Dharam Singh’s Rs 8 lakh, Hukam Singh’s Rs 7 lakh, Maya Devi’s Rs 5 lakh, Rs 5 lakh from joint account of Devi Singh and Omavati and Hot Ram’s Rs 4 lakh. Besides, Gokal Chand, Kamla Devi, Geeta Devi, Vanshika, Toti Devi, Jhagad Singh, Anoop Ram and Chaine Ram had also reported about funds going missing from their bank accounts.The duped customers demanded immediate relief from the bank as they had to buy goods for the winter season. The bank authorities assured that their amount was safe with the bank and it would be fully recovered.Meanwhile, sources said other customers of the bank are baffled over the episode. There can be many more who do not even know how much money has been withdrawn from their accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/funds-missing-allege-customers-of-dohranala-gramin-bank-demand-relief-336548
11-11-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Haphazard parking causes trouble||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Haphazard parking causes troubleThe parking of motorcycles and scooters on the narrow road leading from Mcleodganj to Dharamkot in Dharamsala is a big nuisance for commuters. The road is very steep and narrow, barely having space for a car to pass. The parking of vehicles makes it almost impossible for a vehicle to cross. The police must ensure there is no such haphazard parking of bikes on this road, which leads to many hotels, guest houses and home stays. — Shalini Sharma, PathankotBalu road junction sans traffic lightsIn the absence of traffic lights at the Balu bridge road junction on the outskirts of Chamba town, drivers get confused, enhancing the chances of accidents. The authorities concerned must install traffic lights on this junction to avoid mishaps. — Arun, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haphazard-parking-causes-trouble-336549
11-11-2021||Bishop Cotton School (BCS)||Bishop Cotton School (BCS), Shimla, welcomes back junior students||Meritorious pupils felicitatedAspire Academy, Shimla, felicitated its meritorious students for their outstanding performance in NEET-2021. In a function organised on the academy campus, new students were encouraged to prepare for the upcoming NEET-2022. Despite the Covid crisis, Aspire continued coaching through online classes. More the six students from the academy succeeded to score above 600 marks and 60 students scored more than 500 marks.Teachers slam state governmentThe Himachal Government Teachers Association has alleged that the government has not resolved their issues in the past four years of its tenure. The association claimed that there were 90,000 teachers in the state but the government had not made any appropriate platform like the JCC to hear their demands. Also, attempts were made to snatch their right to express their views when the Education Directorate issued an order that teachers would not speak against the government or the department through the press, they alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bishop-cotton-school-bcs-shimla-welcomes-back-junior-students-336550
11-11-2021||Shimla||Free treatment for leprosy patients in Himachal||The state records around 120 to 150 leprosy cases in a year and they are given free treatment. “The National Leprosy Eradication Programme is being run in the state. The objective of the programme is to identify the leprosy patients at initial stages and provide free treatment to them,” said a spokesperson for the Health Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-treatment-for-leprosy-patients-in-himachal-336551
11-11-2021||Chamba||Chamba: DC urges gram panchayats to help achieve 100% jab target||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana on Wednesday exhorted gram panchayats to extend their wholehearted cooperation to achieving hundred per cent target of Covid-19 vaccination.He asked them to make residents aware about the vaccination by holding special gram sabha meetings and ensuring publicity in their respective areas.The gram sabha meetings in panchayats of Chamba, Mehla, Salooni, Tissa, Bhattiyat and Bharmour development blocks have been scheduled for November 16, 17 and 18 at 11 am, while the meetings in gram panchayats of Pangi block would be held on November 16 and 17, the DC said.These meetings would discuss the selection of beneficiaries under various schemes, approval of income-expenditure, review of BPL list, MGNREGA for 2022-23 and the 15th Finance Commission, Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, besides approval of draft list of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Swachh Survekshan Gramin-2021 and the recoverable amount on the basis of inspection and audit report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-dc-urges-gram-panchayats-to-help-achieve-100-jab-target-336552
11-11-2021||---||5-year age relaxation for women under ‘Swavalamban’ scheme in Himachal||Shimla, November 10The state government has made amendments in the Mukhya Mantri Swavalamban Yojana- 2019 (MMSY) by giving five-year relaxation in the upper age limit for women applying under the scheme and adding new activities.Stating this here today, Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, Director of the Industries Department, said the decision had been taken as per the announcement of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to expand the scheme.Small-scale service and business enterprises, such as silage units, Unnat Dairy Vikas Project (minimum 10 cows or buffaloes), cold storage facilities for milk and milk products, farm stay, agro tourism, farm tourism, construction of retail outlets for agriculture, manufacturing of agricultural implements and equipment, raising of vegetable nursery, tissue culture laboratory, warehousing and transportation of agricultural produce, vertical farming, petrol pumps, EV charging stations, ambulance, silk processing unit, silk reeling units, oxygen cryogenic tanker services, surveyor unit and drilling units had been added under the MMSY.A target of benefitting 2,000 people was fixed in 2021-22, which had now been enhanced to 3,000 and 1,350 cases have been sanctioned under the scheme till date. Earlier, the state government was providing subsidy for 85 activities under the scheme, he stated.The government had approved the proposed amendments in MMSY-19, recommended by a committee constituted under the chairmanship of Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar, in the recently held Cabinet meeting, Prajapati added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-year-age-relaxation-for-women-under-swavalamban-scheme-in-himachal-336553
11-11-2021||---||Leopard attack in Shimla: Fence residential areas adjacent to forest, demands CPM||Shimla, November 10Slamming the government and the Forest Department for lack of action following the killing of a six-year-old by a leopard on the Diwali night, the CPM today demanded concrete action to find and kill the leopard and grant Rs 10-lakh compensation to the affected family.Also read: Panel to flag hotspots as leopard fear grips ShimlaThe CPM also demanded that the Municipal Corporation and the Forest Department should fence the residential areas adjacent to the forest so that wild animals don’t cross over. The CPM said the residents of the Down Dale locality from where the leopard had taken the child away had sighted the leopard again after the incident and they were scared.“The residents have informed the Forest Department but no avail,” said Sanjay Chauhan, former Mayor. “More than a week has passed since the tragic incident but neither the leopard has been declared man-eater nor any serious efforts have been made to catch him,” said Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-attack-in-shimla-fence-residential-areas-adjacent-to-forest-demands-cpm-336554
11-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||1,135 GVK ambulance service employees to be terminated in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 10The services of 1,135 employees of GVK EMRI emergency ambulance services will be terminated as the contract to run these has been awarded to a Patna-based firm by the state government.Posts to be advertisedFresh interviews will be conducted after advertising the posts and experienced people be preferred for the job. Santosh Jha, PDLP officialThe employees, including 588 drivers, 46 support staffers, 29 call centre executives, 464 emergency medical technicians and eight response officers, have been served notices. Services of those working for the 102 ambulance services will be terminated from November 14 while the employees of the 108 from November 16.The 108 national ambulance service was kickstarted on December 26, 2010, while the 102 ambulance service, specially launched for pregnant women, began on November 14, 2014. As many as 125 such ambulances are operational now.The employees are now having anxious moments as they are not sure if they will be employed by the new company. “Most employees have served for 10 years and gained experience in call centres, back-up services, driving, etc. We are now in trouble,” rued a section of the employees.With job opportunities shrinking in the public and private sectors, they are worried as to how they will support their families.Hem Raj Bairwa, Mission Director, National Health Mission, said, “The award to run the emergency ambulance services has been granted to Patna-based Pashupatinath Distributors Private Limited (PDPL) and modalities to sign the agreement will be worked out in a few days. The firm will resume operations after the completion of all modalities which could take some days.”As an interim arrangement, the existing company, GVK EMRI, could be asked to continue till the takeover to ensure that there is no gap in the emergency services.Santosh Jha, an official of the PDPL, said, “Fresh interviews will be conducted after advertising the posts and experienced people be preferred for the job”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-135-gvk-ambulance-service-employees-to-be-terminated-in-himachal-336555
11-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala Municipal Corporation merged areas to pay property tax from January||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 10The residents of the merged areas of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (MC) would have to pay property tax from January next year. The MC has completed the survey for imposing tax on merged areas.Eight surrounding villages of Dharamsala were included in Dharamsala MC in 2015 when the council was upgraded as corporation. At the time of formation of corporation the previous Congress government had exempted all urban taxes on merged areas. The present BJP government after coming to power further increased exemption of taxes on merged areas for another two years till 2019.The MC Dharamsala should have started charging property and other taxes on merged areas in the year 2019. However, due to coronavirus outbreak the taxes were not imposed on the merged area.Commissioner of Dharamsala MC, Pradeep Thakur, when contacted, said that the survey for imposition of property tax on all merged areas of local body has been completed. The collection of property tax from merged areas is likely to begin in January next year. This would double the property tax income of Dharamsala MC from Rs 4 to Rs 8 crores, the commissioner said.What was worrying the residents of the merged areas was whether the property tax would be imposed on them with retrospective affect from 2019 or just for the last year. Sources here said that the Dharamsala MC had passed a resolution and sent it to the government seeking increase in exemption period of taxes on merged areas for another two years till 2021. However, the proposal has not been accepted by the government as yet.Saurabh, a resident of Khaniara village, said the merged areas have hardly been provided any facility by the Dharamsala MC during the last five years since they were included in urban body. The areas were also not a part of Dharamsala Smart City project as yet. The people are likely to oppose urban taxes sans facilities, he said.Those running hotels and commercial establishments in the merged areas are also a worried lot. Naresh, who runs a restaurant in merged areas, said that hardly has there been any business in the last two years due to coronavirus lockdowns. Now if the taxes are imposed with retrospective affect it would be huge financial burden on private enterprises in merged areas.Survey complete||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-municipal-corporation-merged-areas-to-pay-property-tax-from-january-336556
11-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Decks cleared for construction of parking for Dharamsala ropeway||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 10The Municipal Corporation of Dharamsala has got permission from the forest department to construct a multilevel parking near the take-off point of under-construction Dharamsala-McLeodganj ropeway. This has cleared decks for ensuring viability of over Rs 200 crores ropeway project that had been lingering for the past more than four years.Dharamsala MC Commissioner Pradeep Thakur, while talking to The Tribune, said after getting permission from the Forest Department, the local body floated a tender of Rs 23.55 crore for the construction of the parking lot. The six-level parking would be constructed on 7,028 sq m area.The parking would comprise of a basement, six floors and an open terrace. It would have facility to park 302 cars and 125 two wheelers. The tenders would be opened December 8, he said.The construction of parking near Dharamsala bus stand was a part of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between Dharamsala Ropeways company, a joint venture of Tata infrastructure company and the Himachal government.The parking lot near the take-off point of the ropeways in Dharamsala was vital for the viability of project. The area on which the take off point of ropeways has been constructed had very little open area where the people could park their vehicles and board ropeways to reach McLeodganj. The Dharamsala Ropeways had been stressing on the government to provide them the parking area as per the MoU. However, the construction of parking was struck for the past four years as the forest land required for the purpose was not diverted for the project.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Nipun Jindal, when contacted, said that the work of construction of multi-level parking would start soon. “Now that the major bottleneck for the ropeway project has been cleared, we hope that the ropeway would become functional soon. The officials of the Dharamsala ropeways company have informed me that ropeways project can be made operational in the month of December,” he said.Besides providing parking for the Dharamsala-McLeodganj ropeway project, the new parking would also help solve the parking problems in Kotwali market area of Dharamsala. The Kotwali was major market area of Dharamsala and has very little parking area. The new parking would help ease traffic problems in the area, the officials of Dharamsala MC said.The officials are also claiming that during the peak tourist season proposal could also be mooted that entry of buses and mini buses to the McLeodganj could be restricted. The tourists coming in buses or mini buses can park their vehicles in parking and go up to McLeodganj in the ropeway.To provide parking for 302 cars, 125 two wheelers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decks-cleared-for-construction-of-parking-for-dharamsala-ropeway-336557
11-11-2021||---||AAI submits fresh master plan for Nagchala airport||Shimla, November 10The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has submitted a revised master plan for the setting up of a green field airport at Nagchala in Mandi along with the land required so that the ambitious project could be expedited.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said this while presiding over the meeting regarding development of Mandi airport here today. He said the runway orientation of the proposed green field airport in Mandi could be fixed and OLS charts can be prepared by the consultant.Thakur said that the state government has got LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) survey done through WAPCOS Ltd. for fixing the alignment of runway as per the suggestions of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the AII. He added that this survey was completed on July 21 and WAPCOS Ltd/ M/s Geokno India Private Limited has submitted the LiDAR survey data to the AII.The Chief Minister said as per the site clearance given by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and master plan submitted earlier, runway of 2,100 m was planned with possible extension of 1,050 meters on southern side. “As per the aerial LiDAR survey the extended runway length of 1,050 m would be on the northern side instead of the southern side,” he said.The Chief Minister said that with the shift in the side, the runway would be suitable for the operation of AB-320 type of aircraft. “Flights can be operated from this airport throughout the year with the help the night landing facility having a provision ofthe CAT-I lighting system,” he added.The Chief Minister said the state government would also contemplate setting up a joint venture company involving the Government of Himachal Pradesh and the AAI for developing this ambitious project. He said that this project would not only provide better air connectivity to the state and give boost to the tourism industry but would also be strategically important.Thakur said the state government would take up the matter of funding of this project with the Union Grnment, keeping in view its strategic importance. He said that the 15th Finance Commission had also recommended Rs 1,000 crore for this mega project.Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh, Additional Chief Secretaries Prabodh Saxena and JC Sharma, Principal Secretary Subhashish Panda and Managing Director HPTDC Amit Kashyap attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aai-submits-fresh-master-plan-for-nagchala-airport-336558
11-11-2021||Shimla||UN team meets Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu on workers’ safety||A UN team from the Department of Safety and Security, headed by Elias Legesse Woldeyes, Security Adviser (UN) India and Bhutan, met DGP Sanjay Kundu here today.The delegation discussed safety and security related issues of UN officials working in the state. The DGP apprised members of the delegation that Himachal is the most peaceful state, nevertheless they need to be mindful of certain precautions, do’s and don’ts during their stay in HP.It was also emphasised that precautions need to be taken relating to road accidents, natural calamities, fall from slopes and snow-covered slippery paths and electrification-related accidents, particularly during winters.The DGP also issued necessary directions to police officers about the safety and security of the UN officials.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/un-team-meets-himachal-dgp-sanjay-kundu-on-workers-safety-336559
11-11-2021||NURPUR||Stone of Rs 23-cr projects laid in Nurpur||With just an year left to the general elections in the state, foundation stones of a number of buildings and bridges, with an estimated cost of Rs 23 crore, were laid by Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania here on Wednesday.Pathania laid foundation of Rs 89-lakh Dabbar bridge in Khazan gram panchayat, Rs 89-lakh Duhag bridge and Rs 88-lakh Bassa-Sameletian bridge.Besides, he also laid the foundation stone of Rs 20.34-crore Government Degree College building at Nurpur. Former CM Virbhadra Singh had also laid the foundation stone of the same college building in February 2017, a few months before the assembly elections. But the then government failed to procure mandatory forest clearance under the Forest Conservation Act and not a single brick was laid during the past four years. That foundation stone, along with its plaque, was demolished by unidentified miscreants in March this year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-of-rs-23-cr-projects-laid-in-nurpur-336560
11-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Panel to flag hotspots as leopard fear grips Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla November 10The Himachal Pradesh Government has decided to identify hotspots with concentration of leopards in and around Shimla and take steps to minimise chances of man-animal conflict. The development followed increasing attacks by leopards in the city.Also read: Leopard attack: Fence residential areas adjacent to forest, demands CPMA committee headed by Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Shimla, will be constituted to gauge the problem and suggest remedies. Representatives of the Shimla Municipal Corporation and district administration will be the members.Rising incidents of man-animal conflictThe frequent attacks by leopards in the state capital have sparked series of protests by various organisations. The latest incident in which a seven-year-old boy was killed in Downdale area on Diwali night has created fear among people. Forest officials have been directed to launch a hunt for the big cat, which could be a maneater.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today held a meeting with senior officials. The forest officials have been directed to install cameras and lay traps. The SMC has been told to put up streetlights in vulnerable localities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-to-flag-hotspots-as-leopard-fear-grips-shimla-336616
11-11-2021||Kullu||53 solar lights for Manali villages||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur provided 53 solar lights under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes sub-plan for different villages of Bashing in Manali today.He said thegovernment was committed towards the welfare of people belonging to the SCs and the STs and various schemes had been launched for their uplift.The minister said through this alternative arrangement of lighting, the dependence of the residents on electricity would reduce and rural areas would lit up. He added that this would provide lighting in rural areas round the clock and people would also save money.The minister said that under the scheme, solar lights would be distributed in other villages of the Manali Assembly constituency soon. Manali Mandal Scheduled Castes Morcha president Shiv Chand and State Women’s Commission member Manjri Negi were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/53-solar-lights-for-manali-villages-336561
11-11-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Locals want Manali left bank road widened to two lanes||Kullu, November 10Local residents are demanding that the 44-km Kullu-Naggar-Manali (left bank) road be widened to two lanes on priority, as the Kullu-Manali double-lane National Highway has become a virtual ‘death trap’ for commuters due to overspeeding vehicles.According to them, earlier there was a plan to widen the highway to four lanes and the required land was also acquired. However, later due to topographical considerations, the highway was widened to two lanes only.Commuters say though the road has become convenient, many fatal accidents take place on it because of overspeeding vehicles. They add that the traffic coming from Manali to Kullu can be diverted through the left bank road so that the traffic load on the right bank of the highway can be reduced. They say one-way traffic will help in reducing mishaps.At present, the narrow left bank road has many bottlenecks and heavy vehicles avoid using it. The metalled surface of the road has also worn out at many stretches. During his visit to Kullu in June, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari had announced the widening of the road to two lanes on the request of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur. The Kullu PWD and the NHAI had also begun the paperwork and conducted a joint survey last month to assess its feasibility.The local residents say once the road is widened, one-way traffic can be diverted through the left bank road facilitating the movement of vehicles. The road connects many villages and its widening will benefit a large number of farmers and local residents. The road will also become an alternative route in case the Kullu-Manali National Highway is blocked.Manali resident Shyam Sunder Sharma says that the Kullu-Manali NH should have been widened to four lanes as was proposed earlier to cater to the expected rising in traffic. He adds that only the 40-km Kullu-Manali highway will have two lanes on the Kiratpur-Manali-Leh route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/locals-want-manali-left-bank-road-widened-to-two-lanes-336562
11-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Relief for Himachal apple growers in cheating cases||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 10Farmers might be agitating for continuation of agriculture produce marketing committees (APMCs) at Singhu border but hundreds of apple growers in Himachal have been cheated by commission agents registered in the APMCs.The commission agents fail to pay the growers after buying their stock of apples. They either disappear or simply refuse to pay the money. A large number of such cases were coming to fore from the APMCs at Shimla, Solan and Kullu.In a bid to provide relief to these apple growers, the state CID had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) in 2019 to deal with such cheating cases.Though a commission agent is supposed to get himself registered with the APMC, the latter has failed to provide his key details such as permanent address. With scarce information available with the growers such agents are difficult to trace.As many as 1,700 complaints have been received by the SIT ever since its constitution in 2019. A large number of these cases pertained to the pre-2019 period.Superintendent of Police, Virender Kalia, who heads the SIT, said that, “About 300 complaints were pending though a large number have been sorted out and money worth Rs 20 crore has been returned to the apple growers since it was constituted in 2019.”He said an attempt was made to resolve the cases by arriving upon mutual agreements where the agents agree to pay the money in installments. In other cases, FIRs have been registered to bring the erring agents to book.“As many as 125 FIRs were registered by the SIT in various districts like Shimla, Kullu and Solan since 2019. Efforts are being made to resolve the complaints by the investigation officers by amicably arriving upon an agreement with the commission agent,” informed Kalia.“The agents are directed to make payments to the apple growers in fixed instalments and this is verified by securing the details of their bank transactions. This has helped to resolve a large number of cases,” observed the SP.About 70 to 80 cases were registered in 2019 and about 25 to 30 in 2020 and about 300 complaints were pending. The constitution of the SIT has acted as a deterrent as such cases were on the decline observed the SP.The state’s apple economy is worth Rs 4,000 crore. About 30 to 35 per cent of the produce is sold at Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, while the rest is transported to the wholesale markets in Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Jaipur and other states.SIT recovers Rs 20 cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/relief-for-himachal-apple-growers-in-cheating-cases-336563
11-11-2021||---||Minister: Suketi river to be channelled in Mandi||Mandi, November 10Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur said today that on the demand of people, the state government had decided to channel the Suketi river at a cost of Rs 485 crore. The government had sent the detailed project report (DPR) for approval to the Central Technical Approval Committee, New Delhi.Thakur was here to preside over a meeting with the officials of the district administration and the Jal Shakti Department and review the progress of development works in Mandi.Channelling the river is a long pending demand of the people of the region because the river causes considerable damage to the agricultural land in the Balh valley of Mandi, Nachan and Sundernagar areas during the rainy season. The project is hanging fire for the past many years.The minister said that the matter was under the consideration of the Central Technical Approval Committee. The channelling work would be started as soon as the approval of the committee is received.He added that the project would directly benefit the people of Mandi, Balh, Nachan and Sundernagar in four Assembly constituencies and save agricultural land from floods.The minister asked the officers to emphasise on the improvement and upgrade of old projects of drinking water and irrigation.He directed them to get the works such as the installation of power transformers done without delay.Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, Chief Engineer of the Jal Shakti Department Dharmender Gill, Superintending Engineer Upender Vaidya, SDM Ritika Jindal and Revenue Officer Rajeev Sankhyan also attended the meeting.To cost Rs 485 crore||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-suketi-river-to-be-channelled-in-mandi-336564
11-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Himachal to take over Shanan power project from Punjab in 2024||Palampur, November 10The British-era 110-mw Shanan Hydropower Project at Jogindernagar is in a shambles due to the apathy of the Punjab Government. The 99-year-old lease of the project will expire in 2024 after which it will be handed over to the Himachal Government.The Punjab Government has stopped maintaining its buildings, ropeway trolley service and other equipment of the project.“The Shanan powerhouse is one of the oldest, which used to feed the entire undivided Punjab, Lahore and Delhi before Independence. Its more of a tourist resort than a mere powerhouse. Thousands of tourists from across the world visit the Barot valley to enjoy the ride of haulage way trucks and trolleys up to Barot.”After the reorganisation of states in 1966, the Shanan powerhouse was given to Punjab by the Centre as the lease agreement, signed in 1925 between British representative Col BC Batty and Raja Joginder Sen of Mandi, was yet to expire.Col Batty had drawn up plans to construct five units of the project utilising the tail water of Shanan but died before his dream came true. Later, the Himachal government constructed the 66 mw Bassi power house. It was augmented to 100 mw and another 100 mw Chulaha Power Project is now under construction.This powerhouse was constructed against the backdrop of dense deodar forests with a four-stage haulage rail network starting from Jogindernagar up to Barot, a cup-shaped village on the banks of the Uhl.The British had also laid a narrow gauge rail line between Pathankot and Jogindernagar to transport heavy machinery to the Shanan complex.99-year lease expires in 2024After the reorganisation of states in 1966, the Shanan powerhouse was given to Punjab by the Centre as the lease agreement, signed in 1925 between British representative Col BC Batty and Raja Joginder Sen of Mandi, was yet to expire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-take-over-shanan-power-project-from-punjab-in-2024-336565
