13-11-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Fertilisers not available, Kangra farmers worried||Nurpur, November 12Farmers in the lower Kangra areas, comprising Nurpur, Indora, Fatehpur and Nagrota Surian are a harried lot due to the non-availability of Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) and Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium (NPK) fertilisers required for wheat sowing.These fertilisers are used while sowing and farmers are unable to procure the same either from the state agriculture department’s retail outlets or in the open market. The farmers have started buying wheat seeds but in the absence of fertilisers, they could not start sowing.As per information, wheat is cultivated in around 16,000 hectares and at least 16,000 quintals of fertilisers is required to sow it. Farmers Subhash Singh, Ravinder Singh and Diwan Singh of Kopra, Ashok Kumar of Lagor and Kamal of Thora said they purchased wheat seeds last week but could not sow them as no fertiliser was available. Nurpur Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) Sushil Kumar admitted that no fertiliser supply had been received in his agriculture block so far.Inquiries revealed that the whole state was facing the problem as the Centre had not yet allotted fertilisers to the state.Jeet Singh, deputy director of agriculture, Palampur, said fertilisers were procured by Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing and Consumer Federation Ltd (Himfed) and he had submitted requirement of the whole Kangra district to the state government. “As soon as Himfed gets the supply, the department will immediately make the same available in its retail outlets across the district,” he stated.Suresh Pathania, Bharatiya Kisan Union Kangra chief, appealed to the government to ensure timely supply of fertilisers so that farmers could start wheat sowing before drying up of the soil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fertilisers-not-available-kangra-farmers-worried-337476
13-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehpur procurement centre closed, paddy growers left in lurch||Nurpur, November 12The sudden closure of the paddy procurement centre at Riyali in the mand area of Fatehpur subdivision in Kangra district two days ago has left hundreds of farmers worried. Now, they are compelled to sell their paddy at throwaway prices to private players in neighbouring Punjab. Resentment is brewing among the farmers of the mand area, which is known as the rice growing region of Kangra district.According to official information, the Riyali procurement centre was one of the three centres set up by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) in lower Kangra areas bordering Punjab. Paddy procurement was started on October 15, giving respite to the farmers as the Punjab Government had banned the purchase of paddy from Himachal at the FCI centres at Mukerian in Hoshiarpur district.The FCI had started procuring paddy at Tiyora in Indora subdivision and the grain mandi at Fatehpur. As per the state government notification, paddy procurement was to continue from October 15 to November 30. The FCI allegedly closed the Riyali centre without intimating the local farmers but at the same time brisk buying of paddy was going on at its centres at Tiyora and Fatehpur.According to Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, Secretary, Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra, the necessary infrastructure, as directed by the FCI, such as a covered and pucca platform, three sheds and crates were provided at the Riyali centre. He admitted that the sudden closure of the centre had disappointed hundreds of paddy growers in the mand area. He added that only 69 farmers sold their paddy to the FCI while 375 farmers had booked slots online for selling their crops.Inquiries revealed that the FCI had procured only 3,500 quintals of paddy at this centre while over 50,000 quintals of paddy was still unsold. Vijay Kumar, secretary of the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, has threatened to launch a stir if the state government fails to restart the centre within three days.Meanwhile, local farmers Sandeep Thakur, Sucha Singh, Ganesh and Rakesh Kumar said that the FCI had been rejecting the paddy on flimsy grounds while procuring the same at its other centres at the grain market, Fatehpur and Tiyora. They alleged that paddy lifting at the Riyali centre was very slow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fatehpur-procurement-centre-closed-paddy-growers-left-in-lurch-337477
13-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Govt to hold 2nd groundbreaking ceremony on Dec 27||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 12The Himachal Government will hold another groundbreaking ceremony for projects worth Rs 15,000 crore on December 27, on the fourth anniversary of the BJP government.The pace of industrial development has slowed down due to Covid and there has been delay in proposed investments after the Global Investors’ Meet at Dharamshala in November 2019. In fact, an investors’ meet will also be held in Delhi on December 5, to give impetus to industrial investment. The venue for the second groundbreaking ceremony is likely to be Dharamsala in view of better aerial connectivity there.The state government is now aiming at getting the derailed economy back on track by wooing investors. This in turn will help in generating employment avenues as soaring unemployment among educated youths is a major problem, which can also become an issue in the next Assembly elections. A groundbreaking ceremony for projects worth Rs 13,000 crore was held on December 27, 2019, which was attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah.As a precursor to the ceremony, the Industries Department has announced a customised special package of incentives for projects by introducing an amendment to the Himachal Pradesh Investment Policy 2019. These customised incentives will be for investments ranging between Rs 150 crore and Rs 500 crore. One important condition laid down for availing of incentives is to employ 80 per cent employees from Himachal or they should be bona fide Himachalis.A Cabinet sub-committee headed by the Chief Minister will sanction the customised package. The other members of the committee are the ministers for industry and power, Chief Secretary and the Additional Chief Secretary (Industry). A high-powered committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Industry) will undertake screening, prior to selection by the Cabinet sub-committee. The other members of the committee are the Secretaries of power, finance, excise and taxation and the Director Industries as its Member Secretary.The government wanted to hold the second groundbreaking ceremony in September-October, but due to the surge in Covid cases, it was deferred. Since the Assembly elections are due next year, the government is keen to woo investors with incentives and packages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-to-hold-2nd-groundbreaking-ceremony-on-dec-27-337478
13-11-2021||Shimla||122 new cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 122 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 225,589. Besides, three persons died of the virus in Kangra.The highest 53 cases were recorded in Kangra, followed by 20 in Hamirpur, 11 in Solan, 10 in Una, nine each in Shimla and Mandi, five in Kullu and four each in Chamba and Bilaspur. The number of active cases declined to 1,123.—TN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/122-new-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-337479
13-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM: Complete vaccination by Nov 30||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today held a video conference with Deputy Commissioners to take stock of the Covid situation. He directed all the districts to complete the second dose of vaccination till November 30 with special focus on elders as most of the deaths are being seen in this age group.“Nearly 72 per cent population has been given the second dose and the Panchayati Raj Department has been asked to hold special gram sabhas on November 15 and 26 to motivate people for vaccination,” he said.Thakur said special focus should be laid on proper care of Covid patients in home isolation as most of the deaths are being reported from there.He also stressed that vaccination drive must be carried on priority in high altitude areas.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-complete-vaccination-by-nov-30-337480
13-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Panchayats with 100% jabs to be honoured||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 12Solan Deputy Commissioner Kritika Kulhari today said panchayats achieving 100 per cent vaccination of both doses by November 24 would be honoured. In a bid to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination by November 29, a mop-up round would be held on that day, the DC said while convening a meeting of sub-divisional officials here today.She directed the SDMs to coordinate with health officials and ensure 100 per cent vaccination in their respective areas in a planned manner. Even if the eligible people have not received a message for the second dose, they should approach the nearest health institute to get themselves vaccinated as per the schedule.District Immunisation Officer Dr Gagandeep Rajhans said 10,75,444 people have been vaccinated in the district till Thursday evening. This comprised 6,82,821 people who have received the first dose and 3,92,623 people who received the second dose.Figures revealed that among the frontline workers, less than one-third have taken the second dose. As against 49,839 people who took the first dose, only 15,844 have taken the second dose. Frontline workers comprise police personal, staff of revenue offices, panchayati raj institutes, lactating mothers, pharmaceutical company employees, truckers, etc. Among the healthcare workers, 8,869 have taken the first dose while 6,566 have taken the second dose.In the 18-44 years age group, against 4,31,721 people who got the first dose, only about 2,20,142 have taken the second dose. This gap was much less among the 60-plus population, in which 58,769 people have taken the first dose and 46,086 people have taken the second dose.Since fewer people have received the second dose, the officials have requested them to come forward and get vaccinated. “About 97 per cent of the targeted population has been vaccinated in the district, as per the state statistical department figures,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayats-with-100-jabs-to-be-honoured-337481
13-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: Himachal CM  Jai Ram Thakur gives aid to fire-hit families||KULLU, NOVEMBER 12Jai Ram Thakur said that he was privileged to be the first Chief Minister since independence to visit the historic Malana village known for having the oldest form of democracy in the world and seek blessings of deity Jamlu Devta.The CM announced Rs 1.50 lakh each to the 36 affected families under Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojna for construction of house and handed over sanction letters in this regard to the families. As many as 36 families were affected in a major fire disaster in the village on October 27 in which 16 houses were gutted.He announced that Rs 40,000 each would be provided to the affected families under MGNREGA. Thakur also announced Rs 25,000 each to the families whose houses were completely gutted in this fire incident and Rs 10,000 each from his discretionary fund to those five families whose houses were partially damaged. He said the village would be connected with road within 6 months.He said that only about one-km of stretch was pending and its work would recommence after winters. He also announced Rs 1 crore for the alternative road and appealed to the residents to cooperate for completion of the road at the earliest. He said that with road connectivity, the economy of the area would be boosted.The Forest Corporation would also provide seven cubic meters of wood to the affected families for construction of houses. Firewood would also be provided to the affected families, Thakur stated.The CM said the ground near the Jamlu Devta complex would be maintained and developed as all the religious functions are held on this ground. He urged the people to preserve their rich cultural heritage and motivate the younger generation to be proud of their culture.While travelling on foot from Malana road point to Malana village, the Chief Minister also interacted with the villagers and tourists. A large number of tourists, including foreigners, visit the village. Pilgrims also visit the deity and many trekkers to the Chanderkhani pass take a halt at Malana village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-gives-aid-to-fire-hit-families-337482
13-11-2021||---||Meet on sustainable development at Chamba||Our CorrespondentChamba, November 12The two-day international conference on the theme ‘Sustainable development goals, development and tourism in Indian Himalayan regions and beyond’, held to mark six decades of Government College, Chamba, concluded here on Friday.Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Hans Raj inaugurated the conference by lighting a lamp on the first day. College principal Dr Shiv Dayal Sharma, while presiding over the concluding ceremony, said people were exploiting natural resources, which in turn disturbed the natural balance. Conference moderator Dr Mohinder Slariya, who is also the general secretary, Sociological Society, said, “Based on the motto, wecan make a difference only by being together.” The conference was organised in hybrid mode (virtual and physical). As many as 20 research papers were presented on the first day and 42 on the second day.Teachers of higher learning institutes, including colleges, universities and IITs were awarded the Excellent Teacher Award-2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/meet-on-sustainable-development-at-chamba-337484
13-11-2021||---||Nationalism missing post-Independence: Himachal Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arleka||Shimla, November 12Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar today said that the spirit of nationalism, which was prominent before Independence, was less visible post-Independence and there was need to introspect on it. He was speaking at a seminar organised by the Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust on 75 years of Independence at the Gaiety Theatre here today. The occasion was also the death anniversary of Sunil Upadhyay. “To fulfil this dream, we should take a pledge to contribute in one or the other way on the occasion of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,” he said.The Governor expressed happiness that today there was an atmosphere of enthusiasm in the country “but we need to reflect on what we have lost and gained in the past 75 years”. “India has had a rich culture for thousands of years but post-Independence we started looking towards other countries and adopted their models,” he lamented.Arlekar said that it was the responsibility of everyone to change this environment in which every person should contribute at his level. He also released a souvenir published by the Trust and honoured seven freedom fighters for their outstanding services to the nation.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that Upadhyay had made great contribution towards society and established the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) as a strong organisation in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nationalism-missing-post-independence-himachal-governor-rajendra-vishwanath-arleka-337485
13-11-2021||---||After fuel price cut, reduce bus fares also: Cong chief||Shimla, November 12HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore today said the benefit in reduction of petrol and diesel had not yet been passed on to the common man as no cut had been made in the prices of bus fares and LPG cylinders.Addressing a press conference here today, he said there was no use announcing this reduction as people were yet to get its benefit. “It is the Congress victory in the by-polls in Himachal which has jolted the BJP out of slumber and forced it to slash prices of petrol and diesel,” he remarked. As such the credit for this price reduction goes to the Congress, he added.He said the double engine BJP regime at the Centre and in Himachal has failed on all fronts, especially in checking price rise and unemployment. “Now, the BJP is beginning to admit that the defeat it faced in the by-polls was a direct impact of price rise though it dismissed this all along during the elections”.Rathore said despite the best efforts of the BJP to deviate from the core issues like price rise and unemployment, the Congress ensured that these issues remained in focus. He said the Congress would launch its Jan Jagran programme from November 14 to 28 across the state and also its membership campaign.He flayed the Chief Minister and his ministerial colleagues for skipping the oath ceremony of the three newly elected MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha Speaker’s chamber.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-fuel-price-cut-reduce-bus-fares-also-cong-chief-337486
13-11-2021||---||Himachal scientist gets Jamnalal Bajaj award||Shimla, November 12Dr Lal Singh, Director, Himalayan Research Group (HRG), a local NGO, has been honoured with the non-government prestigious Jamnalal Bajaj award for Application of Science and Technology for Rural Development – 2021.It is for the first time that a scientist from Himachal has been selected for this award. It is a rare achievement for a person coming from a rural background. Singh belongs to a remote Danghiiyara village in the Chachiot Assembly constituency of Mandi district.“Driven by the urge to do something big and practical for the benefit of the farming community in the mountains, Dr Singh set up an NGO named “Himalayan Research Group” in 1997 with the help of like-minded professionals and friends,” says Sudesh Mahajan, Financial Advisor (HRG). The NGO is now a designated core group for Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development (SEED) Division of the Department of Science and Technology (Govt. of India) since 2005, he added.The major initiatives undertaken by the HRG comprise solar water heating and room heating technology in mountain households, medicinal plants and mushroom cultivation and revival of native crops like buckwheat, barley, red rice and kidney beans. The group is also working on fodder development and silage technology.In the past 24 years, the HRG has successfully implemented more than 40 projects funded by different national and international organizations. The innovative and need-based interventions have directly or indirectly benefited the local community in creation of new livelihood avenues, better financial earnings, and improvement in the quality of living.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-scientist-gets-jamnalal-bajaj-award-337487
13-11-2021||UNA||Drive to vaccinate cattle against FMD in Una||The Animal Husbandry Department vaccinated 3,255 animals against foot and mouth disease (FMD) here today.Joint Director of the department Dr Suresh Dhiman said 1.35 lakh cattle head, including stray cattle in various cow sanctuaries and sheds in the district, would be vaccinated against the fatal virus. He added that the campaign would be conducted for 45 days.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drive-to-vaccinate-cattle-against-fmd-in-una-337488
13-11-2021||---||Solan residents demand footpath along highway||Solan, November 12Residents of ward numbers 13 and 14 in the Solan Municipal Corporation have threatened to boycott the next year’s Assembly poll if a pedestrian path connecting the newly built four-lane highway is not constructed by the National Highways Authority of India executing the project.Led by Deputy Mayor Rajiv Kaura, the residents have been demanding construction of a footpath as the four-laning of the highway has disrupted the pedestrian path connecting the two wards.The elderly, children and women have been facing problems in crossing the road after an underpass was constructed, as they are forced to immediately take the road, where there is a heavy rush of vehicles.A delegation of the Residents’ Welfare Society, Housing Board colony, the Kamal Orchards Residents’ Welfare Society and the Kleen Sewa Samiti, have decided to meet the CM to press for their demand.Deputy Mayor Rajiv Kaura said they had metthe Deputy Commissioner, Solan, too, and requested for a solution to the problem. However, the meeting did not yield any result.Peeved at this indifference towards their genuine demand, the residents have now decided to boycott the next year’s Assembly poll and initiate an agitation.“No pedestrian path has been set aside after construction of the four-lane. A slip road should be constructed to provide the residents a convenient approach to the highway,” rued Kaura.Balwinder Singh, in charge, GRI Infraprojects, the firm that did four-laning, said, “Provision of a pedestrian path was neither in the scope of the project nor was their mandate. The local administration is supposed to provide this facility to the residents.”Ajay Yadav, SDM, Solan, said the problem pertained to a mere 20-metre patch of land near the Saproon Chowk. Since the land on the left side was landslide-prone, the focus had shifted towards the right side to construct a slip road to facilitate the residents of ward numbers 13 and 14.“The land at the said junction belongs to the Railways as well as the state government. The case will be moved before the Railways to acquire 4-5 biswa. Since provision of utilities is the mandate of the National Highways Authority of India, the detailed project report of this road-widening project has been sought from them to work out how this slip road can be constructed,” the SDM said.The issue concerns a population of about 1 lakh and efforts are afoot to sort out the problem. The Railways had earlier expressed reluctance to allow acquisition of their land, said the SDM.Elderly inconveniencedThe elderly are facing problems in crossing the road. They are forced to immediately take the road, where there is a rush of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-residents-demand-footpath-along-highway-337490
13-11-2021||Mandi||Padyatra on Nov 15 for Swarna Ayog in Himachal Pradesh||The Devbhumi Kshatriya Organisation will start a padyatra from Shimla on November 15 to urge the state government to constitute a Swarna Ayog in Himachal Pradesh to redress the grievances of upper caste communities.Addressing a press conference here today, Rupesh Thakur, spokesperson, Devbhumi Kshatriya Organisation said, “We have been urging the state government to constitute a Swarna Ayog to redress the grievances of upper caste communities in the state, but to no avail. We are demanding reservation for upper caste communities in government jobs on economic basis.”“We will start the padyatra from Shimla on November 15, which will conclude at Dharamsala on December 10. The motive is clear — to urge the state to consider our long-pending demand. During the padyatra, we will make people of upper caste communities aware about this issue because it is a fight for their rights,” he added. “The government had constituted the SC/ST commission to redress their grievances. Now, it should form a commission for upper caste communities,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/padyatra-on-nov-15-for-swarna-ayog-in-himachal-pradesh-337491
13-11-2021||Vijay Arora||Ramp cave in: FIR filed, probe on||Shimla, November 12Taking cognisance on the news report published in The Tribune under the caption ‘Five Children hurt as School ramp caves in’, the Juvenile Justice Committee of HP High Court has directed the Secretary (PWD), Director, Higher Education, to furnish report regarding action taken against the contractor of the school building.The Juvenile Justice Committee, headed by Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, further directed the state officials to inform in their report what action has been initiated against the contractor for such poor quality construction work.It was reported in the news report published on November 12 that five children were injured when the ramp of the Government Senior Secondary School Bhrog Benari, Nahan leading from the ground floor to the first floor caved in and those using it fell about 10 to 12 feet down on the concrete surface below.Before passing this administrative order Chairman of Juvenile Justice Committee, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan has sought status report of this incident from the Deputy Commissioner of, Sirmour at Nahan through Registrar of the High Court and directed the Deputy Commissioner to file his report by 3 pm today itself through email or fax.In compliance to the direction the Deputy Commissioner, Sirmour at Nahan, R.K Gautam has filed his report and stated therein that a concrete slab connecting the playground to the first floor of the Government Senior Secondary School Bhrog Benari (Dadahu division), Nahan suddenly collapsed yesterday (November 11) when the students of ten plus one class were moving after the recess period.Due to this incident eight children fell down and received injuries. He further informed that children were immediately rushed to local primary health centre, where the medical aid was given to them. All the students are out of danger.He further stated in his report that apart from above the Superintendent of Police has been requested to investigate the matter and take appropriate action.The Deputy Commissioner further informed in his report that an FIR has also been registered on November 11 and an enquiry is in progress to find out any lapse in construction of slab/path.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ramp-cave-in-fir-filed-probe-on-337492
13-11-2021||Dharamsala||Commercial vehicles can’t enter Kangra during daytime||The Kangra district administration has decided to implement traffic plans in the town, marred by frequent traffic jams.Kangra DC Nipun Jindal has issued a notification to streamline traffic in the town. As per the orders, any vehicle found parked along the road would be challaned and fine under the new Motor Vehicles Act would be imposed. The white line along the road is not an indication for parking of vehicles, the notification states.Movement of trucks carrying material would be allowed only from 8 pm to 8 am. Loading and unloading of material would not be allowed along the roads and it would be allowed only at specified places. Kangra SDM Abhishek Verma would have the power to implement the notification in the town.The main road passing through the town has many bottlenecks and is single lane at many places. No parking spaces have been left in many commercial buildings. People coming to these buildings, having banks or showrooms, generally have no option but to park their vehicles along the road, causing traffic snarls.Also, parking spots near the Brajeshwari Devi temple, located in the heart of the town, were not adequate. During festive days, when the temple witnesses huge rush of pilgrims from other states, the parking places near the temple prove inadequate.On the other hand,some shopkeepers have encroached upon the main road but the administration has not taken any action against them. Some parking lots have been permanently occupied by owners of commercial jeeps and taxis.Widening of the roads is not an option in Kangra as it would mandate large-scale demolition of commercial and old structures. Such a move would have political repercussions and so, no party has gone in that direction.Though the notification would check movement of commercial vehicles to avoid traffic jams, it is silent on the root of the problem, which is lack of adequate parking place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/commercial-vehicles-cant-enter-kangra-during-daytime-337493
13-11-2021||Dharamsala||Expedite work on O2 plant in Dehra: DC||Deputy Commissioner (DC) Nipun Jindal today directed officers concerned to complete the work of an oxygen plant at the Dehra hospital to facilitate Covid patients.He inspected the ongoing work on the oxygen plant at the hospital. He also inspected the vaccination centre at Kuhna and the ongoing survey regarding Covid. “The district administration is prepared to deal with the third wave of Covid. An oxygen plant is being set up at the Dehra hospital to facilitate Covid patients of Dehra and its adjoining areas,” he said.Jindal said that arrangements had been made to administer the vaccine even after 4 pm at the Civil Hospitals of Dehra, Kangra, Nurpur, Baijnath and Palampur to shopkeepers, traders and other people, who could not avail it of during the day.He said that the campaign for the second dose had been intensified in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expedite-work-on-o2-plant-in-dehra-dc-337494
13-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Laparoscopic surgery now available at Mandi college||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 12Laparoscopic surgery has been introduced at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital (SLBS GMCH), Nerchowk, in Mandi district for the treatment of patients.Yesterday, a 47-year-old woman, suffering from fibroid, was operated upon successfully with the help of laparoscopy by a team of doctors. As per medical experts, laparoscopy is used for women who have smaller and fewer fibroids. During the procedure, the surgeon makes two small cuts in the patient’s belly. A telescope is inserted into one of the openings to help the doctor see inside the patient’s pelvis and around the uterus. A tool is inserted from the other opening to remove the fibroids. The surgeon may cut the fibroids into smaller pieces before removing them.Doctor Pujan Dogra, who was part of the team performing the surgery, said “It was the first time that laparoscopic surgery was conducted successfully in the medical college. It helps the patient recover early and experience less pain after surgery. Apart from this, it also reduces the patient’s stay in the hospital as mostly they feel better within a day or two.”Dr Panna Lal Verma, Senior Medical Superintendent of the medical college, said, “It is a big achievement. This hospital caters to residents of four districts, including Mandi, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Bilaspur. Now, the patients will be able to get this facility too.”Efforts were on to provide better medical facilities to the patients at the institute, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/laparoscopic-surgery-now-available-at-mandi-college-337497
13-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Stone for park laid in Rakkar||UNA, NOVEMBER 12Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti today laid the foundation stone of a park in Rakkar colony, about 5 km from Una city. A sum of Rs 25 lakhs will be spent on the facility.Speaking on the occasion, Satti said parks enable people, especially the elderly, to interact and communicate in the society besides providing children, a space to play and enjoy.“In today’s busy life parks keep us close to nature and help us relax our nerves,” he said.Satti said the park would be equipped with open air gym for fitness seekers, adding that ornamental and medicinal plants would be planted here so that people could gain knowledge about their uses. He said the park would have benches, proper lighting and walking tracks.On the occasion, local residents spoke about lack of some facilities and amenities in the colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-for-park-laid-in-rakkar-337498
13-11-2021||The Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust||Blood donation camp held||Osheen, Tanmay shine in OlympiadOsheen Rana, a Class IX student of DAV Public School, Palampur, scored the first position at the national level in the CSC-Science Olympiad. Tanmay Kanoongo scored the second position in the CSC-GK Olympiad. The students were awarded a laptop and a tab, respectively, by Kangra DC Nipun Jindal.Seminar on career prospectsA seminar on ‘Future career prospects in management and computer science’ was organised by the University College of Business Studies on November 10. Students of BBA and BCA attended the seminar and discussed various areas, where relevant jobs were available in future. The seminar was appreciated by the students and the faculty of the institute. Director of the Institute, Prof Pawan Garga welcomed the resource person and delivered a motivational talk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blood-donation-camp-held-337499
13-11-2021||Dalhousie||1 dies, another hurt in mishap||A driver was killed on the spot and another person suffered serious injuries when a TATA canter went out of control and fell into the Siul river near Baroti on the Dhargala-Panot road in Salooni tehsil of Chamba district today. Reports revealed that deceased Ashwani was the driver, while Ajay Kumar was travelling in the vehicle. The police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dies-another-hurt-in-mishap-337500
13-11-2021||Our Correspondent||5 hurt in Baijnath  accident||PALAMPUR, November 12At least five persons were injured, two of them seriously, when a private luxury bus carrying 56 Gujarati tourists met with an accident near Baijnath, 24 km from here, this morning.As per reports, the bus was on its way from Manali to Dharamsala. When it reached near Awainag temple on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway, the driver failed to negotiate a sharp curve and the bus hit a hill rock. However, a big tragedy was averted as the bus could have rolled down a 300-feet-deep gorge.Local residents and senior officials of the administration immediately reached the spot and started relief and rescue operations. The injured were taken to the Baijnath civil hospital for first aid. The police have registered a case against the driver for rash driving. The police said it was human failure because the road was wide at the site of the accident. Besides, the driver was not well aware with hill driving and topography of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-hurt-in-baijnath-accident-337501
13-11-2021||Chamba||Team of Chamba women farmers leaves for study tour||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana flagged off a group of women farmers of Chamba district for a study tour to other districts. The group included 35 women of Mehla, Tissa and Salooni.Rana said during the study tour by the Agriculture Department from November 11 to 13, the women farmers’ group would visit different districts to get information about new techniques of agriculture.The group would visit the market committee in Kangra to study its working and get information about the schemes being run by the committee for farmers.In Palampur agricultural university, the farmers would be given information about new techniques of organic farming, natural farming and vegetable production, DC said.The farmers would also visit the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bajaura, the Vegetable Research Centre, Katrain and the Lahaul Potato Committees, Manali, and Manikaran. The main objective of the tour is to learn aboutthe good quality, processing and packing of vegetables to get good prices. Agriculture extension officer Dr Diksha Kakkar and Dr Titiksha would guide the study tour of women farmers. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-of-chamba-women-farmers-leaves-for-study-tour-337503
13-11-2021||Electricity poles on the Dharmapuri-Kasauli road are getting damaged due to reckless muck dumping by realtors. This practice should be regulated as the realtors end up damaging the road while constructing their hotels and resorts. — Rakesh||Electricity poles damaged||No chairs for patients at IGMCThere are no chairs for patients to sit while waiting for their turn to see a doctor at the Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital. There are many elderly patients, who have to stand. Often some patients collapse due to weakness. The hospital should make some seating arrangement for the patients. — SR Verma, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electricity-poles-damaged-337506
13-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||47 Covid deaths in Himachal in 12 days||tribune news serviceShimla, November 12Himachal is witnessing an increase in the number of Covid deaths over the last couple of weeks. In the first 12 days of the month, as many as 47 persons succumbed to the virus, with 10 deaths being reported on November 11, the highest single-day figure in the past several months.Above 60 most hitMost victims (43 of 47) were above 60 years and with comorbid conditions, the most common being diabetes and hypertension. Hemraj Bairwa, National Health Mission MDAs per the death audit, 43 of the 47 victims were elderly, having underlying comorbid conditions. “Most were above 60 years and with comorbid conditions, the most common being diabetes and hypertension,” said National Health Mission MD Hemraj Bairwa. In October, the state had recorded 75 deaths, with the first 12 days registering 31 deaths. For the state that has vaccinated nearly 100 per cent of its eligible people with the first dose and 72 per cent with the second, isn’t the uptick in the number of deaths a matter of concern and surprising too? “Vaccination will not give 100 per cent protection, especially if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed. As most deaths of late have been of those in the 60-plus category with comorbid conditions, this section needs to be more careful. The moment they show some symptoms, they should go for testing,” said Dr Malay Sarkar, a member of the state Covid clinical committee. Dr Sarkar said some laxity was being noticed among people over adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Also, people don’t get tested immediately. Late diagnosis results in damage to lungs and other organs. And if such people have a comorbidity as well, the prognosis becomes poor,” said Dr Sarkar. Bairwa stressed the need for keeping a regular track of people in home isolation. Covaxin 93% effective against severe CovidCovaxin offers 77.8% protection against symptomatic Covid -19 and is 93.4% effective against severe disease, according to a study published in The Lancet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/47-covid-deaths-in-himachal-in-12-days-337335
13-11-2021||Shimla||Find places for pre-paid taxi booths: Shimla DC||The Shimla Deputy Commissioner has ordered departments to carry out a survey and find places to construct 10 pre-paid booths for taxi operators and submit the report within 15 days.The taxi operators have been demanding the construction of pre-paid booths for quite some time.They have listed places like the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT), Tuti Kandi, the Old Bus Stand, Lift, Lakkar Bazar, Auckland, Chhota Shimla, Sanjauli and Khalini for pre-paid booths.The DC also directed the Tourism Department to take a stern action against the guides duping the tourists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/find-places-for-pre-paid-taxi-booths-shimla-dc-336988
