14-11-2021||Shimla||Man burnt alive at Khoptwari village in Rohru’s Chirgaon||A man was burnt alive in a fire that broke out at his house in Shimla district, a state disaster management official said on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Rajdev. His house, located at Khoptwari village in Chirgaon tehsil of Rohru sub-division, was gutted in fire on Saturday night, the official said, adding that the cause of fire is yet to be ascertained.According to the Shimla District Emergency Operation Centre, the house was fully damaged with an estimated loss of Rs 10 lakh.The Shimla district administration handed an immediate relief of Rs 20,000 to Rajdev’s family members.More details are awaited, officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-burnt-alive-at-khoptwari-village-in-rohrus-chirgaon-338013
14-11-2021||---||Private schools in Himachal allowed to take call on reopening of primary classes||Shimla, November 13Winter-closing private schools affiliated to the CBSE/ICSE Board do not need to restart primary classes. As against the November 9 orders that Class III-VII in all schools would restart from November 10 and Class I-II from November 15, the Director, Higher Education, today allowed the winter-closing private schools to take a call on the reopening of the schools for primary classes.“It’s not mandatory for private schools affiliated with the CBSE/ICSE to call students of primary classes…. They may take a decision after discussing the matter with their PTA and school managements,” read an order from the Director. The order said it was applicable to winter-closing schools of Shimla city and the district. “The schools affiliated to CBSE/ICSE in other districts may also follow the directions,” he said.Interestingly, government schools and others affiliated to the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education will function as per the orders issued on November 9.The Student-Parent Forum, which has been opposing the decision to reopen the schools on the ground that hardly 10-15 days are left in the session for the winter-closing schools, called the decision vague and incomplete. “The decision should have been for students up to Class IX, not just primary classes. Also, it should be applicable to schools affiliated to the HP Board of School Education as well,” said Vijender Mehra, convener of the forum.He said the Director should issue clear orders stating that all classes and exams up to Class IX would be conducted online. “The Chief Minister should look into it and issue instructions that all schools up to Class IX will conduct classes and exams online,” said Mehra.Earlier ordersThe earlier orders had stated that Classes III-VII in all schools would restart from November 10 and Classes I and II from November 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-schools-in-himachal-allowed-to-take-call-on-reopening-of-primary-classes-337813
14-11-2021||---||Himachal CM announces govt college at Nohradhar||Solan, November 13Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 80 development projects worth Rs 162 crore at Nohradhar in the Renuka Assembly constituency in Sirmaur district today.He announced a government degree college at Nohradhar, and an electricity subdivision at Haripurdhar among other development schemes for the area. He said that the state government would complete four years of rule on December 27 and this period had been full of achievements and accomplishments.“Several development schemes launched in the state have transformed the lives of people. Onthe other hand, the previous Congress government befooled the people ofthe state with an eyeon the vote bank”.Thakur said that schemes such as the Mukhya Mantri Sahara Yojana, Himcare and the Grihani Suvidha Yojana had ensured that every section of society getsthe benefits.“The previous Congress government did nothing for the welfare of people, as it was busy enjoying power,” he said. Theirsole aim was to ensure that the pace of development was not interrupted, he added.Shimla MP and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap said that the four-year tenure of the present government had been full of achievements. It was now the duty of people to strengthen the hands of the Chief Minister.Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary said that various projects launched by the government had accelerated the pace of development in the area. He urged the Chief Minister to make Haripurdhara subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-announces-govt-college-at-nohradhar-337814
14-11-2021||Solan||Himachal's Renukaji fair begins||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the week-long international Renukaji fair at Renukaji in Sirmaur district today by offering prayers before the palanquin of the presiding deity, Lord Parshuram.He also led the procession by carrying the palanquin of the deity. The palanquin of Lord Parshuram and other deities is brought to Renukaji from the ancient temple at Jamu Koti village and it departs after religious ceremonies, including a dip in the Renuka Lake.The fair marks the union of Lord Parshuram with his mother Goddess Renuka on Dashmi. Every year on Devprobodhini Ekadashi, the traditional Renukaji fair is organised on the banks of the Renuka Lake where lakhs of devotees converge.The CM said fairs and festivals were an integral part of their rich cultural repository and concerted efforts must be made to conserve them for future generations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-renukaji-fair-begins-337815
14-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Amid reshuffle talk, 2 Himachal ministers meet Nadda||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 13Two senior state Cabinet ministers met national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda in New Delhi today, creating ripples in political circles. There is speculation of a possible Cabinet reshuffle against the backdrop of the BJP’s defeat in the four byelections recently.Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh and Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda separately met Nadda. The development comes before the State BJP Executive meeting scheduled for November 22, where the ruling party is bound to look into the reasons for the defeat in the byelections.Minister got votes polled for Cong: Bragta“While Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is yet to go to Delhi to meet the top party leadership, the two ministers’ visit to Delhi has created ripples in political circles,” said a senior BJP leader. There has been an inordinate delay in ascertaining the reasons for the party’s defeat in the four byelections, he added.It is being said that the two ministers clarified their positions in view of the BJP’s defeat in the byelections. It has been reliably learnt that Mahender Singh, who was the in-charge for the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll, explained his position with regard to the party’s loss; the BJP lost the parliamentary seat though it had won it by a record margin of 3.98 lakh votes in the 2019 elections.As the BJP failed to get a lead in any tribal seat, including Lahaul and Spiti represented by Markanda, he, too, likely clarified his position to the top leaders. The BJP did not get a lead in Kinnaur, Bharmour and Lahaul and Spiti.Meanwhile, the finger is being pointed at ministers for working against the party’s official candidates. Chetan Bragta, son of former minister Narinder Bragta, who fought the byelection as an Independent candidate from the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly, today alleged that a senior minister got the BJP votes polled in favour of the Congress to ensure his defeat.The BJP candidate from Fatehpur has blamed another minister, who was the in-charge of Fatehpur, for his defeat. These developments are taking place at a time when the BJP is yet to review its performance in the four byelections. The demand for action against those who undercut the party’s votes is gaining momentum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amid-reshuffle-talk-2-himachal-ministers-meet-nadda-337816
14-11-2021||---||NSUI activists burn effigy of Kangana||Mandi, November 13NSUI activists burnt the effigy of actor Kangana Ranaut in Mandi today to protest against her controversial remark over the Independence.A large number of NSUI activists gathered at Chauhata bazaar to protest against the actor.They raised slogans against her and urged the Union government to take back the Padma Shri award from her. Later, they burnt her effigy in the town. The protest was held under the leadership of Harvinder Kumar, the district general secretary of the NSUI.Kangana raked up the controversy by claiming that India won true Independence in 2014 when the Modi government came to power and that the one obtained in 1947 was “alms”.After her controversial comments, Kangana is facing a sharp criticism.NSUI activists said Kangana should seek apology from the people because she insulted the martyrs of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-activists-burn-effigy-of-kangana-337817
14-11-2021||Our Correspondent||3-storey house destroyed in fire near Malana village||Kullu, November 13A three-storey house near Malana village in Kullu district was gutted by fire last night. Villagers tried to douse the flames but the entire wooden house was reduced to ashes. However, a major tragedy was averted as there was no other house adjoining the gutted property. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. Earlier, 16 houses were destroyed at Malana village in a fire breakout on October 27.Malana panchayat vice-president Ramji said that the fire engulfed the house of Biri Ram where he had kept his livestock.However, the villagers managed to rescue thecattle. He added that a loss to the tune of several lakhs of rupees was suffered in the incident.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had visited Malana village yesterday to console the victims of a fire incident in which 16 houses were destroyedon October 27.In another incident on Friday, a two-and-a-half-storey slate-covered house of Tilak Raj at Shahil village in Kalwari panchayat of Banjar subdivision was destroyed in fire. However, the family was not at home when the fire broke out. The villagers saved the cattle and stopped the fire from spreading to other houses.Firefighters, along with the villagers, brought the blaze under control after a lot of efforts, but by that time the house had been totally destroyed. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, local villagers urged the local administration and the government to provide assistance to the victim’s family.Some residents said that water storage tanks should be built at higher reaches, which are fed by perennial sources, to control fire disasters in congested villages having wooden houses. They added that awareness should be spread among the villagers to change conventional means of stacking firewood and fodder. Low quality electrical fittings and appliances should be avoided to prevent fire mishaps.Residents of various villages have urged the government to set up fire sub-stations in major valleys to provide timely access to firefighters and fire engines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-storey-house-destroyed-in-fire-near-malana-village-337818
14-11-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Efforts on to make rafting in Beas safer||Kullu, November 13The Tourism Department has chalked out a plan mandating one trained person along with the guide while conducting rafting in the river. Considering that many fatal accidents have taken place in the past in the adventure sport, the department has proposed to deploy additional trained personnel for every trip to carry out rescue operations in the eventuality of an accident.Other measuresDistrict Tourist Development Officer (DTDO) Rajesh Bhandari said that during investigation it was found that whenever an accident occurs, there was only the guide in the raft to handle the situation. “In such a scenario, the guide is caught in a piquant situation—to handle the raft or save tourists,” he added.Bhandari said that now the guide would be accompanied by a trained person to assist in rescue efforts in case of an accident. The additional person would be given training in cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid.The Tourism Department has made the plan to prevent accidents during rafting and make the sport safer. At present, many rafting guides in the district are not even aware of the CPR or the first aid procedure. After the death of two woman tourists from Indore and Mumbai near Bashing on October 29, the tourism department is taking steps to make it safer for the rafting enthusiasts and curb the accidents.The DTDO said that high resolution CCTV cameras would be installed at the points where accidents are taking place frequently during rafting. Five such spots had been earmarked. The cameras would ensure that the operators adhere to the norms. He said that strict action would be taken in the incident of the violation of rules to avoid mishaps.The department is also planning to keep a single point to start rafting. As of now there are different points for rafting in the Beas in the district. In some cases, it has been found that guides drop rafts from everywhere in the Beas. This puts the lives of tourists in danger. Presently, the rafting is carried out from Raison, Babeli and Pirdi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/efforts-on-to-make-rafting-in-beas-safer-337819
14-11-2021||Palampur||Palampur residents resent poor state of roads, threaten protest||There is resentment among residents of Aima, the Nala Mandir road and other areas of the Palampur Municipal Corporation against the bad condition of roads.They have threatened to resort to agitation if the Public Works Department or the MC failed to repair the roads, which are full of potholes.Residents of Aima said today that despite complaints to the local MLA and officials of the PWD and the MC, no steps were initiated.KB Ralhan of Nala Mandir road said the road was full of potholes. Executive Engineer, PWD, Palampur, was also approached by them, but in vain, he said.Likewise, residents of Differepatt said the road leading to the village was in a bod shape, water supply pipes were leaking at many points, paver tiles laid on the both sides of the road had broken.BM Thakur, Executive Engineer, PWD, Palampur, said at Aima, residents opposed the concreting of the road. Therefore, the tender, awarded to a contractor, was cancelled. In Differepatt, the IPH Department had laid water supply pipes on the surface, therefore it was not possible for the PWD to lay concrete or bitumen. Despite repeated requests, the IPH Department had not yet removed the pipes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-residents-resent-poor-state-of-roads-threaten-protest-337820
14-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal minister rubbishes corruption charge||Industries Minister Bikram Singh today said he was in no way linked to the speculation with regard to a BJP leader’s close aide being allegedly caught with a huge amount of money.His remarks comes amid speculation on social media that an associate of a BJP leader from Himachal was caught with a huge amount of money in Chandigarh, earlier this week. “If anybody can prove that I am in any way linked to these allegations, I will quit politics,” he announced, after chairing a meeting of the State Construction Workers Welfare Board, here today.He could not be cowed down by such attempts as he had been in politics for the past 24 years and all this was being done to merely malign his image. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-minister-rubbishes-corruption-charge-337821
14-11-2021||NURPUR||Government befooling people over development projects: Cong||Kangra Congress president Ajay Mahajan said ministers had started laying foundation stone and perform bhoomipujan of the projects the stone of which had been laid during the previous Virbhadra Singh regime.Questioning the bhoomipujan of the proposed Government Degree College building in Khazan gram panchayat by Forest, Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania, Mahajan said today that the stone of this building had already been laid by former Chief Minister late Virbhadra Singh and now it was the time to dedicate this building to the public. He said the people of Nurpur had been promised of the zonal hospital-level facilities at Nurpur, but the facilities in the civil hospital had gone from bad to worse.He said the work on a number of projects was still to kickstart which indicated that the stones had been laid to befool the people.“The stone of the proposed bus stand-cum-shopping complex at Jassur, an ST bhavan, an indoor stadium and a war memorial at Nurpur had been laid, but not a single brick was laid on the works,” he said.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-befooling-people-over-development-projects-cong-337822
14-11-2021||---||BRO, police rescue four persons stranded in Lahaul’s Shinku La||Mandi, November 13The police and BRO rescued four persons from Shinku La in Lahaul and Spiti on Friday night.The police said they received information at the Keylong police station that some persons were stranded at Shinku La. A rescue team was formed, which left for Shinku La immediately.“During the search operation, all four persons — Sagar Sharma, Naveen Kumar, Ramesh Kumar and Surender — were found at the location ‘27 km BRO camp’ near Shinku La. They had taken shelter in a shed. They were rescued safely,” said SP Manav Verma.“They had gone to Shinku La for tunnel testing and were carrying goods of the BRO. In the evening at Shinku La, their vehicle skidded in the snow and got stuck in a pit. An attempt was made to take it out but to no avail. They were rescued by the police team and the BRO team and left safely at the BRO camp in Jispa,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-police-rescue-four-persons-stranded-in-lahauls-shinku-la-337823
14-11-2021||Shimla||123 new Covid cases in Himachal, nine deaths||As many as 123 Covid cases were reported today, taking the tally to 2,25,712. Besides, nine persons died of the virus—five in Kangra, two in Hamirpur and one each in Kinnaur and Mandi.The highest number of 45 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 21 in Hamirpur, 12 each in Una, Mandi and Solan, 11 in Shimla, six in Bilaspur and one each in Kullu, Kinnaur, Chamba and Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/123-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-nine-deaths-337824
14-11-2021||Mandi||Drive to make people aware of govt schemes in Himachal||To make public aware of the government welfare schemes at the grass-roots level, the Public Relations Department has conducted a four-day awareness campaign in the district.After the miserable defeat of the BJP in the byelections, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has made the government machinery active to make people aware of government schemes.The department had engaged yuva mandals and musical groups to perform folk dance or street plays in each constituency of Mandi in this regard.To give a message about the Mukhya Mantri Swavalamban Yojana, the Sanvad Yuva Mandal is informing the youths that the scheme is beneficial for those who want to set up their businesses.Financial assistance is being provided by the government to the youth for self-employment. There is a provision of 30 per cent grant for women and 25 per cent for men on projects costing up to Rs 1 crore.This mandal has given information to the people about the Mukhya Mantri Sahara Yojana. Under the scheme, a provision has been made for financial assistance to the patients suffering from serious diseases. Under this scheme, Rs 3,000 is being deposited every month in the bank accounts of poor patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drive-to-make-people-aware-of-govt-schemes-in-himachal-337825
14-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Legal awareness camp for women in Chamba||Chamba, November 13A district-level legal awareness camp on the topic, “Constitutional responsibility and role of legal services institutions in the uplift of women and protection of their rights” was jointly organised by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and National Commission for Women (NCW) under the aegis of Pan India Awareness Program here on Friday.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana was the chief guest of the inaugural session of the camp, while District and Sessions Judge Sharad Lagwal was the chief guest on the concluding session.Rana said that women should be aware of the violation of their rights and must also protect the rights of others.He added that economic independence was the most important for the empowerment of women.He called upon women to eradicate various social evils afflicting society such as dowry, foeticide, child marriage and drug abuse.District and Sessions Judge Sharad Lagwal said that women alone could play an important role in bringing positivity towards them in a male-dominated society.Justice Lagwal said that women should come forward to protect their rights. He added that women could get free legal aid from the authority. There was no income limit for women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legal-awareness-camp-for-women-in-chamba-337826
14-11-2021||Dalhousie||Dragon boat race championship from Nov 15||The Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association (IKCA), in collaboration with the Chamba district administration, is organising the Himalayan Goral 9th National Dragon Boat Race Championship 2021 at the Taleru boating point of the Chamera lake near Dalhousie from November 15 to 18.In an official press note issued here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said that Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania would be the chief guest on the occasion. He added that HP Kayaking and Canoeing Association president Onkar Chand Sharma, IKCA president SM Hashmi and general secretary Prashant Khushwaha would be present during the mega event. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dragon-boat-race-championship-from-nov-15-337827
14-11-2021||Solan||Path lab opens at Parwanoo||Microtek International Private Limited opened its first no-profit Path Lab under the aegis of Microtek Foundation at Parwanoo today.The lab will provide high-end diagnostic services to industrial workers and the local population at affordable rates. The Microtek Foundation has invested about Rs 50 lakh to set up this lab which has latest computerised machines, said Somesh Goyal, Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation.“More such labs will be opened in other towns and states in the future. Tests in haematology, clinical pathology, bactinology, immunoassay, serology and biochemistry are being conducted under the guidance of a qualified pathologist and experienced lab technicians in this lab,” said Goyal.Residents were dependent on labs located in Chandigarh and Panchkula for routine tests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/path-lab-opens-at-parwanoo-337828
14-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Told to pay tax for lockdown period, Dharamsala hoteliers fume||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 13Hoteliers in the picturesque town have received notices from the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (MC) for the recovery of property tax for two years — 2019-20 and 2020-21. The overdue tax ranges between Rs 60,000 and Rs 4 lakh depending on the area of the hotel. The development has led to resentment among the hoteliers, who claim they were given assurances by CM Jai Ram Thakur and the Tourism Secretary that the tax would be exempted for the lockdown period.Had sought exemption: MayorHoteliers have suffered huge losses. The government must consider our proposal to grant them exemption in local taxes. — Onkar Nehria, Dharamsala MayorAshwani Bamba, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association, Dharamsala, said hotels remained shut for at least one year due to Covid-related restrictions. “We had met the CM and Tourism Secretary on a number of occasions and had apprised them of our problems,” he said. “We were assured that concessions would be given in terms of exemption in property tax, licence fees etc. But the government is in no mood to extend any relief,” he said.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary, Smart City Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “The MC Commissioner told us that they had sought exemption of property tax to hotels for six months, but got no response. We will launch a protest.” Dharamsala Mayor Onkar Nehria said it was unfortunate that the state had not considered their request. “I have deposited Rs 60,000 as property tax. Hoteliers have suffered losses and the government must consider the MC’s proposal,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/told-to-pay-tax-for-lockdown-period-dharamsala-hoteliers-fume-337797
