15-11-2021||New Delhi||PM to inaugurate 82nd all India presiding officers conference in Shimla on Wednesday: LS Speaker||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 82nd All India Presiding Officers Conference in Shimla on November 17, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Monday adding that the conference would dwell on the decay in the discipline and decorum of legislatures, which was a matter of concern and on the anti-defection law.“The gradual decay in the discipline and decorum in the legislatures is a matter of concern and Shimla Conference would ponder over that,” said the Lok Sabha speaker.Referring to the discussions on this subject matter in the Presiding Officers Conference in 2001 and 2019, Birla emphasized the roles and responsibilities of the Members in the House in smooth conduct of the Business.Regarding the Anti-Defection Law and concerns around defections, the Speaker said that a Committee had been constituted on this subject matter during the Presiding Officers’ Conference in 2019 and it is likely that a detailed discussion on this report will be held in Shimla. Birla said there was an urgent need to rationalize the powers and jurisdictions of Presiding Officers for putting in place a robust system for the implementation of Anti Defection Law. Speaking on the financial autonomy of the State Legislatures, Birla informed that this matter assumes great significance in the functioning of legislative bodies and AIPOC has discussed the matter on several occasions.AIPOC, the apex body of the Legislatures in India, is celebrating its hundred years in 2021.A commemoration event of the centennial year of AIPOC, will be held in Shimla on November 17 and 18 with the PM set to inaugurate on Wednesday.The first Conference was also held in Shimla in 1921.Birla, chairman of AIPOC, said the conference was being held in Shimla for the seventh time after 1921, 1926, 1933, 1939, 1976, and 1997.Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur will address the gathering at the inauguration.Birla said the 82nd AIPOC will discuss a range of issues—Journey of a Century (Evaluation and the way forward) and Responsibility of Presiding Officers towards the Constitution, the House, and the People.Birla said the Valedictory Session of the 82nd AIPOC will be held on Thursday with Governor of Himachal Pradesh Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar to address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pm-to-inaugurate-82nd-all-india-presiding-officers-conference-in-shimla-on-wednesday-ls-speaker-338421
15-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Retired High Court judge to be eligible for Himachal Lokayukta’s post||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 14The state government is likely to make amendment to the Himachal Pradesh Lokayukta Act, 2014 to make retired Judges of the High Court eligible for being appointed as Lokayukta.The post of Lokayukta in Himachal Pradesh has been lying vacant since the term of Justice LS Panta, a retired Supreme Court Judge, got over in January 2017, almost five years ago. Himachal was among the first states in the country to enact the Lokayukta Act in 1986 to pave the way for the setting up of its own Lokayukta when Virbhadra Singh was the Chief Minister.Limited choice in present scenarioWith the condition of only a retired Supreme Court Judge or former High Court Chief Justices being eligible for appointment as Lokayukta, the choice becomes very limited and this is the reason why the post has been vacant for so long — A sourceEven though considered a toothless institution with little powers to check corruption amongst the high and mighty, the state government has come in for criticism for keeping the post vacant for close to five years now. Presently, only retired Supreme Court judges or former Chief Justices are eligible for appointment as Lokayukta.The government, which was earlier contemplating bringing about an ordinance in this regard, has now decided to bring about a Bill which will facilitate amendment in the Act. The Bill is likely to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha during the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha to be held in Dharamsala next month.It was on February 3, 2012 that Justice Panta took over as Lokayukta Himachal after giving up his appointment as the first chairman of the newly constituted National Green Tribunal (NGT). He was specially picked up by the then Chief Justice of India (CJI) to head the NGT after his retirement as Supreme Court Judge considering his impeccable integrity.The move to make an amendment and making retired High Court judges eligible is aimed at finally making an appointment of the Lokayukta as the Jai Ram regime has almost one year left to finish his tenure. “With the condition of only a retired Supreme Court Judge or former High Court Chief Judge being eligible for appointment as Lokayukta, the choice becomes very limited and this is the reason why the post has been vacant for so long,” said a source on condition of anonymity.It is learnt that some of the retired Supreme Court judges and former Chief Justice that the Government considered were not too keen to take up the post of Lokayukta. A majority of them take up arbitration work after retirement and most are not keen on taking up the appointment of a Lokayukta.Even as the BJP regime completes almost four years, the government has not appointed a Lokayukta despite the fact that it could have brought in a person of its own choice as Lokayukta. Now, with a change in eligibility, the government is likely to have wider choice and could get a person of its choice for the post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/retired-high-court-judge-to-be-eligible-for-himachal-lokayuktas-post-338257
15-11-2021||Shimla||56 Covid cases, three  deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 56 cases were reported today. There were three Covid deaths, one each in Kangra, Hamirpur and Shimla. As many as 16 cases were reported from Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, eight in Bilaspur, six in Mandi, five each in Solan and Shimla and one each in Una and Chamba. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/56-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-338258
15-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Solar power lights up Bara Bhangal village in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 14This Diwali was special for the remote Bara Bhangal village in Kangra. A part of this almost inaccessible village lit up with electricity a couple of days ahead of the festival of lights after more than a decade.“We have received electricity in our village after 10-12 years. This was the best Diwali ever people in the village had,” said Mansa Ram, the village panchayat president.12-year waitThe village, with over 150 households, had been without electricity after a small hydropower plant became defunct about a decade ago. We have received power in our village after 10-12 years. We are thankful to the government and Himurja. —Mansa Ram, Village pradhanThe village, with over 150 households, had been without electricity after a small hydropower plant became defunct about a decade ago. “We are thankful to the government and Himurja for providing electricity to us through solar power plants,” said Mansa Ram.“These have been installed in 15 households. The remaining plants will be the installed when the village becomes accessible again after the winter,” he said.Himurja has sent 168 solar power plants to the village. “All houses will be provided 250 watt off-grid solar power plants. These have been already sent to the village using a helicopter,” a Himurja spokesperson said.“Each plant will cost Rs 35,940 and the total cost will be over 60 lakh. The government will provide these free of cost to the residents,” said the spokesperson.He said each plant would generate enough power to light five LED tubelights for five hours and a television for four hours in a day. He further said the company would train locals for the upkeep of these plants and set up one service centre too.The villagers are now looking forward to having electricity in all households. “People are really happy to see electricity again after such a long break. It is going to make life much easier for them, the last decade has been extremely difficult,” said Mansa Ram.“Now, we are looking forward to the road connectivity as well. As and when it happens, it will bring about a massive change in our lives,” he said.Meanwhile, Himurja is lighting up the villages in Chamba’s Pangi sub-division, too, through solar power plants. “Over 2,000 plants will be installed in Pangi in the houses of BPL families. While 1,000 plants have already been established here, the work on installing another 1,000 is in progress,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solar-power-lights-up-bara-bhangal-village-in-kangra-338259
15-11-2021||---||Cong starts Jan Jagran campaign from Paonta Sahib||Solan, November 14Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore today said BJP’s policies had led to price rise and unemployment which have unnerved the masses.Rathore kick-started a Jan Jagran campaign from Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district today where senior Congress leaders, including district president Ajay Bahadur, Shillai MLA Harshvardhan Chauhan, former MLA Kirnesh Jung and others, took out a 15-km protest march.Leaders began the campaign after paying floral tributes to former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s statute at Nehru park on his birth anniversary today. Rathore said, “The Congress has launched a Jan Jagran campaign in the state and throughout the nation as the party understands the problems faced by the masses under the BJP regime. The Congress has received overwhelming support of the people in Himachal as it has won all four byelections.”“To begin with such constituencies have been chosen where Congress has lost in successive Assembly polls. Kasauli, which the Congress has lost for three successive polls, will be the next destination followed by Kutlehar in Una and Shahpur in Kangra,” said Rathore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-starts-jan-jagran-campaign-from-paonta-sahib-338260
15-11-2021||---||Expert report on Shimla building collapse this week||Shimla, November 14The three-member fact-finding committee, formed by the government to probe the collapse of an eight-storey building at Kachi Ghati, is likely to submit its report this week. The experts from IIT-Roorkee and National Institute of Technology (NIT), Hamirpur, have submitted their reports.Even though the committee, headed by Shimla Deputy Commissioner, was to submit its report by October 7, there was a delay as experts were roped in to give their opinion. The final report is likely to be submitted to Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning (TCP), this week, reports said.IIt, NIT Experts roped inThe committee is likely to make recommendations based on the inputs of the experts, who inspected the site to look for possible reasons for the mishap. As a precautionary measure, four other buildings were evacuated.Seeing the situation and fear among owners of some adjoining buildings, the government had ordered demolition of two buildings, which has been since stayed by the High Court.The fact-finding committee also comprises the Commissioner, Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC), and Director, Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department.The eight-storey building had collapsed in Kachi Ghati area of the city on October 1 as the foundation weakened due to seepage of water. Though there was no loss of life as the building had been evacuated, but the disaster raised questions on slackness on part of the TCP Department and Shimla MC in enforcing building norms under the TCP Act, 1977.Only one building collapsed but the manner in which multi-storey structures have been raised in this area, in violation of all norms, more such disasters cannot be ruled out. The Kachi Ghati area, being unstable and with loose soil, is not suitable to take the load of heavy structures.The fact that this area, on the entry to Shimla from Tara Devi, has been merged in and out of Shimla MC, has given undue advantage to land owners to give all building norms a complete go by.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expert-report-on-shimla-building-collapse-this-week-338261
15-11-2021||Solan||Kala Amb to have sub-tehsil||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stone of 28 projects worth about Rs 161 crore at Satiwala in Nahan today.Addressing a public meeting, the CM said even during the pandemic, the government inaugurated and laid foundation stone of projects worth about Rs 4,200 crore in 42 constituencies.He announced the opening of a sub-tehsil at Kala Amb. He said during the lockdown, the government brought home over 2.50 lakh people stranded in different parts of the country. Congress leaders did nothing in the crisis and even tried to politicise this sensitive issue. No patient was deprived of beds, medicines and oxygen, etc. He said there were only 50 ventilators in the state when the pandemic spread whereas today the state had over 900 ventilators.He said the state was also about to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination of the eligible persons.He took up the matter with Union Minister Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal and seven paddy procurement centres were opened in the state, of which three were opened in the district.He also presided over the first cultural night of the International Renukaji Fair and released a souvenir brought out by the Mela Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kala-amb-to-have-sub-tehsil-338262
15-11-2021||---||Vendetta politics  against Fatehpur farmers: Viplove Thakur||Dharamsala, November 14Former Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Viplove Thakur, in a press release issued here today, alleged that the state government was pursuing political vendetta against the farmers of Fatehpur.She alleged that during elections, the government opened three FCI procurement centres in Fatehpur. However, just after the BJP lost elections, all these were closed. This has left farmers in a lurch and they are being forced to sell their paddy at a throwaway prices.Viplove alleged that the mandis were opened as the farmers of borders areas of Himachal, who used to sell their produce in mandis of Punjab, were facing problem this year. The Punjab government has stopped all agriculture produce coming to its mandis from other states. Sensing that this may damage their prospects in elections, the state government got three FCI mandis opened up in haste in Fatehpur.As per the e-portal, the mandis were to operate till November 30. The state government had also written to the Union government to extend the procurement till December 30 as in many areas of Himachal the harvest of paddy crops starts late, she said.Viplove said that the decision of the state government to close FCI mandis in Fatehpur showed the real face of the BJP. It showed that it was not concerned about the plight of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendetta-politics-against-fatehpur-farmers-viplove-thakur-338263
15-11-2021||Shimla||SJVN power project to come up in Noida||The SJVN has entered into a contract for developing a 75 MW solar power project at the Parasan Solar Park in Uttar Pradesh on the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) basis with subsequent operations and maintenance for three years with Solarworld Energy Solutions Private Limited, Noida.SJVN chairman Nand Lal Sharma said the EPC cost of the project is Rs 313.59 crore and it is scheduled to be commissioned by August 2022.Sharma added that the SJVN bagged the project through competitive bidding held by the UP New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA) at a tariff of ?2.68 per unitfor 25 years. The project would generate 168.343 MU energy annually with the capacity utilisation factor of 25.06 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-power-project-to-come-up-in-noida-338264
15-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Suffering losses, HRTC’s income rises marginally||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 14The losses suffered by the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) since the Covid outbreak have crossed Rs 850 crore. However, the corporation isn’t losing money at the same pace as it was until a couple of months ago. “We were earning Rs 32 or Rs 33 per km on an average a few months ago. Now, we are earning Rs 37 or Rs 38 per km,” says HRTC vice-chairman Vijay Agnihotri.Despite the marginal increase in income, the HRTC is still losing around Rs 16 or Rs 17 per km. “Our expenditure per km is around Rs 55. So, there’s still a long way to go before we are able to narrow down the income-expenditure gap to a sustainable level,” says Agnihotri.Fuel price cut a boonThe reduction in the diesel price has provided some relief to the corporation. Before the cut in fuel prices, the average expenses had risen toRs60 per km, taking the deficit to over Rs20. —Vijay Agnihotri, HRTC Vice-chairmanThe reduction in the diesel price has provided some relief to the corporation. “Before the cut in fuel prices, the average per km expenses had risen to Rs 60 per km, taking the deficit to overRs 20,” he says.For the record, the income-expenditure gap during the pre-Covid times used to be around Rs 6 to Rs 8 per km. While the average per km expenditure was around Rs 45 during the pre-Covid times, the income was around Rs 37 or Rs 38 per km. Incidentally, out of 3,700 routes that the HRTC operates within and outside the state, only around 300 are profit making.“We are a public service entity. Our operations can’t be guided solely by profit. Besides catering to very low-occupancy routes where private players will not operate, we offer free travel to 27 different categories,” says Agnihotri.The government has allowed the operation of buses with 100 per cent capacity, and now the HRTC can expect it’s earnings to go up. As against the pre-Covid occupancy rate of 58 per cent to 60 per cent in HRTC buses, the current occupancy rate is around 44 per cent.Agnihotri feels that the decision may not push up the occupancy rate much. “Actually, travelling habits of people have changed a lot during the pandemic. People prefer to travel in private vehicles or taxis now and it will not be easy to bring such people back to the public transport,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/suffering-losses-hrtcs-income-rises-marginally-338265
15-11-2021||---||Himachal Governor releases book ‘51 Scintillating Tales’||Shimla, November 14Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar released the book ‘51 Scintillating Tales’ in a programme organised by Keekli Charitable Trust here today.While appreciating the creativity of children and their imagination, the Governor said these are the qualities which should be encouraged among children.“There is no dearth of creativity in the country but there is a need to find and encourage them,” he remarked. The book is a collection of award-winning stories of children from across the country.He said that Keekli was providing a good platform along with proper guidance to budding children. “It is our duty to guide children, hone their talent and provide positive direction to their energy,” he stressed.Stressing upon the need for reading books, he added that parents and teachers must inculcate a habit of reading among children. Not only this, one should be motivated to buy such books, he added.The Governor awarded budding writers on the occasion. The guest of honour of the program, eminent writer and lyricist Irshad Kamil said that in a society where there is a thought process, there is creation and where there is creation, there is development. Creation and development is the responsibility of all.The President of Keekli Charitable Trust Vandana Bhagra gave detailed information about the various activities of the trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-releases-book-51-scintillating-tales-338266
15-11-2021||---||Mandi: Tributes paid to 1947 Indo-Pak war martyrs||Mandi, November 14Veteran honorary Commissioned Officers of Army, Navy and Air Force, under the banner of Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers Welfare Association of Himachal Pradesh (DHCOWA), today paid tributes to more than 1,000 soldiers at Baldwara in Mandi, who attained martyrdom in pushing back the troops of Pakistan from Muzaffrabad to Baramulla in the Indo-Pak war of 1947.Captain Jagdish Verma (retd), president of the DHCOWA, said, “The longest war in the history of independent India commenced on October 22, 1947 and ended on January 5, 1949, in which four highest armed forces gallantry award Paramvir Chakra were awarded to soldiers, including Major Somnath Sharma along with three others, who became the first recipient of this prestigious honour in India. Major Somnath belonged to Kangra.”He said the longest war of 1947 had not been given that importance in India which it deserved. “Today, we pay tributes to these martyrs, who laid down their lives for the sake of the nation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-tributes-paid-to-1947-indo-pak-war-martyrs-338267
15-11-2021||---||20 Mandi dignitaries honoured||Mandi, November 14Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Mandi chapter, awarded 20 dignitaries here today for their contribution in preservation of art and cultural heritage of Mandi district. Additional Deputy Commissioner Jatin Lal was the chief guest of event, while Superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri was the guest of honour.Among those awarded are writers, historians, painters, craftsmen, cinematographers and the people associated with nature heritage conservation. Among writers, senior writer KK Nutan, novelist Gangaram Raji and famous story writer Murari Sharma, Haripriya Sharma and Dharampal Kapoor were honored.Apart from this, historians Dr Kamal Pyasa, OP Malohtra, Dr Rakesh Kapoor, Jagdish Kapoor, Jai Kumar, Chaman Sharma and cinematographer Birbal Sharma were awarded. Painter Rajesh for contributing to Mandi Kalam, Krishna Thakur and Vinod Bahl for Pahari language and culture, Shivpal Sharma for preservation and promotion of deity culture and Anil Sharma honored for documenting the history of deities of Mandi district in Devdhara book.Dr Tara Sen was honoured for her contribution in the field of nature conservation and for promoting research on wild fruits and Leena Sharma for promoting zero budget farming.These dignitaries were honoured with mufflers, certificates and mementos.Coordinator of INTACH Naresh Malohtra said that “Our association is making efforts to promote and preserve rich art and cultural heritage of Mandi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-mandi-dignitaries-honoured-338268
15-11-2021||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur visits Badrika Ashram in Sirmaur||Solan, November 14Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today visited Sri Badrika Ashram in Shalamu village in Karganoo area of Sirmaur.The Chief Minister said Sri Badrika Ashram cum Charitable and Social Welfare Society was doing a commendable work by serving the villages surrounding the ashram. He said such ashrams were vital for a healthy society.Thakur said, “We must uphold our traditions as they provide us contentment and peace. The Covid-19 pandemic has made us realise that despite all worldly luxuries, the most vital thing is family support. Devbhoomi Himachal was blessed to have such an ashram in the state.”He said the road leading to the ashram would be developed and maintained as it would benefit residents of several villages of the area. He announced to upgrade the primary school at Shalamu to middle school.The Chief Minister also inaugurated ‘dhyan yog kaksh’ at the ashram and honoured meritorious students Kavita and Sheetal. Wife of the Chief Minister and chairperson, HP Red Cross Hospital Welfare Society, Sadhna Thakur provided sewing machines to five girls, on behalf of the ashram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-visits-badrika-ashram-in-sirmaur-338269
15-11-2021||On Children's Day||Human Hope Foundation, Shimla, gives gift packets to children||Parents seek CM’s interventionThe student-parent forum has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, seeking his intervention in the orders issued by the Director, Higher Education, regarding reopening of schools for students of junior classes. The forum also demanded that the order should be applicable to all schools, not only the ones affiliated to the CBSE and the ICSE boards.Edu policy threat to anganwaris: SFIThe SFI unit of Kotshera College, Shimla, held an event on the theme ‘anganwari bachao’. The SFI said the New Education Policy was a threat to the anganwari system of learning as it talked of merging anganwari with schools. If this happened, children younger than three years of age would find it difficult to reach schools, especially in the hilly terrain, the SFI said. The anganwaris provide nutritious diet to children and mothers in villages, which will also stop if they are merged with schools. Efforts should be made to strengthen the anganwaris instead of the closing them, the SFI said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/human-hope-foundation-shimla-gives-gift-packets-to-children-338270
15-11-2021||---||3 die in Kinnaur, 1 in Rohru mishaps||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 14Three persons were killed and two injured in a road accident near Badseri Gate on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district today.The mishap took place when a Maruti car (HP-25A-4725) they were travelling in met with an accident. While three persons were killed on the spot, two were injured. They were shifted to community health centre (CHC), Sangla, for treatment.In another incident, one person was killed and two other injured when a car met with an accident at Mini in Jangla area of Rohru in Shimla district. The injured have been shifted to Rohru hospital for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-die-in-kinnaur-1-in-rohru-mishaps-338271
15-11-2021||Palampur||Coop week in Palampur||Cooperative Minister Suresh Bhardwaj inaugurated the state-level celebrations of the 68th All-India Cooperative Week here today.Bhardwaj said in the farm sector, cooperative banks and rural cooperative societies had proved very helpful and from time to time, farmers availed easy loans from them, avoiding the complicated formalities of other banking institutions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/coop-week-in-palampur-338272
15-11-2021||A majority people suffered losses due to the corona pandemic in two years. However||Himachal Diary: Palatial houses of politicians in Covid times||BJP leaders having sleepless nightsThe delay in action against BJP leaders post bypoll debacle is giving sleepless nights to many. While the CM has clarified that he has not been summoned to Delhi, some ministers went to meet BJP chief JP Nadda on their own. A possible Cabinet reshuffle with some new faces being inducted by dropping some non-performing ones is giving anxious moments to many. The chances of major changes in the party organisation are also not being ruled out. The only question is after how long.Tired of video-conferencesMany officers has become sick and tired of attending video-conferences, especially which are called by officers in Delhi. An officer complained that most of the conferences are held late in the evening, which force them to stay back after office hours. And, no matter, when a video conference lasts, we are expected to be in the office next morning on time.Slogan against Cong haunts BJP nowThe BJP’s slogan of tired and retired, used vociferously against the Congress, has come to haunt it. Having faced an embarrassing drubbing in the byelections, BJP leaders were looking for a convincing explanation. In Arki, while grassroot workers knew what was in the offing, a team of tired and retired leaders failed to see the writing on the wall. Their own activists were heard commenting that such tired and retired leaders, who failed to ensure the victory in the Solan civic body polls, had aptly proved their mettle in Arki too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-palatial-houses-of-politicians-in-covid-times-338273
15-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Cross-country teams selected for nationals||Kullu, November 14A state-level cross country race was held at Dhalpur here today. The event was organised by the Kullu District Athletics Association (KDAA) under the aegis of HP Athletics Association.KDAA president Gaurav Bhardwaj said over 200 athletes from 11 districts participated in the tournament. Teams of under-18, under-20 and senior categories were made to represent Himachal at the national tournament to be held in Nagaland on January 15, 2022. Mandi district was the best performer, while Hamirpur was the runners-up at the competition.Arjuna Awardee and former director of Himachal Youth Services and Sports Suman Rawat Mehta was the chief guest.In the under-18 boys’ race of 6 km, Rohit from Mandi bagged the first place, Abhay Kapoor from Kangra stood second and Rahul from Mandi came third. In the under-18 girls’ category, Rashi from Hamirpur, Jyoti from Mandi and Sejal Kumari from Mandi were adjudged first, second and third, respectively, in 4-km race.In the under-20 boys’ race of 8 km, Chaman Lal from Hamirpur stood first, Shivam from Kangra second and Iqbal Mohammad from Chamba third.Shivali from Hamirpur, Ganga and Shiva from Mandi won the top three places in the under-20 girls’ race of 6 km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cross-country-teams-selected-for-nationals-338274
15-11-2021||KULLU||‘Prabhat Pheri’ marks end of Kullu DLSA awareness campaign||A ‘prabhat pheri’ was flagged off by the chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and Kullu District and Sessions Judge Purender Vaidya at the conclusion of the Pan India Awareness and Outreach campaign, under the 75th Independence Day celebrations ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. The march started from the court premises here, encircled the Dhalpur ground and culminated back on the court campus with the National Anthem.In addition to the officials, staff of the district court, volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) and various Yuvak Mandals participated in the ‘prabhat pheri’, which gave out the message of awareness about justice.The awareness and outreach campaign was launched on October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti) and ended today on the birth anniversary of Jawaharlal Nehru.Kullu CJM Arvind Kumar, Lahaul-Spiti CJM Hoshiyar Singh Verma, DLSA secretary Amardeep Singh, First Class Judicial Magistrate Madhavi, District Youth Officer Sonika Chandra, besides other dignitaries, were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prabhat-pheri-marks-end-of-kullu-dlsa-awareness-campaign-338275
15-11-2021||---||BJP dominates BoD poll of Baghat bank||Solan, November 14Polls for the Board of Director for the Baghat Urban Co-operative Bank Limited held here today were dominated by the BJP which bagged four of the seven seats. The Congress candidates won two seats and one seat was bagged by the Nagar Nigam Sangarsh Samiti (NNSS).Congress candidate and former bank chairman Arun Sharma won by the highest number of 378 votes from zone 3 while Kiran Kishore Thakur of the NNSS bagged the lone seat from zone 7 which he won by 108 votes.BJP’s Sunder Singh Thakur defeated Divyadarshi Sood in zone 1 by 172 votes while BJP’s Sanjeev Kumar won the poll from zone 2 by 133 votes against three other candidates- Jatin Kumar, Ashok Thakur and Nandlal Sharma. Arun Kumar Sharma of the Congress was declared elected from zone 3 by 378 votes where two other candidates Virender Sahni and Naveen Arora were also in the fray. BJP’s Amar Singh Thakur won the poll zone 4 against Chaman Lal Attri by 163 votes.Krishan Lal of the Congress won by 64 votes from zone 5 against BJP’s Amardeep. BJP’s Kalpana Thakur won from zone 6 by 24 votes against Narender Bhasin while Kiran Kishore Thakur of NNSS won from zone 7 by 108 against Dharmender Thakur informed the bank’s returning officer.Now the race to bag the two key posts of bank’s chairman and vice chairman has begun after the polls. Though the BJP has secured the majority of four seats it remains to be seen how a consensus would be arrived at for the two key posts.As many as 17 candidates had contested the polls for seven posts of BoD for which seven booths had been set up. The seven seats represent seven zones where 2988 shareholders from Shimla, Sirmaur, Solan, Kangra, Kinnaur and Una districts exercised their right to vote today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-dominates-bod-poll-of-baghat-bank-338276
15-11-2021||NEW DELHI||Golden jubilee of Himachal Pradesh statehood celebrated||The Himachal Pradesh government and natives of the state residing in Delhi-NCR region celebrated “Himachal Him Mahotsav” on Sunday to mark the 50th year of statehood of Himachal.The participants were drawn at the local Himachal Bhawan by 22 social bodies, under the aegis of Himachal Social Bodies Federation.While the children, donning celebratory outfits, engaged themselves in a painting competition and cultural programmes, the elders caught up with each other under the “Himachali Milan programme”. They exchanged views and happy memories of their villages and hamlets back home.Notable among the participants were Mallika Nadda, chairperson of Olympic Bharat-a NGO, and wife of BJP president JP Nadda, and Nand Lal, vice-chairman of Lalit Kala Academy, a body of the Union Ministry of Culture.Addressing the gathering after distributing certificates to the participants of the painting competition, Mallika urged them to preserve the rich cultural heritage of the state while remaining connected to their roots. “Himachalis are known for hard work and honesty and they should preserve their identity,” she added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/golden-jubilee-of-himachal-pradesh-statehood-celebrated-338277
15-11-2021||Shimla||Newborn week celebration begins today||National Newborn Week will be celebrated across the state from November 15 to November 21. “The focus will be on raising awareness about the care of newborns. The theme of the event was ‘Safety, quality and nurturing care - birth right of every newborn’, said a government spokesperson.The spokesperson said quality check teams of the Health Department will visit the newborn care units and the labour rooms to ensure quality services are being provided. “Field health workers and ASHA workers will conduct regular home visits to monitor growth and development of babies,” he said.The spokesperson said newborn care had been a prime concern of the department. “There are 16 Special Newborn Care Units (SNUs) and four new facilities would be upgraded to SNCUs in various districts. The department has made 124 newborn care corners and 46 new born stabilisation units in the state,” the spokesperson said. As a result of proper planning and implementation, the neonatal mortality rate has fallen from 33 (in 2008) to 13 (in 2017), the spokesperson added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/newborn-week-celebration-begins-today-338278
15-11-2021||A lot of water is wasted at many construction sites in Shimla. At several places||Water wasted at construction sites||Leopard on prowl in ShimlaShimla residents are living in a constant fear of a leopard for the last past weeks. People, who have to walk back home through the forest area late in the evening after work, are worried. The Forest Department should capture the leopard at the earliest. — Praveen Sharma, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-wasted-at-construction-sites-338279
15-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Pong Dam oustees in Himachal Pradesh without power, water for 55 years||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 14About fifteen families of Pong Dam oustees residing at Beyal village in Dehra subdivision of Kangra district have been living without power and water connections for the past 55 years.These persons were landless labourers residing at Beyal village when the village land was acquired for the Pong Dam. Since they did not have any land in their names, they were not awarded any compensation.After their houses located on the village common land got submerged, they moved uphill and again settled on village common land that was later transferred in the name of BBMB. Subhash Kumar, one such resident, said, “As the land is not in our names, we have been living here without power and water connections for the past 55 years.”Sarla Devi, another such oustee, said, “We have requested the government to allot us some land so that we can get basic amenities.”Sources said most of the Pong Dam oustees who were landless or lived in Lal Dora areas of various villages did not get any compensation. The state floated schemes for allotting plots to Bhakra and Pong Dam oustees, but most of the poor Pong Dam oustees residing in hinterlands failed to pursue their cases.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said the issue of people not having power and water connections for the past 55 years had not been brought to his notice. “I shall look into the matter and try to help them out by taking up their case with the state government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-dam-oustees-in-himachal-pradesh-without-power-water-for-55-years-338226
