17-11-2021||---||Need to have healthy and qualitative debate in central and state legislative houses: Modi||Shimla, November 17Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wedneday said there is need to have a healthy and qualitative debate in central and state legislative houses for which separate time must be fixed.Modi was addressing the 82nd All India Presiding Officer’s conference virtually from Delhi. He said there is need to have healthy debates in the legislatures.Speakers and Deputy Speakers of 36 Vidhan Sabha and Vidhan Parishads are attending the conference.Modi said the mantra for the next 25 years when we celebrate 100 years of independence should be a sense of duty in our action, conduct and behaviour, both inside and outside the House.Modi said we need to have a roadmap for the next 25 years. He said members of the house who are engaged in social service must share their experiences with others in the house so that they too get inspired. This, he added, would change the public perception about politicians.The conference was held for the first time in 1921 in the British-era Council Chamber which now houses the Vidhan Sabha. The conference has been held earlier in Shimla on six occasions in 1921, 1926, 1933, 1939, 1976 and 1997.Addressing the conference, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said Shimla and the Council Chamber had been witness to several historic moments.He said there would be deliberations on making parliamentary debates more dignified and meaningful for which talks would be held with leaders of all political parties. He said deliberations would be held on making the Vidhan Sabhas and Parishads strong, vibrant and meaningful so that they could come up to the expectations of the people. Deputy Speaker of Rajya Sabha Harivansh said there was need to do away with the old redundant laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-have-healthy-and-qualitative-debate-in-central-and-state-legislative-houses-modi-339261
17-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Ahead of Himachal Assembly polls, BJP may carve more districts out of Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 16Amid reports of the BJP facing anti-incumbency in Kangra, the largest district of the state in terms of population having 15 Assembly segments, the ruling party may carve out new districts out of it. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur gave an indication to this affect during an informal talk with mediapersons on National Press Day at Dharamsala today.Attempt to beat ‘anti-incumbency’He said demands for the creation of new districts had been coming from various parts and “we will consider these sympathetically”.Sources said with BJP leaders demanding district status for Nurpur, Palampur and Dehra, the party was likely to go for it early next year to beat anti-incumbency.This is not for the first time that the BJP is contemplating creation of new districts. During the tenure of then CM Prem Kumar Dhumal, the party had posted ADCs in Palampur, Nurpur and Dehra as an indication of creating new districts.The move was dropped after it was opposed by the Congress and even senior BJP leaders, including former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar.The BJP has now set up four organisational districts in Kangra — Dehra, Nurpur, Palampur and Kangra – whereas the Congress is running its affairs centrally from Kangra. Thakur, meanwhile, said police cases filed against journalists during the lockdown would be withdrawn. He said the cases were filed to deter people from spreading misinformation.On Gaggal airport, the CM said its expansion was his priority. The matter was being taken up with the Union Government, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ahead-of-himachal-assembly-polls-bjp-may-carve-more-districts-out-of-kangra-339094
17-11-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Clock tower hidden behind trees in Mandi town||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com  Clock tower hidden behind treesA clock tower, which is situated in the middle of Indira Market in Mandi town, is surrounded by trees and bushes. This is affecting the beauty of the tower. The Mandi Municipal Corporation should remove these unwanted trees and bushes so that the visitors can have a glimpse of the beautiful clock tower. — Virender Kumar, MandiPeople not wearing masksThe police are actively issuing challan to anyone found without a mask on The Ridge and the Mall Road. The problem of people not wearing the mask is more rampant on Lower Bazaar. The market is narrow and people have to jostle with each other to move around. There is, however, no one to check whether people are wearing masks or not. The police should depute someone here as well to penalise the offenders. — Suman, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clock-tower-hidden-behind-trees-in-mandi-town-339035
17-11-2021||The Himachal Pradesh Technical University organised an induction programme for students in Hamirpur on Tuesday. Anupam Thakur||Induction programme at Himachal Pradesh Technical University||Health awareness programme heldMaya Padmawati College of Nursing's Department of Paediatrics organised a health awareness programme at Aastha Special School, Nahan. Students were educated about hand washing techniques using play therapy with the help of a skit. All group members participated in this event and students of Aastha school also showed keen interest in the event. The school chairman lauded the efforts of the students in creating awareness.Guest lecture organisedThe Department of Mathematics and Statistics of Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, organised a guest lecture on Tuesday for students of MSc, M.Phil and PhD. The resource person was Prof Satya Bir Singh from Punjabi University, Patiala, Dept of Mathematics. The topic of the talk was "Some Recent Metaheuristics". Satya Bir explained various real-life applications of metaheuristics and discussed various algorithms. Prof PL Sharma, chairman, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, emphasised the need to hold different talks on different topics of mathematics for students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/induction-programme-at-himachal-pradesh-technical-university-339036
17-11-2021||KULLU||Legal training camp organised in Kullu||The Kullu District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) organised an awareness and training programme for panchayat representatives at the local court here. The programme was presided over by DLSA chairman and Kullu District and Sessions Judge Purender Vaidya. Presidents, vice-presidents and ward members of various panchayats participated in the programme.Vaidya said the representatives should make people aware of their legal rights. The main objective of the programme was to apprise participants of various legal aspects so that they can raise their voice against injustice. Also, it was necessary for every person to be aware of his rights to ensure justice and equal opportunities for all. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legal-training-camp-organised-in-kullu-339037
17-11-2021||Solan||SIT arrests one for duping apple growers||In a breakthrough, the special investigation team (SIT) of the CID has arrested Sandeep Mehta, a resident of Jubbal Madhol area of Shimla district, for cheating apple growers of crores of rupees.Superintendent of Police, State CID, Virender Kalia, while confirming the news, said, “Sandeep Mehta had cheated several apple growers and commission agents engaged in the sale of apple in 2018 and money worth about Rs 5 crore had been swindled by him.”He was arrested on Sunday and produced before a local court at Solan which remanded him to police custody for six days. He had been declared a proclaimed offender in several cases of cheque bounce registered against him in the apple belts of Shimla district. He was wanted in several cases of cheating and had shifted to Mumbai after duping several people here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sit-arrests-one-for-duping-apple-growers-339038
17-11-2021||Shimla||HIMCARE: 2 lakh availed cashless treatment||As many as 2.07 lakh beneficiaries have availed cashless treatment worth Rs 187.87 crore through the Mukhya Mantri Himachal Health Care Scheme, HIMCARE. “HIMCARE is providing cashless treatment benefit of up to Rs 5 lakh since January, 2019 to those not covered under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY,” said Secretary Health Amitabh Avasthi.He further said 5.13 lakh families are covered under this scheme and 222 hospitals, including 85 in private sector, are empanelled for providing cashless treatment. Avasthi said poor and needy people have fought serious diseases like cancer with the help of this scheme.He further informed that the beneficiaries can register/renew their cards by visiting the website of the department, i.e. www.hpsbys.in or through the nearest Lok Mitra Kendra for which they will have to deposit a fee of Rs 50 in addition to the prescribed premium amount for card preparation. “To get the registration and renewal done under the scheme, it is mandatory to upload the documents prescribed by the government. Category-wise list of prescribed documents is available on department’s website,” he said.“New cards can be prepared from January 1 to March 31,” said Avasthi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himcare-2-lakh-availed-cashless-treatment-339039
17-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Mandi Municipal Corporation to revive natural water sources||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 16The Mandi Municipal Corporation is planning to revive natural water resources in all 15 wards.The MC has asked the Jal Shakti Department to conduct a survey to identify the water bodies. An estimate of the restoration cost has been sought from the department by the MC authorities.According to residents of Mandi, there are natural water sources in almost every ward, which are dying due to their poor upkeep. A few years ago, the residents used to fetch water from these.But when the water supply reached every house, the importance of the natural water sources reduced, they said.The residents complained that at many places due to seepage from sewage lines, water of the resources had become contaminated. There is need to revive these sources.Virender Bhatt, Deputy Mayor told The Tribune, “There is a plan to revive all natural water sources soon. The department has been engaged to identify such resources.”XEN, Jal Shakti Department, Vivek Hazri said, “As many as 114 natural water sources have been identified. We are preparing the estimated cost of this project. The MC will bear the expenditure of this project.”Poor upkeep to blame||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-municipal-corporation-to-revive-natural-water-sources-339040
17-11-2021||---||Dharamsala residents hold protest march, seek CUHP campus||Dharamsala, November 16Residents of Dharamsala today carried out a protest march in the city and demanded that the CUHP campus should be brought in the Jadrangal area of Dharamsala.The protesters alleged that the government was failing to transfer the land proposed at the CUHP campus in Dharamsala in the name of institute whereas the land at Dehra has already been transferred. It was a deliberate attempt on the part of government to raise the campus of CUHP at Dehra and not at Dharamsala.The protesters alleged that the CUHP was initially proposed to be brought up in Dharamsala. However, now it seems that politics was being played to shift it to Dehra area.The protesters said that the most of the university staff and students also want that CUHP campus should come up in Dharamsala. The protesters threatened to intensify agitation in case CUHP campus was not brought up at Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-residents-hold-protest-march-seek-cuhp-campus-339041
17-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister inaugurates boat race contest in Chamba||Dalhousie, November 16Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said that keeping in view immense infrastructural resources here, steps would be taken to promote water sports activities. He stated this while inaugurating a four-day Himalayan Ghoral 9th National Dragon Boat Race Championship 2021 at Taleru boating point of the Chamera lake near Dalhousie in Chamba district on Monday. By organising such adventure sports activities in the state, tourism business would also get a boost, he maintained.The championship was being organised as part of ‘’Chalo Chamba’’ campaign launched in the district. The minister assured those present that necessary funds would be provided for organising various competitions throughout the year. Pathania appreciated the work done by the district administration and Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association (IKCA) in organising the event. He also congratulated all participants and wished them luck for their future.He said the Chamba district was famous for its historic art and culture and organising such adventure sports activities would go a long way in generating income for the artistes and craftspersons engaged in tourism business.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana welcomed Pathania and felicitated him.Around 800 participants drawn from 18 states are participating in the four-day competition. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur would be the chief guest at the closing ceremony of the championship on November 18, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-inaugurates-boat-race-contest-in-chamba-339042
17-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Residents protest garbage burning by Palampur Municipal Corporation||Palampur, November 16The residents of upper areas of Palampur, including Awarana, SSB Chowk, Neugal park and Differpatt, yesterday lodged a protest over the burning of garbage by the Municipal Corporation at its waste treatment plant at Aima village, situated 2 km from the town.The Aima village panchayat was earlier running the garbage treatment plant and it was declared as one of the best plants in the state. Hundreds of panchayat representatives from all over the state had visited it. Aima panchayat had won several awards for successful installation of the first treatment plant in a rural area.However, after its formation, the MC took over the plant in January this year. Since then the situation has worsened in the absence of skilled workers and technical know-how. In the past nine months, the plant has not functioned properly for even a day and garbage burning has become a routine here.The plant has become a health hazard, particularly for aged people and those residing nearby. Large dumps of garbage can be seen burning everyday, emitting a foul smell and harmful gases. A thick cover of pollution can be seen in the area. Despite repeated requests by the residents, the municipal authorities have taken no measures to address the problem. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a complete ban on garbage burning.When asked, Vinay Dhiman, Municipal Commissioner, said that adequate measures were being taken to address the issue. He said that because of manpower shortage the corporation was facing problems in managing the plant.He said the Aima plant had the capacity to treat garbage of three panchayats but after the formation of the MC, 15 panchayats were included. Therefore, the plant was unable to treat the garbage of 15 wards. He added that he had requested the state government for funds for the purchase of a new unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-protest-garbage-burning-by-palampur-municipal-corporation-339043
17-11-2021||---||Ice skating to start soon in Shimla, rink shorter this time||Shimla, November 16Skaters will have a little less space at the Shimla Ice Skating Rink this season, thanks to the on-going construction work for a lift right at the entrance of the century-old club.“We will roughly have around 10 per cent less space for skating this season. Once the construction work is over, the rink will get the space back and skaters will have the entire ground for skating,” said Pankaj Prabhakar, an official of the Shimla Ice Skating Club.A lift is being constructed through Shimla Smart City Mission from Lakkar Bazaar, where the skating rink is located to the Mall Road. As and when this is completed, commuters will have the option to skip the walk up the steep incline and instead take the lift. Until it’s completed, the around 300 skaters at the club will have to make do with slightly less space.While the club is not too worried about the loss of space, the water seeping into the rink is a matter of concern for them. “A large portion has become a little moist because of the seepage. This could cause some problem in preparing a sheet of ice,” said Prabhakar.The club is planning to start skating towards the end of this month. “If the temperature stays what it is these days or drops down further, we expect to start skating by month end. The facilities offered include ice hockey, speed skating and figure skating,” the official said.Generally, the rink is functional for two months, in December and January. “Last year we continued till February 7 and conducted 86 sessions. This year we are hoping to provide more session to the skating enthusiasts,” said Prabhakar.Apart from the construction work, the other source of disturbance to the club could be the dilapidated Rivoli building that’s located right above the rink. The MC has already issued its demolition orders. If the building collapses on its own, the club’s card house can sustain some damage.Water seeping a concern||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ice-skating-to-start-soon-in-shimla-rink-shorter-this-time-339044
17-11-2021||Shimla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in Shimla||Governor of HP Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar accords a warm welcome to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on his arrival at Raj Bhavan, Shimla, on Tuesday. The Speaker will attend the Presiding Officers’ Conference being organised in the Vidhan Sabha from November 16-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-in-shimla-339045
17-11-2021||Dharamsala||Crackdown against pornography: CBI raids hotels in Himachal||CBI teams today raided hotels in McLeodganj, Shimla and Manali as a part of the nationalwide crackdown against pornography. Sources told The Tribune that in McLeodganj raid was conducted at a famous restaurant and pub.Police officials were tightlipped about the raids. The sources said the CBI teams did not inform the police about the motive or seizure in the raids. The CBI teams also did not provide any information to the media about the raids. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crackdown-against-pornography-cbi-raids-hotels-in-himachal-339046
17-11-2021||---||BJP to deliberate on Himachal bypoll debacle at Nov 24 meeting||Shimla, November 16After much delay, the state BJP core group meeting will take place here on November 24 in which the saffron party will ponder over the reasons for the by-poll debacle in Mandi and three Assembly segments.Besides the crucial core group meeting, the BJP state executive meeting will be held here on November 24, 25 and 26. The report from the entire state on the performance of the party in each segment represented by ministers and MLAs has already been collected.Besides, the party could take a decision on initiating disciplinary action against those who worked against the party’s official candidate, resulting in the BJP losing Mandi Lok Sabha as well all three Assembly segments of Arki in Solan, Fatehpur in Kangra and Jubbal-Kotkhai in Shimla district.The meeting will be presided over by national BJP vice-president Saudan Singh and all senior leaders, including state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former Chief Ministers Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar and Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, will take part in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-deliberate-on-himachal-bypoll-debacle-at-nov-24-meeting-339047
17-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||4-year girl paraglides from Himachal's Billing, pilot faces action||Palampur, November 16In blatant violation of paragliding guidelines, a four-year-old girl flew from Billing in a tandem flight and landed at the Chogan site yesterday.Inyati Gupta of Pathankot stunned everybody by flying in high Dhauladhars for more than half an hour and later landing safely at the Chogan site. She was accompanied to Billing by her parents Radhika and Arjun Gupta. The parents said that the child insisted on flying in a paraglider and they took the risk.As per the rules, only children above eight years of age can fly in tandem and to date no underage child has ever taken a paraglider flight from Billing.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that the local authorities had termed the pilot’s decision to allow the four-year-old girl to fly with him as a ‘major blunder’. It was very risky as the girl child could have collapsed in the air. The pilot should not have agreed to the request of her parents to fly with a very small child.Salem Aazam, SDM, Baijnath said action would be taken against the pilot and a show cause notice was being issued to him. He would also write to the Tourism Department to cancel his licence.He said that the pilot ignored the safety guidelines issued by the state government and virtually played with the life of the tourist. He added that it was an admitted fact that tourists are not well conversant with the rules but the pilot are made aware of proper safety guidelines from time to time by the government and they are bound to follow them.Ran Vijay Singh, a paragliding supervisor, said that as per the rules, a child above eight years with a bodyweight of 25 kg was allowed to fly in tandem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-year-girl-paraglides-from-himachals-billing-pilot-faces-action-339048
17-11-2021||---||Himachal crosses 1-crore Covid dose mark||Shimla, November 16Himachal achieved another milestone in Covid vaccination today as the number of doses administered crossed the one-crore mark. Around 57.5 lakh have been given the first dose, while over 42 lakh the second dose.While Himachal was the first state to claim 100 per cent inoculation of its eligible population with the first dose, it continues to be among the leading states in providing second dose as well. Nearly 75 per cent eligible population has been administered the second dose as well.The state is aiming to administer both doses to the entire eligible population by November 30. To achieve the target, the govt has started the Har Ghar Dastak campaign for speedy coverage of doses.A government spokesperson said to accelerate and sustain the momentum of vaccination through the campaign, all districts have prepared a list of all eligible beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-crosses-1-crore-covid-dose-mark-339049
17-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Digging for multiplex, parking lot creates cracks in buildings in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 16Deep excavation done for the construction of a parking lot and a multiplex building has created cracks in nearby buildings and on a road in the middle of Mandi town.Today, a delegation of the Citizen Council met Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhari and urged him to engage a government agency to monitor the project work on a daily basis to avoid danger to the lives of people.The project has been courting controversy since the beginning when its contractor demolished a government primary school building at the U block of the town for the purpose. Mandi residents are opposing the government decision to construct a multiplex building and a parking lot in the area.Laxmender Gularia, president of the Himachal Bachao Sangharsh Morcha, said, “Excavation for the project is being done unscientifically, posing a serious threat to nearby buildings. The district administration should take action against the contractor”.OP Kapoor, president of Citizen Council Mandi, said that at present, private agencies were executing two projects in the town. However, no state agency was monitoring these public works, which could endanger the lives of people and government and private property”.“Cracks have developed on the road leading to DIET, institute building and nearby buildings. Deep excavation has been done for the multiplex building and the parking lot without any support to embankments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/digging-for-multiplex-parking-lot-creates-cracks-in-buildings-in-mandi-339050
17-11-2021||---||Rs 1,010 cr phase-II of crop diversification project launched in Himachal||Dharamsala, November 16Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today presided over the launching ceremony of Rs 1,010.60 crore phase-II of the HP Crop Diversification Promotion Project (HPCDP) supported by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) at Dharamsala.He said that the government was committed to the development of rural areas as more than 90 per cent of the total population of the state lives in villages and about 70 per cent of the population was dependent on the agriculture sector for livelihood. Despite limited financial resources and the slowdown due to the pandemic, the government had launched various new schemes to promote irrigation, agriculture, horticulture, forestry and allied sectors, besides ensuring all-round and equitable development of the state, he added.The Chief Minister said that the main objective of the project was to disseminate a successful model of crop diversification and increase the area under vegetable cultivation in the project area from 2,500 hectares to 7,000 hectares by 2031. He added that the government was mobilising funds from all possible sources, including the Central Government, external funding agencies like the JICA, World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.He said that there was a huge potential for the cultivation of off-season vegetables in the region. The state government had created a strong network of market yards to ensure remunerative prices to the farmers, but still a lot more was required to be done so that farmers could have an easy access to markets for marketing their products and getting better prices.He honoured progressive farmers Ram Singh, Yangesh Kumar, Kishori Lal, Sandla Devi, Sohan Lal, Baldev Singh, Promila Devi, Summu Kumar, Purnima Kumari, Dulash Thakur and Hoshiyar Singh for making outstanding achievements under the JICA project.Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar said that due to the hilly topography, the area suitable for cultivation was less, thus greater stress must be laid on crop diversification to increase farmers’ income. He added that the new phase of the HPCDP would have the JICA loan component of Rs 807.30 crore while the state’s share would be Rs 203.30 crore.Saito Mitsunori, guest of honour at the dedication ceremony and chief representative of the JICA-India, said that the project aimed at sustainable and climate resilient agriculture development.To boost socio-economic status of farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-1-010-cr-phase-ii-of-crop-diversification-project-launched-in-himachal-339051
17-11-2021||Shimla||129 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal||As many as 129 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 226,022. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest 49 cases were recorded in Kangra, followed by 18 in Hamirpur, 19 in Una, 15 in Shimla and 10 in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/129-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-339052
17-11-2021||---||Covid-19: At 1.7%, Himachal Pradesh positivity rate more than nation’s||Shimla, November 16With the positivity rate of 1.7 per cent over the past one week, the Covid situation in the state still remains worrisome with Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi districts being the worst affected.Kangra and Hamirpur districts had a positivity rate of higher than 3 per cent between November 8 and 16. The positivity rate at the national level today was 0.9 per cent, which is almost half of that in Himachal. A total of 878 new Covid cases, besides 36 deaths, have been reported across the state during the period, which is quite high.The health authorities urged people to exercise precaution and strictly adhere to social-distancing norms and Covid guidelines.The worst-hit Kangra district reported 307 Covid cases in the past one week and an exceptionally high positivity rate of 3.3 per cent, besides 17 deaths. Hamirpur district had a positivity rate of 3.4 per cent, besides seven deaths.Mandi, with a positivity rate of 2.4 per cent, reported four Covid-related deaths. Shimla reported a positivity rate of 1.5 per cent, followed by 1.4 per cent in Una.Even though the government has decided to open schools even for the junior classes, the Education Department is closely monitoring the situation. Prior to Diwali also, the government decided to close down schools for one week to be able to break the transmission chain as a large number of teachers and students had tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-at-1-7-himachal-pradesh-positivity-rate-more-than-nations-339053
