20-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal Kisan Sabha calls it historic victory||Terming the PM’s announcement on repeal of three farm laws a historic victory, the Himachal Kisan Sabha said the protest would end only after the laws were repealed through the parliamentary process. Addressing the media here today, CPM leader and ex-secretary of sabha Rakesh Singha said the government left no stone unturned to defame the protesters.Kuldeep Tanwar, president, Himachal Kisan Sabha, said there were many state-specific issues for which farmers need to struggle. “Farmers are not getting MSP here, there are no mandis to buy grains, no MSP for vegetables, no MIS for apple on the lines of J&K,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-kisan-sabha-calls-it-historic-victory-340504
20-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Now, mining mafia active in Palampur, Jaisinghpur forests||Palampur, November 19The mining mafia is carrying out illegal activity relentlessly. It has not even spared forestland in Jaisinghpur and Palampur of Kangra district. As little material is left in the leased areas of rivers and rivulets, the mafia is now extracting sand and stones from the reserved forests in board daylight.The Forest Department is aware of the situation but has not acted against the culprits. Green forests, as a result, are under threat in these two subdivisions. A number of tractor-trailers transporting mined material can be seen often. In Bandhau and Bairghatta villages, deep trenches have been dug to extract sand, stones and gravel from forests adjoining Mol Khud.Villagers say that they have been opposing illegal mining, but there has been no decline in the activity. They had also approached the mining, police, and forest departments but no action had been taken against the mafia.As a result, a number of natural water resources are drying up, the water level in local rivulets has gone down, rivers are facing the problem of soil erosion leading to floods and fertile land has gone barren.Mol Khud passing through these villages has emerged as the biggest centre of illegal mining where several tippers and tractors can be seen extracting material from riverbed and the forestland. The mining mafia has also constructed roads through forest and government land to reach the sites.The state forest, police and mining departments have failed to enforce the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the government to earmark the areas allotted for mining with flags so that illegal activity could be curbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-mining-mafia-active-in-palampur-jaisinghpur-forests-340505
20-11-2021||---||51 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, November 19As many as 51 Covid cases were reported in the state on Friday, taking the tally to 226,264. Besides, two persons succumbed to the virus, one each in Kangra and Hamirpur.The highest number of 26 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by six in Hamirpur, five each in Bilaspur and Mandi, four in Solan, two each in Una and Shimla and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases declined to 1,051.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/51-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-340512
20-11-2021||Mandi||Despite vigil, cannabis cultivation goes on in Kullu||Despite strict vigil, illegal cultivation of cannabis is continuing unabated in Kullu district. As police have tightened the noose, growers have shifted their base to the higher reaches of the district.Charas produced at Banjar, Kullu, Manali, Anni and Nirmand is known as Malana cream and is in huge demand in national and international markets. Data shows that the seizure of charas in the district is growing every year. Last year, the police had recovered 169.7 kg charas, while the seizure has already reached 263.4 kg this year.Kullu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said, “The police are maintaining a close vigil on the offenders in the district and efforts are on to nab them. As many as 184 cases have been registered under the NDPS Act this year and 277 persons arrested with charas and other synthetic drugs.”“The police have seized 263.4 kg charas, 7.3 kg heroin, 3.3 kg opium, 296.4 kg ganja and 35 LSD papers this year. Surprise raids were conducted and nakas were laid at key entry points of the district,” he said. As many as 1,10,872 cannabis plants were destroyed this year in different parts of the district, Sharma added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-vigil-cannabis-cultivation-goes-on-in-kullu-340514
20-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Not many schoolchildren miss out on online learning in rural Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 19Not many schoolchildren seem to have missed out on online learning, due to lack of smartphones during the pandemic in the rural Himachal. As per the Annual Status of Education Report (rural), 2021, as many as 95.6 per cent of households it surveyed had access to smartphones in 2021 and 90 per cent had it in 2020. At the national level, the smartphone ownership number stands at 67.6 per cent, much lower as compared to Himachal Pradesh.Donate a device initiativeWe ran an initiative ‘Donate a digital device’, which evoked a good response. Our deputy directors and principals donated smartphones to needy children. —Amarjeet Sharma, Director, Higher educationWith smartphones becoming the primary source of teaching and learning during the pandemic, their ownership and accessibility saw a remarkable jump in the state. From 58 per cent ownership in 2018, the number shot up to an astounding 90 per cent in 2020, and 95.6 per cent this year. “We ran an initiative ‘Donate a digital device’, which evoked a good response. Also, our deputy directors and principals donated smartphones to the needy children. Such initiatives by the Education Department and the government ensured online learning was affected in the least because of the lack of smartphones,” said Amarjeet Sharma, Director, Higher Education.“There is some connectivity issue in far-flung and urban areas, which hampered online studies. We are talking to service providers to fix this problem as well,” he said.The other parameter that registered a massive jump is the number of children taking private tuitions. The number has almost doubled in the last three years in rural Himachal, from 7.9 per cent in 2018 to 14.7 per cent in 2021. Nationally, the rise has been from 30 per cent to 40 per cent. “This spike is Covid-related. The online classes must have left some parents anxious about the progress their child was making. They probably feel more reassured when the teacher is present physically to teach their child,” said Sharma.As for enrolment in schools, the state continues to do well. The survey found out that 99.4 per cent children are enrolled in schools. At the national level, the proportion of children not enrolled in schools is 4.6 per cent. Also, almost all children in the state have textbooks for their classes.Even as the survey recorded a shift from private to government schools at the national level, the state appears to have bucked the trend. The state has witnessed a marginal increase in enrolment in government schools from 58.6 per cent in 2018 to 60.9 per cent in 2021. Nationally, the survey recorded a substantial decrease in the enrolment in private schools, from 32.5 per cent in 2018 to 24.4 per cent this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-many-schoolchildren-miss-out-on-online-learning-in-rural-himachal-340520
20-11-2021||Shimla||Leopard trapped in Shimla's Kanlog, whether it killed 2 kids not known||The wildlife wing of the Forest Department managed to trap a leopard in the Kanlog area late last night.The department and the government were under pressure from locals to capture the leopard suspected to have become a man-eater after two children were killed in Kanlog and Downdale localities. However, it is not known whether it is the same leopard that had killed two small children recently.Forest officials said that the leopard was trapped around 8.30 pm. The field staff immediately informed the higher authorities, which sent teams to tranquilise the leopard before shifting it to the Rescue Centre at Tutikandi.On August 6, a leopard killed a five-year-old daughter of a labourer in the Kanlog area. Her remains were found in a nullah in the forest, close to her hutment. Again on Diwali night, a five-year-old boy was mauled to death in the Downdale locality. The wildlife wing installed trap cameras in Kanlog, Downdale, Phagli, Ramnagar and Tutikandi areas. The field staff traced the presence of five leopards, including a female with three cubs, being on the prowl.Fear gripped people in the city, especially in Kanlog and Downdale areas, after leopards killed dogs and were frequently sighted in the trap cameras fixed in the area to monitor their movement.It is normal for leopards to venture into lower areas, close to their habitations in the winters in search of prey, be it a dog or cattle but the death of two children sparked angry protests by locals. People, who staged demonstrations, demanded the animals to be captured to make their lives secure. In fact, people had stopped venturing out late in the evening and early morning, especially in areas with vast forests and open spaces. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-trapped-in-shimlas-kanlog-whether-it-killed-2-kids-not-known-340521
20-11-2021||---||Reduce retirement age of docs to 58, says IGMC assn||Shimla, November 19The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, has urged the government to reduce the retirement age of doctors to 58 or 60 years. It fears that MBBS pass-outs will struggle to find jobs in the state. The retirement age of the faculty in medical colleges in Shimla and Tanda is 62 years, while it’s 65 years in other medical colleges. Recently, the retirement age of the super specialty faculty was increased to 65 years. For the GDO cadre, the retirement age is 60 years.“Walk-in interviews for the placement of MBBS doctors have not been held for the past three months. Also, we doubt there will be campus placements in medical colleges this year,” said the RDA. “In view of the situation, the government should reduce the retirement age of doctors, which was raised a few years ago to tide over the shortage of doctors when new medical colleges were started,” it said.Double the strengthWe have a cadre strength of around 2,400 doctors. It needs to be at least doubled to accommodate doctors coming out of our medical colleges. —Dr Pushpender Verma, HMOA SecyThe Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) supported the the views of the RDA. It said the enhanced retirement age was not only keeping young doctors waiting but also blocking the promotion of those already in the job. “If an individual continues to hold a regular post up to the age of 62 and 65, or even beyond that if he gets extension in service, he is denying the young and eligible doctors working in peripheral hospitals an opportunity to get into a medical college as Assistant Professor,” said Dr Pushpender Verma, secretary, HMOA.He also reiterated that the retirement age should be reduced to 58 years for every doctor and this should be done immediately in case of administrative posts. “If the government needs the services of any doctor, he or she can be re-employed on a contractual basis. Why extend the retirement age and create problems for young MBBS pass-outs and those already in the service,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reduce-retirement-age-of-docs-to-58-says-igmc-assn-340522
20-11-2021||---||5 ‘Una Super 50’ students make it to NIT||Dharamsala, November 19The ‘Una Super 50’ programme launched by the district administration for the underprivileged students of government schools in rural areas has started yielding results.Kangra DC Raghav Sharma said this year, five students, who had been coached under the Una Super 50 programme, had made it to the NIT, Hamirpur. Three more students from the group were also likely to make it to the institute, he said.The DC said the urban and higher income group students could easily afford coaching for competitive examinations, but for rural students, getting selected in IITs or NITS was an uphill task. The lack of quality coaching and guidance was a major hindrance for them, he said. The programme was modelled in Una after the ‘Super 30’ programme was started in Bihar to provide coaching to 30 meritorious students, he said.The district administration formed a society, District Sports Cultural Association in 2019. Funds worth Rs 20 lakh were given by the Zila Parishad for the programme. During the first year, the education partner was selected. A competition was organised, so that the best coaching institutes could be included in the programme as knowledge partners.Every year, an entrance test is conducted for the ‘Una Super 50’ programme. The test is publicised to ensure maximum participation from the students, who have passed Class X and are eligible for the programme. Top 50 performers in the test are selected for the two-year coaching programme. The DC said based on ranking in the examination, students are given coaching by a team of teachers arranged by the service provider.After two years of coaching, the students are guided for applying in the IIT-main entrance examination. From the next academic year, coaching will also be provided to rural students for the NEET examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-una-super-50-students-make-it-to-nit-340523
20-11-2021||Hamirpur||NIT, HPUIT  to hold joint research activities||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Hamirpur, and the Himachal Pradesh University Institute of Technology (HPUIT) will carry out joint research activities for students. An MoU was signed between the institutes here yesterday by Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT, and Prof PL Sharma, Director, HPUIT.Awasthi said the institutions would provide inputs to each other in teaching, training and research methodology, and suitably customise the curriculum for the benefit of students and faculty. He said the NIT would help the UIT on the proposed matter on chargeable basis.The Director said both institutes would support joint supervision of undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students in the area of common interests and multidisciplinary topics. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-hpuit-to-hold-joint-research-activities-340524
20-11-2021||---||International Renuka Ji fair concludes in Sirmaur district||Solan, November 19Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar said today that the Renuka Ji fair is a manifestation of the reverence and devotion of Lord Parshuram towards his mother Goddess Renuka Ji and it upholds the rich values of Indian society. He was addressing the concluding ceremony of the International fair at Renuka Ji in Sirmaur district today.The Governor said that fairs and festivals are symbols of the rich cultural heritage of the state and should be preserved at all costs. “A glimpse of rich traditions could be seen in such festivals, which also go a long way in strengthening the bonds of brotherhood and unity. Celebrating these festivals makes the young generation aware of our glorious culture.”He congratulated the citizens for the successful organisation of the fair and said that Goddess Renuka Ji has its own religious sanctity and people from within and outside the state visit the place to pay their obeisance. “The place has high potential for tourist activity and attracts thousands of tourists every year, especially during the fair.”The Governor visited the exhibitions put up by various government departments and organisations at the fair and evinced keen interest in the exhibits. He also gave away prizes to the winners of exhibitions.He performed pooja in Lord Parshuram Ji and Mata Renuka Ji temples and also participated in the ‘Dev Vidai’ procession.Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner (DC) and chairman, Shri Renukaji Development Board, Ram Kumar Gautam welcomed the Governor at the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/international-renuka-ji-fair-concludes-in-sirmaur-district-340525
20-11-2021||Our Correspondent||30 khair logs seized in Nurpur, one held||Nurpur, November 19A patrolling team of the Forest Department intercepted a tractor-trolley and seized 30 logs of khair trees from it near the Sukha nullah in Kulahan gram panchayat of Nurpur last night.According to information, the team comprising forest guards seized khair logs stolen from a nearby forest by axing four trees. On seeing the patrolling team, three persons, who had axed the trees, fled with their saws. However, tractor driver Ankush Sharma, a resident of Panjara village, was nabbed.According to Vikalap Yadav, Divisional Forest Officer, Nurpur, the department handed over the driver to the police. A case under Section 379 of the IPC and Sections 41 and 42 of the Indian Forest Act had been registered. The police also impounded the tractor-trolley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/30-khair-logs-seized-in-nurpur-one-held-340526
20-11-2021||As many as 17 students of Adhayanam Study Hub have cleared the written test of the JE (Electrical) conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Service Selection Commission. Rajneesh Thakur||17 Adhayanam Hub kids clear JE test||Group Commander inspects NCC campBrig Manoj Khandurie, Group Commander, NCC Group Headquarters, Shimla, inspected the Annual Training Camp being conducted by 7 HP (l) Coy NCC, Shimla, at GSSS, Shoghi in Shimla, on Thursday. As many as 190 NCC cadets, including 97 girls, of the NCC Army Wing from various colleges are attending the 10-day camp, which commenced on November 15. Col Suneet Shankta, Camp Commandant, briefed the visiting officer about various training activities such as drills, weapon training, map reading, battle craft, firing, communication skills and cultural activities being imparted to the cadets. Brig Khandurie complimented the cadets and the ANOs participating in the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-adhayanam-hub-kids-clear-je-test-340527
20-11-2021||The lift that operates from the Cart Road to the Mall Road remains overcrowded these days. It is often packed to capacity||Overcrowded lift in Shimla||Make streetlights functional The Municipal Corporation should ensure that streetlights in Shimla city, especially in areas close to forests, are functional. Many people go home late in the evening and have to cross areas close to the forests. With leopards on the prowl in the city, it's the least the authorities can do to provide some assurance to fear-stricken people. — Yatin Sood, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overcrowded-lift-in-shimla-340528
20-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal CM inaugurates phase 2 of Rs 25-cr coop project in Una||UNA, NOVEMBER 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today formally launched the second phase of the Integrated Cooperative Development Project (ICDP) for Una district. The National Cooperative Development Corporation has sanctioned Rs 25 crore for the second phase.Jai Ram unveiled the plaques of 48 development works during a common stone-laying ceremony at Mehatpur Basdehra Nagar panchayat in the Una Assembly segment.Govt looking for suitable job for Nishad: ThakurBesides the ICDP, other major projects include a rainwater drainage scheme for Una city at a cost of Rs 22.4 crore and a sewerage for Mehatpur-Basdehra nagar panchayat on which a Rs 12 crore would be spent.Addressing a public gathering at the same venue, the Chief Minister said in the past four years, the actual working tenure of the state government should be considered two years since the remaining time was spoiled by the Covid pandemic. However, he said even during those difficult times, his government stood by the people.Countering the Opposition’s allegations of non-performance, the Chief Minister said during the 50 years of Congress rule in the state, there were only two oxygen plants and 50 ventilators, of which half were non-functional. Today, he said the state has 32 oxygen plants and 900 ventilators. He spelt out a list of major works done during his tenure as Chief Minister, adding that his government had worked honestly for all sections of the society.Thakur vowed to ensure the BJP’s victory in the forthcoming Assembly elections. Taking on the Opposition, he said that the Congress had at least one candidate in every district for the post of the Chief Minister. “It is a divided lot,” he added.Thakur, who was in Una to preside over the closing function of the Cooperative Week celebrations organized at Mehatpur-Basdehra, said the first cooperative society in the country was registered in 1892 in Panjawar village of Una district where a group of farmers had organized themselves to protect their agriculture land from the floods in Swan river.Thakur said that at present, 4,847 cooperative societies were functioning in the state, having a total membership of over 17 lakhs and a share capital of Rs 490 crores. The working capital of these societies was 42,863 crores, he said, which was not trivial for a small state like Himachal Pradesh. He, however, said there was a lot of scope for improvement in the cooperative sector.Cooperatives and Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Agriculture minister Virender Kanwar, chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti, HIMUDA vice chairman Parveen Sharma, DC Raghav Sharma and SP Arijit Sen Thakur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-inaugurates-phase-2-of-rs-25-cr-coop-project-in-una-340494
20-11-2021||---||Congress forced Central govt to repeal farm laws, says Rajeev Shukla||Shimla, November 19Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Rajeev Shukla today said that the Congress and other opposition parties together compelled the Central Government to repeal the three farm laws and reduce petrol and diesel prices.Shukla was here to launch the membership drive of the party. He said that the BJP finally gave in to criticism by the Opposition and farmers. “If the government were to take back the farm laws, it could have done it much earlier rather than waiting for so many farmers to lose their lives,” he added after paying floral tributes to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her birth anniversary on The Ridge.Shukla said that it was the BJP’s comprehensive defeat in the Himachal byelections that forced the Central Government to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel. State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore, CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, party legislators and office-bearers were present on the occasion.Shukla gave the credit for the Congress victory in the four byelections to the hard work done by the party leaders and workers. “This victory is the result of complete unity among the party leaders and workers. There is no doubt that the Congress will return to power in Himachal in the next Assembly elections,” he said.Shukla also launched the membership drive. He urged all party leaders to put up a united show and take on the BJP to win the 2022 Assembly elections.Agnihotri said that in a democracy nobody could behave in a dictatorial manner and go against the wishes of people. “The Congress victory in the Himachal byelections is like the first dose and the second dose will be administered after the Assembly elections next year,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-forced-central-govt-to-repeal-farm-laws-says-rajeev-shukla-340496
20-11-2021||Chamba||NITI Aayog extends Rs 2-cr aid to Chamba district||Under the ‘Transformation of Aspirational Districts’ programme, the NITI Aayog has recently given a financial assistance award of Rs 2 crore to Chamba district. This amount would be spent for improving health facilities.There are 112 districts in the country that are part of the NITI Aayog’s programme. The initiative aims to transform 112 most underdeveloped districts.Disclosing this here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said Chamba district had achieved the sixth position among the aspirational districts of the country because of its works on the standard points prescribed.A composite index had been prepared under the programme, on the basis of transparent parameters including poverty, education status and infrastructure. The objective of the programme is to ensure overall development, he said.The district had received financial assistance of Rs 6 crore on the basis of parameters set for development in health and nutrition and infrastructure sectors of this programme in the past two years, Rana stated.“The district achieved success with the cooperation of the district officials, field staff and local people,” the DC added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/niti-aayog-extends-rs-2-cr-aid-to-chamba-district-340498
20-11-2021||Dharamsala||Consider MSP for other crops: Congress leader Viplove Thakur||Former Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Viplove Thakur has termed the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw three farm laws as a victory of the peaceful protest by farmers of the country. She said the Centre should also consider giving the MSP on crops other than wheat and paddy.Viplove said the farmers’ agitation that had been going on for the past one year illustrated that the Gandhian path of ‘satyagraha’ (peaceful protest) was still the most powerful method against a totalitarian government. However, it was sad that the Centre decided to withdraw the laws after more that 700 farmers lost their lives in the agitation.She said the government should now consider the demand of MSP on other crops as well, besides wheat and paddy. “The MSP as a legal guarantee will help the apple farmers of Himachal. This year, the apple farmers have suffered losses. The paddy farmers of the state also suffered huge losses as Punjab did not let them sell their produce in its mandis and the FCI closed its centres just after the byelections,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/consider-msp-for-other-crops-congress-leader-viplove-thakur-340502
