21-11-2021||Shimla||Bypoll defeat was 'timely alert', should not be seen as govt's final assessment: Himachal CM Jairam Thakur||Describing its defeat in the Himachal Pradesh bypolls as a "timely alert" for the BJP, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur has said it should not be seen as the final assessment of his government, suggesting that the party was let down by "overconfidence".In the recently held bypolls in the state, the BJP lost in the Arki, Fatehpur and the Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats, and also in the Lok Sabha seat in Mandi. In the 2019 general election, the party had won Mandi with a comfortable margin.Thakur said there were several reasons behind the party's defeat in these bypolls, for which a deeper analysis is required."There could be various reasons for this defeat, but there was overconfidence in the rank and file of the party which cost us heavily in these elections. But it was a timely alert for us just a year before the assembly polls, and now, we will gear up and work hard to win," Thakur told PTI in an interview.On speculation of a possible leadership change in the state government, Thakur said he had been hearing such rumours since the very beginning of his tenure."I have been hearing rumours and speculation of changing the chief minister in Himachal Pradesh from the very beginning. But one thing I can say with confidence is that manipulations don't work in the BJP, especially under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. So far, we had won all bypolls in the state, and this bypoll result should not be seen as the final assessment of my government," he added.On the bypoll results, Thakur said the BJP lost the Mandi Lok Sabha seat by a thin margin. The Congress had fielded Pratibha Singh, wife of the former chief minister late Virbhadra Singh, and she gained advantage from sympathy, he added.This sympathy for Singh worked for the Congress in the other three seats as well, Thakur said.On the BJP losing its deposit in the Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seat, Thakur said the local leadership wanted the son of the late MLA to contest from the seat and the party's local unit of that assembly segment had already started campaigning for him."But the BJP's central leadership took a principled decision not to field a family member of any politician in the bypolls. As a result, another candidate was given the ticket, and the son of the late MLA contested as an Independent, which impacted the party's performance," he said.Talking about the upcoming assembly elections, Thakur said the BJP had a strong cadre base and he would go around the state to inject fresh energy in them. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypoll-defeat-was-timely-alert-should-not-be-seen-as-govts-final-assessment-himachal-cm-jairam-thakur-341068
21-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal Police ranked first among northern states, ninth overall in Smart policing survey||Ranked first among northern states, the Himachal Pradesh Police have secured 9th place in the country and in the Smart Policing Survey- 2021 conducted by Indian Police Foundation (IPF) on the Index of Public Perceptions and Citizen Satisfaction.The state was ninth in the country among 29 states and Union Territories (UT) with 6.91 points leaving 20 states/UTs behind.The Consolidated SMART Policing Index (CSPI) for each State/UT is based on their aggregate scores in the 6 Competence-based indices, 3 Values-based indices and thrust on the Index of Citizens’ Trust in Police.The survey pointed out that petty corruption, venality, and sometimes open extortion of money by some policepersons have been the largest subjects of adverse comments and perceptions of corruption, resulting in tremendous impairment of police image and trust.The quality of policing was highest in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Assam, Kerala, and Sikkim, levels of popular satisfaction in Mizoram and Gujarat have an index value of 7 or above, and 19 states/UTs, including Himachal, scored an index value between 6 and 7, while three states scored between 5 and 6. Himachal is also working hard on all the attributes which inter-alia includes, sensibility, accessibility, strictness, and good behaviour, integrity, lawful policing and trust to further improve our ranking”, said DGP Sanjay Kundu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-ranked-first-among-northern-states-ninth-overall-in-smart-policing-survey-341013
21-11-2021||Mandi||Hot weather football tourney at Paddal Ground, Mandi||The 49th All-India Hot Weather Football Tournament will start at the Paddal Ground here on November 23 and conclude on November 28.Rajender Gupta, general secretary of Tournament Organisation Committee, said, “Eight teams that will take part in the tournament are Tamil Nadu Police, Reserve Bank of India (Bombay), Triumph FC Himachal, YFC Mahilpur (Punjab), Param FC (J&K), DFA Kangra, Bikaner FC (Rajasthan) and Rangers FC”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hot-weather-football-tourney-at-paddal-ground-mandi-340787
21-11-2021||Hamiprur||Sansad Khel Mahakumbh from December 8||The Sansad Khel Mahakumbh will be held from December 8 and registration for the month-long event will be open from November 22 till December 3, said Narender Attri, coordinator of the event initiated by Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Sports and Information and Broadcasting, here yesterday.The winners of the competition would be awarded prizes worth over Rs 50 lakh. In the first phase, the championship would be organised at the constituency level while in the second phase, teams would meet at the district level. The parliamentary constituency-level tournament would be organised in Hamirpur.Attri said that the winners of the cricket championship would be awarded Rs 1 lakh while the runners-up would get a prize of Rs 50,000. The winners of other games would be awarded Rs 51,000 and the runners-up Rs 31,000. Teams from the Hamirpur parliamentary constituency would also participate in the championship, which would include 17 Assembly constituencies spread over Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Una, Mandi and Kangra districts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sansad-khel-mahakumbh-from-december-8-340788
21-11-2021||Chamba||Woman held with 962 gram charas||The police arrested a woman and seized 962 grams of charas from her possession at the Koti bridge in Chamba district on Friday.Chamba SSP Arul Kumar said here today that the police laid a naka at the Koti bridge and stopped a woman walking with a backpack. On seeing the police, she got frightened. On search, 962 grams of charaas was seized from her backpack, he added.The accused, Thakri (52), was arrested and booked under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. Investigation was underway, the SSP said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-held-with-962-gram-charas-340789
21-11-2021||---||Booth-level staff play vital role in democracy: CEO||Shimla, November 20Chief Election Officer (CEO) C. Palrasu inaugurated a one-day training workshop for booth-level workers of the Shimla (Urban) Assembly segment here today.He emphasised the role of booth-level workers in strengthening democracy at the grass-roots level and stimulating democratic values in society.He stressed the importance of training in the digital age and enhancing the practical skills of the booth-level workers to strengthen the democratic structure and increase the polling percentage.Palrasu distributed kits among the booth-level workers and congratulated them for their important and sensitive role in conducting the election process. He also held an interactive session with them and listened to their grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/booth-level-staff-play-vital-role-in-democracy-ceo-340790
21-11-2021||Shimla||80 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 80 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 226,344. Besides, one person died of the virus in Kangra.The highest number of 30 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 21 in Hamirpur, 14 in Una, seven in Shimla, four in Mandi, three in Bilaspur and one in Solan. The number of active cases declined to 1,007.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-340791
21-11-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Built three years ago, Forest Department building still to be opened||Nurpur, November 20A five-storey Interpretation Centre of the Forest Department near the Pong Lake was built at Nagrota Surian over three years ago but the contractor has kept it locked.In 2015, previous Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had laid the foundation stone of the building of the wildlife wing and its construction was to be completed within two years.The Forest Department had awarded the tender for the construction of the building to a Palampur-based contractor at an estimated cost of Rs 1.61 crore. The construction work started in 2016 and was completed in March 2018. Meanwhile, the department sought some deviation in the ongoing construction with an additional cost of Rs 1 crore.The contractor, whose payment of around Rs 92 lakh is pending with the department, has kept the centre locked and hasn’t handed over its possession to the department. As a result, the building is yet to be thrown open even after its completion over three years ago.Tushan Goyal, building contractor, says that the possession of the building will be handed over to the department only after it clears his dues.The Interpretation Centre has been built with a view to promoting tourism activities in the Pong Lake. It comprises a rest house, conference hall, dormitory and a parking lot. The complex has been lying idle for years.Rahul Rohane, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) Hamirpur, says that the contractor is still to complete some works in the building. “Since the contractor has opted for arbitration, the outstanding payment will be released to him only after the decision of the arbitrator,” he said.Contractor yet to hand over possession||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/built-three-years-ago-forest-department-building-still-to-be-opened-340792
21-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Gaggal Airport expansion: Security clearance for bridge awaited||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 20The state government is awaiting security clearance for a bridge over the Manji river for the expansion of the Gaggal airport.Sources say that the report for security clearance of the proposed bridge was sent to the Union Ministry for Civil Aviation in August but no response had been received since then. The river passes through Gaggal where the airport is located.The sources say that the airstrip needs to be expanded from the present length of 1,372 metres to 3,010 metres for the airport expansion. A bridge has been proposed over the river which can handle the weight of bigger planes. Union ministry experts will evaluate whether the bridge will be viable for the expansion of the airport or not.They say that the land acquisition process for airport expansion can only begin after security clearance for the bridge. As per the state government’s proposal, 144 hectares are required, including 120 hectares private land. The remaining 24 hectares is government land, much of which is under the possession of individuals.Deputy Commissioner, Nipun Jindal says the security clearance from the Union ministry is awaited and it is likely to be received soon.Another bottleneck for the expansion of the airport is the non-availability of funds. The Finance Commission had announced Rs 400 crore for the project. However, as per the report prepared by revenue officials of Kangra, about Rs 500 crore would be required for the acquisition of 120 hectares.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during a recent visit to Dharamsala had said that the state government was persuading the Union Government for more funds.The Central Government has listed the Gaggal airport for disinvestment till March 2022. The airport is the busiest airport of the state receiving five flights daily, including four between Dharamsala and Delhi and one between Chandigarh and Delhi.Lack of funds another bottleneck||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gaggal-airport-expansion-security-clearance-for-bridge-awaited-340793
21-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Paddy procurement picks up pace in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 20Paddy procurement by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has increased at nine centres in Una, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur districts. A total of 1,938 metric tonne (MT) of paddy was procured and Rs 35.06 crore was released to the farmers till this evening.Director, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, KC Chaman said that a reminder had been sent to the Central Government to extend the procurement period up to December 30, as a large number of farmers have registered on the portal.The data secured from the FCI reveals that Rs 16.25 crore was paid to 1,423 farmers till this evening while 97 farmers were awaiting payment at three centres at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district. In Solan district, 781 farmers were paid Rs 6.76 crore while payments to 66 farmers were pending.SDM, Paonta Sahib, Vivek Mahajan said that 86,856.9 quintals of paddy was procured from 1,495 farmers till this evening. Three centres were set up at Paonta Sahib, Kala Amb and Johron Pipliwala, where 3,552 quintals of paddy was procured today while 83,305.075 quintals were procured till yesterday.As many as 1,495 farmers have sold their produce to the FCI in Paonta Sahib at the rate of Rs 1,960 per quintal. The maximum paddy (7,779.95 quintals) was procured at the Johro Pipliwala centre till this evening. This was the last centre to be opened in Paonta Sahib subdivision on November 10.As much as 63,178.45 quintals have been procured at the Paonta Sahib centre from 1,059 farmers, and 15,898.5 quintals from 313 farmers at the Kala Amb centre till now.Paddy procurement in Nalagarh subdivision in Solan district has also picked up pace. As much as 36,046.02 quintals of paddy was procured from 1,632 farmers till this evening— 2,1750.65 quintals from 465 farmers at the Nalagarh centre and 14,295.37 quintals from 351 farmers at the Malpur centre, said Nalagarh SDM Mahendra Pal.Initially, crop of 25 farmers lifted per day||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paddy-procurement-picks-up-pace-in-himachal-340794
21-11-2021||---||Reckong Peo gets Rs 77 cr projects||Shimla, November 20Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 31 development projects worth Rs 77 crore at Reckong Peo in Kinnaur district.He also inaugurated the Tribal Dance and Craft Mela, a museum in the memory of late Thakur Sen Negi, former Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, and flagged-off two fire engines. He also announced the upgrade of the community health centre (CHC) at Bhawanagar to a Civil Hospital and the creation of a post of Additional District Magistrate at the district headquarters.He said that the state government was also celebrating 2021 as the golden jubilee year of statehood and the Central Government had provided Rs 30 lakh to organise this mega event. “It is essential to conserve and preserve the rich culture and traditions of the state,” he added.The Chief Minister said that Himachal Pradesh had achieved the target of 100 per cent first dose coverage against Covid-19 and Kinnaur district had become the first district of the country to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination of the second dose.He said that Thakur Sen Negi was not only a great administrator and leader, but also a great champion of the tribal culture. He added that Shyam Saran Negi, who is the first voter of independent India, also hails from the area.Thakur said that he also belongs to a rural hilly area and so understands the development needs of people there. Later, the Chief Minister inaugurated two PSA 250 LPM Oxygen Plants at the Regional Hospital, Reckong Peo. He also inaugurated several projects and laid the foundation stone of new projects and schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reckong-peo-gets-rs-77-cr-projects-340795
21-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Himalayan Monal National Aerofest at Khajjiar from November 26 to 28||Chamba, November 20The Himalayan Monal National Aerofest-2021 will be organised from November 26 to 28 at Khajjiar, a famous tourist destination, in a series of various competitions and activities being organised under the Chalo Chamba campaign.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today held a meeting with the officials concerned and office-bearers of various organisations associated with the three-day event. He said that paragliding, acrobatic paragliding, RC paramotor and RC drone competitions would be organised during the fest.He said that it would be necessary for the participants to provide a Covid-negative report or a certificate of both doses of vaccination 72 hours before the event begins.Rana emphasised on maintaining cleanliness during the event and instructed officials to use eco-friendly material. Khajjiar gram panchayat pradhan Des Raj Sharma said that proper arrangements for cleanliness would be ensured in the entire area.Rana directed the officials to ensure that the equipment and paragliding licences, insurance etc of the participants were duly checked before various competitions. He asked Chamba SDM Naveen Tanwar to constitute a committee for the registration of the participants.He said that rescue teams, ambulances, NDRF and communication teams would be deployed during the event. Traditional cultural programmes would be organised at the venue everyday from 2 pm to 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himalayan-monal-national-aerofest-at-khajjiar-from-november-26-to-28-340796
21-11-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Lockdown in NCR likely to boost tourism in Kullu||Kullu, November 20As Delhi and its neighbouring regions go into partial lockdown because of the rising levels of pollution, stakeholders of the tourism industry are expecting a rise in the tourist influx in Kullu district.Manali hoteliers say tourists can enjoy a wonderful environment in the region and also visit the mighty Rohtang Pass by taking online permits. They can also visit the Lahaul valley through the Atal Tunnel. Travel agents are already offering various packages.Manali Hoteliers Association (MHA) president Mukesh Thakur says that the average occupancy in hotels is around 20 per cent on weekdays and about 30 per cent at weekend. Due to the partial lockdown in the National Capital Region (NCR) because of pollution, the footfall may increase in the region. Also, there are a good number of bookings for the New Year season from December 15 onwards.Stakeholders of the hospitality industry in the Banjar valley say that the number of queries has increased. Aditya Sood, owner of a homestay, says that the tourists can enjoy a pollution-free environment here and visit serene spots, including world heritage The Great Himalayan National Park. Facilities of camping and trekking are also available.In the Parbati valley, the tourist arrival has started gaining pace as the stress of Covid is subsiding. Manikaran Valley Hotel Association president Kishan Thakur says that hoteliers are offering up to 50 per cent discount to attract tourists. There are about 300 hospitality units in the valley. Visitors are enjoying bathing in hot water ponds at Kasol and Manikaran, besides visiting serene spots.The hoteliers, who suffered heavy losses due to Covid-19, are hopeful that their business will gain pace. The occupancy in hotels is expected to improve due to the partial lockdown in the NCR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lockdown-in-ncr-likely-to-boost-tourism-in-kullu-340797
21-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||CT scan machine at Tanda Medical College out of order for 10 months, patients hit||Palampur November 20The CT scan machine at the Tanda Medical College and Hospital (TMC) is out of order for the past 10 months, causing inconvenience to patients. As the TMC is also one of the biggest super-specialty health institutions, teaching and research work has also suffered in the absence of CT scans.During a recent visit to the TMC, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had promised that a new CT scan machine would be operational within a fortnight. However, even after two months, nothing has been done in this regard. The Tribune had also highlighted the issue in April.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that an average of 60-70 patients are being referred daily to private radiology centres for CT scan from the TMC. The state government has not shown interest so far in resolving the genuine issue, despite several complaints lodged by doctors, patients and their attendants. No alternative arrangements have been made to deal with the patients coming to the TMC in emergency for CT scan tests. Taking advantage of the situation, the private centres having CT scan machines are having a field day by fleecing poor patients.Suresh Kumar, a patient’s attendant, told The Tribune at the TMC that he had brought his brother who had suffered compound fractures in his leg in a road accident. Doctors referred him for a CT scan to a private radiology centre at Kangra, he rued.When contacted, a senior doctor working in the TMC said the top brass of the institution was well-versed with the situation since January. A letter was also sent to senior officers informing them about the matter but to no avail, he said.Despite repeated attempts, Secretary, Health, Amitabh Awasthi could not be reached for comment. However, a junior officer claimed the government had already sanctioned a new CT scan machine for the TMC which would be installed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ct-scan-machine-at-tanda-medical-college-out-of-order-for-10-months-patients-hit-340798
21-11-2021||Hamirpur||‘Kisan Vijay Divas’ celebrated in Hamirpur||The District Congress Committee (DCC) organised ‘Kisan Vijay Divas’ here today in view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement yesterday to repeal the three farm laws.Rajender Zar, president of the DCC, said that the farmers of the country remained united against the farm laws, forcing the Central Government to withdraw them. He added that it was unfortunate that the NDA government neither consulted farmers nor held discussions in Parliament before drafting the farm Bills.He said that it was the victory of democracy over autocracy. He added that the DCC was demanding the status of martyrs for farmers, who lost their lives during the agitation.Dar said in the past one year, over 700 farmers had reportedly lost their lives during the farm agitation.He added that actress Kangna Ranaut should be booked for sedition for her remarks against farmers and regarding the independence of the country. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kisan-vijay-divas-celebrated-in-hamirpur-340799
21-11-2021||---||Mandi: Congress workers laud PM’s move to repeal laws||Mandi, November 20Congress workers today appreciated the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws. They gathered here in a large number to celebrate the victory of the farmers, who forced the Central Government to take back the farm laws.Chet Ram Thakur, a local Congress leader, said, “We appreciate the decision of the Prime Minister for deciding to repeal the three farm laws”.Vijay Pal Chauhan, chairperson of the State Congress Intellectual Cell, said, “It is the victory of farmers, who forced the Central Government to review its decision. Over 700 farmers have lost their lives during the struggle to protect their rights.The Prime Minister announced the repeal of the farm laws but it was a delayed decision as a large number of farmers had lost their lives”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-congress-workers-laud-pms-move-to-repeal-laws-340800
21-11-2021||---||Forest staff search for three leopard cubs||Shimla, November 20It is only the forensic laboratory report that can confirm whether the leopardess caught yesterday was the one that had killed two children, but wildlife wing officials are claiming that in all likelihood, it was this female animal that had been on the prowl for the past few days.An adult leopardess was caught yesterday, which had been roaming in forests with her three cubs. Her images had been caught in trap cameras installed in the area. Forest officials said that as the three cubs were barely six months old, they would not be in a position to hunt their food. Hence, they also need to be caught so as to be fed properly. Hence, the field staff have started looking for the three cubs.The forest officials said that the leopardess had been sent to the Rescue Centre at Tutikandi and the samples of the animal’s hair found in the remains of the killed children and on their clothes would be matched to confirm whether she was the man-eater. Only the forensic report could confirm whether this leopardess was the man-eater, they added.Meanwhile, the news of the leopardess being caught has brought relief to local people, who had stopped to go out after the sunset. It is almost after a fortnight that the wildlife officials managed to trap the leopardess.On August 6, the five-year-old daughter of a labourer was reportedly killed by a leopard in the Kanlog area. Her remains were found in a nullah in the forest, close to their hutment. Again on Diwali night, a five-year-old boy was mauled to death in the Downdale locality.The frequent sighting of leopards in the state and attacks on humans have instilled fear in the minds of people that the number of wild cats has increased. The wildlife wing of the Forest Department is planning to undertake a population estimation of leopards shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/forest-staff-search-for-three-leopard-cubs-340801
21-11-2021||Dipender Manta||Revoke termination order, 60 staff nurses urge Himachal CM||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 20As many as 60 staff nurses, hired on the outsourced basis by the state government to provide better healthcare services to Covid-19 patients in the district, are in a distressing condition, as the Health Department discontinued their services on November 16.The affected nurses have requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to withdraw the decision to discontinue their services in the Health Department.Today, a delegation of the affected staff nurses submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister regarding their demands, through the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Mandi.Staff nurses Lakshmi, Shalini, Sapna, Ragini, and Ritu told The Tribune that “The Chief Medical Officer of the Zonal Hospital, Mandi, had hired us as staff nurses on the outsourced basis in various hospitals and Covid centres”.“We have sincerely performed our duties as staff nurses in the Community Health Centre at Ratti, Zonal Hospital, Mandi, and the Covid centres at Ratti and Mandi day and night by risking our own lives,” they said.“On November 16, the Health Department discontinued the services of 60 staff nurses posted at the Zonal Hospital, Mandi, and the Covid centre at Khaliyar. The staff nurses in different health institutions of the district have been performing duties not only in the Medical Department but also in other departments. While other staff members have been spared, the services of the staff nurses working in the Zonal Hospital, Mandi, have been discontinued,” they said.“We were hired against the vacant posts of staff nurse in the Zonal Hospital, Mandi, and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Nerchowk and we had been performing duties in different hospitals and Covid centres. Now, without complying with the proper procedure, the Health Department has issued orders to discontinue our services,” they alleged.“We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to look into the matter and restore our services”’ said Ritu.Chief Medical Officer Dr Devender Sharma said, “Following a sharp decline in Covid cases in Mandi, the centre at Khaliyar was closed. As a result, the services of these staff nurses have been discontinued after taking approval from the state government”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revoke-termination-order-60-staff-nurses-urge-himachal-cm-340802
21-11-2021||---||Swachh Survekshan: Shimla ranked 102nd, down from 65th last year||Shimla, November 20Shimla has slipped out of the list of top 100 cities in the Swachh Survekshan-2021. Its rank has declined to 102nd among the cities with a population between one lakh and 10 lakh from the 65th position last year. However, the state has risen to the fifth position from last year’s sixth place among the states having less than 100 urban local bodies. Overall, the state has finished 16th.Could not focus on cleanliness: MayorOur ranking has fallen because of the pandemic. Our staff was engaged in Covid-related works as well. So, we could not focus on cleanliness and other parameters as much as we would have liked. — Satya Kaundal, Mayor“Himachal has been placed among the top five states with less than 100 urban local bodies. The last time the state was sixth on the list,” said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj. “As for the cities which have not done well, modern technology and innovations will be used to ensure they do better next year,” he said.Shimla is a major city that has slipped down the ladder after registering impressive improvements in the rankings in the past couple of years. Last year, the city had improved its ranking from 128th in 2019 to 65th. “We have slipped down in the ranking this year because of the pandemic. Our staff was engaged in Covid-related work as well, so we could not focus on cleanliness and other parameters covered under the survey as much as we would have liked,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal. “Nevertheless, our garbage collectors did a great job even during the peak of the pandemic. We will ensure that the reasons behind the city’s fall in the ranking are addressed so that we do much better next year,” said Kaundal.The city has been given 3,251 points out of 6,000 on three parameters covered under the survey, namely Service Level Progress, Certification and Citizen Voice. Last year, there were four parameters in the survey.According to the Urban Development Minister, the Municipal Corporation of Dharamsala, Municipal Corporation of Mandi and the Municipal Council of Kangra have secured the top three positions, respectively, in the state among the urban local bodies having a population of less than one lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/swachh-survekshan-shimla-ranked-102nd-down-from-65th-last-year-340803
21-11-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||22 institutes told Himachal Pradesh pupils to ‘pay’ for scholarship||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 20At least 22 educational institutions on the CBI radar in the Rs 250-crore scholarship scam not only committed fraud with the government, but also allegedly asked students to pay money for the release of scholarships.A section of students of these institutions located in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh have alleged that the managements had sought money for releasing their dues, said CBI sources.Scam under CBI lensScholarship funds of nearly 32,000 students were not credited to their accounts. Over 270 institutions are under the scanner in the multi-crore scam involving managements of institutes, officials of the HP Education Department and banks.The scam dates back to 2012-13 when scholarships under 36 schemes for pre-matric and post-matric students belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes were not paid. After the expose, the CBI registered a case under Sections 409, 419, 465, 466 and 471 of the IPC on May 8, 2019.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe revealed that fake affiliation letters were submitted by the institutions to mislead the Education Department, which failed to ensure physical verification of infrastructure and strength of students.Other discrepancies included non-submission of copies of Aadhaar cards of students, using same accounts to withdraw scholarships of dummy students and opening of fake accounts in three nationalised banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/22-institutes-told-himachal-pradesh-pupils-to-pay-for-scholarship-340831
