22-11-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal 9th in smart policing survey||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 21Ranked first among the northern states, the Himachal Pradesh Police have secured the 9th place in the country in Smart Policing Survey- 2021, conducted by the Indian Police Foundation (IPF) on the index of public perceptions and citizen satisfaction. The north India region includes J&K, Ladakh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Har-yana, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.The state stood 9th among 29 states and Union Territories (UT) with 6.91 points out of 10. The Consolidated Smart Policing Index (CSPI) for each state/UT is based on their aggregate scores in six competence-based indices, three values-based indices and thrust on index of citizens’ trust in the police.Himachal was better placed on value-based parameters and ranked 8th in fair, unbiased and lawful policing, with a score of 6.79, 9th in integrity and corruption-free service (6.60 points), 8th in public trust (7.17 points) and 10th in accountability (6.71 points).The quality of policing was the highest in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Assam, Kerala, Sikkim, Mizoram and Gujarat, with an index value of seven and above. As many as 19 states/UTs, including Himachal, scored an index value between six and seven, while three states scored between five and six.The nation-wide report pointed out that petty corruption, venality and sometimes open extortion of money by some police personnel had been the largest single subject of adverse comments. Perceptions of corruption have resulted in tremendous impairment of police image and trust.Almost all states scored slightly higher ratings for professional competency-based elements, while they received lower scores for values-based ones. Questions on integrity and corruption-free services received the lowest scores across states, the report indicated.Himachal ranked 12th in perception score of police sensitivity (6.94) and 8th in strictness and good behaviour (6.98), better than the national average. Further, the state ranked 10th in accessibility with a score of 7.11 and was placed seventh in responsiveness, with 7.20 points on a scale of 1-10. The state ranked 11th, with 6.85 points, in helpful and friendly policing, but was down at the 14th spot in technology adoption, with a score of 6.75.Out of the total sample of 1,61,192, 1,03,637 responses were obtained online and 57,555 were collected by survey volunteers. The respondents included 66 per cent men and 34 per cent women. Of these, 29.84 per cent were from the general category, 31.07 per cent from the OBC, 16.81 per cent from the Schedule Caste, 7.89 per cent from the Schedule Tribe and 6.2 per cent from minorities.Government employees constituted the largest single group of respondents (27.95 per cent). Self-employed persons were the next largest (21.13 per cent), followed by the unemployed (17.61 per cent), private sector employees (15.59 per cent) and students (14.10 per cent).“Himachal is working hard on all attributes, including sensibility, accessibility, strictness and good behaviour, integrity, lawful policing and trust, to further improve its ranking,” DGP Sanjay Kundu said, adding that stress had been laid on community participation through community policing and ‘Nash Nivaran Samitis’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-9th-in-smart-policing-survey-341287
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Una women entrepreneurs honoured during Jan Manch||Una, November 21A Jan Manch programme was organised at Mubarikpur in Gagret Assembly segment of Una district today under the chairmanship of Industries and Transport Minister Bikram Thakur. At the programme, 72 complaints were received and most of them were addressed on the spot.Speaking on the occasion, the minister called upon the officers for a time bound redress of the people’s problems. He spelt out various welfare schemes for daily wagers and construction labourers by the Welfare Board set up for the category.During the Jan Manch, elderly woman Rajeshwari Devi from Bhanjal Upper panchayat complained that she had constructed her house about two years ago, but the Revenue officers were not registering the land on which the house is located. Another woman Shalu Thakur from Loharli village complained that her husband had been murdered around two years ago, but the Revenue officers were not registering her name as her husband’s legal heir. The minister directed the officers to do the needful.Three women entrepreneurs from Una district were honoured by the minister. These include Gagret resident Niti Arya, who has set up a successful candle making unit, Dhamandri resident Shivali Dhiman, who has set up a compost making unit on her barren land and Ambota resident Nisha sood, who is a successful honey processing entrepreneur.Gagret MLA Rajesh Thakur, DC Raghav Sharma and SP Arijit Sen Thakur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-women-entrepreneurs-honoured-during-jan-manch-341288
22-11-2021||Lalit Mohan||Pong Dam oustees landless in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, November 21Over 300 families of Pong Dam oustees, who were uprooted from their villages due to construction of Pong Dam lake, are still landless in Dehra subdivision of Kangra. Despite being hereditary residents of Himachal these oustees are seeking land to construct their houses. The local officials had sent proposal to the state government to allot these families forest land on which they were settled. However, the proposal has not got approval for the last about one decade, sources here said.The landless families of oustees were those who were permanent residents of villages lying along Beas river before the construction of Pong Dam. They used to work as labourers in villages and resided on common land. Since the common land on which they resided was not in their name they did not get any compensation for their houses acquired for Pong Dam lake.Will provide reliefI will ask the revenue officials in Dehra to find government land that can be allotted to landless Pong Dam oustees. The matter has been brought to my notice recently and every effort shall be made to provide relief to these families. —Kangra Deputy CommissionerAfter their houses were submerged in Pong Dam lake they moved upward in hills and settled on common lands of their village. The common land on which they settled was later classified was forest land by the Himachal Government. This made these residents as landless encroachers on forest land.Suresh Kumar, one such resident, of Riyali village in Dehra subdivision, while talking to The Tribune, said that the Himachal Government has a policy for allotting land to its landless residents. “We have applied many times to various officials but have not been allotted any land. Our families are now without any land and also cannot buy land in Himachal despite living here since generations,” he said.Sukrit Sagar, a Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha leader, who has been taking up their cause, said that the officials had sent proposal to allot forest lands on which Pong Dam oustees were settled to them. However, getting permission for diverting forest land to people was a tedious task and has to come from the union ministry for environment and forest. The officials are not taking into consideration the fact that these people had initially settled on common lands that were later classified as forest land in 1980s. The government should either declassify forest lands on which these oustees were settled as common lands or should allot land to them at other places, he said.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Nipun Jindal said that he would ask the revenue officials in Dehra to find government land that can be allotted to landless Pong Dam oustees. “The matter has been brought to my notice recently and every effort shall be made to provide relief to families of Pong Dam oustees,” he said.The residents alleged that many politicians come to champion their cause when elections are close but they are forgotten by the soon after they get elected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-dam-oustees-landless-in-kangra-341289
22-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Apple growers face shortage of fertilisers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 21Apple growers are facing a shortage of NPK 12:32:16 and 15:15:15 fertilisers for the post-harvest management of orchards. For about a month now, many areas in the apple-growing belt of Shimla district have either not got the supply at all or it has been very short. “It’s been more than a month that the HIMFED store that caters to our area hasn’t received the supply,” said Sanjeev Thakur from Rohru. “It is time for post-harvest management but it cannot be done without these fertilisers,” he said.Expensive alternativesGrowers face a lot of problems if these fertilisers are not made available in time. The alternatives to these fertilisers in the open market cost more than double, making them almost unviable. —Lokender Bisht, president, Progressive growers associationAgreeing that the supply hadn’t been smooth for some time now, HIMFED chairman Ganesh Dutt said the problem would be sorted out shortly. “We haven’t received our entire order yet. A part of the consignment is in transit at the moment. We are hoping it will arrive in the next few days and the shortage will be addressed,” he said.Dutt said the shortage was a nationwide phenomenon this year. “China supplies raw material for these fertilisers, but it has put a ban on their supply to some other countries. The Union Government is looking into it seriously, it will hopefully be sorted out in a few days,” said Dutt.Meanwhile, the limited availability of the fertilisers, especially NPK 15:15:15, is causing distress to the growers. “Growers face a lot of problems if these fertilisers are not made available in time. The alternatives to these fertilisers in the open market cost more than double, making them almost unviable,” said Lokender Bisht, president of Progressive Growers Association. “Apart from immediate use, the growers stock up these fertilisers for use in March and April. The reason being, roads will soon get blocked due to snowfall and labourers will also not be available at that time,” he said.Meanwhile, the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti has also asked the government to ensure a steady supply of fertilisers across the state, besides demanding the withdrawal of price hike in these fertilisers. “It’s time for the sowing of wheat and other crops and the post-harvest management of apple orchards. If the fertilisers are not made available in ample quantity, the production will be hit,” said Sanjay Chauhan, convener of the Samiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-growers-face-shortage-of-fertilisers-341290
22-11-2021||---||Diabetes prevalence alarming in Himachal, 7th highest in country||Shimla, November 21Diabetes is the most common co-morbidity among those dying of Covid complications in the state. That’s a worrying finding as the prevalence of diabetes quite high in the state.As per the finding of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) a while back, 11.5 per cent people have diabetes in the state. The national average for diabetes is 9.8 per cent. “The state has the seventh highest prevalence of diabetes among all states in the country, which is surprising given Himachal is predominantly a hill state,” said Dr Jitender Mokta, the principal investigator of the study.Heading for health emergencyAs against the national average of 14.5 per cent, 17.4 per cent people are in pre-diabetic state. There’s a high risk that these people will turn diabetic very soon. So, we are heading towards a health emergency as far as the prevalence of diabetes is concerned. —Dr Jitender Mokta, Principal investigator of the studyThe pre-diabetic numbers are also equally alarming. “As against the national average of 14.5 per cent, 17.4 per cent people are in pre-diabetic state. There’s a high risk that these people will turn diabetic very soon. So, we are heading towards a health emergency as far as the prevalence of diabetes is concerned,” said Dr Mokta.According to Dr Mokta, sedentary lifestyle and change in eating habits have triggered diabetes in the state. “Earlier people used to work in their fields and walk a lot. Now, most have sedentary lifestyle and bad eating habits. Regular exercise and avoiding processed food are the major safeguards against the disease,” said Dr Mokta.Besides the preventive measures that an individual can take, the government has started Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojna for the annual screening of the population above 18 years of age in the state.“As many as 10 nirog clinics have been established across the state. Trained doctors, staff nurse and support staff screen the population for non-communicable diseases in these clinics,” said a government spokesperson.“About 50,000 diabetic patients have been identified under the scheme and are on follow up across the state,” said the spokesperson.“Apart from screening for the disease, the frontline workers and ASHA counsel people to adopt healthy diet and perform physical activity and give up alcohol and tobacco,” he said.10 nirog clinics established“As many as 10 nirog clinics have been established across the state. Trained doctors, staff nurse and support staff screen the population for non-communicable diseases in these clinics,” said a government spokesperson.11.5% have diseaseAs per ICMR finding, 11.5 per cent persons have diabetes in the state against the national average of 9.8 per cent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/diabetes-prevalence-alarming-in-himachal-7th-highest-in-country-341291
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Gas connections given to beneficiaries in Bhattiyat||Chamba, November 21The 24th Jan Manch programme of the district was organised at a remotely located Sudli panchayat falling under the Bhattiyat Assembly constituency of Chamba district on Sunday.Presiding over the programme, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Choudhary said through the programme started by the government, quick solutions to the problems of the people are possible at the doorstep.In the Jan Manch programme, 92 problems and demands were presented by the people, most of which were resolved on the spot.On the occasion, a camp was also organised by the Health Department for providing the beneficiaries with disability certificate, in which ten certificates were issued while health check-ups were done and free medicines were also distributed.Seven people were administered vaccine against Covid while six birth certificates were made. Around 20 eligible persons were selected under various pension schemes while Aadhaar cards of 20 persons were also made.The minister distributed gas connections under the Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana to the remaining 12 eligible beneficiaries of selected gram panchayats for the programme, and also distributed 13 FDRs under the ‘Beti Hai Anmol’ scheme implemented by the Department Of Women And Child Development. The minister also planted ‘amla’ plant under the “Ek Buta Beti Ke Naam” scheme.Bhattiyat MLA Vikram Singh Jaryal and Deputy Commissioner DC Rana were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gas-connections-given-to-beneficiaries-in-bhattiyat-341292
22-11-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||National hockey player Neha sells street food to support family at Hamirpur||Hamirpur, November 21Neha, a national-level hockey player, is waging a grim battle. After her father fell sick about a year ago, she has been forced to sell street food to feed her family.Chander Singh, Neha’s father, was a fish seller. The family now lives in a makeshift tin shed here. Neha was selected by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) due to her excellent hockey skills while she was in Class VIII. She has represented the state twice in junior national hockey championship and has won silver medal once. She had also represented Panjab University, Chandigarh, in weightlifting in the National University Games.Neha said her family was sleeping on empty stomach after her father fell sick. She had no other choice but to resort to selling fast food to support her family.Her younger brother, Ankush, is studying in a government school and sister Nikita is in the Government Degree College here. Nikita also helps her sister at her stall in the evening, the player stated.Neha said they were allotted about 80 square metre land in Ward No. 10 but the file for grant of funds for the construction of a house was gathering dust in government offices. Despite having played three national games and winning a silver medal, she had no hope for a job. She rued that she was not able to practice much but had played some matches as the team organisers paid Rs 1,500 per tournament.Kishori Lal, executive officer, said the matter was in the knowledge of the Municipal Council. A request to release funds for the house, under Prime Minister Awas Yojna, was sent to the Director, urban development. “We are expecting funds for the family of Chander Singh soon,” he added.Family lives in tin shedThe family now lives in a makeshift tin shed here. Neha was selected by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) due to her excellent hockey skills while she was in Class VIII. She has represented the state twice in junior national hockey championship and has won silver medal once. She had also represented Panjab University, Chandigarh, in weightlifting in the National University Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/national-hockey-player-neha-sells-street-food-to-support-family-at-hamirpur-341293
22-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Youth falls from paraglider at Himachal's Bir, dies||Palampur, November 21Sandeep Chaudhry (30), a resident of Mumta in Nagrota Bagwan subdivision of Kangra district, died after he fell from a paraglider near Bir this morning.Official sources told The Tribune that the harness and belts of the glider were allegedly not properly tightened by the pilot who accompanied the victim before taking off from Billing. Minutes after the glider took off, the belts and harness became loose and the victim fell about 150 feet below, onto the roof of a house near Bir and died on the spot.Harness, belts were looseSalem Aazam, SDM, Baijnath, said an inquiry had been ordered to probe the circumstances which led to the mishap.There is a heavy influx of tourists at Billing these days and paragliding pilots sometimes tend to overlook safety guidelines, which leads to fatal mishaps. It is learnt that there is only one supervisor appointed by the Special Area Development Authority (SADA) to manage the show. Besides supervising the paragliding activities at Bir and Billing, the official has also been assignedmultiple tasks which makes him “over-burdened” and safety guidelines are sometimes ignored.In the present scenario, the state agencies have come under the scanner following rising mishaps at Bir Billing. In the past five years, over 30 paragliders have crashed at different places in Kangra and Mandi districts after taking off from Billing, killing 10 pilots, including foreigners.Several organisations and victims’ families have demanded a complete ban on paragliding till proper safety rules are incorporated, pilots are directed to adhere to guidelines and separate agencies are constituted by the state government to implement the same.Last year, Rohit Badhoria, a Delhi-based pilot, was killed and his body was recovered after seven months from the Dhauladhar hills.A Canadian pilot, Cheval Christian Yaves Mare, was also killed when his paraglider crash-landed near Bir. Cheval was flying alone when the tragedy occurred.In another mishap in February 2020, paraglider Akshya and co-pilot Shyam Lal were killed. Both had taken off from Billing but were untrained.In 2018, a Singaporean pilot, Kok Chang, had died after his glider crash-landed in the upper reaches of Dhauladhar hills. Earlier, two Russian pilots were killed in similar mishaps.Two years back, Max Kent McGowan, a US pilot, remained stranded in snow-covered mountains for 60 hours after taking off from Billing when his glider moved in wrong directions bordering Chamba district. He neither had an insurance cover nor the permission to fly from the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-falls-from-paraglider-at-himachals-bir-dies-341294
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Pradesh Schools association seeks guidelines to ply pvt buses||Nurpur, November 21The Himachal Pradesh Independent School Association, while welcoming the decision of the state government to allow opening of all schools with standard operating procedures (SPOs), has appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to issue requisite guidelines for plying of private school buses so that transport facility could be provided to the students of Class II to XII.Association president Dr Gulshan Kumar, in a statement here today, said the managements of private schools had decided to provide transport facility to the students from December 1, after preparing necessary documents and carrying out maintenance of school buses.Want validity of documents extendedAt present, an estimated expenditure to the tune of Rs1.5 lakh on every school bus is expected on updating the required documents, which is not feasible. Thus, the government must extend the date of validity. —Dr Gulshan Kumar, President of the himachal pradesh independent school associationHe demanded that the state government give permission and extend validity of old documents of the buses till March 31 next year so that school managements could update the documents of the buses, such as insurance certificates and clearance of taxes.“At present, an estimated expenditure to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh on every school bus is being expected on updating the required documents which is not feasible and thus the government must extend the date of validity,” he said.The school association claimed that private schools were committed to imparting quality education to the pupils and were playing an important role in the education sector but the pandemic had broken their financial backbone. The association president has appealed to the CM to write-off outstanding taxes of private school buses as these had not plied for the past over 20 months due to closure of schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-schools-association-seeks-guidelines-to-ply-pvt-buses-341295
22-11-2021||---||Finally, 13 Pong Dam oustees families to get water, power||Dharamsala, November 21As many as 13 families of Pong Dam oustees residing in Beyal village under Nandpur post office in Dehra subdivision would get power and water connections after a period 55 years. The district administration has ordered the power and IPH departments to give electricity and water connections to these families after the plight of these families was highlighted in The Tribune.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Nipun Jindal while talking to The Tribune, said that orders have been issued to power and IPH departments to provide connections to 13 families of Pong Dam oustees residing in Beyal village. The power connections would be provided to the aggrieved families in the next two working days, he said.The 13 families of Pong dam oustees were families of land less labourers who had been residing in Beyal village for generations. They used to reside on common land of the village. After their houses got submerged in Pong Dam lake these families moved uphill in their own village and settled on the vacant common land.They have been staying on the said lands for the past 55 years. However, the power and IPH departments did not provide them power and water connections as the land on which houses of these families were located in revenue papers was now BBMB land. The families were deprived of the basic right having potable water and power connection for the past 55 years.Ironically, the area in which these oustee families were staying was represented by union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur for the past 15 years as MP and now an independent MLA Hoshiar Singh. However, the politicians were not aware of the problems of people residing in remote areas of their constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finally-13-pong-dam-oustees-families-to-get-water-power-341296
22-11-2021||---||Over 1K medicines available at centres for free, says Himachal Govt||Shimla, November 21As many as 1,374 medicines are being made available free of cost by the government in all state health institutions while 885 medicines are being made available in regional hospitals, civil hospitals and medical colleges. Also, 417 medicines are available at primary health centres and 72 medicines can be bought at sub-centre level.A spokesperson for the state government today said around 16.30 lakh medicines have been distributed at various health institutions during the tenure of the present government so far. “Through this scheme, 10.63 lakh medicines have been distributed through health institutions, health camps, anganwaris, Jan Manch, etc from April to November this year. Around 5.66 lakh medicines have been distributed in various public health institutions across the state,” said the spokesperson. Under this scheme, an adequate budget was also being made available and an amount of about Rs 216 crore had been spent to procure essential medicines, he stated.The state government was also ensuring free medicines to health institutions regularly, for which necessary steps were being taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-1k-medicines-available-at-centres-for-free-says-himachal-govt-341297
22-11-2021||The claim by Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania that there is no question of leadership change in Himachal and Jai Ram Thakur will continue to be in the saddle is being taken with a pinch of salt in political circles. “I wonder under which authority he made these claims when there is uncertainty either on the continuation of the Chief Minister or for that matter even the Cabinet||Himachal Diary: Leaders question Rakesh Pathania’s authority||CM aggressive post by-poll defeatThe sudden aggression being shown by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in targeting Congress leaders seem to be a direct fallout of BJP’s defeat in the by-polls. An example of this was the manner in which the Chief Minister during his visit to Dalhousie targeted Congress MLA Asha Kumari. He said she has befooled people of Dalhousie once by claiming that she will be the Chief Minister but they should not make the same mistake again. Appears that the Congress victory has rattled the entire BJP.Changing political equationsThe political equations within ruling party were changing fast in Kangra after defeat in byelections. Sources here said that a minister who was considered close to the Chief Minister has lost the position. Alleged unsubstantiated corruption allegations and failure to deliver during the elections were said to be the reasons behind the minister losing confidence of the Chief Minister.Skewed prioritiesThe Jal Shakti Vibhag in Solan has earned a new moniker of being the official Shakti Vibhag as a multi-storey dwelling is being constructed for a senior official, exceeding both the stipulated budget and the original drawing. While the common man is facing water woes in the rural areas, the department has failed to spare funds to depute adequate manpower for ensuring daily water supply. The disparity has left the common man wondering why the officials have such skewed priorities. A common man's woes it appears are too common to warrant any attention while funds are in plenty for raising multi-storey dwellings to satisfy the whims and fancies of favourite officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-leaders-question-rakesh-pathanias-authority-341298
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress accuses Himachal Govt of being insensitive towards fourlane project-hit people||NURPUR, NOVEMBER 21The Kangra district Congress president and former MLA Ajay Mahajan has alleged that the state government was insensitive to the people affected by the Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project.Talking to the media persons here last evening, he said the government had constituted a Cabinet committee headed by minister Gobind Thakur three years ago and now another subcommittee was constituted three months ago but all this had failed to address the grievances of the fourlane affected people.Mahajan said these committee members had only given hollow assurances to the affected people in Kangra district. “They were promised that the breadth of the proposed project would be reduced and fair compensation would be granted,” he said.The district Congress president underlined the need to enforce the Land Acquisition Act-2013 in lieu of the Act-1956 for giving fair compensation to the affected people. He said the Jai Ram government should fulfill the BJP’s vision document released before the last Assembly election in November 2017 in which factor- 2 compensation had been promised.He said the NHAI, which had acquired precious land of the people on throwaway prices, was all set to release compensation of their residential and commercial buildings in the same way for the four-lane widening project.“The rehabilitation of the displaced people is not possible with the factor 1 compensation that has been given to them by the NHAI. Unfortunately, the state government has become a mute spectator to their plight. The affected people have been agitating for fair compensation but the government has failed to address their grievances,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-accuses-himachal-govt-of-being-insensitive-towards-fourlane-project-hit-people-341299
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Govt urged to improve Sansari Nala road||Chamba, November 21The Pangwal Ekta Manch has urged the state government to direct the authorities concerned to take up the issue of improvement of the Sansari Nala-Killar-Udaipur-Thirot-Tandi road of the Pangi tribal valley during the winter season.In a representation to Chief Engineer, Border Roads Organisation (BRO), and copies submitted to the Chief Secretary recently, manch chairman Trilok Thakur and co-chairman Bhagat Barotra stated that maximum stretches of the road, from Sansari Nalato Killar-Udaipur, were either narrow, sloppy or prone to avalanches, thereby preventing the movement of vehicles.Moreover, the road, covering a distance of about 172 km, is an essential one from the safety point of view for passengers, said manch office-bearers. They requested the government to keep the road open in winter for around 25,000 residents living in the Pangi valley.“We also expect that the metalling and tarring (black top) works, which have been started at a few selected points, should be done on all stretches of the road in a time-bound manner. Besides crash barriers should also be installed alongside the road,” they urged.Important for safetyThe road, covering a distance of about 172 km, is essential from the safety point of view for passengers, the manch says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-urged-to-improve-sansari-nala-road-341300
22-11-2021||The Departmental Club of Zoology||World Fisheries Day observed||Restore old pension system: AssnHimachal Pradesh School Lecturers' Association secretary Rajan Sharma has urged the government to restore the old pension system in the upcoming JCC meeting. He said under the new pension system, the employees were getting a pension between Rs 1,500 to 2,000. Besides, he said one had to go through a long process to withdraw his own CPF amount. Sharma also demanded speedy implementation of the Supreme Court verdict on pension related matters regarding contractual lectures appointed before 2003.SFI pays homage to deceased farmersThe SFI paid homage to the farmers who died during the year-long protest against the three farm laws, at Kotshera College. The SFI said the protest on Delhi borders had started on November 26 last year, during which the farmers suffered a lot of hardships and miseries. The SFI said more than 600 farmers had lost their lives during the protest but the protesters did not give up and continued the stir until the government accepted their demands. The SFI said it would continue to support the farmers in the future too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/world-fisheries-day-observed-341301
22-11-2021||---||69 complaints received at Parwanoo||Solan, November 21Dr Rajiv Saizal, Health and Family Welfare and Ayush Minister, today urged officials to take government schemes to people’s doorstep.While addressing a Jan Manch at Parwanoo, he said funds would not be a constraint for ensuring the development of Kasauli constituency. As many as 69 complaints were received on the occasion. While 54 were sorted on the spot, officials were directed to ensure quick disposal of the remaining issues.Dr Saizal urged officials to ensure that people’s grievances were resolved with sensitivity as the Jan Manch was aimed at resolving problems at their doorstep.A free medical check-up camp was also organised during which 215 people were examined by the staff of Health and Family Welfare Department. Check-up of 275 people was conducted by the Ayush Department. Eleven units blood were donated during a camp on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/69-complaints-received-at-parwanoo-341302
22-11-2021||---||Camp  for Renuka Dam oustees soon, says Minister||Solan, November 21An on-the-spot grievances redressal camp would be held to facilitate 1,142 families displaced due to land acquisition for the Renuka dam.Power Minister Sukhram Chawdhary said this while addressing a Jan Manch at Jamu Koti village in Sangrah subdivision of Sirmaur district here today after the issue of these families, facing problems in land allotted to them, was aired before him.He said a meeting of the displaced families, who had constituted a committee, would be arranged with the Chief Minister soon. He directed the officials concerned to ensure time-bound redress of people’s grievances as merely one year was left in the present government’s tenure. The government endeavoured to provide civic amenities at the doorsteps of the people, he said.The minister elaborated upon the developmental initiatives of the government on the occasion. As many as 41 complaints were brought before the Jan Manch. Of these, 26 were resolved on the spot while officials were directed to resolve the remaining in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/camp-for-renuka-dam-oustees-soon-says-minister-341303
22-11-2021||---||Grievances of people from 12 panchayats addressed in Mandi||Mandi, November 21Under the chairmanship of Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, grievances of people from 12 panchayats were addressed during a Jan Manch in Mandi district today. The Jan Manch was organised at Tihra in Dharampur Assembly constituency.A total of 44 public grievances related to various departments were received in the Jan Manch. Most of them were settled on the spot, while instructions were given to the departments concerned to ensure the resolution of the remaining complaints.The Jal Shakti Minister presented FDRs of Rs 12,000 each to the mothers of five girl children under the ‘Beti Hai Anmol Yojana’. Besides, 70 beneficiaries were given free gas connections under the Mukhyamantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana. More than 74 certificates were produced for the beneficiaries at the manch. The minister stated that the Jan Manch had given strength to the poor and downtrodden.Meanwhile in Kullu, the Jan Manch was organised at Haripur Government College in Manali Assembly constituency today, which was presided over by Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur.During the programme, grievances of people of 13 gram panchayats were addressed. As many as 117 complaints and demands were received. Most of the grievances were resolved on the spot while the remaining complaints were forwarded to the departments concerned for immediate resolution. Health check-up of 201 people was done by the Ayurveda Department and free medicines were also distributed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/grievances-of-people-from-12-panchayats-addressed-in-mandi-341304
22-11-2021||Mandi||Rohtang Pass closed for tourists||In view of public safety, the district administration, Kullu, has imposed a complete ban on the movement of tourist vehicles towards Rohtang Pass from Manali from tomorrow. Deputy Commissioner Kullu Ashutosh Garg issued an order in this regard today.The DC stated that due to freezing temperature in the region, Rohtang Pass had been closed for tourists. “Tourists are advised to follow the direction of the district administration and avoid venturing towards Rohtang Pass. Due to its high altitude, Rohtang Pass and its nearby places could receive heavy snow any time, which may put the lives of revelers in danger,” said the DC.“Police have been asked to keep a close vigil on the movement of tourists and allow their movement only up to Kothi from Manali. The safety of people is our top priority. This decision has been taken after getting reports from the BRO,” the DC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohtang-pass-closed-for-tourists-341305
22-11-2021||Shimla||51 new  Covid cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||A total of 51 new cases were reported today. Two deaths due to Covid in the state in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 2,26,395, besides 910 active cases. Two persons succumbed to the virus, one each in Shimla and Una district, taking the fatality figure to 3,814. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/51-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-341308
22-11-2021||Dharamsala||Nagrota Congress workers repose faith in RS Bali||Congress workers from Nagrota Bagwan have passed a resolution demanding that Raghubir Singh Bali, son of late Congress minister GS Bali, should be made the party candidate from Assembly constituency in 2022 state Assembly elections.GS Bali has represented Nagrota Bagwan Assembly constituency consecutively for four terms from 1998 to 2017. He lost the last Assembly elections in 2017 to BJP candidate Arun Kumar.Nagrota Bagwan Assembly constituency was a stronghold of GS Bali where he had undertaken a lot development projects. The Nagrota Bagwan was the only Assembly constituency having a government medical college in the form of Tanda Medical College, a government engineering college, a government degree college and many other institutes.The Congress workers from the area have reposed faith in RS Bali that he would carry forward the works of his late father who was a prominent congress leader of state and Kangra district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nagrota-congress-workers-repose-faith-in-rs-bali-341310
22-11-2021||Solan||5-kg cannabis seized||The Sangrah police have confiscated over 5-kg cannabis and other contraband in the past three days. Sangrah DSP Shakti Singh said a campaign had been launched to nab those engaged in illicit drug trading in the subdivision.A special investigation unit (SIU) confiscated 1.5-kg cannabis near Chunvi village on the Nohradhar-Haripurdhar road on Saturday. The accused hails from Kupvi in Shimla district.In another case, the SIU arrested two persons with 3.5-kg cannabis near Nohradhar on the Rajgarh-Nohradhar road on Thursday. Heroin was also confiscated on Friday in Dadahu from a person who had got it from Ambala in Haryana. The accused has been booked under the NDPS Act. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-kg-cannabis-seized-341312
22-11-2021||Shimla||NGO opposes job criteria||Umang Foundation, a charitable trust for differently abled, has demanded the lifting of ban imposed on the recruitment of persons having more than 60 per cent visual and hearing impairment for the post of school lecturer. In a complaint lodged with the State Disability Commissioner, Prof Ajai Srivastava, State Advisory Board on Disability member, said the Director of Higher Education had issued an advertisement, especially for the disabled to recruit school lecturers in which it was mentioned that persons having visual and hearing disability of more than 60 per cent were not eligible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-opposes-job-criteria-341315
22-11-2021||Street vendors who have encroached upon the top floor of the Indira Market in Mandi are spoiling the beauty of the complex. They can be seen sitting on the passage and causing inconvenience to people. The district administration and the local civic body should provide a sitting space to these vendors at a suitable place in the town so avoid such encroachments. — Rajneesh Kumar||Encroachments galore at Indira Market||Wrongly parked vehicles cause Traffic snarlsProblems such as choked roads and traffic congestion due to vehicles parked wrongly on the roads have become common on the Shimla-Naldehra road near Mashobra, especially during the evening. The police should take a note of this and issue challans to the erring vehicle owners, who park their vehicles on the road side in busy areas. A large number of vehicles, including that of tourists, commute on the stretch and the situation worsens on the weekends. — Niharika, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/encroachments-galore-at-indira-market-341317
22-11-2021||---||Bypoll defeat a timely  warning for BJP: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 21Terming the Himachal bypoll defeat as a “timely alert”, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the election results should not be viewed as the final assessment of his government.He said though there were several factors that resulted in the party’s poor show in the four bypolls, overconfidence among party leaders and workers cost them dear. “We shall be looking into the reasons behind the defeat, for which a deeper analysis is required,” Thakur said in Mandi. On speculations of a possible leadership change in the state, Thakur said, “I have been hearing such rumours right from the time I took over as the CM. One thing I can say with confidence is that manipulations don’t work in the BJP, especially under the leadership of PM Modi.”On the bypoll results, Thakur said the BJP lost the Mandi Lok Sabha seat by a thin margin. The Congress had fielded Pratibha Singh, widow of former CM Virbhadra Singh, and she gained advantage from sympathy, he claimed. This factor worked for the Congress on other three seats as well, he said. He claimed the BJP was very well-entrenched in the state with a strong cadre base and he would tour the entire state to enthuse workers before the next Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypoll-defeat-a-timely-warning-for-bjp-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-341244
22-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||Man dies after falling from paraglider at Bir in Kangra district||Palampur, November 21A 30-year-old resident of Mumta in Nagrota Bagwan sub-division of Kangra district died on the spot after he fell from a paraglider near Bir on Sunday.Official sources said the safety harness and belts of the glider were not properly tightened by the pilot who accompanied victim Sandeep Chaudhry before taking off from Billing.Minutes after takeoff, the belts and harness went loose and Sandeep fell from nearly 150 ft on the roof of a house near Bir and died on the spot.Pilots are reportedly not following safety guidelines leading to such fatal mishaps as owing to heavy tourist inflow proper checks are hardly maintained.It is learnt that there is one supervisor appointed by Special Area Development Authority (SADA) to manage the affairs at the paragliding site. Besides supervising the paragliding activities at Bir and Billing, the supervisor has also been assigned multiple jobs by the government.In the past five years, over 30 gliders have crashed at different places in Kangra and adjoining Mandi district after taking off from Billing, killing 10 pilots, including foreigners.Several organisations and victims’ kin have demanded a complete ban on paragliding till proper rules are incorporated, pilots are directed to adhere to safety guidelines and separate agency is constituted by the state government to implement the same.Last year, Rohit Badhoria, a Delhi-based pilot, was killed in a paragliding mishap. His body was recovered after seven months from the higher areas of Dhauladhar hills.A Canadian pilot, Cheval Christian Yaves Mare, was also killed when his paraglider crash-landed near Bir. Cheval was flying alone when the tragedy occurred. He had no knowledge of the topography of the Dhauladhar ranges which led to the mishap.In February 2020, a 24-year-old paraglider, Akshaya, and co-pilot Shyam Lal were killed. Both had taken off from Billing and were not trained.In 2018, a Singaporean pilot, Kok Chang, had died after his glider crash-landed in the higher areas of the Dhauladhars after he took off from Billing. His body was spotted by rescue teams after many days. Earlier, two Russian pilots were killed in similar mishaps.Two years back, Max Kent McGowan, a US pilot, remained stranded in snow-covered mountains for 60 hours after taking off from Billing when his glider moved in the wrong directions bordering Chamba district. He had to land at Bir after two hours but heavy rain, snowfall and high-velocity wind forced him to land in high mountains. He had neither insurance cover nor permission from the administration to fly.Baijnath SDM Salem Aazam said an inquiry had been ordered to probe the circumstances which lead to the mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-dies-after-falling-from-paraglider-at-bir-in-kangra-district-341073
