23-11-2021||Shimla||Zila Parishad member found hanging from a tree in Shimla||A Zila Parishad member from Jhakri ward of Shimla district, Kavita Kantu (27), was found hanging from a tree in summer hill forest area of Shimla town.She allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself with a cloth (dupatta). Kavita had completed her MPhil and was preparing for her PhD exam. She was residing in a hostel.Superintendent of Police Shimla Monika Bhatungru, who visited the spot, said prima facie it appears to be a suicide, the FSL team is on the spot collecting evidence.The cause of the suicide is not known and police investigation is underway. The body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/zila-parishad-member-found-hanging-from-a-tree-in-shimla-341909
23-11-2021||Solan||Two people feared trapped in building collapse in Himachal’s Parwanoo||Two people are feared trapped inside the rubble of a four-storey building which collapsed around 1:30 am at Sector 2 of Parwanoo on Tuesday.The building was recently purchased by one Pawan Singla who had engaged three labourers for its cleaning.The old structure, however, gave way while the labourers were at work. While one of them managed to rescue himself, two others were trapped under the rubble, informed Commandant Home Guards Dr Shiv Kumar Sharma, who had rushed in a team for rescue.Operations were underway to rescue the trapped labourers who had been engaged from nearby Haryana for the job this morning.Policemen, fire staff and home guards were engaged in the rescue operation.The building which was owned by Microtech Company had been sold to Singla who wanted to set up an enterprise there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-people-feared-trapped-in-building-collapse-in-himachals-parwanoo-341902
23-11-2021||---||Massive landslide blocks National Highway-5 near Theog in Shimla||Shimla, November 23The National Highway-5 was blocked for vehicular traffic near Theog in Shimla district district of Himachal Pradesh following a massive landslide.The landslide occurred near Khachi Mod in Theog late on Monday night.Efforts were on to clear the highway for traffic. People have been advised to use alternate routes, officials said. The traffic for the movement of light vehicles coming from Shimla side has been diverted via Sarion-Halai-Sandhu and through Sandhu-Jadeog-Devimor from Narkanda side, while heavy vehicles from Dhalli side are being diverted via Basantapur Kingal, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/massive-landslide-blocks-national-highway-5-near-theog-in-shimla-341871
23-11-2021||The delay in the construction of Solan bypass is causing huge traffic snarls on the roads in the town. It has become difficult for pedestrians to walk amidst the heavy traffic. The children and elderly are at a higher risk while walking on such busy roads.||Solan bypass delay causes traffic jams||— Rakesh, SolanNon-functional water ATMsThe IPH Department had installed water ATMs in some areas of Dharamsala city. However, these are not been functioning since installation. Public money was spent on setting up the ATMs but the department has not made them functional. The officials responsible should be taken to task.— Naresh Sharma, DariIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-bypass-delay-causes-traffic-jams-341748
23-11-2021||More than 300 students of The Lawrence School||Assembly to remember bravehearts||Online admission date extendedThe International Centre for Distance Education and Open Learning (ICDEOL) has extended the online admission dates for its various graduate and post graduate courses, except for B.Ed, until November 27. The director said the admission date would not be extended any further and all interested should get themselves registered before the given date. For more information, the aspirants can call on 0177-2832239 / 2833444.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/assembly-to-remember-bravehearts-341743
23-11-2021||Chamba||258 challans for illegal mining in Chamba district||The Mining Department has issued 258 challans for illegal mining in the district and recovered an amount of Rs 8 lakh as fine in the last three months. These challans were issued after tractors were engaged in illegal mining without registration. Deputy Commissioner DC Rana told officials to take strict legal action against violators. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/258-challans-for-illegal-mining-in-chamba-district-341738
23-11-2021||---||New offices of HP Coop Bank inaugurated||Our CorrespondentChamba, November 22Hans Raj, Deputy Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, inaugurated the new district office and the new branch office of Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Bank at Chamba town today. Local MLA Pawan Nayyar was present on the occasion. The district office and the branch were shifted to a new building of the local Municipal Council.The Deputy Speaker said that the bank has got a good building at a suitable place. He added that the MLA and Municipal Council president Neelam Nayyar had made special efforts to the renovation of the building, and people would now get better facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-offices-of-hp-coop-bank-inaugurated-341736
23-11-2021||---||Restore old pension scheme: HPSLA||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, November 22The Himachal Pradesh School Lecturers Association (HPSLA) has urged Chief Minister to restore old pension scheme (OPS) in the state. Rajan Sharma, secretary of the HPSLA, said that old pension system should be restored as it was not justified to deprive employees, who had put in years of services, of pension benefits.He said that under the new pension system, employees were getting pension merely between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000. Apart from this, the process to withdraw Contributory Pension Fund had become cumbersome. The pension was the only monetary support the employee had after retirement and depriving employees of this was unjustified.Rajan Sharma said that not only the HPSLA but all other employee associations had demanded restoration of the OPS in the meeting with employee unions. He also demanded early implementation of Supreme Court verdict on the pension-related matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restore-old-pension-scheme-hpsla-341735
23-11-2021||---||Women ice hockey event to be held at Kaza||Mandi, November 22The Women National Ice Hockey Championship will be organised at Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti. It is expected that the event will be organised in December or January, depending on weather conditions in the region.Official sources said 10 teams of different states would take part in the event. It will be the first Women National Ice Hockey Championship to be held in Himachal Pradesh.Ice hockey was introduced the first time at Kaza in December 2019, when a 10-day ice hockey training camp was organised. That event was organised by the Youth Services and Sports Department, Kaza, in collaboration with Ladakh Women Ice Hockey Foundation.In 2019, the Kaza administration had developed the first ice hockey skating rink in Himachal Pradesh at such a high altitude – an elevation of 3,720 m — in the Spiti valley in this district. The move was aimed to promote winter sports activities in this region to attract tourists during the winter season.Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar said the dates for the event were yet to be finalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/women-ice-hockey-event-to-be-held-at-kaza-341734
23-11-2021||Palampur||Half of world might have myopia by 2050: Study||Dr Sandeep Mahajan, a renowned ophthalmologist, has said that a new study has revealed that excessive use of computers and smartphones leads to a higher risk and severity of myopia or short-sightedness, in children and young adults, which is a matter of concern.He said the study stated that during the Covid-induced lockdown, millions of children around the world spent substantial time using remote learning methods following the closure of schools. The study stated that around half the global population was expected to have myopia by 2050. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/half-of-world-might-have-myopia-by-2050-study-341733
23-11-2021||Mandi||Mandi: Power projects ‘flout’ NGT norms, release less water||Devbhumi Paryavaran Rakshak Manch (DPRM) chairman Narender Saini has said that to save aquatic life, there is need to ensure release of 15 per cent water downstream regularly from the reservoirs in Mandi district during the winter season.Saini wrote to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over the issue and urged him to take necessary action. He alleged that it had been observed that every year during winters, the authorities of the hydropower projects drastically reduce the release of water from their reservoirs, posing a threat to the aquatic life downstream.As per the direction of the NGT, it was mandatory for them to release 15 to 20 per cent water from their reservoirs regularly, he said.He said, “I urge the CM to direct the district administration to keep tabs on the power project authorities to check this misuse. There are reports that many of them are flouting the norms in the district”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-power-projects-flout-ngt-norms-release-less-water-341732
23-11-2021||---||Fourth State Masters Games conclude at Nauni varsity||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 22The Fourth State Masters Games concluded at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, on Sunday.Vice-Chancellor Dr Parvinder Kaushal lauded the efforts of the Master’s Games Association for keeping the spirit and enthusiasm of sports high despite the pandemic. “Any activity, which keeps you fit and physically strong, must be followed and others must also be encouraged to follow the same,” said Dr Kaushal.He said that the association was spreading the message that age is not a barrier to keeping one’s body fit and healthy. He added the parents must encourage their children to take up sports. He lauded the participants in the 85 plus age category for being the ambassadors of the sports and fitness movement.Vinod Kumar Gupta, Managing Director, Meridian Medicare, who was the guest of honour, briefed the gathering about the activities carried out by the association.During the two-day event, over 300 participants of 30 to 85 plus age groups participated in 10 disciplines such as athletics, hockey, volleyball, table tennis, etc. Over 40,000 members of 28 associations throughout the country have become a part of the Master’s Games in India, he said.Ex-serviceman bags 2 gold, one bronze||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fourth-state-masters-games-conclude-at-nauni-varsity-341731
23-11-2021||---||Baghat Urban Coop Bank to get new chairman, vice-chairman on Friday||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 22Baghat Urban Co-operative Bank Limited will get its new chairman and vice-chairman on Friday, following a notification of a meeting of the newly elected board of directors (BoD) today.The elections for the seven directors of board were held on November 14 where the BJP-supported candidates had won four seats while two had been bagged by the Congress. One seat has been won by a candidate of the Nagar Nigam Sangharsh Samiti.Six of the seven BoD members are first-timers and only Arun Sharma, a Congress-supported member, is a former chairman of the bank.With the BJP having a clear majority, there was little likelihood of the party facing a problem in electing its chairman and vice-chairman. The state government can also notify two more members in the BoD and since they have voting rights, all eyes are now on the announcement of the nominated members.Sunder Singh Thakur and Sanjeev Kumar are the front-runners for the two posts though it remains to be seen if a lone woman, Kalpana Thakur, would be adjusted in one of the two key posts. This was moreso as she hails from the home turf of the lone minister from the district.The bank has 11 branches, 100 mini-depositors and a staff of 131. The new BoD will have an arduous task at hand in view of the lack of experience of the majority of the directors and stringent posture adopted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in recent months.The RBI has imposed a penalty of Rs 15 lakh on the bank for the violation of rules pertaining to classification of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs). Its financial position as on March 31, 2019, as per its assessment report, exposed non-adherence to RBI rules and violation of the guidelines. This includes non-ID of NPAs, incorrect classifications of resources or assets, insufficient arrangements made because of the incorrect classification of assets and non-adherence to exposure standards for housing real estate and commercial real estate.Its NPA had climbed to a whopping 20 per cent and the credit to deposit (CD) ratio had exceeded the stipulated limit, following which the RBI had put general loaning on hold since April 2021.Four BJP-backed candidates elected directors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baghat-urban-coop-bank-to-get-new-chairman-vice-chairman-on-friday-341730
23-11-2021||Kullu||Hip replacement surgery done at Kullu hospital||Dr Abhishek Badhan has conducted the first hip replacement surgery successfully at the Regional Hospital, Kullu. He replaced the entire left hip of a woman, who was bed-ridden for the past three years.Dr Naresh, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, said the patient was a resident of Kalang village and had suffered a deep injury in her hip due to a fall 16 years ago. She was completely bedridden for the past three years.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hip-replacement-surgery-done-at-kullu-hospital-341729
23-11-2021||Shimla||110 new Covid cases, three deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 110 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 226,505. Besides, three persons died of the virus—two in Kangra and one in Mandi.The highest 42 cases were recorded in Kangra, followed by 17 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, 12 in Mandi, and six each in Una and Solan.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/110-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-341728
23-11-2021||Shimla||Antimicrobial resistance a ‘threat to public health’||With antimicrobial resistance posing a threat to public health, medical experts have recommended the use of antibiotics with extreme care so that they remain effective for the infection they are being used for.World Antimicrobial Awareness Week is being celebrated from November 18 to 24. The theme for this year given by theWHO is “Spread Awareness, Stop Resistance”. A laboratory-based system has been established at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, for antimicrobial resistance surveillance.A health official today appealed to the public to avoid taking antibiotics when not required as it speeds up antibiotic resistance. He said the antibiotic resistant infections are more complex and harder to treat and as such, antibiotics must be taken only on a doctor’s advice.“The issue of growing resistance towards antimicrobial needs urgent attention.The focus should be on raising awareness regarding the threat of antimicrobial resistance and what measures can be taken to prevent this resistance,” said an official.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/antimicrobial-resistance-a-threat-to-public-health-341727
23-11-2021||Shimla||Govt blamed for fall in Shimla’s Swachh ranking||The CPM’s Shimla district committee has blamed the government and Municipal Corporation’s poor working for Shimla’s fall in the Swachh Survekshan report this year. The state capital has slipped to 102nd position from 65th last year among the cities having a population between 1-10 lakh.CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan said Shimla was ranked 16th in 2016 when the BJP was not in power. “Ever since the BJP government and the BJP-backed MC took charge, most essential services have gone into private hands and employment is generally being given on outsource basis,” said Chauhan.“In MC alone, more than 950 posts of sanitation workers and others are vacant but the government is not filling them, resulting in decline in the quality of services,” he said.He said that even as the quality of the services was on the decline, the MC had burdened people by raising property tax and tariffs of services like garbage collection and water.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-blamed-for-fall-in-shimlas-swachh-ranking-341726
23-11-2021||Dipender Manta||9 yrs on, mini-sect yet to come up at Keylong||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 22The demand to set up a mini-secretariat building at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district is hanging fire for the past nine years. Local residents have been urging the government to construct the mini-secretariat to provide office spaces to different departments under one roof.According to residents of Lahaul and Spiti, at present government offices are housed in private buildings at different locations. As a result, people have to walk long distances from one office to another for various works. This takes a lot of time. If the state government constructs the mini-secretariat, it will be a huge relief for them.Ramesh Kumar Rulba, former chairperson of Lahaul and Spiti Zila Parishad, says, “During my tenure as the chairperson of the Zila Parishad Lahaul and Spiti, I raised the issue with the district administration and the government but to no avail”.Congress spokesperson Anil Sehgal says, “It is a long-pending demand of the people of the district, which should be fulfilled on priority. Except Lahaul and Spiti, every district has a mini-secretariat”.“If the government fails to execute the project in time, the Congress will stage a protest at Keylong,” he adds.No progress since foundation stone laidOn September 8, 2012, the then Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal had laid the foundation stone of the project. However, since then no progress has been made on the project. — Ramesh Kumar Rulba, former chairperson of Lahaul and Spiti zila parishad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-yrs-on-mini-sect-yet-to-come-up-at-keylong-341725
23-11-2021||---||Centre under health mission set up at Nerchowk Medical College, Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, November 22Equipped with all facilities, the first District Early Intervention Centre of the state has been set up at Nerchowk Medical College here. It has been set up under the National Health Mission of Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK).At the centre deformities in children would be identified at an early stage and treatment provided free of cost.Dr Hitanshu Manta, in-charge of the District Early Intervention Centre, said that under the scheme, the team of doctors of the RBSK goes to every school and Anganwadi to examine children and sends them to the Early Intervention Centre (RBSK) if treatment is needed.“Under this program, children below 18 years are treated free of cost. If treatment is not available for any disease in any health institution of the state, then arrangements are made for free treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh,” she added.“Various types of equipment have been installed in this centre to test the physical and intellectual development of children. A child-friendly atmosphere has been created for the children,” said Dr Hitanshu.Free of cost treatmentDeformities in children will be identified at an early stage at the centre and treatment will be provided free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/centre-under-health-mission-set-up-at-nerchowk-medical-college-mandi-341724
23-11-2021||---||Porcelain machine seized at Indora||Our CorrespondentNurpur, November 22The Indora police, on a complaint by environmentalist Prem Kumar, confiscated a porcelain machine engaged in illegal mining on the Beas riverbed today.The porcelain driver reportedly fled with a tipper, leaving behind the machine. The porcelain belongs to a stone crusher owner, who was fined Rs 2 lakh by the local mining authorities last year.According to Nurpur DSP Surinder Sharma, a case has been registered against porcelain driver Balwinder Singh, a resident of Ghiala village in Pathankot, under Section 379 of the IPC for stealing minerals from the river and the Mines and Minerals Act.Excavation machines are reportedly brought to the Beas at night for illegal mining but the authorities concerned have not been able to check the menace. Resentment is brewing among local farmers and environmentalists against rampant illegal mining in rivulets in Nurpur and Indora subdivisions. The underground water resources in the area also depleting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/porcelain-machine-seized-at-indora-341723
23-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Cath lab at Vivekananda hospital in Palampur to be functional by next month||Palampur, November 22The Vivekananda Medical and Research Trust (VMRT) headed by former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar is setting up cardiac cath lab and digital radiography facilities at the VMRT Hospital, Palampur.Talking to mediapersons here, Shanta Kumar said the much-awaited cath lab would be functional by December 15. The equipment had already been imported and its installation was in progress.“The commissioning of the Rs 7-crore cath lab and digital radiography facility has formed part of the sustained efforts and devotion of the VMRT to raise standards of medical treatment in its institution,” the veteran politician said.“The cath lab is a dire necessity as people have to rush to Chandigarh and Delhi for even ordinary heart ailments. Many die on the way. The new lab facilitates diagnose cardiovascular disease with minimal invasive tests and procedures. When set up, it would be of great help to the common people,” he said.The former Chief Minister said his only mission was to make the VMRT-run healthcare institution more popular and affordable for common patients. He was hopeful that the new facilities would save lives of hundreds of patients in the coming days.The institution had achieved an impeccable position in the healthcare sector. In the past three years, the hospital has emerged among the best for neurosurgery and general neuro ailments. The institute has also conducted various complicated surgeries for brain tumours and head injuries, a facility available only at Shimla apart from Palampur, Shanta Kumar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cath-lab-at-vivekananda-hospital-in-palampur-to-be-functional-by-next-month-341722
23-11-2021||---||As vulture count dips, study begins in Pong reservoir||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, November 22The wildlife authorities and various environmental organisations are worried over the decline in the number of vultures in the hill state. Though the authorities have undertaken measures for enhancing breeding and conservation of vultures, no impact has been witnessed on the ground.Apprehending that the species could go extinct, the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest has launched an ambitious project to study the movement of ecology and recovery of the critically endangered species. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, along with the wildlife wing of Himachal Pradesh Forest Department, has recently started working on this project in the Pong Reservoir protected area and its eco-sensitive zone in Kangra district.As per information, the aim of this ambitious project is to study the movement of the endangered vulture species using satellite telemetry and systematic field survey for the identification of vultures’ feeding ground and roosting sites. The project will also envisage long-term conservation of vultures by sensitising the local communities and ensuring capacity-building of the state Forest Department in achieving this goal.The study is being undertaken by a team of researchers led by Junior Research Fellow Malyasri Bhattacharaya and Project Assistant Ankit Zhode from the WII, Dehradun.Rahul Rahane, Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Hamirpur, told The Tribune that in the first phase of the project, five adult white-rumped vultures (Gyps Besngalensis) had been picked from natural feeding sites in and around the Pong Lake Wildlife Sanctuary and tagged with GPS solar tags weighing 55 gm each. “The tags were fitted as a backpack harness and the birds were seen moving normally with minimal weight. From the data points received, it can be seen that the five vultures are moving regularly from their daily roosting and feeding sites. The average distance being travelled is around 36 km per day,” he said.Official sources reveal that the initial study of the vultures’ movement reveal that they started their day movements from their roosting sites around 9.30 am and came back in evening. Their movements also depend on the weather conditions in the area. The team is recording daily activity of the vultures from 9.30 am to 4.30 pm, when they are mostly active.Wildlife authorities worried||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/as-vulture-count-dips-study-begins-in-pong-reservoir-341721
23-11-2021||Ravinder Sood||20-yr-old pilot booked for paraglider’s death||Palampur, November 22The rise in fatal mishaps during paragliding at Bir Billing in the past few months has raised a question mark over the safety and security of tourists.The failure of the state government in putting in place a safety mechanism has made paragliding a risky affair. The death of Sandeep Chaudhry on Sunday has triggered the argument over revellers’ safety and brought a bad name to the Tourism Department. Chaudhry died because of the alleged negligence of the pilot, who failed to tighten the safety harness and body belts, which went loose in the air. The police have booked the pilot under Sections 336 and 304-A of the IPC for negligence.The Tribune team visited Bir Billing today and found that the 20-year-old pilot did not have the required experience to fly in-tandem flights. He was just a beginner. It was also learned that the safety harness and body belts went loose slowly in the air. The pilot had sufficient time to land at a safer place and the mishap could have been averted. However, because of lack of experience, the accused failed to take any steps, leading to the accident.It was found that most pilots involved in such accidents lacked experience and had incomplete documents. Many pilots lack dual insurance cover, which has been made mandatory by the state government. The failure of state agencies to check their documents and equipment has made the matters worse. Even the gliders being used by the pilots did not qualify the safety standards.Besides, there were reports of pilots fleecing tourists. The pilots reportedly did not adhere to the tariff fixed by the Tourism Department. In such circumstances, the tourists fell in the hands of inexperienced pilots, who charge less amount. This has led to rise to fatal mishaps.Baijnath SDM Salem Aazam and District Tourism Officer PP Singh held a meeting with the stakeholders today. It was decided to enforce the international SOPs for paragliding. Inexperienced pilots would not be allowed to fly solo or undertake tandem flights. Both the officers also sought the cooperation of paragliding associations functional at Bir Billing. The state government was also considering imposing a complete ban on paragliding in Bir Billing, keeping in view the rising mishaps, they stated.Siblings Pavi Sareen and Naveen Sareen, who introduced paragliding in Billing in the 1990, said flying in high-altitudes areas, such as the Dhauladhar hills, without the required experience could be dangerous. Most mishaps occurred as pilots lacked training. They asserted that the Tourism Department should either ban paragliding in the state or implement rules strictly.Officials meet stakeholders||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-yr-old-pilot-booked-for-paragliders-death-341720
23-11-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla ropeway project heads for a quiet burial||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 22The ambitious Shimla Passenger Ropeway project from the ISBT, Tutikandi, to the Mall Road Lift and Jodha Niwas appears to be heading for a quite burial. After over six years since the foundation stone of the project was laid by former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh in June 2015, Shimla Municipal Corporation has decided to send a show-cause notice to the executing company, Usha Breco Shimla Ropeway Private Limited, asking why the contract should not be terminated.“The company has done no work in the last six years. It has not taken the clearances it was supposed to take from authorities like Airports Authority of India for carrying out the work. In view of this, we will shortly send a notice to the company,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.The project would have given a big thrust to tourism in the city and de-congested the busy city roads. As per the plan, the tourists vehicles coming into the city would have been parked at Tutikandi and the tourists would have taken the passenger ropeway to reach the city. Besides, it would have reduced the carbon emission and earned much-needed income to the cash-strapped MC.Unfortunately, the Rs 200-crore project has not moved beyond laying the foundation stone in the last six years. Interestingly, the company was supposed to finish the work in November, 2018. “The company had been given extensions a couple of times. It had asked for yet another extension for a year a couple of months back,” said Kohli.Simi Nanda, a member of the Finance and Planning Committee of the Municipal Corporation, said there was no point in giving the company any further extension. “The company had given a presentation in the House two years back, assuring that it would complete the project in one year. Despite the assurance, it did nothing. So, there’s no point in giving any further extension,” said Nanda. The MC has started looking beyond this contract to revive the project. “We can look at the project afresh if the present contact is terminated,” said Kohli. Was meant to de-congest busy city roads||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-ropeway-project-heads-for-a-quiet-burial-341719
23-11-2021||---||Mukesh Agnihotri: People have decided to unseat  BJP govt||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, November 22The people in the state had decided to uproot the BJP government in the state as it had failed to deliver on all fronts. This was stated by Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of Opposition while addressing public meeting at Mehre in Barsar constituency today.Agnihotri said that the results of the four byelections had reflected the mood of people and failure of the BJP governments in state and at the Centre. The people were suffering because of the anti-people policies and programmes of the government. He said it was power of democracy and Constitution of the country that farmers protest forced repeal of farm laws.Anita Verma, former AICC (women cell) president, said that a large number of youth had lost jobs due to wrong policies of the government. Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, MLA Barsar; Sanjay Dutt co-incharge of the Congress, and Rajender Zar, president of District Congress committee also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mukesh-agnihotri-people-have-decided-to-unseat-bjp-govt-341718
23-11-2021||---||Sympathy factor, backstabbing  caused bypoll debacle: Himachal CM Thakur||Mandi, November 22After conducting a review meeting about the BJP debacle in the recently held byelection to the Mandi parliamentary constituency to assess the causes, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that sympathy factor, backstabbing within the party and overconfidence were key reasons for the BJP defeat in the three Assembly constituencies and one parliamentary constituency.Addressing a press conference here today, the Chief Minister said that during the review meeting it was observed that Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, gained due to sympathy factor in a particular region.“Apart from this, overconfidence among BJP leaders was a major reason for the party debacle in this election. Each BJP leader, including MLAs, party office-bearers and workers, worked hard but there was a need to bring voters at polling booths to cast the votes because it was observed that during the byelection voters did not take much interest. As a result, polling percentage was low in Mandi,” he said.To a question the Chief Minister said that “backstabbing within the party could not be ruled out. We are assessing all major factors, which are responsible for the defeat of the BJP. Party executives meet will be held at Shimla on November 24, 25 and 26 to review the causes of defeat and to take corrective measures to gear up the party for the Assembly elections due next year.”“During the BJP regime in the state in the last four years, development was done but we failed to connect with the people. Now, focus will be on enhancing connectivity with the common public,” he remarked.“I take responsibility for this defeat. It is a wake-up call for us. We will work hard to ensure the party victory in the upcoming Assembly elections. The outcome of byelection results will not benefit the Congress in the next year’s elections. In the past, by-elections had been lost by the ruling parties whether it is Congress or BJP,” said Thakur.Wake-up call for us, says CMI take the responsibility for the defeat. It is a wake-up call for us. We will work hard to ensure the party’s victory in the upcoming Assembly elections. The outcome of the byelections will not benefit the Congress in the elections next year. In the past, the ruling parties, both Congress and BJP, had lost the byelections. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sympathy-factor-backstabbing-caused-bypoll-debacle-himachal-cm-thakur-341717
23-11-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||In 43% mishaps in Himachal, riders found without licence||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 22In Himachal Pradesh, riders without valid licence have been behind 43.5 per cent of the total accidents involving two-wheelers till September this year.Regular checks nowThe focus is now on regular checking of licence and compliance to traffic rules. — Sanjay Kundu, DGPAs per the state police’s data, as many as 131 persons riding two-wheelers died and 231 sustained serious injuries in 384 road accidents from January to September. Of the total mishaps during the period, in 167 cases (43.5 per cent) the riders did not possess a valid licence. In four cases, the riders had learner’s licence and in two, it was expired.In 67.4 per cent of the cases, mostly youth were involved between the age group of 16 and 30. In as many as 131 accidents, the youth were in the age group of 21 to 25; in 67 mishaps, the age group was 26 to 30 and in 61 cases, the youth aged between 16 and 20 were involved.Kangra and Una reported the maximum casualties (24 each), followed by Baddi and Sirmuar (17 each), Mandi (11) and Kullu (10). The highest number of 82 accidents took place in Kangra, followed by Sirmaur (57) and Una (51).The data further reveals that in 220 accidents (57.3 per cent), the riders were not wearing helmets, while in 36 cases, they were under the influence of alcohol.Further, 164 accidents took place on national highways, 96 on link roads, 90 on state highways, 20 on major district and city roads and nine on village roads. As many as 155 accidents occurred during 6 pm and 12 am and 112 between 9 am and 3 pm.DGP Sanjay Kundu said alcometers were being used to keep a check on drunken driving as the number of fatalities in accidents involving two-wheelers is quite high.Police sources said the issuance of challans for riding without helmet and driving licence was being reviewed on a weekly basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-43-mishaps-in-himachal-riders-found-without-licence-341547
23-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||9-year-old from Himachal leaves Amitabh Bachchan speechless on KBC||Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 is going to be a students’ special week from Monday to Thursday and a nine-year-old boy has left the show’s host Amitabh Bachchan speechless in a promo released by Sony TV.A post shared by Sony Entertainment Television (@sonytvofficial)  Arunodai Sharma from Himachal Pradesh is also seen performing traditional folk dance ‘Nati’ in the promo.His quick retorts to Bachchan leave him lost for words. He is also seen reciting the poem ‘Koshish karne valo ki haar nahi hoti’ after being selected for the hot seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-year-old-from-himachal-leaves-amitabh-bachchan-speechless-on-kbc-341536
