24-11-2021||---||Landslide blocks Solan-Shimla section of NH-5 for half-an-hour||Solan, November 24Landslide near Kandaghat on the Solan-Shimla section of National Highway-5 caused temporary halting of traffic.Staff of private company engaged in its four-laning rushed to the site to clear the debris and restore vehicular traffic within half-an-hour.Kandaghat SDM Vikas Sood said the vehicular traffic was restored on the highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-blocks-solan-shimla-section-of-nh-5-for-half-an-hour-342318
24-11-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Ex-MP Kripal Parmar resigns, says BJP working dictatorial||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 23A day before the crucial Core Group and State Executive meeting, state BJP vice-president and former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar today resigned from the party post, terming the party leadership’s attitude “dictatorial.”Was denied ticket for Fatehpur byelectionKripal Parmar, state BJP vice-president and former Rajya Sabha member, was considered close to party national president JP Nadda, but was denied ticket for the Fatehpur bypoll. He was the BJP candidate in the 2017 Assembly poll. He was feeling humiliated in the present party set-up.Parmar, considered close to national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda, was denied ticket for the Assembly by-poll from Fatehpur in Kangra held last month even though he was the party’s candidate in 2017 assembly poll. Without mincing words, Parmar said that senior party leaders like him were feeling humiliated in the present party set up.“I tried raising these issues at the party forum but there was no say as people at the helm of affairs were not willing to listen. I felt suffocated in the party set up and as such I felt it was best to resign,” he said.“Under the present circumstances, I would prefer to just remain a simple worker,” he added. Parmar, however, added that he had only resigned from the party post and not party.He said that all those who worked and conspired against him in the 2017 Assembly poll had been rewarded by the party despite his objection. The resignation comes at a very inopportune time, just a day before the significant Core Group and State BJP Executive meeting to be held here on November 24-26. The BJP Legislature Party meeting has been scheduled for November 26.The Core Group and State Executive meeting has been called to dissect the by-poll defeat and take corrective measures so that the party is fully geared for the 2022 Assembly poll due later next year. As such it is being expected that some major changes will be effected in the organization as part of preparation for the Assembly poll next year.BJP sources said party’s internal reports on Fatehpur defeat had pointed towards Parmar having worked against the official candidate Baldev Thakur. “Apprehending action against him, there is a possibility that he chose to step down,” said a senior leader.The resignation could further aggravate the simmering discontent among a section of the senior party leaders who feel they have no say in party decisions as the senior leadership behaves in a very autocratic manner. Earlier, former minister and sitting MLA from Jwalamukhi Ramesh Dhawala too had aired his grouse against dictatorial style of functioning of senior leaders and interfering in his constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-mp-kripal-parmar-resigns-says-bjp-working-dictatorial-342113
24-11-2021||Shimla||Smart cow shelters to come up in Solan, Kangra districts||Rural Development and Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar said the government had taken several effective steps for protection of stray cattle through the Gau Seva Aayog and by setting up smart cow shelters in each district.An agreement has been signed to set up smart cow shelters in Solan and Kangra districts. These shelters would have a capacity to accommodate 3,000 cows each and 20 per cent milch cows would be kept there, he said.He presided over the 5th meeting of the Aayog. To make Gau Sadans self-reliant, 10 of these would be converted into Gau Vigyan Kendras, he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smart-cow-shelters-to-come-up-in-solan-kangra-districts-342114
24-11-2021||Shimla||ZP member found hanging from tree in Shimla||A Zila Parishad member from Jhakri ward of Shimla, Kavita Kantu (27), was found hanging from a tree in summer hill forest area. She allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself with a cloth (dupatta).Kavita had completed her MPhil and was preparing for the PhD exam. She was residing alone in a rented accommodation.Her friends said it was difficult to believe that she committed suicide. SP Monika Bhatungru said prima facie it appeared to be a suicide case. An FSL team lifted evidence from the spot. The police probe is underway. The body has been sent for a post-mortem.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/zp-member-found-hanging-from-tree-in-shimla-342115
24-11-2021||---||Truck rolls down hill in Sirmaur, 3 die||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 23Three persons were killed and two others seriously injured when the truck (HP 71-0482) they were travelling in rolled down the road at Khadon Khar village near Nera Baga in Sangrah subdivision of Sirmaur district around 11.30 am today. The truck was engaged at a limestone mine and was returning after unloading material when the mishap occurred.Additional SP, Sirmaur, Babita Rana said that two persons were killed on the spot while one injured person died at a hospital at Nahan. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered and a probe has been launched to ascertain the cause of the accident.A police team reached the spot to rescue the accident victims soon after receiving information. The bodies were sent for a postmortem examination. Meanwhile, Sangrah SDM Vikram Negi disbursed relief to the next of kin of the dead and to the injured.The deceased have been identified as Ravinder (20), a resident of Dohati-Lohati village, Jagiya Ram (47), a resident of Ganog village, and Ashok (26), a resident of Ner Baga village in Sangrah.The seriously injured were shifted to the Dadahu hospital and from there they were referred to the medical college at Nahan. The injured have been identified as Pawan (19) and Sanjay (22), both residents of villages in Sangrah tehsil. Sanjay was driving the ill-fated truck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/truck-rolls-down-hill-in-sirmaur-3-die-342116
24-11-2021||---||Factory building collapses in Parwanoo, one killed||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 23One labourer was killed while another was trapped under the rubble of the four-storey building of AG Appliances (Pvt) Limited in Sector 2 of Parwanoo town that collapsed around 1.30 pm today. The building was lying vacant for quite some time and four labourers were engaged to repair it.The Deputy Commissioner, Solan, requisitioned a 15-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team from Pinjore around 4.30 pm to rescue the trapped labourers. The team immediately began its operation with the help of special equipment and took out one of the trapped labourers Surman, hailing from Bihar, around 7.30 pm. He was taken to the ESIC Hospital, Parwanoo, where he was declared brought dead. The operation was still on to rescue other labourer Naresh, who belongs to Hamirpur.Since morning a team of Home Guards jawans, police and firemen was engaged in rescuing the labourers with the help of earth excavators. It, however, failed to do much due to large scale debris, which had to be removed with caution.Vinay Singla had purchased the company’s building recently and four labourers were engaged to repair it. The repair work was underway there for the past two weeks. According to the police, the mishap occurred when the labourers were having lunch. The base of the building had been dug up with an earth excavation machine, which weakened the old structure and it gave way. Two other labourers Santosh and Vijay were pushed out of the building due to the impact of the collapse. Naresh was engaged to oversee the electricity fitting in the building.The Deputy Commissioner, Kasauli SDM and the SP oversaw the rescue operation. SP Virender Sharma said that a joint rescue operation was underway. Meanwhile, the police have registered a case under Sections 336, 337 and 304-A of the IPC against the building owner and the contractor, who had engaged the labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/factory-building-collapses-in-parwanoo-one-killed-342117
24-11-2021||Palampur||Marine Commando Amit Rana awarded Shaurya Chakra||Marine Commando Amit Rana, a native of Jwalamukhi in Kangra, has been conferred with Shaurya Chakra — a peacetime gallantry award.He has been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for eliminating and injuring terrorists in an operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018. President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces, presented him the award at the Rastrapati Bhavan.Amit was deployed in Kashmir for a counter-insurgency mission, “Operation Rakshak”, in September 2018. Based on Intelligence inputs about the presence of militants, his team cornered the terrorists in a cow shed and later Amit and his team managed to kill three terrorists. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/marine-commando-amit-rana-awarded-shaurya-chakra-342118
24-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||No SP post, Himachal Pradesh Police Services officers face stagnation in cadre||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 23Himachal Pradesh Police Services (HPPS) officers feel there is a need for a cadre review to enhance promotional avenues by removing bottlenecks. The sanctioned strength of the HPPS officers is 189 with 140 posts of DSP and 35 posts of Additional SP while there is no post of SP in the cadre.No promotion even after 11 yearsThe DSPs of the 2010 batch have failed to get promotion even after 11 years. A Sub-Inspector, on the other hand, gets two promotions during this duration and is promoted as DSP, rue HPPS officials.Things have come to such a pass that the DSPs of the 2010 batch have failed to get promotion even after 11 years. A Sub-Inspector, on the other hand, gets two promotions during this duration and is promoted as DSP, rue HPPS officials.If the HPPS officials are compared to the Indian Police Services (IPS) cadre or the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS), their promotion is time-bound. To address their grievances, a six-member Board of Officials headed by Ashok Tiwari, ADGP, Law and Order, was constituted by DGP Sanjay Kundu earlier this year.The DGP said the report of the six-member BOOs was forwarded to the Secretary Home some months ago and a fresh reminder has also been sent for further action.The board had sought views from the HPPS on various issues including ratio in different ranks and creation of SP rank post in the HPPS.A majority of the officials felt that the pyramid of the HPPS is too broad at the bottom with 140 DSPs and 35 ASPs and there being no post of SP in the HPPS cadre. Unanimity was arrived at for revising the ratio of SP to ASP to DSP to 1:2:4 i.e.27:54:108 to create regular promotional avenues.“Broadening the pyramid at the top will create a pool of experienced officials like SPs and ASPs who, when inducted into the IPS cadre, will have gathered adequate experience and leadership exposure,” recommended the BOO.“Enhancing cadre strength to deal with emerging challenges of policing, time-bound promotions vis-à-vis defence forces were the need of the hour,” said an HPPS official.As many as 27 posts of SP have been recommended. In large districtslike Shimla, Kangra and Mandi, an SSP-level officer should head the district and there can be two SPs (urban and rural) of the HPPS cadre ineach district.The board also proposed that 54 ASPs can be placed in seven key districts by upgrading the posts of DSP, besides posting them in other positions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-sp-post-himachal-pradesh-police-services-officers-face-stagnation-in-cadre-342119
24-11-2021||Shimla||Power plant unit inaugurated||SJVN chairman Nand Lal Sharma virtually inaugurated the second unit of 1,320 MW Buxar thermal power plant in Bihar today. Speaking on the occasion, Sharma exhorted all stakeholders to strive hard to commission the project prior to the scheduled timeframe.He said that the project consists of two units and that more than 50 per cent works related to first unit have already been completed. “The plant involves investment of around Rs 11,000 crore. On commissioning, the plant will generate 9,828 million units of electricity,” said Sharma. He said efforts were afoot towards commissioning of the first unit of the plant by June 2023, and second unit by January 2024. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-plant-unit-inaugurated-342120
24-11-2021||---||28 directors to attend Shimla international film fest||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 23As many as 28 directors, including that of ‘Thalaivi’ (AL Vijay), would attend the three-day Seventh International Film Festival of Shimla (IFFS), commencing from November 26. As many as 58 films from 16 countries are slated to be screened.Fest to commence on nov 26“The foreign filmmakers attending the festival include Mathew Koshmri from Korea — ‘Land of my father’ (documentary); Peyman Mahmood Shahmohamadi from Iran — ‘Aparat’ (short film ); Ronald Uterberger from Germany — ‘Die Grienze’ (feature film); Bouchaib El Messaoudi from Morocco — ‘Amghar’ (documentary); and Aryaman Prasad from the US — ‘Oonch Neech’ (short film),” said festival director Pushpraj Thakur.The festival is being organised by Himalayan Velocity, in association with the Language, Art and Culture Department and the HP Government. The festival will give an opportunity to budding artistes to interact with the film directors.Some of the most talked about films include ‘Amghar’ in Arabic, directed by Dr Bouchaib El Messaoudi, reflecting a philosophical vision of a decisive social and societal phenomenon in the daily life of the region. Another short film from Iran, ‘Aparat’, is on intersexual relations between cinematic works and the subject of the film. Continuing the tradition, the films would also be screened at Model Central Jail, Kanda, besides Gaiety Theatre. This is for the third time that the IFFS is having two venues for the event. The idea behind the second venue is to bridge the gap between the inside and the outside world through cinema and to nurture creativity of prisoners.By promoting such activities and connecting the jail inmates with the world outside, the IFFS intends to motivate the prisoners who are struggling to find their place in the world to think out of the box, said the festival director. In jails, they live in isolation from the outside world and it adds to their depression and fear of getting institutionalised behind the walls and bars of the prison, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/28-directors-to-attend-shimla-international-film-fest-342121
24-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Dagshai-Kumarhatti road in bad shape||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 23The Dagshai-Kumarhatti road is in a pitiable condition due to lack of timely repair and maintenance. The condition of the road is worsening with each passing day. A large stretch of the road has worn out, exposing the rocky and muddy surface below.Maintenance work under defence authoritiesThe road connects the cantonment town of Dagshai to the Kalka-Shimla national highway and is serves as a key link for the residents of this town and its peripheral villages. In the absence of public transport, a large number of residents use two-wheelers to travel to nearby towns such as Dharampur and Kumarhatti. They take risk in negotiating the potholed bumpy surface.Because of poor condition of the road, hapless residents are forced to take a detour from Dosarka to Dagshai from the highway. Since the road falls under the cantonment, the defence authorities have to undertake its maintenance. Though another approach road connecting the town from Dosarka on the highway is regularly repaired, no funds have been set aside for this road. As a result, its surface has become uneven and the risk of accidents has increased manifold.“Since the Dagshai-Kumarhatti road is largely used by civilians, it seems it does not fall in the priority list of the defence authorities. Therefore, its condition has worsened,” says Kamal, a local resident who uses the road daily to commute to Solan for work.Only a small patch of the concrete road in the middle is intact while its surface at the sides has worn out. “Vehicles suffer additional wear and tear because of the uneven surface,” says Ajay Kumar, a driver.“The road does not have side drains. So whenever it rains, travelling on it becomes more difficult as rainwater seeps in through the surface and damages it,” rues Anand, another local resident. Besides housing a cantonment, Dagshai has two residential schools while several villages such as Anech situated in its periphery. The residents of Anech village prefer to commute through Gandhigram on the Kumarhatti-Nahan highway, owing to the poor condition of the connecting roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dagshai-kumarhatti-road-in-bad-shape-342122
24-11-2021||---||Shimla tops in Sustainable Development Goals survey||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 23Shimla has attained the top ranking in the Sustainable Development Goals survey conducted by the Niti Aayog in 56 cities across the country on social, economic and environmental parameters.The numbers for the survey were gathered from official sources such as the National Family Health Survey, National Crime Record Bureau, U-DISE and portals of various ministries.“A lot of work has been done in Shimla through the Smart City Mission and AMRUT mission. Attaining the top rank in sustainable development goals is a big feat for the city,” said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj. The minister said efforts would be made to ensure that Shimla stays on the top. “Shimla has received 75.5 points out of 100 in the survey,” he said. The top 10 cities in the survey are Shimla, Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Panji, Pune, Tiruchirappalli, Ahmedabad and Nagpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-tops-in-sustainable-development-goals-survey-342123
24-11-2021||---||Explain reason for delay in completion of work on two roads, HP High Court tells NHAI||Vijay AroraShimla, November 23The HP High Court has directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to file an affidavit mentioning therein that within what period of time the construction of Kaithlighat to Dhalli and Tara Devi to Ghandal roads would be completed.Parking woes at Totu and DhandaThe court also directed the Municipal Corporation, Shimla, to carry out a survey about the construction of parking facility at Totu and Dhanda. This has been suggested so that parking of vehicles on both sides of the road could be avoided by the commuters. The civic body has been told to inform the court whether parking facility can be provided anywhere near the above said areas.It further directed the NHAI to explain the reason for delay in completion of the construction of these two important roads.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Sabina passed this order last week on a Public Interest Litigation regarding frequent traffic congestion on Shimla roads.The court further directed the PWD to conduct a survey and apprise the court about the feasibility of constructing bypass of one kilometre from Shimla to Dhanda to ease out the traffic congestion at Totu (Shimla).It also directed the Municipal Corporation, Shimla, to carry out a survey about the construction of parking facility at Totu and Dhanda so as to avoid parking of vehicles on both sides of the road and inform the court, whether parking facility can be provided anywhere near the above said areas so as to discourage people from parking vehicles on both sides of the road.In the meanwhile, the court has directed the Superintendent of Police, Shimla to explore the possibility of parking vehicles only on one side of the Totu- Ghanatti road so as to ensure free flow of traffic and avoid frequent traffic jam in the area.During the course of hearing, the court was apprised about the parking of taxis near Cecil Hotel and RTO Office as well as on the road abutting Blossom Hotel, about 50 metres ahead of RTO Office. On this, the court directed the Superintendent of Police to either identify another parking space for taxies or allow parking in such a way so that the traffic jam can be avoided.The court also directed the MC, Shimla to undertake a survey within four weeks to identify the encroachments in the city abutting the main road and also submit action plan indicating therein as to within what period of time, such encroachers can be removed to ensure free flow of traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/explain-reason-for-delay-in-completion-of-work-on-two-roads-hp-high-court-tells-nhai-342124
24-11-2021||---||Shimla-Narkanda road blocked due to landslide||Tribune News ServiceShimla, November 23The Shimla – Narkanda National Highway-05 was blocked near Theog (Khachimod- Devimod temple) following a massive landslide but no casualty was reported.There was no loss to property or vehicles as the slide occurred at midnight when no vehicle was crossing the stretch. The one-way traffic was restored around 3 pm. The traffic for light vehicles has been diverted via Sarion-Halai-Sandhu (Shimla side) and Sandhu-Jadeog-Devimor from Narkanda side while heavy vehicles have been diverted via Basantapur Kingal from Dhalli.“We would ask the state geological department to examine the starta of vulnerable sites in the district so that steps could be taken to avoid slides in future”, said Deputy Commissioner Shimla, Aditya Negi. During the post monsoon season, 163 persons have lost their lives in accidents, drowning, falling and other allied reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-narkanda-road-blocked-due-to-landslide-342126
24-11-2021||Shimla||Shimla MC likely to have more wards before elections||The Shimla Municipal Corporation (MC) is likely to have a few more wards before the poll next year. Sources said around four-five representations from areas falling in Dhalli and Mashobra have been received for merger with the Municipal Corporation. “The State Election Commission has given directions to expedite the process of merger ahead of the elections,” said a source. The applications for merger and demerger of areas will be sent to the government and the Cabinet will decide which area becomes part of the MC and which stays out, he said. Currently, the MC has 34 wards.The MC will finish its term in June next year, and the date for polling could be announced anytime after April. The Election Commission held the first meeting with the District Administration, Urban Development Department and Municipal Corporation to kickstart the preparations for the elections, here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-likely-to-have-more-wards-before-elections-342127
24-11-2021||Mandi||Football tourney begins in Mandi||The 49th All India Hot weather Football tournament was inaugurated by Additional DC Jatin Lal at Paddal Ground here today. While inaugurating the event, the ADC said it was appreciable on the part of organisers to promote football game in the district. He said that sports was essential for the youths to maintain their physical and mental health. The ADC was given warm welcome by the members of organising committee of this event.The first match was played between DFA Kangra and Bikaner FC Rajasthan which Bikaner team won by 1-0. The second match of the tournament will be played between Param FC Jammu and Ranger FC at 2 pm tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/football-tourney-begins-in-mandi-342128
24-11-2021||---||84 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal||Shimla, November 23As many as 84 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 226,589.Besides, one person died of the virus in Mandi.The highest number of 27 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 18 in Shimla, 10 in Hamirpur, eight each in Una and Solan, six in Mandi, three in Bilaspur and two each in Chamba and Kullu. The number of active cases declined to 865.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/84-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-342129
24-11-2021||Palampur||Palampur: Follow rules or face licence cancellation, paragliding pilots told||Baijnath SDM Salem Aazam and Deputy Director, Tourism, PP Singh have said that the government would not hesitate to cancel the licences of pilots who bring bad name to paragliding.While addressing members of the paragliding associations at Baijnath yesterday, they said the Tourism Department would soon undertake an exercise to inspect the documents of pilots and their equipment. No pilot with less than five years of experience will be allowed to fly. Members of the paragliding associations Paragliding associations complained to officers that many pilots were not following safety guidelines of the state government, consuming synthetic drugs and liquor before paragliding and not adhering to the fixed tariff as there was no authority to check them. They said the Bir Billing Paragliding Association (BPA) had already recommended the cancellation of licences of a number of pilots, but to no avail.Last year too, the state government had ordered the verification of licences but no proper checks were undertaken. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-follow-rules-or-face-licence-cancellation-paragliding-pilots-told-342130
24-11-2021||Aakash Educational Services Limited (AESL)||Aakash institute centre in Shimla||US Embassy delegation visits HPUA delegation from the US Embassy, led by Catherine Fischer and Joy King, Public Diplomacy Officers, visited the Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, and discussed various issues related to mutually beneficial areas, especially entrepreneurship development, skill development, livelihood opportunities and issues related to women empowerment. After detailed discussion on various issues, a short video was shown to the delegates, followed by a presentation on various activities of the university and the Biotechnology Incubation Centre.SFI submits memo to college admnThe SFI unit of Kotshera College submitted a memorandum to the college administration saying that ABVP workers from outside the college campus keep coming to the college and try to spoil the educational environment in the institution. The SFI said it had brought the matter to the administration’s notice earlier too but no action had been taken. The organisation further said if the administration did not take any action then it would not be responsible for the deteriorating environment of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aakash-institute-centre-in-shimla-342132
24-11-2021||The monkey menace is on the rise in Shimla. Monkeys can be seen snatching eatables from tourists. While walking on The Ridge||Simian menace at The Ridge, Shimla||— Vikrant Thakur, ShimlaPeople must leash their dogs during walksSeveral dog owners come out for a walk without putting a leash on their pets in various parts of Shimla. Many a times, these dogs lunge at people, leaving people scared. The owners should put a leash on their dogs whenever they bring them out for a walk.— Rajesh Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/simian-menace-at-the-ridge-shimla-342134
24-11-2021||Shimla||Former Rajya Sabha MP Kripal Parmar resigns as Himachal BJP vice president||A day before the crucial core group and state executive meeting, Himachal BJP vice president and former Rajya Sabha MP Kripal Parmar on Tuesday resigned from the party post, terming the party leadership dictatorial.Parmar, considered close to national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda, who was denied the ticket for the assembly bypoll from Fatehpur in Kangra, last month had said that senior party leaders like him were feeling humiliated in the present set up.He also said that he tried raising these issues at party forum but there was no say as people at the helm of affairs were not willing to listen.The resignation comes at a very inopportune time, just a day before the significant core group and state BJP executive meeting to be held here on November 24-25.The BJP legislature party meeting has been scheduled for November 26.The resignation could trigger a crisis in the party as there is fear that some more resignations could follow. The core group and state executive meeting had been called to dissect the bypoll defeat and take corrective measures so that the party is fully geared for the 2022 Assembly polls, due later next year.The resignation could further aggravate the simmering discontent among a section of the senior party leaders who feel they have no say in party decisions as the senior leadership behaves in a very autocratic manner.Earlier, former minister and sitting MLA from Jwalamukhi Ramesh Dhawala too had aired his grouse against dictatorial style of functioning of senior leaders and interfering in his constituency.Parmar, however, added that he had only resigned from the party post and not the party. The BJP suffered debacle at the hands of the Congress as it lost the Mandi Lok Sabha seat as well as three assembly bypolls, held last month.The BJP candidate in the bypoll from Jubbal-Kotkhai Neelam Sarek, who lost her security deposit too, has registered her displeasure at the appointment of office bearers to the Mandal unit without consulting her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-rajya-sabha-mp-kripal-parmar-resigns-as-himachal-bjp-vice-president-341901
