28-11-2021||---||Provide Rs 4 lakh as relief to kin of Covid victims: Himachal congress chief||Mandi, November 27The next target of the Congress is to win the state Assembly elections due next year. The state government should pay Rs 4 lakh as compensation to next of kin of every Covid victim, said Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore while talking to mediapersons here today.“During the campaign for the byelections, the BJP tried to divert the attention of people from key issues in the name of regionalism and nationalism but failed to get any political mileage. The Congress raised key issues such as inflation, unemployment and the lack of development, which changed the mood of the public against the government,” he added.Poor health services during pandemicDuring the Covid-19 pandemic, hospitals were in a complete mess. A senior minister fled the IGMC, Shimla, after he got infected with the virus. The minister cited disorderly services in the hospital as the reason for it. —Kuldeep Singh Rathore, HPCC chief“The four years of the BJP government have been full of disappointment for people because Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur failed to usher in development in the state. The Congress won the byelections because of the hard work of every party worker, who apprised people about the failures of the government,” he added.“During Covid-19, hospitals were in a complete mess. A senior minister fled the IGMC, Shimla, after he got infected with the virus. The minister cited disorderly health services in the hospital as the reason for it,” said Rathore.“We are requesting the state government to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the next of kin of each Covid victim. It has been found that in the case of majority of Covid victims that the cause of death was not reported by the hospital authorities. I am writing a letter to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over the issue and will request him to take necessary action,” he added.“The Congress has launched a ‘Jan Jagran’ campaign in the state to make people aware about the shortcomings of the government’. Today, a padyatra was held in the Balh constituency of Mandi,” said Rathore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/alleges-cause-of-death-not-reported-by-hospitals-in-many-cases-343668
28-11-2021||Ambika Sharma||Giving second Covid vaccination dose a challenge in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, November 27Administering the second dose of Covid vaccine to all by December 3 has become an arduous task for the state government as there is a considerable decline in self-reporting by eligible people.All districts have been given the target to achieve 100 per cent vaccination, with the health staff in Solan district supposed to vaccinate 1 lakh people in three days.Though Himachal had topped the country in administering the first dose to 54.22 lakh people in the 18-plus category in August, the target of repeating this feat for the second dose appears to be challenging.About 55,23,000 people are supposed to receive the second jab, as per the estimates of the Health Department. However, barely 49.79 per cent population has been administered the second dose till now.As many as 59,173 persons were vaccinated in the state on Saturday, with maximum of 17,162 in Kangra, 9,253 in Mandi, 5,982 in Shimla, 6,834 in Solan, 1,589 in Una, 4,135 in Sirmaur, 3,510 in Hamirpur, 4,061 in Chamba, 4,000 in Kullu, 2,532 in Bilaspur, 93 in Kinnaur and 22 in Lahaul-Spiti.Though Solan district had topped the state in administering both doses of Covid-19 vaccine till November 24, only few are turning up to receive the second dose now. The first dose had been administered to 169 per cent of the eligible population while the second dose has been received by 123.1 per cent of the target group in Solan.On the other hand, bigger districts like Shimla, Mandi and Kangra have administered the first dose to 115.8, 93.4 and 91.7 per cent of the targeted population, respectively, while the second dose has been received by 96.2, 79.4 and 76.1 per cent till November 24.The tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti have fared better than other districts. Of the targeted population, 132.4 and 129.2 per cent have received the first jab, respectively, in the two districts while the second jab has been received by 108.7 per cent and 89.9 per cent people.Dr Gagan Rajhans, District Immunisation Officer, said, “A large number of people from the neighbouring states had received the first dose in districts like Solan, which share border with these states. This had increased the number of those receiving the first dose by 5 to 10 per cent. The floating population from the slums, industrial workers and truckers falls in this category. Their absence has now caused a decline in the number of those receiving the second dose,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/giving-second-vax-dose-a-challenge-343669
28-11-2021||Shimla||82 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths in Himachal||As many as 82 Covid cases were reported today. Besides, three persons died of the virus — two in Kangra and one in Hamirpur. As many as 30 cases was reported in Kangra, 12 in Una, 11 in Hamirpur, 10 in Solan etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/82-new-cases-three-deaths-in-himachal-343670
28-11-2021||---||FCI refuses to procure paddy, farmers protest at Paonta centre||Solan, November 27Farmers at the procurement centre at Haripur Tohana in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district today sat on a dharna after officials of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) refused to procure their paddy crop.The problem started after the FCI directed the farmers to get revenue records of their landholdings updated as only six quintals of paddy per bigha was to be procured. As a large number of revenue records were not updated owing to the change in ownership or lack of mutation and other reasons, the patwaris had given them hand-written copies of the land records.The FCI officials, however, did not accept the hand-written copies of the revenue records and refused to procure paddy from the farmers. This triggered resentment among the farmers, who had registered for procurement and were waiting since last evening for their crop to be lifted.Paonta Sahib SDM Vivek Mahajan had to intervene as the farmers sat on a dharna at the centre. Later, Mahajan said, “An issue cropped up at the Haripur Tohana centre owing to the lack of updated revenue records. It was taken up with the FCI staff, who had refused to accept hand-written reports of the patwaris. I have given an undertaking to the FCI to accept these hand-written land reports and procurement was restarted”.Other issues like the rescheduling of procurement from farmers whose produce was not lifted on the due date were also taken up with the FCI staff. The procurement is way behind the schedule as till now the crops of farmers, who had registered on the online portal for November 13, have not been procured. Farmers are demanding extension of the procurement period beyond November 30.The government has taken up the issue of an extended procurement season, but the FCI is yet to make any announcement, giving anxious moments to the farmers. Paddy is being procured for the first time in the state at nine centres since October 15.Not updatedAs a large number of revenue records were not updated, the patwaris had given hand-written copies of the land records to farmers. FCI officials, however, were not accepting the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fci-refuses-to-procure-paddy-farmers-protest-at-paonta-centre-343671
28-11-2021||---||To save Dal Lake, Kangra admn to rope in IIT-Mandi experts||Dharamsala, November 27The district administration of Kangra has decided to hire the services of experts from the IIT-Mandi to restore Dharamsala’s Dal Lake to its previous glory. In a meeting held here on Friday, a committee was formed under the Additional Commissioner of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation to work out the modalities for restoring the lake.How the problem got highlightedKangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal, while talking to The Tribune, said a team of experts from IIT-Mandi and the Department of Science and Environment of Himachal Pradesh would be engaged to restore the lake. Initial efforts would be to plug the siphons that have been created at the base of the lake. Then, silt would be removed from the base and check dams would be created in the forest around it to prevent rapid de-silting of the lake, he said.The restoration work would be reviewed every week till completion as the lake is a major tourist point and also holds religious significance for the local people.The Dal Lake started losing water rapidly in 2012. During the previous BJP government’s tenure, efforts were made to de-silt the water body. As per the locals, unscientific de-silting of the lake created siphons at its base, through which its water gets drained quickly. This year, even as the monsoon ended in October, the lake is on the verge of drying up. Hundreds of fish in the lake had started dying due to scarcity of water. Locals and Tibetans residing in the Naddi area had come together to save the fish trapped in the muddy water below the lake. The efforts of the locals to save the fish and transfer it to other water bodies in the area received national and international attention. It also made the state government and district administration take note of the plight of Dal Lake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-save-dal-lake-kangra-admn-to-rope-in-iit-mandi-experts-343672
28-11-2021||---||Himachal police to be awarded Presidential Colours on Dec 1||Shimla, November 27The Himachal Pradesh Police will be awarded Presidential Colours by the Governor during a ceremony at The Ridge Maidan on December 1.The award for the state was sanctioned by the President on March 17, 2019. The award is a reflection on the sum total of service to humanity and it would indeed be a proud day for the police. The Himachal Police is the eighth state police force to get this recognition — much ahead of some bigger and more resource-surplus states, a spokesman said.He said the Himachal Police owed this award to its personnel, who worked tirelessly over the years to make it a credible, professional, honest and people-friendly police. “Nirbhaya, Nishpaksh, Satyanishth” are the guiding principles of the Himachal Police and they had performed their duties braving harsh weather, mountainous topography and vulnerability to natural disasters, he added.After receiving the award, its flag will be unfurled at all police offices in the state, districts and battalions and all state police personnel will wear its insignia on their uniform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-to-be-awarded-presidential-colours-on-dec-1-343673
28-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Union minister visits Bhuntar airport||Kullu, November 27General VK Singh (retd), Union Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways and Civil Aviation, visited the Kullu-Manali airport at Bhuntar, 10 km from here, today. Airport Director Neeraj Kumar Srivastava welcomed him and other dignitaries with traditional Kullu caps and shawls. They were apprised of the facilities at the airport and challenges being faced through a PowerPoint presentation.The Airport Director said various suggestions were given before the Union Minister to increase air traffic and attract other players to start operations to the famous tourist destination. He said various measures required for the improvement of the airport were also presented before the dignitaries.He said the Union Minister visited the operation area and expressed his happiness over the arrangements made at the Kullu-Manali airport. Stakeholders of the tourism industry are hopeful that the Union Minister would expedite the matter of expansion of the runway and lowering of exorbitant airfares.The minister also paid obeisance at the temple of the chief deity Lord Raghunathji. Later, he went to Manali and visited the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang. He said the tunnel was the pride of the country and the Centre aims to keep the Manali-Leh highway open throughout the year by constructing tunnels underneath Shinku La, Baralacha La, Tanglang La and Lachung La to facilitate the access of the Army to the border areas.Earlier, General VK Singh held detailed talks with the officials at the BRO office in the Solang Nullah. He also reviewed the progress of the work of the Kullu-Manali national highway and gave directions to the NHAI officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-minister-visits-bhuntar-airport-343674
28-11-2021||---||Government urged to bring strict law to check paragliding mishaps||Our CorrespondentPalampur, November 27The Bir Billing Paragliding Association (BPA) today appealed to the state government to bring a stringent law to tackle rising paragliding mishaps, which had brought a bad name to the adventure sport. The association suspended all tandem flights at Bir Billing three days ago after a youth was killed because of the negligence of the pilot.The seven-member core committee of the association, which met at Bir under the chairmanship of its president Sudheer Sharma, resolved to submit a draft of rules to the state government. He said the association had already constituted a technical committee to draft the rules, which would be passed in the general house on December 19 and then forwarded to the government for approval.Sharma, while addressing mediapersons at Bir, said paragliders were the slowest flying machines in the sky, therefore, also the most sensitive to weather conditions. Most of the accidents happen because pilots underestimate, misjudge or simply don’t care about local weather conditions.“If you take off in weather conditions that are suitable for recreational flying, you cut the statistical risk by half,” said Sharma. He added that they would also request the government to develop paragliding as an adventure sport, not as a means to attract tourism.He said that because of large-scale commercialisation of paragliding, many untrained pilots had managed to get licences, leading to fatal mishaps. He added that he had received complaints that many pilots were flying gliders under the influence of liquor or drugs, which needs to be immediately checked.He rued that the state agencies were not ensuring a check on pilots or their documents, equipment etc either at the take-off point or at the landing site, which was another reason for rising mishaps. He said that the government could earn revenue if proper planning was made in collaboration with the stakeholders for developing paragliding as an adventure sport and for holding competitions.Draft of rules being preparedThe Bir Billing Paragliding Association has constituted a technical committee to draft the rules, which will be approved at a meeting on December 19 and then forwarded to the state government for approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-urged-to-bring-strict-law-to-check-paragliding-mishaps-343675
28-11-2021||Our Correspondent||5-day national Kho Kho tourney begins in Una||Una, November 27Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar inaugurated the 31st National Sub Junior Kho Kho Tournament at the Indira Gandhi Stadium in Una district today. As many as 612 players in the under-14 year age group from 27 states are participating in the five-day tournament, which will conclude on December 1.The Governor said, “Kho Kho is a traditional Indian sport, which needs to be promoted”. He called upon the players to exhibit true sportsman spirit and not get discouraged by defeat. He added that sports boost mental agility and keeps the body physically fit.He congratulated the Himachal Pradesh Kho Kho Association for hosting the tournament. He said the Kho Kho Federation of India was making all efforts to promote the sport in the country. He honoured Nishad Kumar, Paralympic silver medallist who hails from Una district.Satpal Singh Satti, Chairman of the State Finance Commission, said, “Himachal Pradesh is a peaceful state, known as ‘Dev Bhoomi’ and ‘Veer Bhoomi’. It is blessed with temples and religious places and a large number of our sons and daughters have spent their lives serving in the armed and paramilitary forces”. He welcomed children and officials from all over the country to the state.MS Tyagi, general secretary of the Kho Kho Federation of India, elaborated on the developments in the sport. He said, “Kho Kho is now played on mats and players have a bright future on the basis of their achievements. Four courts have been set up in the stadium for the tournament and the federation has provided one mat, which will be handed over to the HP Kho Kho Association after the tournament.”Rakesh Thakur, chairman of Himachal Pradesh Kho Kho Association, Dr RK Dogra and LR Verma, senior vice-presidents, and DD Tanwar, general secretary of the association, were also present. The Governor later interacted with the players during the inaugural matches in the boys and girls categories.Ram Kumar, vice-chairman of the HP Industries Development Corporation, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma and SP Arijit Sen Thakur were also present.Earlier, the teams participated in a rally organised on the theme ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, which was flagged off by Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar from the Municipal Park in Una city. The rally culminated at the Indira Gandhi Stadium before the start of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-day-national-kho-kho-tourney-begins-in-una-343676
28-11-2021||---||Residents of Sainj valley demand bypass||Mandi, November 27Residents of the Sainj valley are demanding the construction of the Talara-Sainj bypass in Kullu district. The completion of this bypass will benefit the residents of five panchayats of Talara, Bhalan, Devgarh, Gohi and Raila with better transportation in the region.Area residents Tikam Ram, Puran Chand and Joginder Singh said it was only be a five-km-long stretch that needs to be constructed.Mohar Singh, pradhan, Talara gram panchayat, said, “It is a long-pending demand of the people in the region. They have been urging the Parbati power project authorities at the NHPC, Kullu, to construct this bypass so that they can get better transport facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-of-sainj-valley-demand-bypass-343677
28-11-2021||Shimla||Minister reviews working of HIMUDA||The Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) is contemplating adopting a land pooling policy. As per the proposal, HIMUDA would develop and market the land of willing private owners without actually acquiring it.Urban Development and Housing Minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Saturdaychaired a meeting of HIMUDA officials regarding improvement in its working and fiscal condition. The minister also instructed HIMUDA to complete assigned deposit works in time.He said HIMUDA had purchased 1,731 bighas at various places for Rs 156 crore and now, instead of buying more land, it would develop such land to generate revenue. HIMUDA officials, led by vice-chairman Praveen Sharma, handed over a detailed report containing their recommendations to the minister. HIMUDA is also approaching industries and horticulture departments to lease land that it has at different locations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-reviews-working-of-himuda-343684
28-11-2021||---||Iranian, Korean films draw applause at Shimla film fest||Shimla, November 27‘Aparat’, a short film by Hasan Najmabadi from Iran; ‘The Land of My Father’, a documentary film by Matthew Koshmrl from Korea; short film ‘Oonch Neech’ by Aryaman Prasad from America; and ‘Co-Husband’, a documentary film by Ganesh Panday from Nepal, were screened on the second day of the 7th International Film Festival of Shimla.The other films screened included ‘Jhat Aayi Basant’, a pahadi short film by Pramati Anand, shot in Dharamsala. The film showcases the struggles of two women from different backgrounds and how they cope up with issues in a patriarchal society. ‘The Unknown Number’, a short film by Mumbai-based film-maker Jatin Chanana on the plight and void in the life of people who have lost their loved ones to Covid, was also showcased.‘Trees in Dreams’, a feature film by Keralite film-maker Sohan Lal, and ‘A Man and His Shoes’, a short film made by the Late Abhishek Sharma, a native from Shimla, also drew good response from the audience.The festival had an open forum today in which members of the audience interacted with film-makers from various countries and states. Students of various colleges of Shimla and the local viewers were among the audience.The three-day International Film Festival is being organised at two locations, namely Gaiety Theatre and Model Jail, Kanda. “I am glad that what I started three years ago is continuing. We are perhaps the only country and state where films are simultaneously streamed in a model central jail too. I thank the organisers and the Prison Department for continuing with the tradition,” former DGP Somesh Goyal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iranian-korean-films-draw-applause-at-fest-343685
28-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Start construction of ST bhawan at Jassur: Samiti||Nurpur, November 27The All-India Gaddi Janjati Vikas Samiti has urged the state government to start the construction of the proposed Schedule Tribes (ST) bhawan at Jassur, near Nurpur. It was sanctioned by the State Gaddi Welfare Board in January 2014 during the previous Congress government of Virbhadra Singh.Madan Bharmouri, national vice-president of the samiti, said here today that the ownership of the identified land had been transferred in the favour of the State ST Development Department. The first installment of Rs 1.50 crore of the total Rs 2.50 crore earmarked for the construction of the ST bhawan was released during the previous Congress government.He alleged that with the change in government, the construction of the bhawan became a victim of political and administrative conspiracies. “Though the then Forest Minister Thakur Singh Bharmouri had laid the foundation stone of the bhawan on September 21, 2017, and the Public Works Department had allocated funds and awarded the tender approval letter to the building contractor in July 2019, its construction was not allowed,” he lamented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/start-construction-of-st-bhawan-at-jassur-samiti-343686
28-11-2021||Palampur||Bhairav Ashtami  celebrated  at Jwalamukhi||Bhairav Ashtami was celebrated with fervour at Jwalamukhi today. A large number of devotees paid obeisance at the Kaal Bhairav temple at Jwalamukhi.The famous Jwalamukhi temple is located adjacent to the Bhairav temple in the foothills of Kalidhar. Pilgrims started thronging the temple in the wee hours to have the ‘darshan’ of the idol of lord Bhairava. Temple Officer DN Yadav said as per the past practice, a langar was organised for pilgrims.Prabal Shastri, principal of Sanskrit College of Jawalamukhi, said jasmine flower has its significance in the worship of lord Bhairav and devotees offer it to the deity in abundance during prayers.Yadav said that lord Bhairav (god of night) was worshipped preferably between midnight and 3 am. He added that worshipping lord Bhairav helps in avoiding untimely and unnatural death and also provides protection from the wrong impacts of stars. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhairav-ashtami-celebrated-at-jwalamukhi-343689
28-11-2021||Mandi||Kullu villagers demand HRTC bus service||Residents of Dehuridhar panchayat in Kullu district have urged the state government to start Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus service on the Sainj-Dehuridhar road.According to the villagers, the road is almost 10-km long. Due to a lack of transportation facilities, the area residents have to walk long distances to reach Sainj, which becomes difficult in time of emergency.Mahender Singh Palsara, Moti Ram and Sohan Singh, all residents of Dehuridhar, say, “We had requested the HRTC authorities earlier also to start bus serviceon this road but to noavail. We also took up the matter with the SDM, Banjar, who assured us to discuss the matter with the HRTC authorities”.“We also request Banjar MLA Surender Shourie to look into the matter and take necessary action to provide bus service to the area residents,” he adds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-villagers-demand-hrtc-bus-service-343682
28-11-2021||---||Up to 20% hike in salary for Himachal employees||Shimla, November 27The Himachal Pradesh Government today announced new pay scales for its employees, giving them a hike in the range of 15-20 per cent. The government also reduced the period of contractual service for regularisation from three years to two.Addressing representatives of the Himachal Pradesh Non-Gazetted Employees Federation here, Thakur said the new pay scales would be effective from January 1, 2016. The pay of January 2022 would be payable in February as per revised pay scales, he said.Panel to be formedThe revised salary and pension would put an additional burden of Rs 6,000 crore annually on the exchequer.“The state has been spending about 43 per cent of its total budget on employees and pensioners, which will rise up to 50 per cent after implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission,” the Chief Minister said.He said all pensioners would also be given revised pension and other benefits with effect from January 1, 2016. The dearness allowance and dearness relief would be given on revised pay scales and revised pension.Thakur also announced implementation of New Pension System (Invalid Pension and Family Pension) from May 15, 2003, which would put an additional burden of Rs 250 crore on the exchequer. He said reduction in contractual service by one year would also be implemented for daily wage employees, part-time workers, water guards and water carriers. He announced release of additional Rs 10 crore for clearance of pending medical bills.The CM decided to form a committee for appointment on compassionate grounds. The panel would give its presentation in the next Cabinet meeting.He said the government would also consider to providing tribal allowance to daily wage and contract employees serving in the tribal areas. The CM said in four years, the state had enhanced the DA of employees and pensioners by 22 per cent and benefits of Rs 1,320 crore were provided to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/up-to-20-hike-in-salary-for-himachal-employees-343548
28-11-2021||Sarika Sharma||Reviving Takri, Himachal’s lost script||WHAT use is a near-extinct script? Ask a gallerist in the United States or United Kingdom, and you will know. Over the years, as the art world has come to be in awe of Pahari painters, led by Nainsukh of Guler from the erstwhile Punjab hills, a forgotten script has become a definitive tool to mark the artworks as Pahari. Once the script of royal courts and the business community, Takri (also known as Tankari) fell out of favour with the increased use of Devanagari and Urdu, and simply faded away.Decades later, efforts are being made to save whatever remains of the script that once defined what the varied languages of present-day Himachal Pradesh expressed — from Lahaul-Spiti to Kullu, from Mandi to Kangra, Sirmaur to Chamba, and beyond.Derived from Sharda script of Kashmir, Takri came to the Punjab hills in the 13th century. For a layman, the inscriptions on temples dotting the hills would be the most obvious testimony to the lost language. But researchers often find themselves peering into the account ledgers of temples, land revenue records, royal correspondence, some translation works, Pahari paintings… Loss of the script has meant the knowledge of the indigenous medicine system, literature and philosophy has been lost too.But it wasn’t so until a hundred years ago, when Takri was one of the main scripts, as confirmed by Sir George Abraham Grierson in his 1916 Linguistic Survey of India: “All over the Western Pahari area, the written character is some form or other of the Takri alphabet, but the Nagari and Persian characters are also used by the educated.”The attempts to integrate the country pre-Independence (by the British) and after Independence, in a way, spelt doom for the script. Increased correspondence with the outside world meant increased use of Urdu and Devanagari, which were already mediums of instruction at schools.Post the creation of Himachal in 1971, not much was done to introduce it to the school curriculum or give it the status of a state script, unlike Gurmukhi in neighbouring Punjab or Dogri in Jammu (both derivatives of Sharda). Linguist Ganesh Devy says that the writing technology had changed in those times. “Unlike Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra and Gujarat, Himachal was not created entirely as a linguistic state. It had other complex features — ecological, sociological, historical. And, therefore, not surprisingly, ‘script’ was not a primary focus of the then government.”Takri rapidly became a script for only old-timers to follow, some of whom were using it until the 1970s, according to scholar Jagdish Kapoor from Mandi. He remembers people signing in Takri when he joined the banking service in the 1970s, but saw it fade away eventually. His interest in the script was kindled when he found his grandfather’s account ledger in Takri and started learning the script.Over the last few years, Yatin Pandit, a researcher from Kullu, has translated several account ledgers of local temples. “Some as recent as the 1930s and 1940s,” he says. A history buff, this 39-year-old came across several references to the script in books by British scholars and, in 2016, began learning Takri. He learnt to use the font developed by Sambh, a Kangra-based organisation that works towards the preservation of Himachali heritage. Over the last few years, he has been giving classes on Takri and working on developing a primer for Kullui Takri, along with the shapes alphabets took, while looking into the possibilities of why it must have happened.From 60-year-old Padma Shri awardee painter Vijay Sharma to 36-year-old Parul Arora, Takri has found its ardent fans who are trying to learn the alphabet and share their knowledge. While Sharma has been teaching at the Bhuri Singh Museum in Chamba and helping international museums such as the Metropolitan Museum in USA and auction houses like Sotheby’s in deciphering Takri inscriptions on Pahari paintings, Arora runs a small Takri school sponsored by the Himachal Pradesh Academy of Arts, Culture and Languages in Mandi. His five students come from varied backgrounds. One is an author, another a journalist; there is a teacher, a private sector employee and a social worker. Arora says he was drawn towards the script full-fledged after he lost his job during the lockdown. Pained to see his fellow Takri lover from Mandi, Jagdish Kapoor, not get his due for all the efforts towards the script, he arranged to put up a stall of his book at Mandi Shivratri earlier this year, where more than 100 copies were sold.A major find in his journey to discover Takri has been a book, ‘Varnmala Takri’, by Bakshi Ram, written during the reign of Raja Vijaysen of Mandi in the 19th century. “The book is the best one could have asked for learning a script. It has swar, vyanjan, matrayein, framing sentences, writing letters, even tables in Takri. This book is testimony to the fact that this was a full-fledged script, multiplication tables indicate that it was perhaps taught in schools too. We have found a base to work on!”While a lot of young researchers are giving Takri the much-needed fillip, it has survived the test of time because of the likes of Jagdish Kapoor, poet Harikrishan Murari from Kangra, the late Dr Rita Sharma from Chamba and the late Khubram Khushdil from Kullu. While Murari has trained most young Takri enthusiasts in the state and elsewhere, Khushdil, a nonagenarian who passed away last year, is hailed as the man who collected the most Takri documents over the last century. Historian Tobdan says it is to Khushdil’s credit that he worked towards preserving a script the state and people had turned away from. All his life, he collected and translated Takri documents from Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul, among them a huge pile discovered beneath a statue at the Murlidhar temple near the historic Chehni Kothi in Banjar tehsil of Kullu district.“The problem with the survival of Takri is that a majority of the available documents are on subjects (tantra-mantra, revenue records, etc) serious scholars are not much interested in,” says Tobdan. However, he feels that Khushdil’s vast collection needs to be preserved and shared with scholars.Himal Nachiketa Das, a documentary filmmaker, profiled Khushdil towards the fag end of his life in his film, ‘Tankari’. He says thousands of documents are lying at Khushdil’s place and it would be apt to preserve them before they decay with time. He has also photocopied around 5,000 of them for the Bhasha Academy. A museum at Dev Sadan in Kullu has a handful on display.Arvind Sharma, convener of Sambh, says what worked in favour of Gurmukhi was that Guru Granth Sahib was written in it. Eventually, this was followed by various literary writings. Devy says this couldn’t have happened with Takri because this script was serving a different purpose.“When we look at the writing systems in India during the 13th and the 14th centuries, it is necessary to recall that paper trade had arrived in India around this time and was flourishing. It is important to note that paper was being used for writing related to ‘record keeping’. As a result, various short-hand writing systems evolved around this phase in various parts of the country. For instance, the ‘Modi’ script in Western India was used in regions that are now known as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka,” says Devy.These were not fully new scripts, but new formulations of existing scripts, in which joining letters or moving from one character to another was made relatively easy. Takri, the script that replaced Sharda, was one such. “Given the nature of its use, it spread across vast areas through the networks of ‘commodity-exchange guilds’ (merchants, for example). Sharda, the earlier script, was — as against Takri — used for writing genealogies, poetry and philosophical treatises. It was a script primarily used by the ‘literary’ class. In the subsequent centuries, Takri found a place among small hill kingdoms as it could be grasped easily by the ruling elite. And since they had accepted Takri, the literary class too adopted it. The fortunes of scripts such as Takri declined with the induction of the print technology for Indian languages,” says Devy.But hope floats among those taking pains to learn and teach the script: in Yatin Pandit, who runs a daily needs store in the day and turns history buff by night; in Parul Arora, who has found new meaning in life post losing his job during the pandemic; in Harikrishan Murari, who is now attempting a literary work in Takri. Perhaps together they would be able to recover what is not yet entirely lost.Emergence of a distinct scriptIt is believed that when Kashmiri Pandits came to Punjab hills along with the traders, they brought with them the Sharda script — a writing system for Kashmiri language, which originated in the 8th century and was in use in Kashmir till the 13th century. As time went by, it took on various forms and became Kullui, Mandeali, Sirmauri, Chambeali, Jaunsari, each slightly different from the other. According to Omniglot, an online encyclopaedia of writing systems and languages, Takri emerged as a distinct script during the 16th century. “Takri was an official script in parts of north and northwest India from the 17th century until the mid-20th century. In Chamba, as Grierson noted, the script had been “advanced to the dignity of the printing press, and type in an improved Takri has been cast”.Sir George Abraham Grierson on Takri“The name of the Takri alphabet is most probably derived from Takka, the name of a powerful tribe which once ruled this part of the country, and whose capital was the famous Sakala, lately identified by Dr Fleet with the modern Sialkot. The Takri or Takkari alphabet is closely connected with the Sarada alphabet of Kashmir, and with the Landa, or ‘clipped’, alphabet current in the Panjab and Sind. It is built on the same lines as Nagari, but the representation of the vowels is … most imperfect. Medial short vowels are frequently omitted, and medial long vowels are often employed in their initial form.”Source: Linguistic Survey of India, 1916||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/reviving-takri-himachals-lost-script-343544
28-11-2021||Shimla||Himachal government announces new pay scales for its employees||The Himachal Pradesh government has announced new pay scales as per the 6th Pay Commission for its employees, an official spokesperson said.It has also reduced the period of contractual employees for their regularisation from three years to two years.What it meansChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while addressing the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of the Himachal Pradesh Non-Gazetted Employees Federation here on Saturday announced new pay scales for the employees of the state government with effect from January 1, 2016.The pay of January 2022 will be payable in February 2022 as per revised pay scales, he added.Thakur said that the state government was spending about 43 per cent of its total budget on employees and pensioners which would increase up to 50 per cent after the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission.The Chief Minister said that all the pensioners and family pensioners would also be given revised pension and other pensionary benefits, effective from January 1, 2016.The Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief will be given on revised pay scales and revised pension/family pension. The Chief Minister said that these new pay scales and revised pension would put additional burden of Rs 6,000 crore annually on the state exchequer.Thakur also announced implementation of New Pension System effective from May 15, 2003, according to Office Memorandum dated 5 May, 2009, of central government to the employees of the state government. He said that this would put additional burden of about Rs 250 crore on the state exchequer.Thakur announced reduction in the period of contractual employees of the state government for their regularisation from three years to two years. He said that one year would also be reduced for regularisation/daily wages conversion in respect of daily wage employees, part time workers, water guards and water carriers etc.The Chief Minister announced release of additional Rs 10 crore for clearance of pending medical reimbursement bills.Thakur said that a committee would be constituted for appointment on compassionate grounds under the chairmanship of chief secretary. The Committee would give its presentation in the next Cabinet meeting. He said that the government would also consider to providing tribal allowance to daily wage and contract employees serving in the tribal areas of the state.Thakur said that NPS employees would now have freedom to choose any pension fund for investment for ensuring better returns. He said that till now these employees have to invest in only those pension fund selected by the government. He said that all the NPS employees were being provided Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity benefits and now the government has decided to provide Gratuity to NPS employees deprived from this benefit from 15th May, 2003 to 22nd September, 2017.He said that during the last about four years, the state government had enhanced the DA of employees and pensioners of the state by 22 per cent and financial benefits of Rs 1,320 crore were provided to them. He said that two installments of IR of 12 per cent were also provided to them, thereby providing them benefits of Rs 740 crore.Additional Chief Secretary Finance and Personnel Prabodh Saxena said that Himachal Pradesh is second state after Kerala in Sustainable Developmental Goals of NITI Aayog.President State NGO Federation Ashwani Thakur said that even during the pandemic, the state government unlike several other states ensured that the employees get their salary and dues well in time. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-announces-new-pay-scales-for-its-employees-343478
