01-06-2021||Business||TV Narendran elected as new CII president||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at its national council meeting held online in New Delhi on Monday evening elected its new office-bearers for the year 2021-22. T.V Narendran, CEO and managing director, Tata Steel assumed office as the president of CII for 2021-22. He took over from Uday Kotak, managing director and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited. Notably, T.V Narendran has been engaged with CII for many years at the state, regional and national level. He was the chairman of CII Eastern Region during 2016-17 and has led CII national committees besides being chairman of CII Jharkhand. He was also the president designate of CII for 2020-21. Narendran is an alumnus of IIM Calcutta and NIT Trichy. He is a recipient of Distinguished Alumnus Awards from NIT Trichy and IIM Calcutta. He is also the chairman of the Board of Governors of XLRI Jamshedpur and the vice-president of the Indian Institute of Metals. He was a member on the Board of the World Steel Association and is a member of its executive committee. Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO, Hero MotoCorp Ltd., took over as CII vice- president for 2021-22. He has been closely associated with CII for almost 30 years. He has been the Chairman of CII northern region during 1996-97 and has led several CII National Committees including on sports, environment, technology and Innovation. Hero MotoCorp is one of the largest corporate promoters of multiple sporting disciplines around the globe, including golf, cricket, field hockey, motorsports, and football.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and SBI amid a mixed trend in other Asian markets.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 271.72 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 52,209.16 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 69.70 points or 0.45 per cent to 15,652.50.

Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising more than 2 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC, Bajaj Finance, L&T, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank.

On the other hand, Infosys, TCS, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 514.56 points or 1 per cent higher at 51,937.44, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 147.15 points or 0.95 per cent to its fresh closing record of 15,582.80.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth 2,412.39 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.

"The ongoing bull run in the market has taken even the incorrigible optimists by surprise. FIIs, regarded as smart investors, have been caught on the wrong foot," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.

Their sustained selling from early April to mid-May has proved to be a wrong strategy and, therefore, now they are making amends through heavy purchases. Massive FII buying in the cash market is an indication of the likely direction of this market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the positive territory in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red.

Equities on Wall Street closed higher in the overnight session.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.20 per cent higher at USD 70.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Banks cannot quote April 2018 circular to restrict customers from dealing in cryptocurrencies: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said that banks cannot quote its April 2018 circular to restrict their customers from dealing in cryptocurrencies. The banking regulator, however, said that lenders should carry out customer due diligence processes in addition to other provisions under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) for overseas remittances. The clarification comes amid reports that some banks, including HDFC Bank, have cautioned their customers against dealing in cryptocurrencies. The lenders are understood to have also warned that if they continue to do so, their services may be curtailed. Similarly, SBI Cards has also sent an email to some of its customers saying that they cannot use their cards for transacting in virtual currencies and if they do so, it would lead to suspension of the credit card. Earlier, there have been reports of few private sector lenders making it difficult for crypto currency exchanges by pushing payment processors to stop facilitating crypto transactions. All these banks cited a circular from the RBI in April 6, 2018 which said that regulated entities will not deal in virtual currencies or provide services to facilitate any person or entity in dealing with or settling these currencies. These services included maintaining accounts, registering, trading, settling, clearing, giving loans against virtual tokens, accepting them as collateral, opening accounts of exchanges dealing with them and transfer or receipt of money in accounts relating to purchase or sale of virtual currencies. However, the Supreme Court had struck down that circular. In a circular on Monday, the RBI said that it has come to its attention through media reports that certain banks and regulated entities have cautioned their customers against dealing in virtual currencies by making a reference to the April 2018 circular. “Such references are not in order as this circular was set aside by the Supreme Court on March 4, 2020... the circular is no longer valid from the date of the Supreme Court judgment, and therefore cannot be cited or quoted from,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||BMW Group India launches the new BMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ edition||BMW Group India on Monday launched the new BMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ edition. Limited units of the exclusive edition can now be booked online. The vehicle is priced at Rs 2.02 crore. The model is available in India as a completely built-up unit. Vikram Pawah, president of BMW Group India, said: “The BMW X7 is a statement of the luxury class — the flagship of the X Range. It opens up a brand-new dimension in luxurious driving pleasure... “BMW serves to enhance its ultra-exclusivity with limited editions of just 500 units world-wide. The precisely coordinated details of the design and features give it the status of a collector’s item.” The BMW X7 M50d is powered by a 2993cc three-litre six-cylinder diesel engine which produces an output of 400hp and a maximum torque of 760Nm at 2,000– 3,000rpm. The car accelerates from 0-100 km/hr in just 5.4 seconds. The most striking feature is the special paint finish in frozen arctic grey metallic. This high-quality and elaborate body finish is being used for the first time in a BMW X model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Intel says it will  take two years to address supply shortage in semiconductor ecosystem||Global chip maker Intel on Monday said it could take a couple of years to address the supply shortage in the semiconductor ecosystem that is witnessing huge demand for tech products, accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger noted that the work and study-from-home trends during the Covid-19 pandemic have led to a “cycle of explosive growth in semiconductors” that has placed a huge strain on global supply chains around the world. “We have been working diligently with our partners to address the constraints and increase output to meet demand, and we are acting to help ensure capacity to meet the world’s needs for this new era... But while the industry has taken steps to address the near-term constraints, it could still take a couple of years for the ecosystem to address shortages of foundry capacity, substrates and components,” he said at a virtual session at the Computex event. He stated that the company has doubled its internal wafer capacity in the past four years, and that it is driving a collaborative approach to help the supply chain. Semiconductors play a crucial role in everything, right from computers to appliances, communication devices, transportation systems to critical infrastructure. “We’ve already announced more than $20 billion of new investment in our foundry capability. This includes large scale capacity expansion in Arizona, in support of advanced semiconductor manufacturing technologies in New Mexico. We plan to expand to other locations in the US and Europe, ensuring a sustainable and secure semiconductor supply chain for the world,” Gelsinger said. Intel Corporate vice-president and general manager CCG sales Steve Long announced the launch of two 11th generation Intel core SKUs that will help the company deliver performance and extend its leadership in the thin and light notebook category. The company is also launching the Intel 5G solution 5000, its first 5G product for the next-generation of PC experiences. “This is Intel’s first 5G product coming out from our previously announced collaboration with MediaTek with global certification. Acer, Asus and HP are expected to bring these 5G-enabled PCs to the market this year and the momentum continues in 2022, with over 29 designs expected,” Long said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Carlyle group to lead Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in PNB Housing Finance Ltd ||The Carlyle group is leading a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in PNB Housing Finance Ltd along with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD and CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments S.a.r.l, an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, LP and Carlyle Asia Partners V, LP, will invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants at a price of Rs 390 per share in the housing finance company. This represents a premium of 12 per cent to the closing price of the PNB Housing Finance share last Friday. The PNB Housing Finance stock leapt 20 per cent to settle at Rs 525.20 on the BSE on Monday. Existing shareholders of the company, the funds managed by Ares SSG and General Atlantic are also participating in the capital raise. As part of the transaction, Salisbury Investments Pvt Ltd, the family investment vehicle of Aditya Puri, a senior adviser for Carlyle in Asia and the former CEO & managing director of HDFC Bank, will also invest in the fund raise. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception to make it the country’s largest private sector lender, will be nominated to the PNB Housing Finance board as a Carlyle nominee director in due course. Stock market circles are of the view that his strong experience will help the housing finance firm gain more market share in a highly competitive segment. A regulatory filing made by PNB Housing Finance said that Salisbury will have a 0.2 per cent stake in the company after the issuance of equity shares and warrants. The board of PNB Housing Finance approved a preferential allotment on a private placement basis, an aggregate of 8,20,51,281 equity shares and 2,05,12,820 warrants exchangeable into equity shares to Pluto Investments, Salisbury Investments, General Atlantic Singapore Fund FII and Alpha Investments V Pte Ltd in specified proportions for a cash consideration aggregating to Rs 4,000 crore. The transaction will trigger a mandatory open offer by Pluto Investments to purchase up to 26 per cent equity shares of PNB Housing Finance from public shareholders. This is because after the allotment of equity shares and warrants, Pluto Investment’s stake will stand at 30.2 per cent. The open offer will be made at a price of Rs 403.22 per share and it will be for over 7 crore shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Output of eight core sectors jumps by 56.1 per cent in April||The output of eight core sectors jumped 56.1 per cent in April mainly because of a low base effect and an uptick in the production of natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity. The eight infrastructure sectors of coal, crude, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity had contracted 37.9 per cent in April 2020. Core industry output was at a 32-month high in March 2021. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra, said: “The low base of the nationwide lockdown in 2020 pushed up the core sector expansion to 56 per cent in April 2021, a shade lower than our forecast of around 60 per cent. However, the core sector in April 2021 trailed the April 2019 level by 3 per cent, with six of its eight constituents lagging the pre Covid levels. We expect the IIP to record a transient spike to a 130-150 per cent expansion in April 2021, followed by a moderation in May 2021 because of the state-wise restrictions.” “The data suggests that while all states individually implemented lockdowns in 2021, these are not as stringent as the nationwide lockdown of April and May 2020. All sectors except crude oil registered positive growth in April 2021. Even IIP growth in April 2021 is likely to be strong due to weak base in April 2020. However, weak demand conditions is unlikely to keep this growth momentum strong in coming months,” Devendra Kumar Pant chief economist, India Ratings, said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “One may be confused by this number (core output) as this was also the month when we had lockdowns in states. Therefore, we need to see growth over March which was -15.1 per cent — there is no reason to sit back and feel satisfied. The PMI numbers will be more relevant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stands at 9.3 per cent of GDP||The fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stood at 9.3 per cent of GDP, 0.2 per cent lower than the finance ministry’s revised estimate of 9.5 per cent of GDP. In absolute terms, fiscal deficit stood at Rs 18.21 lakh crore. Revenue deficit during 2020-21 stood at Rs 14.54 lakh crore, or 7.42 per cent of GDP. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Fiscal deficit is lower by Rs 27,000 crore compared with the revised estimate of FY21. Total revenue is higher by Rs 88,000 crore. Tax revenue has benefited from higher excise and customs collections. GST, income tax and corporate tax collections were lower. Non tax revenue was slightly lower while non-debt receipts were higher. Total expenditure was higher by around Rs 61,000 crore and interestingly capex was cut by Rs 14,000 crore.” “For FY22, pressure will be there on tax revenue because of the lockdown, while non tax revenue will be higher because of the RBI transfer of Rs 99,000 crore this year. Expenditure control will be important,” he added. “Although the government announced a stimulus package of more than 10 per cent of GDP in FY21, actual stimulus in FY21 budget has been Rs 4.69 lakh crore, 2.4 per cent of GDP. Higher expenditure contributed 45.7 per cent to fiscal deficit slippage followed by lower revenue receipts (37.9 per cent) and capital receipts (16.3 per cent),” Devendra Kumar Pant,chief economist, India Ratings, said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of ICRA, said: “There is a modest risk that the fiscal deficit in FY22 will be higher than budgeted (Rs 15.1 lakh crore), especially on account of shortfalls in divestment receipts, and higher-than budgeted expenditure. Accordingly, the space for a fiscal stimulus appears to be limited and would need to be carefully targeted.” The fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stood at 9.3 per cent of GDP, 0.2 per cent lower than the finance ministry’s revised estimate of 9.5 per cent of GDP. In absolute terms, fiscal deficit stood at Rs 18.21 lakh crore. Revenue deficit during 2020-21 stood at Rs 14.54 lakh crore, or 7.42 per cent of GDP. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Fiscal deficit is lower by Rs 27,000 crore compared with the revised estimate of FY21. Total revenue is higher by Rs 88,000 crore. Tax revenue has benefited from higher excise and customs collections. GST, income tax and corporate tax collections were lower. Non tax revenue was slightly lower while non-debt receipts were higher. Total expenditure was higher by around Rs 61,000 crore and interestingly capex was cut by Rs 14,000 crore.” “For FY22, pressure will be there on tax revenue because of the lockdown, while non tax revenue will be higher because of the RBI transfer of Rs 99,000 crore this year. Expenditure control will be important,” he added. “Although the government announced a stimulus package of more than 10 per cent of GDP in FY21, actual stimulus in FY21 budget has been Rs 4.69 lakh crore, 2.4 per cent of GDP. Higher expenditure contributed 45.7 per cent to fiscal deficit slippage followed by lower revenue receipts (37.9 per cent) and capital receipts (16.3 per cent),” Devendra Kumar Pant,chief economist, India Ratings, said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of ICRA, said: “There is a modest risk that the fiscal deficit in FY22 will be higher than budgeted (Rs 15.1 lakh crore), especially on account of shortfalls in divestment receipts, and higher-than budgeted expenditure. Accordingly, the space for a fiscal stimulus appears to be limited and would need to be carefully targeted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Business confidence of India Inc plunges with Covid second wave ||Business confidence has caved in with the second Covid wave prompting industry chamber Ficci to lobby hard for a fresh stimulus package. Ficci’s Business Confidence Survey overall has nosedived and stood at 51.5 in the current round after reporting a decadal high value of 74.2 in the previous survey. There was a “sharp deterioration” in the optimism level of corporate India vis-a-vis the previous survey, it said. “Worsening current conditions as well as muted expectations about the near-term prospects on the back of a sweeping second wave of coronavirus infections, pulled down the overall index value by over 20 points,” it said. The chamber said companies unanimously felt “the need for another fiscal package, focusing majorly on addressing the demand side. Demand boosting measures such as direct income support to the rural as well as the urban poor, income tax reductions for the middle class and temporary reductions in indirect taxes must be urgently considered”. The respondents also highlighted the need for continuation of liquidity support and credit enhancement measures to MSMEs as announced in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Indian economy contraction for fiscal at 7.3%||A surprise 1.6 per cent growth in real GDP in the fourth quarter (January-March) helped the Indian economy close out a Covid-wracked annus horribilis with a contraction of 7.3 per cent —considerably better than the 8 per cent that the National Statistical  Office had forecast in its second advanced estimate in late February. This is the first contraction in the Indian economy since 1979-80 when it plunged to minus 5.2 per cent after the so-called Second Oil Shock — and caps a year of fumbling efforts to limit the damage with a poorly-funded fiscal stimulus, a grossly mismanaged lockdown last March that saw people lose jobs, and disingenuous talk about an imminent recovery to persuade those dangling precariously between life and death on the streets of the capital for several weeks in April that they ought to ignore the reality of impoverished families flung into a statistical abyss. Growth in gross value added (GVA) — a measure that strips out the effects of product taxes and subsidies — leapt in the fourth quarter to 3.7 per cent, buoyed by the 6.9 per cent growth in the manufacturing sector and  a 14.5 per cent surge in construction. “The sharp rise in the wedge between the GDP and GVA growth in Q4 FY2021, can be attributed to the back-ended release of subsidies by the government of India, especially those related to food,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. The surprise growth in fourth quarter real GDP came on top of a 0.5 per cent growth in the third quarter ended December 2020. However, economists remained pessimistic about growth in the first quarter of this fiscal (April-June) after a massive second wave of Covid-19 infections. “Overall, things are about to worsen in the first quarter of FY22 though year-on-year data will look great,” said Nikhil Gupta, chief economist at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “India continues to need monetary and fiscal policy support,” said Krishnamurthy Subramanian, chief economic adviser at the finance ministry — a comment that will put pressure on Mint Street policymakers when they hunker down to review the monetary policy later this week. Subramanian admitted that it was difficult to forecast a double-digit growth this fiscal. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, India’s real GDP contracted to Rs 135 lakh crore in FY21 (2020-21) from Rs 145 lakh crore at the end of March 2020. If the economy has to swell to the size it was in FY20, it will need to grow by 10-11 per cent in the current fiscal. Said D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor, EY India: “The sharp recovery projected for 2021-22 by a number of agencies like the IMF at 12.5 per cent and the RBI at 10.5 per cent  may have to be moderated. These projections were made prior to the impact of the second Covid wave. The combination of Covid’s second wave and the revised base effect may imply a lower GDP growth for the Indian economy for 2021-22 which may be in the range of 9-9.5 per cent.” China, which was once the hotbed of coronavirus infections, has recorded 18.3 per cent economic growth in January-March 2021. Not many have great expectations from the RBI’s ability to produce a raft of measures to jump-start the economy. Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist at Bandhan Bank, said: “Today’s GDP print, though a positive surprise, will likely not materially influence the RBI’s monetary policy decision later this week. The central bank looks set to keep all the key policy rates unchanged in June.” On the demand side, all the major components witnessed growth in the fourth quarter ended March 31. However, on an annual basis, the only component that reflected growth was government final consumption expenditure which grew at 2.9 per cent. The other two components — private final consumption expenditure (PFCE) and gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) — contracted by 9.1 per cent and 10.8 per cent. Both these numbers, like GDP growth, are the lowest in India’s history since 1951. The previous lowest PFCE growth was negative 2.2 per cent in 1979-80 and lowest GFCF growth was negative 9.5 per cent in 1957-58.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
