03-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty surge to record highs||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 383 points to close at a fresh record on Thursday, driven by gains in HDFC Bank, L&T and Titan despite a largely negative trend in global markets.

The 30-share BSE index ended 382.95 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 52,232.43.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 114.15 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 15,690.35.

Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 7 per cent, followed by ONGC, L&T, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and HDFC Bank.

On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto, M&M and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.

Domestic equities remained upbeat with benchmark indices recording fresh highs, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Rebound in heavyweight financial services supported the market once again, he said, adding that realty followed by FMCG and metals also witnessed sharp recovery.

IT, pharma and auto witnessed some amount of pressure. "Notably, midcap and small cap stocks continued to outperform broader indices as improved prospects of sustainable earnings recovery continue to attract investors towards this space," he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul finished with gains.

Equities in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent lower at USD 71.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 350 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 350 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 361.24 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 52,210.72 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty jumped 100.25 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,676.45.

Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, HDFC, ONGC and Infosys.

On the other hand, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's, SBI and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 85.40 points or 0.16 per cent lower at 51,849.48, while Nifty inched up 1.35 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,576.20.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 921.10 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.

Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Increased optimism about economic recovery with continuous fall in daily caseload in second COVID wave and improvement in recovery rates has already led domestic equities to new highs, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Further, the beginning of gradual withdrawal of restrictions by states, which hints at improvement in economic indicators from the current month, also lifted market mood, he added.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the positive territory in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.

Equities on Wall Street closed with gains in the overnight session.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent higher at USD 71.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Google claims immunity from India’s new IT rules||US-based Google LLC has contended that India’s new IT rules for digital media are not applicable to its search engine, and urged the Delhi high court on Wednesday to set aside its single-judge order which applied them on the company while dealing with an issue related to the removal of offending content from the internet. The single judge’s decision had come while dealing with a matter in which a woman’s photographs were uploaded on a pornographic website by some miscreants and despite court orders the content could not be removed in its entirety from the World Wide Web and “errant parties merrily continued” to repost and redirect it to other sites. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government, Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman, on whose plea the single judge’s ruling had come, and sought their responses to Google’s plea by July 25. The court said it was not going to issue any interim order at this stage after Google told the bench that it was an intermediary, but not a social media intermediary, and sought protection against any coercive action for non-compliance of the template or guidelines laid down by the single judge. The global technology giant had also sought removal of the observation by the single judge that it was a social media intermediary. Google contended that the single judge, in his April 20 judgement, “mischaracterised” its search engine as a “social media intermediary” or “significant social media intermediary” as provided under the new rules. “The single judge has misinterpreted and misapplied the New Rules 2021 to the appellant’s search engine. Additionally, the single judge has conflated various sections of the IT Act and has passed template orders combining all such offences and provisions, which is bad in law,” it has said in its appeal. According to the template framed by the single judge, when matters related to offending content come before a court and it is satisfied that an immediate redressal was required at the interim stage, it may issue a direction to the website where the objectional material is hosted to remove the same within 24 hours of receiving the judicial order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India to directly sell cars to customers||Mercedes Benz India is changing the way it will sell cars in India. It will directly sell its vehicles to customers with its dealerships facilitating the process with brand experience, displays in the showrooms, sales consultations and test drives. Mercedes will set a single price all over the country, own and provide inventory and do the sales invoice for customers. The new retail format will come into effect from the fourth quarter of 2021 and will be applicable for new cars, said Martin Schwenk, Mercedes Benz India CEO and managing director, at a digital press conference. The company will be moving away from the traditional business model where Mercedes Benz India entered into wholesale agreements with dealers and did stock transfers to them. The dealers would then enter into retail agreement with the customers and hand over the vehicles. With stocks being owned by Mercedes Benz India the company will have a centralised stock management with a decentralised vehicle storage at the dealers’ which are now “franchise partners”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Phoenix and GIC sets up $733-million investment platform in India||Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC and Phoenix Mills Ltd have partnered to set up a $733-million (Rs 5,362 crore) investment platform for retail-led mixed-use assets in India. GIC will acquire a significant minority stake in the portfolio of retail-led mixed use developments, located in the prime consumption centres of Mumbai and Pune. A PML statement said these assets total around 3.4 million sq ft of leasable retail and office space. In a separate regulatory filing, Phoenix Mills said GIC will initially acquire an equity stake of 26.4 per cent in its subsidiaries by investing an aggregate amount of around Rs 1,111 crore through a combination of primary infusion and secondary purchase of equity shares in these Phoenix Mills’ subsidiaries. “The platform is valued at a pre-money enterprise value of Rs 5,500 crore. GIC’s stake may further increase to 33-36 per cent in the subsidiaries through an additional infusion of up to Rs 400 crore within a 12-month period from closing,” the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries hopes to induct a strategic partner in O2C business||Reliance Industries (RIL) has kept its hopes alive to induct a strategic partner in its oils-to-chemicals (O2C) business with chief Mukesh Ambani stating in the company’s annual report that a proposed reorganisation will attract a dedicated pool of investor capital. Ambani has been pursuing a potential deal in O2C with Saudi Aramco for the past two years. RIL will hold its annual general meeting (AGM) on June 24 through video conferencing. With only 22 days left, it remains to be seen if Ambani provides any update or makes the much awaited announcement at the AGM. Ambani had first announced the deal in 2019 when he said the Saudi oil giant would pick up 20 per cent in the business for an enterprise value of $75 billion. While the pandemic delayed the deal, there have been recent reports of talks reviving between the two and that Aramco could pay for the stake in a stock-cum-cash deal with payments staggered over several years. In its annual report for 2020-21, RIL said it expects to complete the process of carving out its O2C business by the end of the calendar year. The O2C reorganisation will create an independent, global-scale growth engine for RIL, with a potential for good cash flow generation. “Recently, we initiated the process of reorganising our O2C business into a separate subsidiary. O2C’s goal is to maximise the crude to chemicals conversion and create a sustainable growth business,’’ Ambani said in the annual report. Pre-payment of $7.8bn Ambani said RIL now has a strong balance-sheet with high liquidity that will support the growth plans for telecom, retail and O2C. He said  during the year, RIL made pre-payment of $ 7.8 billion of long-term foreign currency debt, with requisite approvals from the RBI. “This is the highest ever pre-payment of debt undertaken by any corporate borrower.” During the fiscal, RIL raised Rs 2,60,074 crore ($ 36 billion), through rights issue and asset monetisation, which is the largest by an Indian company. The funds raised, along with capital commitments, exceeded net debt levels, helping the company to achieve a net debt free balance sheet ahead of the stated timeline of March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Urban Company raises $255 million in funding||Urban Company, the on-demand home services provider, on Wednesday said it has raised $255 million (about Rs 1,857 crore) in funding, led by Prosus Ventures, Dragoneer and Wellington Management. This comes ahead of the start-up looking at an IPO over the next two years. The series F round — which also saw participation from Vy Capital, Tiger Global and Steadview — would take its valuation to $2.1 billion. The latest round includes a primary capital infusion of $188 million and a secondary sale of around $67 million by select angel and early investors. Urban Company, which was earlier known as UrbanClap, will use the fresh proceeds towards innovation, training, product development, enhanced quality control and safety measures for both partners and its consumers. It also plans to ramp up its geographic footprint by entering the top 100 cities in India by the end of the next calendar year apart from expanding in international markets, including  Southeast Asia. “With this funding, we plan to rapidly scale our business while continuing to invest further in the safety of our consumers and service partners, training of partners and product development,’’ Urban Company CEO and co-founder Abhiraj Singh Bhal. A PTI report quoting Bhal said the company was eyeing an IPO in the next 18 to 24 months and it had a clear path to break even in the short term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||Jute Commissioner of India to enforce Jute and Jute Textiles Control Order, 2016||An unabated increase in raw jute prices has prompted the Jute Commissioner of India to enforce the  Jute and Jute Textiles Control Order, 2016, to liquidate stocks and prevent any unaccounted accumulation of the fibre. The order dated June 1 directs traders, dealers and stockists of raw jute to liquidate their holdings by June 10. The mills have been asked to take physical delivery of raw jute by June 25. The order also directs that there will be no fresh contracts from any source between June 11 and July 20. Those who fail to comply with the provisions of this order, will be punished under “clause 11 of the Jute and Jute Textiles Order, 2016 read with section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 which provides for imprisonment and/or fine”, Jute Commissioner Moloy Chandan Chakrabortty said in the order which comes a few days after a meeting between industry and state government officials. The average price of monthly raw jute, which was around Rs 4,700 per quintal in July 2020, has shot up to Rs 8,047.06 per quintal as of May 22. Traders said Wednesday’s quoted price is around Rs 8,800 per quintal and there is a likelihood that prices could breach Rs 10,000 per quintal. The price rise has been consistent despite earlier orders from the commissioner limiting the maximum quantity of raw jute that mills and trade can hold. According to jute traders, the increase in prices is because of the trailing effects of cyclone Amphan last year that had damaged 30-40 per cent of the crop. Crop yield also declined around 1 quintal per bigha of cultivated land. A section of the industry is also engaging in speculation that is having an inflationary effect on the crop price. According to members of the Indian Jute Mills Association, 16 mills have already closed down because of raw jute scarcity affecting the employment of around 50,000 workers. “Those mills who can afford are in a rat race to buy raw jute even at high prices,” a jute mill owner said. Raw jute prices, however,  are expected to ease once the new crop comes next month onwards. “If the weather conditions are favourable, we are expecting a good crop next year. Definitely the price situation will improve,” said Jute Balers’ Association secretary A. K. Palit. Differing opinions There are also differences over the quantum of stock that can be liquidated under the latest order. While traders estimate that a little over 1 lakh bales can be squeezed out through the order, government officials estimate the number to be at 3-5 lakh bales. There are also differences over jute supply figures. Ijma has estimated a total jute supply for crop year 2020-21 at 74.5 lakh bales with no surplus stock. A committee chaired by the Jute Commissioner has forecast a supply of 80 lakh bales with a surplus stock of 5 lakh bales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves Model Tenancy Act||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the Model Tenancy Act, which will bring about wide-ranging reforms, including setting up of separate rent authorities, courts and tribunals in every district to protect the interests of both the owner and the tenant. Under the Act, for residential premises, tenants will have to submit a security deposit of maximum two months’ rent, while in case of commercial properties, six months rent will have to be deposited. States and Union territories can adopt the Model Tenancy Act (MTA) by enacting fresh legislation or they can amend their existing rental laws suitably. The government said that it is expected to give a fillip to private participation in rental housing as a business model to address the huge housing shortage in the country. The Act calls for a written agreement for all new tenancies, which will have to be submitted to the concerned district ‘rent authority’. The government said that the MTA will be applicable prospectively and will not affect existing tenancies. Rent and duration of tenancy will be fixed by mutual consent between owner and tenant through a written agreement. According to the Act, if a tenant fails to vacate the premises let out on rent in accordance with the tenancy agreement, he or she will be liable to pay the landlord twice the monthly rent for the first two months and then four times till the latter continues to occupy the said premises. “If the landlord fails to make any refund, he shall be liable to pay simple interest to the tenant at such rate as may be prescribed from time to time on the amount which he has omitted or failed to refund,” it stated. If any dispute emerges between the owner and tenant, they will have to first approach ‘Rent Authority’. If any party is not satisfied with the Rent Authority's order, ‘Rent Court’ can be approached and then 'Rent Tribunal’. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the move will help overhaul the legal framework with respect to rental housing across the country. During a press conference, Puri said that according to the Census 2011, more than 1 crore houses were lying vacant in urban areas across the country. Making the 1 crore vacant houses available on rent will complement the vision of ‘housing for all by 2022’, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee begins its three-day meeting ||The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI began its three-day meeting on Wednesday with consensus building around a pause in interest rates and the continuation of the apex bank’s accommodative policy. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to reiterate its commitment towards ample liquidity in the system, traders are expecting more aggressive bond purchases under its G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0), apart from any revisions to its growth and inflation forecasts. In its April policy, the MPC had projected the Indian economy to grow 10.5 per cent in  2020-21 and retail inflation at 5.2 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, 5.2 per cent in the second quarter, 4.4 per cent in the third and 5.1 per cent in the final quarter, with risks broadly balanced. The latest meeting of the interest rate setting panel comes at a time the second wave of the coronavirus is showing signs of slowing down with several states reporting a drop in daily cases, though the number of fatalities still remain a concern. With signs the second wave is receding, states are expected to gradually lift their restrictions over the next few weeks. At its last meeting, the RBI had retained the policy repo rate at 4 per cent and the reverse repo rate at 3.35 per cent. On Monday, official data showed the economy growing at 1.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2002-21, while the contraction for the year at 7.3 per cent was less than the earlier projection of 8 per cent contraction. “The better-than-expected GDP numbers provide much needed comfort to the MPC on the growth outlook. However, the lockdowns have intensified the downside risks to recovery. Hence, the RBI is likely to continue with its accommodative monetary policy stance,’’ said M. Govinda Rao, chief economic advisor of Brickwork Ratings. However, considering the risks of inflation from the rising commodity prices and input costs, Brickwork Ratings expects the RBI to hold the repo rate at 4 per cent. Yet, the focus will continue to be on liquidity and experts are not ruling out the possibility of the RBI coming out with more measures to support the bond markets. “While markets will be expecting re-assurance on liquidity and awaiting the quantum of G-SAP for the next quarter, one should not be surprised if RBI governor Shaktikanta Das announces yet another innovative tool,” Anand Nevatia, fund manager at Trust Mutual Fund, told Reuters. The RBI had announced the G-SAP 1.0 at its April meet to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve and provide comfortable liquidity conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
