04-06-2021||Business||How Does a Forex Card Work?||Soon, the wrath of COVID-19 will reduce, and many of us will be able to travel to all international destinations. When we do, carrying funds abroad may be a noteworthy consideration, for which a forex card is the most reliable solution. Gone are the days when carrying bundles of cash or traveller’s cheques was the norm. Thanks to technology, a forex card is all you need to make payments on an international trip. What Is a Forex Card? A forex card allows you to load a specific amount of money in any foreign currency. Once you begin your international travels, this card works like an international debit card. You can swipe it at PoS for shopping, use it to buy things online or withdraw cash from ATM. Types of Forex Cards The two most common types of forex cards are: Multi-Currency – After recharging, you can use this card to make payments in multiple currencies. IndusInd Bank offers Indus Multicurrency Forex Card in 14 currencies- ranging from the usual Great Britain Pound (GBP), United States Dollar (USD) to Thai Baht (THB) and Japanese Yen (JPY). Single Currency – If you are travelling to a single country, you can get a forex card that allows you to pay in only one currency. How Does a Forex Card Work? Think of a forex card as nothing more than a debit card crafted purely for international travels. Therefore, it works seamlessly whenever you swipe it at an international destination. It is a globally accepted alternative and is far safer than cash. Even if you lose your card or someone steals it, you can quickly inform your bank, and they can block it and issue a new one domestically. What's more, these days, you can apply for a forex card online with banks like IndusInd Bank. They have a user-friendly IndusForex, online retail forex portal where you apply for a forex card instantly. The documentation required to apply for this card is minimal, and you can pay the funds via various means electronically to recharge and activate your card on IndusForex. Once your application process is complete, the bank can courier you the card, or you can pick it up from a branch of your choice. You will receive your card and the pin along with it. Make sure to change the pin as soon as possible by visiting an ATM. Now, you are all set! Every time you make a payment using your foreign exchange card, you will receive an alert or an SMS notification of the transaction. Why Use a Forex Card? There are wealth of benefits associated with using a preloaded forex card, when travelling internationally. These include: Final Thoughts If you are looking for a multi or single currency reliable forex card, look no further than IndusInd Bank. Its Indus Multicurrency Forex Card is a convenient, safe and cashless way to carry money on your international travels. This is a sponsored article and provided by the agency. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 132 points after RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 132 points on Friday, led by profit-booking in banking stocks after the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy announcements. The 30-share BSE index ended 132.38 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 52,100.05, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 20.10 points or 0.13 per cent to 15,670.25.

Nestle India was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, HUL and Dr Reddy's.

On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, L&T, Bajaj Finance and HDFC were among the gainers.

According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmarks corrected marginally led by contraction in financials, especially in banks.

"A moderate increase in inflation forecast by the RBI in its policy meeting outcome led G-sec yields increasing by 3 bps, which resulted in profit-booking in banks," he noted.

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left the key interest rates unchanged at record lows as it reiterated its commitment to keep its monetary policy accommodative to help the economy recover from the world's worst outbreak of COVID-19 infections.

It also lowered its forecast for the country's economic growth to 9.5 per cent for the current financial year ending March 31, 2022, from the previous estimate of 10.5 per cent.

"MPC meeting outcome today was mostly in-line with expectations as RBI, in addition to maintaining status quo about policy rates, focused upon ensuring sufficient liquidity in the system and supported MSMEs and corporate hit in second wave.

"An improved prospect of economic recovery led by sharp drop in daily caseload, ramping up vaccination process and gradual withdrawal of restrictions imposed by states has already led markets to witness fresh high in this week," he said.

Barring metals and realty, most key sectoral indices traded in red today. However, midcap and smallcap stocks continued to outperform led by improved earnings visibility.

Weak global cues also weighed on sentiments.

Bourses in Shanghai ended with gains, while Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red.

Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.38 per cent higher at USD 71.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for 6th time in a row||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to leave benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance as the economy faces heat of the second COVID wave. This is the sixth time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to maintain status quo, that is keeping benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review on Friday. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. The central bank lowered its estimate for economic growth to 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal from earlier projection of 10.5 per cent due to the impact of the second COVID wave. This is the first MPC meeting after official data showed that Indian economy contracted 7.3 per cent in the last fiscal, weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. With regard to inflation, the governor said that retail inflation is likely to be 5.1 per cent during the current fiscal. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on positive note ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened marginally higher on Friday ahead of the Reserve Bank's policy outcome. After opening on a flat note, the 30-share BSE index was trading 59.24 points or 0.11 per cent higher at 52,291.67 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 16.85 points or 0.11 per cent to 15,707.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, M&M, Bajaj Finance and HDFC. On the other hand, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's, HUL, Titan and ITC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 382.95 points or 0.70 per cent higher at record 52,232.43, and Nifty soared 114.15 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 15,690.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,079.20 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to analysts, all eyes would be on RBI monetary policy, wherein the majority expect a status quo on key rates. However, commentary on growth and inflation would be closely watched by market participants. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains. Equities on Wall Street closed with losses in the overnight session. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.11 per cent lower at USD 71.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Dominica denies bail to absconding diamond tycoon Mehul Choksi||A Dominica magistrate has denied bail to absconding diamond tycoon Mehul Choksi, who was arrested on May 23 for alleged illegal entry to the Caribbean island country, the local media reported. Choksi, wanted in India in connection with a Rs 13,500-crore fraud in the Punjab National Bank (PNB), pleaded before the magistrate that he was abducted and forcibly brought to Dominica from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, about 100 nautical miles away, Dominica News Online reported. Dominica High Court on Thursday adjourned the hearing on a habeas corpus petition filed on behalf of Choksi. Judge Bernie Stephenson will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides, Antigua News Room said. The court had ordered Choksi to be presented before the magistrate to face charges of illegal entry. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. “Our stand that Mehul Choksi is in illegal detention as he was required to be produced within 72 hours before the magistrate and was not so produced has been vindicated. Contrary to media reports, there was no discussion regarding the government of India,” Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. Meanwhile, Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, on Thursday told reporters: “He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica where some legal proceedings are underway. We will continue to ensure that he is brought back to India,” MEA spokesperson told reporters. The cabinet of Antigua prefers that Choksi be repatriated from Dominica to India directly. Mallya assets Armed with a court order, a consortium of lenders led by SBI can now sell certain real estate properties and securities belonging to fugitive Vijay Mallya to recover loans turned bad with failure of Kingfisher Airlines. A consortium of 11 banks that gave Mallya loans had approached a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court seeking restoration of his properties seized by the Enforcement Directorate. The special PMLA court in Mumbai on Tuesday allowed the restoration of properties worth Rs 5,646.54 crore to banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Airlines expected to incur consolidated loss of $4.1 billion in current financial year ||The airlines in the country are expected to incur a consolidated loss of $4.1 billion in the current financial year — similar to fiscal 2021 — because of the  Covid-19 pandemic, aviation consultancy firm Capa India said on Thursday. This will take total losses over two years to around $8 billion as a result of the two Covid waves. “The full service carriers are expected to contribute $2.1 billion of losses while low cost carriers would account for $2.0 billion. The projected losses could rise further if necessary recapitalisation comes in the form of debt, for which borrowing costs will need to be included. “At this stage it is not known how a recapitalisation will be funded. Air India and IndiGo combined will represent around $4.5 billion of the approximately $8 billion in losses,” Capa India said in its FY2022 Airline Outlook. Airlines are expected to need close to $5 billion of recapitalisation in FY2022 just to survive, the report said. “Of this, around $1.1 billion is in the pipeline in the form of IPOs (initial public offering), QIPs (qualified institutional placement) and other (financial) instruments. This does not include additional funding required to achieve solvency,” the report said. “In the light of the known recapitalisation plans of Indian carriers, the incremental requirement could be reduced to $3.5 billion. However, it is not currently possible to determine whether the $1.5 billion of planned recapitalisation will materialise,” it added. Rating agency Icra has said the Indian aviation industry is expected to report a net loss of Rs 21,000 crore in 2020-21 against a net loss of Rs 12,700 crore in 2019-20 because of lower revenues and high fixed costs. The industry’s debt level will increase to Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22 and the industry will require an additional funding of Rs 35,000 crore to 37,000 crore over 2021-2023, it added. Capa estimates that domestic airline traffic is expected to stand at 80-95 million during FY2022, up from 52.5 million registered during FY2021, but well below the  140 million registered during FY2020. “This projection does not take into account a third wave.... After a massive slump in April and May, we expect to see a moderate recovery in June as activity returns, with an acceleration in traffic from Q2 (July-September 2021 period),” it said. “As was the case in the second half of FY2021, we expect to see rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year," it added. Capa India expects international airline traffic to remain at 16-21 million during FY2022 due to border restrictions. "However, international traffic will be particularly sensitive to discrete decisions taken by governments on such matters, which cannot be predicted," the agency said in the report. “As with domestic traffic, the second half of the year is expected to be far more positive,” it added. Domestic air passenger traffic slumped to about 20 lakh passengers in May, down 67 per cent sequentially, due to the vicious second surge in covid-19 infections in the country, Icra said. The May passenger traffic was also lower than the numbers registered during June-July 2020, when a two-month nationwide stringent lockdown was lifted by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business|| IDBI Bank has secured $239 million judgment||IDBI Bank has secured a $239 million judgment in the commercial division of the High Court of London against a Cypriot subsidiary of India-based Essar Shipping Group, among one of the largest debt judgments obtained by an Indian bank in the English courts. IDH International Drilling Holdco Ltd (IDH), the Cypriot-registered parent company of the borrowers, is disappointed with the judgment and is considering its position with regard to an appeal of this judgement, a spokesman for the Essar Group said. Mumbai-based IDBI had lent $148 million to two Singapore-registered companies — Varada Drilling One Pte Ltd and Varada Drilling Two Pte Ltd — for the construction of two jack up drilling rigs in March 2013. IDH gave a corporate guarantee in respect of the loan. The loan and guarantee were governed by English law and were, therefore, subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Domestic steel makers hike prices of hot-rolled coils and cold-rolled coils||Leading domestic steel makers have hiked the prices of hot-rolled coils (HRC) and cold-rolled coils (CRC) by up to Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,900 per tonne, respectively, industry sources said on Thursday. After the price revision, a tonne of HRC will cost Rs 70,000-71,000, while buyers will get CRC at Rs 83,000-84,000 per tonne. The price revision has been made in the last two days, the sources said. HRC and CRC are flat steel used in the auto, appliances and construction industries. Hence, any rise in the prices will impact the prices of vehicles, consumer goods and cost of construction as steel is a raw material for these sectors. A SAIL official said “it is market-driven”. While JSW Steel declined to comment, a JSPL official said “Global steel prices have moved up owing to a spike in the cost of raw materials. Indian iron ore has gone up by Rs 4,000/tonne which is also pushing up steel prices higher.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||TML Holdings Pte Ltd raises $425 million in unsecured notes||Tata Motors on Thursday said that its wholly owned subsidiary, TML Holdings Pte Ltd (TMLH), has raised $425 million (over Rs 3,100 crore) in unsecured notes, the proceeds of which will be used to refinance loan and other general corporate purposes. TMLH is the holding company of JLR Automotive Plc (JLR), Tata Daewoo, Korea and a few other international operations of Tata Motors. “On June 2, TMLH priced a $425-million 5NC2.5 year (a 5-year fixed-income security, non-callable for the first 2.5 years) fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2026,” the homegrown auto firm said in a communication to the stock exchanges on Thursday. The company added that these notes will be issued at a coupon rate of 4.35 per cent on June 9 with a maturity date of June 9, 2026. According to Tata Motors, the transaction received significant interest from investors across Asia and Europe with the  final order book in excess of $2.2 billion, a subscription of over 5.1 times. Britannia move Britannia Industries’ board has approved a proposal to raise Rs 698.51 crore by issuing bonus debentures to eligible equity shareholders. The debentures will be redeemed after three years from the date of allotment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||WhatsApp to not limit functionality for users not agreeing to new privacy policy||WhatsApp on Thursday said it will not limit the functionality of the messaging app for users not agreeing to its new privacy policy, but will continue to send reminders about the update. WhatsApp said its recent policy update does not change the privacy of people’s personal messages, and it has already written to the government seeking to assure them that the privacy of users remains its highest priority. On Thursday, the Centre  told the Delhi high court that the messaging platform was trying to “force” its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes the law by bombarding them with notifications daily. “We reiterate that we have already responded to the Government of India and assured them that the privacy of users remains our highest priority,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said in an emailed statement. A raging debate had ensued earlier this year after WhatsApp said it would update its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. The Centre’s claim has been made in an additional affidavit filed in response to several pleas challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. WhatsApp has 53 crore users in India, according to government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Serum Institute of India seeks indemnity protection against lawsuits||Serum Institute of India (SII) has sought indemnity protection against prosecution or lawsuits arising from any adverse effects for people taking its Covishield vaccine. Its demand comes at a time the Union government is considering giving such a relief to Pfizer as it looks to quicken the vaccination process in the country. The Centre, which has come under severe criticism for the slow progress of inoculation, expects to vaccinate one billion people by the end of this calendar year. Mumbai-based firm Cipla, which is looking to bring Moderna’s vaccine, has also sought such an indemnity. An ANI report quoting SII sources said that not just the company but all vaccine makers should get indemnity protection against liabilities if it is granted to overseas firms. Niti Aayog member (health) V. K. Paul had recently said that Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available in India from July. The pharma giant could supply around 5 crore doses between July and October, but it has harped on indemnity as a major requirement. Though the Centre has not yet announced whether it will give such a protection to the vaccine makers, observers expect it to grant the relief given the current demand supply gap in vaccines. Countries such as the US, Japan, the European Union and Canada have also granted an indemnity. SII has recently communicated to the government that it will be able to supply 10 crore doses of Covishield in June, up from the earlier capacity of around 6.5 crore in May. Meanwhile, the company has also sought the approval of the Drug Controller General of India to manufacture the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||Discord over US proposal to fix a uniform global corporate tax||Global negotiators have continued to wrangle over a US proposal to fix a minimum threshold for the levy of a uniform global corporate tax that is designed to ensure that technology giants like Amazon and Facebook pay legitimate taxes on the revenues they earn in the jurisdictions in which they operate. On Wednesday, the Biden administration announced retaliatory tariffs against six countries, including India, that intend to slap a so-called digital tax. But the US delayed the imposition of the levies by 180 days to allow global negotiators to hammer out an agreement in the discussions that are being held under the aegis of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The US has proposed that the global tax should be imposed only on multinational corporations that have revenues in excess of $20 billion — a threshold that negotiators from Europe and India are refusing to accept as it will limit the scope of the levy to just 100 companies. A bigger flashpoint is another proposal to bring companies only above a profitability threshold within the tax net, meaning low-margin players such as Amazon may be let off the hook. All this means the ongoing tax talks in Paris among the 140-nation Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development may stretch for a longer period than the six-month window provided by the US on Wednesday to India, Austria, Italy, Spain, Turkey and the UK to suspend the retaliatory tariffs. US President Jo Biden is pushing for a global minimum corporate tax of at least 15 per cent, although key aspects such as the actual rate as well as the threshold for companies to come under the tax net remain to be decided. The tax talks in Paris focus on two pillars: One is a global minimum to prevent multinationals from using complex legal and accounting schemes to move profits to low-tax countries where they do little or no business. The second is finding a way to tax companies — particularly Internet-based ones — that may reap profits in countries where they have no physical presence and thus pay no tax. On the suspension of the retaliatory tariffs, trade economist Biswajit Dhar of JNU said the US was sending a clearsignal that it wants to engage in the global forum, which it had quit twice in the past. “The move by Washington should be seen in the context of G-7 also taking up the digital services tax (DST). Retaliatory action by the US in the past did not deter many nations from going ahead with the DST. It seems that Washington plans to engage in a global forum and protect the interest of tech firms, most of which are based in America.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank shares fall over 6 per cent during intra-day trade||Shares of IndusInd Bank on Thursday fell over 6 per cent during intra-day trade after year-old reports of the Cayman Island Monetary Authority (CIMA) cancelling the permit of Hinduja Bank resurfaced. A year after the Cayman regulator’s move, a media report has drawn a link between Hinduja Bank and IndusInd Bank by saying that IndusInd is a subsidiary of the Geneva-based bank. The report cites a May 27 notification issued last year that said the Cayman regulator had cancelled the banking licence of Hinduja Bank over charges of money laundering and governance lapses. As the stock reacted in a knee-jerk manner, IndusInd Bank put out a statement denying that it is a subsidiary of Hinduja Bank. The stock managed to recover some of its ground after the clarification. “IndusInd Bank denies the said media report and considers it to be malicious, untrue, and baseless. IndusInd Bank desires to clarify that it is not a subsidiary of any entity. “The bank wishes to further clarify that it is promoted by IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL) and its subsidiaries. IIHL is a Mauritius-based company set up by overseas Indians and no ‘one’ shareholder is in control of IIHL,” the lender said. IndusInd shares plunged to a low of Rs 964.75 on the BSE — a fall of 6.15 per cent as investors were spooked by the fresh report. The scrip settled at Rs 1,005.85, a loss of 2.15 per cent over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||IHS Services Business Activity Index contracts to 46.4 in May||The Indian economy has started to heave as it is buffeted by the second Covid wave. On Thursday, there was more bad news for the Modi government when a closely-watched gauge of economic activity — the IHS Services Business Activity Index — contracted for the first time in eight months. The index stood at 46.4 in May compared with 54 in April — a sudden, alarming slide — sending grave signals to the country’s policy makers who had turned gung-ho after the NSO said that the economy had shown a 1.6 per cent real GDP growth in the January-March quarter. Worse, the composite PMI index — manufacturing plus services — also sank to 48.1 from 55.4 in April. A print above 50 means expansion, while below 50 denotes contraction. The services sector activities slumped amid renewed decline in new work intakes because of the escalation of the pandemic and the reintroduction of restrictions. “The intensification of the Covid-19 crisis and associated restrictions suppressed domestic and international demand for Indian services. Total sales decreased for the first time in eight months, while the fall in external orders was the most pronounced since last November,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. “The PMI reading for May adds to evidence elsewhere that the damage from the second virus wave has not been as severe as when the pandemic first struck last year. But with restrictions likely to be lifted slowly this time around, the recovery beyond the current outbreak looks set to be more gradual,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. The international demand for Indian services also worsened, with new export business falling at the quickest rate in six months. The drop was attributed to international travel restrictions and business closures. On the job front, pandemic-related worries and falling sales led services companies to reduce workforce numbers again during May. “Amid efforts to keep a lid on expenses given the deterioration in new business, services companies reduced payroll numbers to the greatest extent in seven months. Concerns towards the outlook, evidenced by a dip in sentiment, could prevent job creation in near-term,” Lima noted. On the inflation front, amid reports of higher prices for a wide range of inputs and fuel, operating expenses at services firms continued to increase in May. “The overall rise in cost burdens was historically sharp as prices for a wide range of inputs and fuel continued to surge. Only a small proportion of firms shared additional cost burdens with their clients, resulting in only a marginal increase in service fees,” Lima said. The composite PMI output index, which measures combined services and manufacturing output, was down from 55.4 in April to 48.1 in May, pointing to a renewed decline in private sector activity across India. Aggregate new orders decreased for the first time in nine months and private sector jobs fell for the 15th month in succession. The next bi-monthly monetary policy review of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is scheduled to be announced on Friday. Experts believe, with the economic outlook remaining uncertain in light of the continuing pandemic, the monetary policy stance of the RBI is likely to remain accommodative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
