05-06-2021||Business||Nigeria bans Twitter, Koo rushes to take place||Koo on Saturday said the Indian microblogging platform is available in Nigeria and is keen on adding new local languages for users in that country. The development comes a day after the Nigerian government announced an indefinite suspension of Koo's rival, Twitter in the country. In a post on Koo on Saturday, its co-founder and CEO Aprameya Radhakrishna said the platform is available in Nigeria . “We're thinking of enabling the local languages there too. What say?” Radhakrishna said. Speaking to PTI, Radhakrishna said: “Now that there is an opportunity for microblogging platforms in Nigeria...Koo is looking at introducing local Nigerian languages in the app.” He added that the platform is keen on making inroads in the Nigerian market. Radhakrishna said Koo will abide by the local laws of each country that it operates in. Koo, founded by Radhakrishna and Mayank Bidawatka, was launched last year to allow users to express themselves and engage on the platform in Indian languages. It supports multiple languages including Hindi, Telugu and Bengali, among others. The Nigerian government on Friday said it was suspending Twitter indefinitely, a day after the company removed a contentious tweet that President Muhammadu Buhari made about a secessionist movement. Koo has over 60 lakh users, and had recently raised USD 30 million (about Rs 218 crore) in a funding round led by Tiger Global. Koo's popularity in India peaked amid clarion calls for expanding the ecosystem of homegrown digital platforms. The platform has seen a massive growth in its user base over the past few months after union ministers and government departments endorsed the homegrown microblogging platform, following a spat with Twitter. Notably, Radhakrishna's post on Saturday coincides with the Indian government issuing a notice to Twitter, giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules. Twitter has also been warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Koo had earlier said it has already complied with the IT rules and has shared necessary details as sought by the government on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Bull Moose Tube Company to construct 350,000-tonnes pipe mill in Texas||Bull Moose Tube Company, part of Caparo Group owned by Indian-born British industrialist Lord Swraj Paul, will build one of the largest specialised pipe mills in the United States. The company will set up a plant at Sinton, Texas, with an annual capacity of 350,000 tonnes a year. It is expected to go into production by early 2023. Speaking to The Telegraph this afternoon, Lord Paul, chairman of Caparo, said the proposed Texas plant would be the seventh plant of Bull Moose Tube in the US and the eighth in North America. “There is likely to be a $200-250 million investment in the plant,” Lord Paul said. The formal announcement of the Texan facility coincides with the birthday of Lord Paul’s son Angad who used to run Caparo from 1996. He passed away in 2015 in his forties. “His energy and enthusiasm will never be forgotten in taking forward Caparo’s business in North America,” Lord Paul added. Caparo, which has close to $1 billion turnover, has a strong presence in India as well where the group operates several companies as OEMs to auto makers. It employs 5,000 people in this country. It was one of the many ancillary companies which had proposed to set up a plant at Singur with the Tata Nano plant. Lord Paul said he continued to believe in the India growth story and will expand business in the future. He informed that his grandchildren spend considerable time in India too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Spandana Sphoorty share price zooms almost 9 per cent on reports of acquisition talks with Axis Bank||Shares of Spandana Spoorthy Financial Ltd zoomed almost 9 per cent on the bourses on Thursday on reports that Axis Bank may be looking to acquire the microfinancier. On the BSE, shares of Spandana Spoorthy ended with gains of 8.63 per cent at Rs 743.60. Intra-day, the stock hit a high of Rs 820 — up 19.80 per cent over the previous close. The gains in the counter came after a Moneycontrol report said Axis Bank was in talks to acquire the microfinancier and that the latter was also open to a complete sale. The acquisition is part of the private sector lender’s efforts to reduce its priority sector lending cost. In a clarification to the stock exchanges, Spandana Spoorthy said as a matter of corporate policy, it does not comment on media speculation. Spandana Spoorthy is the second-largest microfinance company in the country with assets under management of Rs 8,157 crore and an active customer base of 24.45 lakh. For the March quarter of 2021, the company posted a net profit of Rs 41.64 crore against Rs 77.49 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Bengal wants GST setoff till 2027||Bengal has proposed that the period of paying financial compensation to the states to meet projected shortfall in GST tax collection should be extended by five more years in the wake of the debilitating pandemic. Arguing that the GST revenues are yet to stabilise, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, who is part of the GST Council, wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend the period beyond July 2022, when the initial five-year period ends. “Revenue collection, shortfall, borrowing and as a result compensation — the entire financial model of GST must be examined. And if we do so, it will be evident that there should be another five-year extension,” Mitra told The Telegraph this evening. The Centre had constitutionally mandated to cover the shortfall in GST collection if the revenue growth falls below a mutually accepted predetermined level for five-years from the start of implementation of the new indirect tax regime from 2017. The written assurance from the Centre formed an important step in bringing on board the opposing states. However, the Centre and the Opposition ruled states were at loggerheads last year when the former sought to abdicate part of the responsibility. However, it finally caved in under pressure and agreed to compensate states by borrowing. It was further decided that the principal and interest of the loan would be paid by extending the period of collecting cess on luxury and sin goods. “We don’t know how many years we have to collect the cess. Then we might as well also increase the period for compensation,” Mitra argued. The letter bears out why calculation of the compensation and mechanism of payment has become one of the key areas of confrontation between the non-BJP states and the government of India (GoI). In the letter, he argued that the Centre still owes Rs 63,000 crore cumulatively to the states and Rs 4,911 crore to Bengal going by actual revenue collection in 2020-21. “We had taken a projected figure but now we have hard data. Going by this, there is a shortfall which the Centre should immediately release as grant,” he said. Mitra also pointed out that the Centre has to borrow Rs 2,13,000 crore instead of Rs 1,58,267 crore as proposed by the GoI, if last nine months’ actual revenue collection is considered instead of normative growth of 7 per cent as was done in the last fiscal. Mitra made a pitch to allow states to borrow 5 per cent of states’ GDP without any pre-condition. Last year, the limit was relaxed to 4 per cent and up to 5 per cent, conditionally. This year, the limit has been scaled back to 3.5 per cent and 0.5 per cent additional if states meet capital expenditure targets. Mitra spoke of the trail of destruction caused by cyclone Amphan, Tauktae and Yaas which will cost several states a significant amount on rehabilitation. Given that states are to spend on universal vaccination and Covid measures, it would be difficult to increase capital expenditure in 2020-21. Bengal has raised capital expenditure by more than 100 per cent from Rs 15,970 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 34,000 crore this year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank posts Rs 586 crore profit in Q4||State-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Friday posted a standalone profit of Rs 586.33 crore for the fourth quarter ended March, aided by a good increase in interest income. The second-largest PSU lender had reported a loss of Rs 697.20 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20. Interest earned during the quarter rose 36 per cent to Rs 18,789.53 crore from Rs 13,858.98 crore earlier. The financial numbers are not strictly comparable as Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged with PNB effective April 1, 2020, the bank said. There was a marginal improvement in asset quality as the gross non-performing assets were brought down to 14.12 per cent of gross advances at the end of March 2021 from 14.21 per cent in March 2020. Bank of India managing director and CEO A.K. Das said the interest margins of banks are unlikely to be as robust as before because of the shift to repo-based lending rates and transmission of lower interest rates to consumers. The PSU bank’s domestic net interest margin fell to 2.16 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against 3.18 per cent a year ago. It posted a net profit of Rs 250 crore against a net loss of Rs 3,571 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Appellate Tribunal quashes liquidation of Incab Industries ||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has quashed the ongoing liquidation of ailing cable maker Incab Industries and has ordered that a resolution process under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) be started to find a new buyer for the company. Based on the application filed by employees of the company, which has plants in Jamshedpur and Pune, the NCLAT bench comprising acting chairperson Justice A.I.S. Cheema set aside an order of a lower bench in Calcutta which had upheld the liquidation decision taken by the committee of creditors (CoC) of Incab. There are about 1,000 employees still on the rolls of the company, whose salaries have been paid infrequently over the years. They believe the valuation of land and assets — which include prime land in Pune, the company headquarters on a 40 cottah plot on Hare Street in Dalhousie, Calcutta, the director’s bungalow at Lovelock Place and tens of apartments across India — could well be over Rs 700 crore. “The assets of Incab far outweigh the liabilities. We are hopeful of the revival of the company and expect all past dues of the employees, present and retired, to be paid off,” Jayanta Banerjee, appellant before the court and an employee, said. Incab was referred to the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction in 1999. It was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution on August 7, 2019. In the intervening years, attempts were made to revive Incab, which used to make cables for power transmission and a number of companies, including Tata Steel, were interested in taking it over. However, the CoC of Incab decided not to invite expressions of interest from bidders and sent the company into liquidation, arguing that the dilapidated plant with obsolete technologies was beyond revival. The appellate tribunal, however, came down heavily on the CoC and the resolution professional (RP) for going into liquidation without due process. “Liquidation is like a death knell for the corporate entity/person,” the judgment read. The bench found that the CoC was formed without admitting claims, before determining fair market value, liquidation value or information memorandum. The bench also observed that two entities — Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investments — holding 77.2 per cent voting share in the CoC were “related parties”. The formation of the CoC in the instant case is a nullity by law. As the illegally constituted CoC took the decisions at every stage of the CIRP, the entire process is found to be vitiated. Rishav Banerjee, who appeared for the appellant workers pro bono, said the NCLAT judgment would send a clear message that ex-facie related parties of corporate debtors cannot hijack CIRP by illegally getting a seat in the CoC and send the company into liquidation. The NCLAT ordered NCLT Calcutta to appoint a new RP and verify claims of the creditors, excluding Kamla and Fasqua, and to carry on with the resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||RBI slashes GDP growth forecast to 9.5 per cent, not in sync with other economists||The RBI may have cut its growth forecast to 9.5 per cent for the domestic economy but it is not in sync with lower projections made by other economists. Several economists have sharply cut their growth forecasts for the current fiscal. State Bank of India (SBI) has put it at 7.9 per cent, down from the earlier projection of 10.4 per cent growth. Most of the experts expect the economy to grow only in single digits, though there are a couple who feel that the number will be over 10 per cent. One of the reasons behind RBI’s growth estimate was its optimism that the pace of vaccination will pick up in the coming months. However, with uncertainty still remaining on the effect of the second wave and how a third wave will pan out, economists such as Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI, feel that there will be quicker revisions in the central bank’s forecasts from six months earlier to around three months given the current environment. Ghosh also feels that the sharp pick-up in growth estimated by the RBI during the third quarter of this fiscal may not materialise. “We are sceptical of a sharp pick-up in growth outlook in the third quarter given the devastation in the rural economy and the slow vaccination. Thus the RBI forecast of 9.5 per cent could be more of a sombre signaling of a weak growth outlook as of now,’’ he said. Economists at Yes Bank too indicate that there could be downside risks to the RBI’s growth projections, even as inflation fears are rising. “The growth-inflation mix is worsening for the RBI. The downward revision of 2021-22 real GDP growth projection to 9.5 per cent highlights the economy-wide stress to revive growth impulses. Though the RBI highlighted tailwinds to growth, in our view the downside risks to this print comes from increased uncertainty through higher economic costs and health expenses going forward,’’ they said. Moreover, RBI’s efforts to boost credit outflow are yet to be reflected in actual numbers. Abheek Barua, chief economist, HDFC Bank, indicated that banks may also be looking out for some form of credit guarantees to de-risk. Ghosh, however, feels that the credit offtake is low as corporates have deleveraged by repaying high-cost loans through funds raised via bond issuances. He added that their willingness for new investments remains low due to all-pervasive uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Nothing sacrosanct about 6% yield for 10-year govt bond: RBI governor||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said there was nothing “sacrosanct” about the 6-per-cent yield for the 10-year government bond as he sought to dispel the widespread belief that the central bank will not let the yields on the benchmark 10-year paper to rise above 6 per cent. However, bond market circles are of the view the central bank will continue to keep the yields at least under a tight leash given its impact on corporate bonds amid a huge Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme of the government in this fiscal. At the press conference after the meeting of the monetary policy committee, Das parried a question on whether the RBI was fixated on the 10-year bond even as the yield curve remained steep. He said there was a misconception in this regard as the RBI was looking at the entire yield curve. He said in the two bond purchased auctions, the RBI not only put up the 10-year paper but also other securities. “We are focussed on the entire yield curve across the maturities, its not just the 10 year. Somehow there is a perception… If you see the G-SAP auctions... For instance in the last auction, we had included across the maturity profile,’’ the RBI governor said. The bond yield curve looks inverted as the abundant liquidity in the system has led to rates at the short end falling much more than the longer tenor rates such as the 10 or 14-year papers. “So is it because of abundant liquidity that short end rates go down, so curve looks steep... if you look at 10 year or 14 year, the rates haven’t really gone up. G-SAP is focused across maturities... there is nothing like 6 per cent is sacrosanct. We have talked about orderly evolution of the yield curve and focusing on that,’’ Das said. Market experts are, however, of the view that the RBI will be keen on reining in the benchmark bond to below 6 per cent or at least ensure that it remains in a tight range. “There is no doubt in our mind that the Reserve Bank of India wishes to see bond yields trending down. The RBI governor’s comments during the speech today that it expects the market to respond appropriately to the announcement of G-SAP 2.0 highlights that point,” Dhawal Dalal, CIO-fixed income, Edelweiss AMC, said. “We believe that the RBI will continue in its efforts of some sort of yield curve control until there are clear signs of revival of economic growth while seeing through recent increase in supply-side inflationary pressures,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||RBI’s monetary policy committee decides to hold repo rate at 4%||The RBI policymakers decided to hold interest rates and continue with the accommodative policy as it announced additional bond purchases to steer the domestic economy out of the clutches of the second wave of the coronavirus. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) voted unanimously to hold the repo rate, its key lending rate, at 4 per cent and kept the reverse repo rate, the borrowing rate, unchanged at 3.35 per cent. It, however, slashed the growth outlook for 2021-22 to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent and marginally raised the inflation forecast to 5.1 per cent. At the end of the three-day meeting, there were no surprises as the six-member MPC left the key rates unchanged given the uncertainty over the impact of the pandemic and the upside risks to inflation. The panel also decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis while ensuring that inflation remains within the medium-term target. This is the sixth consecutive policy meeting where the central bank has not touched the repo rate. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the RBI has been taking unconventional steps and focussing on maintaining liquidity. One such measure was the government securities acquisition programme or G-SAP wherein it would purchase securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve and ensure comfortable liquidity conditions. For the first quarter of 2021-22, it had announced a G-SAP of Rs 1 lakh crore. The first purchase for Rs 25,000 crore was conducted on April 15 and the second for Rs 35,000 crore on May 20. The RBI said it would raise the remaining Rs 40,000 crore for the quarter on June 17, with Rs 10,000 crore allotted to the purchase of state government paper. Moreover, purchases for the second quarter (G-SAP 2:0) will be higher at Rs 1.20 lakh crore. Besides, a separate liquidity window of Rs 15,000 crore at the repo rate will be available till the end of this sector to contact intensive sectors such as hotels and restaurants, tourism and aviation ancillary services. As an incentive to banks, they can park their surplus liquidity — up to the size of the lending under this book called the Covid book — with the RBI under the reverse repo window at a rate which yields 40 basis points higher than the current reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. The exposure threshold under Resolution Framework 2.0 — a debt restructuring plan announced in May for stressed individuals, small businesses and MSMEs — has been raised to Rs 50 crore from Rs 25 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
