06-06-2021||Business||Petrol prices cross Rs 100-mark in six states, stand at Rs 101.63 in Mumbai||Petrol price on Sunday crossed Rs 95 a litre in Delhi and diesel breached Rs 86 per litre mark for the first time ever as fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was increased by 21 paise per litre and diesel 20 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike - 20th since May 4 - took fuel prices across the country to a historic high. Petrol is now above Rs 100 per litre mark in six states and union territories - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 95.09 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.01 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Retail prices have risen after an increase in international oil prices on investors' optimism that improving demand and a dwindling supply glut may mean the market can absorb any additional production from OPEC and its allies. Brent crude, the global oil-price benchmark, is nearing USD 72 per barrel for the first time in two years. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100-a-litre mark. Petrol now costs Rs 101.3 per litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 93.35. The increase on Sunday is the 20th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like Bengal. In 20 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 4.69 per litre and diesel by Rs 5.28 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Centre gives 'one last notice' to Twitter to comply with IT rules||The confrontation between  Twitter and the Narendra Modi government is set to intensify with the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) on Saturday giving the social media platform “one last chance to immediately” comply with the new IT rules. It warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing the intermediary exemption from liability under the IT Act. The ministry said Twitter’s refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the microblogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create a mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India-based, clearly identified resources,” the IT ministry said. The ministry said though with effect from May 26, 2021, “consequences follow” given Twitter’s non-compliance with the rules “however, as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply, failing which ... Twitter shall be liable for consequences under the IT Act and other penal laws of India”. The notice, however, did not mention a specific date to comply with the rules. Twitter declined to comment on the latest notice by the government. The ministry also noted that the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company was not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, and added that the office address of Twitter Inc as mentioned by the company “is that of a law firm in India, which is not as per the rules”. The new IT rules, which were announced on February 25, came into effect on May 26. Every social media intermediary, including Twitter, was given three months to comply. Under the new digital rules, social media companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message as well as to conduct additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Twitter has not complied with the rules that stipulate the appointment of a resident grievance officer. The platform had earlier said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new IT rules and regulations that it said, “inhibit free, open public conversation”. In case the government revokes Twitter’s indemnity under Section 79 of the IT Act, the microblogging site could be held responsible for content posted by users on its platform. At present, Twitter and other social media platforms, as intermediaries, enjoy the protection that holds users responsible for posts deemed illegal. Twitter has been in the Centre’s line of fire over content takedown requests for tweets from various user accounts criticising the government on multiple occasions, including the farmer protests in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Paytm loss narrows to Rs 1,704 crore in FY21||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, has managed to pare its losses for the year ended March 31, 2021 even as consolidated revenues dipped almost 11 per cent. The company, which is set to come out with an IPO, has suffered a loss of Rs 1,701 crore compared with a loss of Rs 2,942 crore in the preceding year. However, revenues fell to Rs 3,187 crore from Rs 3,541 crore in 2019-20. This is the eighth straight year where the company is reporting losses and the second consecutive one where it has narrowed it down. The year was also marked by a drop in its expenses by over 20 per cent to Rs 4,783 crore. In January 2021, founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma had said that the company could break-even this year as Covid-19 could lead to a rise in digital transactions. A spokesperson for the company said during the fiscal year, it witnessed significant disruption in the business of its merchant partners, particularly in the first half. However, a strong recovery in the latter half resulted in minimal impact on its revenues. One97 Communications will hold its annual general meeting on June 30. One of the items on the agenda is to sub-divide its shares to Re 1 per share from Rs 10 per share. The record date of such a share split will be June 30. Shareholders will also have to approve the remuneration of Sharma. At Rs 4 crore, it will be the same as in the previous fiscal. Recently, the board of One97 Communications had given its nod for a share float of Rs 22,000 crore. The company is likely to file its draft papers with Sebi by next month while the IPO is likely to come during the October-December quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank to pick stake in NARCL; plans to transfer Rs 8,000 crore worth NPA||Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Saturday said it has identified bad loans worth Rs 8,000 crore that it would transfer to the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL), which is likely to be operational from July. “We are expecting everything to be put in place by June 30 and from July 1 onwards things will start functioning. The Indian Banks’ Association has already indicated this,” PNB managing director S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao told reporters. While public sector banks together are expected to pick up a 51 per cent stake in the national ARC, Rao said PNB’s shareholding will be less than 10 percentage points. The bad bank, initially proposed by the IBA, was later endorsed by the government in the budget. Insurance stake Rao said the PNB board has decided to exit Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company (CHOICE), and the sale process would take around 1-1.5 years as it would involve the appointment of intermediaries and engagement with advisers. The bank expects to exit the insurance venture at a good valuation. The state-owned bank had acquired a 23 per cent stake in the life insurer post amalgamation of the erstwhile Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) into itself last financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||GST mop-up tops Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May, crosses Rs 1-trn mark for 8th straight month||The goods and services tax collection dipped in May because of restrictions imposed by states to curb the second wave of Covid-19 infections. However, it managed to hold on to the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the eighth month in a row. The tax collection for May stood at Rs 1,02,709 crore, slipping from a record high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore in April 2021, according to data released by the ministry of finance on Saturday. “As expected, May 2021 GST collections have shown moderation as was predicted by the sequential slowdown in e-way bills between March and April. With the extension and widening of restrictions by various states in May, the e-way bills have declined further, which will dampen the GST collections in the month of June,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra, said. The May 2021 collection is 65 per cent higher than the Rs 62,009-`crore tax revenue of May 2020. Collections last year were impacted as economic activity took a hit because of the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. “The gross GST revenue collected in the month of May 2021 is Rs 1,02,709 crore of which CGST is Rs 17,592 crore, SGST is Rs 22,653, IGST is Rs 53,199 crore (including Rs 26,002 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 9,265 crore (including Rs 868 crore collected on the import of goods),” the finance ministry said in a statement. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Collections above Rs 1 lakh crore in April 2021 indicate that the economic impact of the restrictions has been much lower than expected. A close watch is required on the next month’s collections to determine the extent of the impact on GST collections in FY22.” Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said : “As most of the businesses were not functioning in April because of the lockdown, the numbers come as a pleasant surprise. “The numbers should rise further considering that many small businesses are yet to file their returns because of the Covid-related relaxations extended by the government for such businesses.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said: “The Rs 1.02-lakh-crore GST collections for the month of May will rise further as businesses with less than Rs 5 crore turnover have until the first week of July to file returns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
