07-06-2021||Business||Jagmohan Singh with JSA Online Portal embarks customers with financial guidance||Cash Flow Coach, Jagmohan Singh yields resources to alleviate people stuck in search of best methods in order to manage their finances
The amount of money you send to banks, the amount you keep for your family, and the amount you have to invest all depend on how well you manage your budget. This is why you need a financial coach. Jagmohan Singh, the owner of JSA Online Portal and a cash flow coach, runs a thriving and cash-rich firm guiding people in the right direction.
Hailing from Punjab, Jagmohan has done graduation in commerce from Delhi University. He chose Chartered Accountancy over an easier path, where he mastered the Art and Science of Numbers as well as Finance and Law. After three years of hard work, he earned an All India Rank and was hired as an associate at E&Y, a Big 4 accounting and law firm.
During his working years in E&Y, he learned how to conduct management audits across India in the field of ‘Systems and Processes,' which he later specialised in. He earned his speciality by working with Directors, Vice Presidents, General Managers, Managers, Executives, and employees at all levels. Jagmohan Singh as a ‘Cash Flow Coach’ After gaining enough knowledge, he founded the leading company, JSA Online Portal. This is a one-of-a-kind method that equips consumers with simple yet effective skills, methods, and approaches to boost cash flow in their businesses and help them become unstoppable in their quest for entrepreneurial success.
JSA Online Portal, which began in a 400 square foot office in District Centre, Janakpuri, with only two staff handling all operations, has grown to more than 100 staff serving 1000+ clients across the country and even beyond.
For his excellent skills, Jagmohan has acquired Landmark Education's Introduction Leader Certification as a ‘Cash Flow Coach’. He's also a public speaker who's been honoured by the Finance and Business Association's several study circles.
“I feel that business is a numbers game that needs to be played with correct knowledge of finance and law,” adds the savvy entrepreneur. “ I foresee a world in which every human being on the planet lives a financially secure, joyful, and peaceful existence while also supporting one another. Remember that doing business in your area of passion with a targeted approach brings significant value to any aspiring entrepreneur,” he further explains. With the ordinary man in mind, he aspires to construct a global ‘University of Finance and Numbers,' so that every man in need can have quick and effective access to it and use the techniques learned in their enterprises and lives with guidance. Jagmohan is the appropriate person to approach and seek help from if you need to master your business in the domain of money and numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 228 points to close above 52,000||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 228 points to its fresh lifetime high on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and ICICI Bank.

After starting on a tepid note, the 30-share BSE index rose 228.46 points or 0.44 per cent to finish at its all-time high of 52,328.51.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 81.40 points or 0.52 per cent to a record 15,751.65.

PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, UltraTech Cement, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank.

On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.

"Domestic equities extended gain with benchmarks recording fresh all-time highs as sharp decline in daily caseload and states started easing business curb lifted sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.

A sharp rebound was seen in private banks, auto and IT which supported market, while metals and pharma witnessed profit booking.

He further noted that midcap and smallcap stocks were again in focus as investors appeared to be lapping up these counters in the backdrop of improved visibility of earnings recovery.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong was in the red.

Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points on Monday tracking gains in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, ITC and SBI amid sustained foreign fund inflow and mixed cues from global markets.

After jumping nearly 180 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index turned flat to trade 20.04 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,120.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 29.20 points or 0.19 per cent to 15,699.45.

PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, NTPC, ONGC, ITC, SBI, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank.

On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC, Asian Paints and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 132.38 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 52,100.05, while NSE Nifty slipped 20.10 points or 0.13 per cent to 15,670.25.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,499.37 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.

"News is positive for markets. Since the US jobs numbers have come lower than expected the Fed is likely to continue its accommodative stance with no indications about tapering. So the US 10-year yield is likely to remain stable with a negative bias till Thursday when the US inflation numbers will be released, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.

FIIs have come back strongly this month with net equity purchases worth Rs 7,967 crore till June 4, he said, adding that frenzied retail participation is imparting resilience to markets.

GST collections in May at Rs 1.02 lakh crore came as a surprise since May was a month of subdued economic activity. This is a reflection of the underlying strength and growth impulses in the economy, he noted.

Further, economic activity is likely to gather momentum as most states are gradually opening up since fresh COVID cases have fallen, Vijayakumar said.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||DHFL reports consolidated net profit of Rs 96.75 crore in the last quarter||Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) on Sunday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 96.75 crore for the last quarter of the fiscal ended March 2021. The company, which is under the corporate insolvency process, had posted a net loss of Rs 7,507 crore in the January-March quarter of the year-ago fiscal. The company had reported a loss of Rs 13,095.38 crore in the December quarter of 2020-21. For the full year 2020-21, the non-banking finance company posted a net loss of Rs 15,051.17 crore, which widened from Rs 13,455.81 crore in 2019-20, DHFL said in a regulatory filing. The total consolidated income in the fourth quarter fell to Rs 2,060.57 crore from Rs 2,160.98 crore in Q4, 2019-20. For 2020-21, total income was down to Rs 8,802.78 crore from Rs 9,578.85 crorea year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sidbi floats request for proposal inviting bids ||Sidbi, on behalf of the government, has floated a request for proposal inviting bids from consultants to help set up a Rs 20,000-crore DFI, called the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID), to catalyse investment in the infrastructure sector. The Parliament in March cleared National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 to support the development of long-term non-recourse infrastructure financing in India, including the development of the bonds and derivatives markets necessary for infrastructure financing. The objective of the assignment is to select a management consultant to support in the setting up of an infra Development Finance Institution, as an all-India financial institution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||India’s e-grocers show significant growth in past years||India’s e-grocers are on course to achieve scale and profitability through various measures aimed at margin accretion and lowering costs. According to analysts at Motilal Oswal, e-grocery hardly garnered single-digit share in the overall grocery market in India and globally, with multiple players trying to make inroads with limited success. However, over the last few years, they have made their presence felt with modern retail also feeling its impact. The online grocery market has shown strong growth, rising 30 times although on a small base over the last 7-8 years. The pandemic is only expected to consolidate this trend with some of the existing players reporting 3-4 times surge in daily orders and an improvement in the average order value (AOVs). Some of the key e-grocery players in India include the Tatas-controlled BigBasket, Grofers, JioMart, Amazon, Flipkart, Licious, Nature’s Basket and Dunzo. Among them JioMart, which launched operations in 2020, serves more than 200 cities and towns. “The fear of online grocery retailers is turning real as a majority of e-grocery growth has predominantly come from regions which are the key markets of modern retailers,” the Motilal Oswal report said. It added that though offline retailers (like D-Mart) hold an edge because of cost competency, thereby driving productivity and scale, e-grocers are benefiting from lower customer acquisition costs. The report said the grocery segment has been marked by wafer thin gross margins, higher logistics cost and complex inventory management, making it difficult to achieve sustainable profits and compete with the traditional retail channel. However, e-grocers now have a better idea of the path to scale and profitability, with multiple levers and a stronger balance sheet. These players have now started targeting bulk purchases to leverage cost and limit assortment which aids inventory control. They are pushing private labels which raises margins and are charging delivery cost below a specific order value. Customer stickiness has lowered acquisition costs — all leading to higher gross margins and reducing cost per order. Different strategies have been adopted by players with some pushing more private labels in the overall mix or stressing on higher order values, and limiting discounts. Others such as JioMart have kept delivery free without any minimum threshold of orders. On the other hand, e-tailers such as Flipkart and Amazon are targeting a wider network of cities to push their revenue growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Insurers seeks govt support to build health database||An effective pricing of premiums requires a central repository of medical records of individuals, and the life insurance industry is looking for government support to build the database. Vibha Padalkar, managing director and CEO of HDFC Life Insurance, said this would be a game-changer as the insurers would be effectively able to underwrite risk based on more granular data and offer a better premium quote to individuals. While banks and non-bank finance companies have access to centralised databases that can be used to understand the repayment capabilities of individuals, insurers to a large extent rely on the self-declaration of past medical records from prospective policy buyers before underwriting a policy. While financial data and its availability have seen a fair bit of evolution over the last 7-8 years, aggregation of health data is still at a nascent stage. “There is a lot of ground to cover especially on health data,” Padalkar said. In the absence of in-depth data, a healthy individual may end up paying the same premium as one not having made a full disclosure. However, insurers can offer better quotes if individuals share their medical records to a centralised repository that has  proper data protection rules and can be accessed by the insurers. “If an individual is willing to share his medical data and signs up for sharing data with some central repository, and supposing an insurer is able to tap into those repository, based on consent of the prospective customer, and if regulation permit a wider range of price nuanced quote, then policies can be better priced,” said Padalkar. She said this would encourage a pickup in life cover, particularly among the younger population as life insurance is a long term product and unlike other variants of insurance cannot be repriced easily. According to data compiled by the Life Insurance Council, the industry posted nearly 45 per cent growth in new business premium in April. The 24 life insurers, including LIC, collected Rs 9,738.79 crore in April 2021 compared with Rs 6,727.74 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Centre's bid to speed up the four labour codes||The four labour codes are likely to see the light of the day in a couple of months as the Centre is now keen to go ahead with the implementation of these laws, which among others will result in a reduction in the take-home pay of employees and higher provident fund liability of companies. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and provident fund of employees are calculated. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety & working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 central labour laws. The ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many states were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdiction. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India and, therefore, both the Centre and the states have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. “Many major states have not finalised the rules under the four codes. Some states are in the process of finalising rules for the implementation of these laws. The central government cannot wait forever for states to firm up rules under these codes. Therefore, it is planning to implement these codes in a couple of months as some time would have to be given to establishments or firms to align with new laws,” a source said. According to the source, some states had already circulated the draft rules. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50 per cent. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of basic wage, which includes basic pay and dearness allowance. The employers have been splitting wages into numerous allowances to keep basic wages low to reduce provident fund and income tax outgo. The new wages code provides for provident fund contribution as a prescribed proportion of 50 per cent of gross pay After the implementation of the new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce while provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases. Once implemented, employers would have to restructure salaries of their employees as per the new code on wages. Besides, the new industrial relation code would improve ease of doing business by allowing firms with up to 300 workers to go ahead for lay-offs, retrenchment and closure without government permission. At present all firms with up to 100 employees are exempted from government permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Hero Electric  set to expand over the next two years||The electric two-wheeler industry is poised to grow in double digits over the next two years and all eyes are on how the policymakers and various stakeholders come together to encourage the shift. With the country now gearing up to re-open after the second wave of the pandemic, electric two-wheeler company Hero Electric is now looking to expand its footprint and reach out to its vast network of over 600 dealers across all small and big towns of the country. The company also plans to expand its manufacturing facility in Ludhiana to ramp up production from the existing 70,000 units per annum to a significantly higher 2.5 lakhs per annum to drive the adoption of green mobility. Committed to cutting down emissions on World Environment Day, Sohinder Gill, CEO, Hero Electric, said, “The World Environment Day is just an opportunity for us to encourage people to shift towards saving the environment and its resources. The performance this year has been promising and we will manage to procure 10-15 per cent growth over the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Panna-Mukta and Tapti Profit row: Govt challenges RIL arbitration award||The government has challenged before an English high court an arbitration award over a cost recovery dispute in the western offshore Panna-Mukta and Tapti oil and gas fields of Shell and Reliance Industries Ltd. An arbitration “tribunal gave a favourable award on January 29, 2021”, Reliance said in its latest annual report. Reliance and Shell had through the arbitration sought raising of the limit of cost that could be recovered from the sale of oil and gas before profits are shared with the government. The award came this year. Both sides filed clarification applications before the tribunal. “On April 9, 2021, the tribunal issued its decision on the clarification applications of both the parties. It granted the minor correction requested by the claimants (Reliance and Shell) and has rejected all of the Government of India’s clarification requests,” it said without giving details. Subsequent to that, the government of India (GoI) has challenged the award before the English high court, it said. Reliance and Shell-owned BG Exploration & Production India Ltd had on December 16, 2010, dragged the government to arbitration over cost recovery provisions, profit due to the State and amount of statutory dues including royalty payable. The Indian government also raised counter claims over expenditure incurred, inflated sales, excess cost recovery, and short accounting. The three-member arbitration panel headed by Singapore-based lawyer Christopher Lau by majority issued a final partial award (FPA) on October 12, 2016. It upheld the government view that the profit from the fields should be calculated after deducting the prevailing tax of 33 per cent and not the 50 per cent rate that existed earlier. It also upheld that the cost recovery in the contract is fixed at $545 million in the Tapti gasfield and $577.5 million in the Panna-Mukta oil and gasfield. The two firms wanted that cost provision be raised by $365 million in Tapti and $62.5 million in Panna-Mukta. Royalty, it said, had to be calculated after the inclusion of marketing margin charged over and above the wellhead price of natural gas. The government used this award to seek $3.85 billion (about Rs 28,000 crore) in dues from Reliance and BGEPIL. The two firms challenged the 2016 FPA before the English high court, which on April 16, 2018, remitted one of the challenged issues back to the arbitral tribunal for reconsideration. “The arbitral tribunal decided in favour of the claimants in large part vide its final partial award dated October 1, 2018. GoI and claimants filed an appeal before the English commercial court against this 2018 FPA. “The English commercial court rejected the GoI’s challenges to 2018 final partial award and upheld the claimants’ challenge that the arbitration tribunal had jurisdiction over the limited issue and remitted the issue back to the arbitration tribunal,” the report said. The final award on the issue came this year, it said. The government had used the 2016 partial award not just to raise a $3.85 billion demand on Reliance and Shell but also sought to block Reliance’s proposed $15 billion deal with Saudi Aramco on grounds that the company owed money to it. Following this, the court asked company directors to file affidavits listing assets. RIL and Shell had countered the government petition in the Delhi high court, saying the petition is an abuse of process as no arbitration award has fixed any final liability of dues on the company. “The GoI has also filed an execution petition before the Delhi high court... seeking enforcement and execution of the 2016 FPA,” the annual report said. “The claimants contend that the GoI’s execution petition is not maintainable,” it added. The matter will come up for hearing on July 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Reliance Infrastructure to raise  Rs 551cr through issue of shares||Reliance Infrastructure on Sunday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 550.56 crore through the issue of shares on a preferential basis. The funds raised would be utilised for general corporate purposes, to fund future growth and also to reduce debt, the company said in a statement. “The board of directors of Reliance Infrastructure Ltd at its meeting held today (Sunday) approved raising of funds up to Rs 550.56 crore,” the statement said. It will be done by a preferential allotment of up to 8.88 crore equity shares and/or warrants convertible into equivalent number of equity shares of the company to promoter group and VFSI Holdings Pte Ltd, an affiliate of Varde Investment Partners, the statement added. Of the Rs 550.56 crore equity infusion, about Rs 400 crore will come from the promoter group and Rs 150 crore from Varde Group, sources said. The board also approved seeking a go-ahead of the members of the company for the above proposal through a postal ballot. “The above shall be subject to all requisite permissions, sanctions and approvals as may be necessary,” the statement said. Rel Infra is one of the leading infrastructure companies, developing projects through various special purpose vehicles in several high growth sectors such as power, roads and metro rail in the infrastructure space and the defence sector. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||MSME exporters seek Modi’s intervention on rising steel prices||Engineering exporters in the MSME segment have sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention on rising steel prices, stating that the industry needs the alloy and other inputs at affordable rates so that export competitiveness of value-added products is maintained in the global markets. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association president S. C. Ralhan said that many of the competing countries, particularly China, provide support to manufacturing units by providing steel and other inputs at much reasonable prices to boost the competitiveness of the engineering sector in the global markets. He said that India is gradually losing out its markets to China in the value-added segment of exports and the recent growth visible in exports is largely on account of a hike in the prices of metal and commodities. A sharp decline is seen in the export trends of finished engineering goods, he said. “In the given situation, the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) industry needs to be provided steel at reasonable prices so that the export competitiveness of value-added products is maintained,” Ralhan said in his letter. He cautioned that if the prices would not come under control, a large number of manufacturers would be out of business and that could result in loss of employment. He suggested the government consider setting up a raw material bank for MSMEs to provide steel and other key inputs to them by extending some kind of subsidy. Meanwhile, India’s diamond exports are expected to shimmer past the $20-billion  mark this fiscal, with demand rebounding after the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Crisil Ratings has said. Revenue from exports reached $16.4 billion last fiscal, a decline of 12 per cent — well below the plunge expected when the world went into unprecedented lockdowns. But as nations recovered well in the second half, the fall in exports was halted, an analysis of 70 diamantaires rated by Crisil — accounting for a third of industry’s total revenue —  shows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||General insurers to settle claim for black fungus treatment||General insurers have said they will settle claims on the health policies of individuals undergoing treatment for mucormycosis or black fungus. Individuals with comprehensive health covers that include pre and post hospitalisation expenses, critical illness covers, preventive health checkups among other benefits, will stand to benefit from the policy. With cases of the fungal disease shooting up during the pandemic,  policy holders are worried whether their health cover would include or exclude the treatment of the disease. “All our health indemnity policies cover hospitalisation expenses arising out of various infections. mucormycosis, which is also known as black fungus, is one such infection which is covered under our health policies. In fact, we have settled claims pertaining to this condition. We have been working towards swiftly settling such claims,” said Bhaskar Nerurkar, head – health claims, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. “Comprehensive policies will cover Mucormycosis even if it is during Covid treatment or independent of Covid treatment. We have seen a few claims but not too many,” said Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting and claims at ICICI Lombard. Datta said most patients with the disease were being treated in hospitals. The hospitalisation expenses as per the policy terms are being covered whenever claims are raised. “All comprehensive policies are covering black fungus. The claim process is normal like any other policies and there is no differentiation,” said Amit Chhabra, head of health insurance, Policybazaar.com. He added that certain policies which offer only specific treatments only may not cover the disease. Uncontrolled diabetes, weakening of immune system because of the use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay, comorbidities are among the conditions that can elevate the risk of the fungal infection in Covid-19 patients. Several states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh among others have registered patients under the treatment of the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Deposit dilemma||On Friday, the Reserve Bank of India decided to keep policy rates unchanged. It is the sixth straight time they have done so. Rarely does the central bank put a pause on policy rates for so long — something it has done to accommodate economic revival. Policy rates impact lending and deposit rates in the country. While paused rates keep loans cheap, they also lower the returns on bank deposits. This hurts anyone reliant on fixed income from interest-generating instruments such as fixed deposits. The real returns from deposits are negative because inflation is also spiking. For example, if a fixed deposit returns 5 per cent, your post-tax returns would be 4 per cent after 20 per cent tax. But if the inflation rate was 5 per cent, your real returns are a negative 1 per cent, which means your capital is eroding instead of growing. In such a scenario, it is important to take steps that will improve your real returns and make your money grow. Here are some ideas. FDs with shorter tenures tend to have the lowest rates. Longer tenures — typically those above one year — have higher rates. The longest tenures — five years or more — tend to have the highest rates. Therefore, locking your money for a higher tenure with a higher rate would give you marginally better returns. However, since a bottoming out of interest rates points towards a rise in rates in the future, it would be advisable to lock in only a part of your deposits in longer tenures and retain short-term liquidity to exploit rising rates. Large banks tend to offer the lowest rates. The one-year FD rates for the largest banks are in the 4.40 per cent range. However, smaller banks which are hungrier for the depositor’s business will go much higher. The mid-level banks will meet you at 4.50-5.75 per cent for the one-year tenure. The small finance banks may go over 6 per cent, and even as high as 7.25 per cent on longer tenures. The trade-off is risk. Large banks are well-capitalised, stable, and the most likely to pay back your deposit with interest. That said, a well-calibrated and limited exposure to small banks after an evaluation of risks will help you earn better average returns. Premature liquidation of FDs leads to an interest penalty, typically 1 per cent. To avoid premature liquidation, you need to time the FD maturity to your liquidity needs or make partial withdrawals which will minimise the interest penalty. The other way to ensure liquidity and earn higher average returns is to ladder your FDs. This needs you to split your FDs into small deposits with varying tenures between a few months and five years. This will lead to deposits maturing at various intervals, allowing you to exploit rising rates or minimise exposure to falling rates. At present, when the rates can only rise, it would be sensible to have a short-term-heavy ladder so that you have more FDs maturing in the short term, allowing you to lock in to rising rates. Higher risks could lead to higher rewards. Company deposits are one way to earn higher rewards. There are many options returning 6 per cent and higher on select tenures, with some going over 7.50 per cent. However, keep in mind that the exposure to higher risks need to be in line with your risk-taking ability. Therefore, a controlled exposure to these options will not only give you better average returns but also minimise your damage in case the company runs into trouble. To lower your risks, you can look for AAA-rated companies and deposits which provide the highest possibility that your principal and interest will both be paid on time. Some government schemes can provide higher returns than FDs, but the trade-off is a higher tenure and lock-in. For example, for the elderly, the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (7.4 per cent, with a lock-in of five years) is a must-have. For the tax-saver, the National Savings Certificate (6.8 per cent, also five years) can provide higher rates with lower taxes. Post office FDs return 5.50-6.70 per cent. The RBI floating rate savings bond can provide 35 basis points above the NSC rate with a seven-year lock-in. These are attractive alternatives to FDs in the 1-7-year range. Taking no risk is often the biggest risk. Low interest rates and inflation spikes erode your capital. On the other hand, investing in market-linked instruments as part of a well-thought plan could give you higher long-term returns. The stock markets are at an all-time high and long-term investors have benefitted.Why not give these a chance to improve your real returns? The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
