08-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday following losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE Sensex slipped 52.94 points or 0.10 per cent to 52,275.57. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,740.10.  SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC duo, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bharti Airtel, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers.  Equity benchmarks ended almost flat in a choppy trading day with mixed reactions seen across the counters, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  While financials and metals witnessed selling pressure, IT, FMCG and pharma supported the market.  Midcap and smallcap indices, on the other hand, continued to outperform the benchmarks as improved prospects of earnings recovery continues to attract investors towards this space, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended in the red.  Stocks exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent lower at USD 71.11 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman asks Infosys to fix glitches on new tax filing website||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix technical glitches being encountered on the income tax department's new e-filing website after users flooded her Twitter timeline with complaints. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The portal went live last evening. Early on Tuesday morning, Sitharaman took to Twitter to announce the launch of the new portal, www.incometax.gov.in, saying that the "important milestone to make the compliance experience more taxpayer-friendly" went live at 2045 Hrs on Monday. But, soon, her timeline was flooded with user complaints. "I see in my TL grievances and glitches. Hope @Infosys & @NandanNilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided," she tweeted later. TL here stands for timeline. "Ease in compliance for the taxpayer should be our priority," she said while quoting a tweet from a user who was unable to log in to the new e-filing portal. Infosys had also developed the GST Network (GSTN) portal, used for GST payment and return filing. The software major had faced flak for the slow functioning of the GSTN portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a choppy note on Tuesday amid tepid cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 54.44 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,382.95 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 13.85 points or 0.09 per cent to 15,765.50.  Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Infosys, HCL Tech, NTPC and TCS.  On the other hand, ONGC, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex rose 228.46 points or 0.44 per cent to finish at its all-time high of 52,328.51, and Nifty surged 81.40 points or 0.52 per cent to a record 15,751.65.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth 186.46 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Daily caseload falling below one lakh yesterday first time after two months and government assuring state governments to supply Jabs at own cost for all offer additional comfort, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  On the global front, US equities ended mixed with Dow and S&P 500 recording moderate contraction. However, soft bond yield, supported by lower-than-expected Job data for May, helped tech-led Nasdaq to extend gain, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.98 per cent lower at USD 70.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||New tax filing portal goes live ||The much awaited new tax filing portal went live only late in the evening much to the chagrin of chartered accountants who vented their ire on the government on Twitter. The income tax authorities had said the new portal would be launched on Monday June 7. The old portal was shut down from June 1 to June 6. However, much to the disappointment of the filers, the new portal remained out of bounds throughout the day on Monday. Vikram Dangi, a chartered accountant, tweeted, “If you can’t stay on your timings, please also don’t expect tax payers to file returns and pay taxes on time. Why to charge late fee from them.” Government officials said they had not given any time when the portal would go live on Monday. The new portal — www.incometax.gov.in — replaces the olderincometaxindiaefiling.gov.in website The income tax department also asked taxpayers to re-register their DSC (Digital Signature Certificate), update their personal mobile number and email ID under “primary contact”, act on “pending action” and respond to “outstanding demand”. The portal has separate tabs for different categories of taxpayers, like individual, company, non-company and tax professionals. It has a drop-down menu for taxpayers for checking instructions on ITR filing, refund status and tax slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business|| ICICI Prudential Life Insurance announcesannual bonus of Rs 867 crore||ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has announced an annual bonus of Rs 867 crore for all eligible participating policyholders for financial year 2020-21. This is 10 per cent higher than the payout last year and is the highest bonus declared by the insurer till date. When a life insurance company makes profit (surplus), a part of it is distributed among policyholders in the form of bonus payments every financial year with the payout being made at maturity. This is similar to dividends paid by profit making companies for its equity shareholders. Only participatory plans (with-profit plans) qualify for bonus, unlike non-participatory plans, and there is a premium differential between the two. ICICI Prudential said that a total of 9.8 lakh participating policyholders will benefit from the bonus payout. This is the 15th consecutive year that the insurer has declared a bonus. As on March 31, 2021, 96.8 per cent of the fixed income portfolio of the insurer is invested in sovereign or AAA rated papers and there has been zero default in the portfolio since inception. “This is the highest annual bonus in the history of the company. It coincides with the 20th anniversary of our operations. It demonstrates our customer focus, resilience and ability to navigate through the challenges posed by the pandemic,” said N.S. Kannan, managing director and CEO of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance. Life insurers often tap the bonus route to market their products and make it more attractive for prospective policyholders. “Unlike commodities, insurance is intangible that works on the basis of trust that at the time of certain events such as death or maturity, claims will be settled and bonus would be paid. So,  bonus is an incentive used to market protection plans,” said an insurance industry executive. LIC, which is the country’s largest life insurance company, paid a huge sum of Rs 51,019.65 crore in 2019-20 as bonus to its participating policyholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Google to make changes to global advertising business||Google said it would make changes to its global advertising business to ensure it did not abuse its dominance, bowing to antitrust pressure for the first time in a landmark settlement with French authorities. The deal with the French competition watchdog could help rebalance the power over advertising in favour of publishers, which held sway over the business in the pre-internet era but lost control with the rapid rise of Google and Facebook. The settlement, which was announced on Monday and also saw Google fined 220 million euros ($268 million), is the first time the US tech giant has agreed to make changes to its huge advertising business, which brings in the bulk of its revenue. “The decision to sanction Google is of significance because it’s the first decision in the world focusing on the complex algorithmic auction processes on which the online ad business relies,” said France’s antitrust chief Isabelle de Silva. The watchdog found that Google’s ad management platform for large publishers — Google Ad Manager — favoured the company’s own online ad marketplace —Google AdX — where publishers sell space to advertisers in real-time. Ad Manager provided AdX with strategic data such as the winning bidding prices, while AdX also enjoyed privileged access to requests made by advertisers via Google’s ad services, the authority said. AdX, in turn, exchanged data more smoothly with Ad Manager than it did with other advertising management platforms, the watchdog added. Such platforms are crucial for publishers to manage and sell advertising space. Under the terms of the settlement, Google made commitments to improve the way Ad Manager services worked with rival ad servers and ad space sales platforms, the French watchdog said. Some changes would be implemented by the first quarter of 2022, it said, adding that Google would not appeal the decision. Google said it had agreed to make it easier for publishers to use its data and tools. “We will be testing and developing these changes over the coming months before rolling them out more broadly, including some globally,” the company added. Many publishers globally have been infuriated over the ad practices employed by the tech giants, whose success relies on the trove of data they have amassed over the years. The French antitrust authority said its decision opened the way for publishers who felt disadvantaged to seek damages from Google. Reuters Most of Google’s sales come from search and YouTube ads. But last year about $23 billion was tied to helping publishers sell ads, drawing antitrust scrutiny to the connections between Google’s businesses, plus calls from some critics to break up the company. French finance minister Bruno Le Maire welcomed the watchdog’s decision. “The practices put in place by Google to favour its own advertising technologies have affected press groups, whose business model is heavily dependent on ad revenues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business|| Sebi bars Franklin Templeton AMC from launching any new debt scheme for two years; fines it Rs 5 crore ||Sebi on Monday barred Franklin Templeton AMC from launching any new debt scheme for two years and fined it Rs 5 crore for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. It has also been asked to refund investment management and advisory fees to the tune of Rs 512 crore, including interest, collected with respect to the six debt schemes, Sebi said in its 100-page order. In a separate order, the regulator has barred Vivek Kudva, former head of Asia Pacific (APAC) for Franklin Templeton, and his wife Roopa from the securities market for one year for redeeming units of Franklin Templeton MF schemes while in possession of non-public information. The regulator has also imposed a total penalty of Rs 7 crore on the couple. They have been asked to jointly and severally transfer Rs 22.64 crore redeemed of Franklin Templeton MF schemes to an escrow account within 45 days. Sebi found that the couple had cumulatively redeemed units amounting to Rs 30.70 crore while in possession of material non-public information. In addition, Sebi has initiated adjudication proceedings against certain employees of Franklin Templeton AMC, including the chief executive officer, chief compliance officer and the directors. Sebi found that Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd has “committed serious lapses/violations with regard to a scheme categorisation (by replicating high-risk strategy across several schemes) and calculation of Macaulay duration (to push long term papers into short duration schemes)”. Franklin has also committed violations in respect of non-exercise of exit options in the face of an emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, it added. PTI “As a result of the irregularities in the running of the debt schemes inspected, loss has been caused to the investors. The noticee (Franklin Templeton AMC) was under a statutory obligation to abide by the provisions of the Mutual Regulations and Circulars issued thereunder, which it failed to do,” Sebi noted. The serious lapses and violations appear to be a fallout of Franklin Templeton AMC's obsession to run high-yield strategies without due regard from the concomitant risk dimensions, it added. The regulator said Franklin Templeton AMC will have to refund the investment management and advisory fees collected from June 4, 2018 till April 23, 2020 with respect to the six debt schemes, along with simple interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum. This has to be done within a period of 21 days from the date of the order for utilisation towards repayment of the concerned unitholders. In the event of failure to comply with the direction, it shall pay simple interest 12 per cent per annum, which shall commence from the date the amount becomes payable. In respect of Kudvas, Sebi noted that Vivek had redeemed units worth Rs 11.62 crore on his own behalf and units amounting to Rs 85.15 lakh on behalf of his mother Vasanthi, whereas Roopa redeemed units on her own account amounting to Rs 18.22 crore. “The noticees (couple) by redeeming their units ahead of the other investors have enjoyed an unfair advantage by having access to their investments; whereas the unit holders who remained invested were left in the lurch as their investments were locked up for a considerable amount of time,” Sebi noted. In such a scenario, Sebi said it is appropriate to place the couple (with respect to their investments in the two schemes) in a similar position to that of the unitholders who had remained invested. The amount of Rs 22.64 crore to be transferred to the escrow account will be released in tranches to the couple in the same proportion as the cash distributed to the unitholders (pursuant to the winding up process), taken as percentage of the AUM of the two schemes as on date of the decision to wind up the schemes -- April 23, 2020. Such proportionate releases from the escrow account will continue till the balance in the escrow account gets depleted to zero. If, on the other hand, on completion of the winding up process, any additional amounts remain in the escrow account, the same will be transferred to the Sebi Investor Protection and Education Fund, it added. Sebi said redemption of units by the Roopa and Vivek on his own behalf and on behalf of his mother while being privy to material non-public information constitutes 'unfair trade practices' and is in contravention of PFUTP (Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices) norms.               Franklin Templeton MF shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, 2020, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes -- Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund -- together had an estimated Rs 25,000 crore as assets under management. Subsequent to the decision to wind up the schemes, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) ordered a forensic audit and appointed chartered accountants Chokshi and Chokshi LLP to conduct a forensic audit of Franklin Templeton MF, Franklin Templeton AMC and trustees, particularly in respect to the six debt schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Twitter approaches govt seeking more time to comply with IT rules||Social media platform Twitter is learnt to have approached the government seeking more time to comply with the new IT rules. According to sources, the micro-blogging site has said it intends to comply with the rules but needs more time because of the pandemic situation in India. The response from Twitter comes after the government issued a strongly worded final notice to the company last week regarding its non-compliance with the new rules. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service. “We have assured the government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government,” the spokesperson said. In its notice, the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) had said that Twitter’s refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the micro-blogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources,” the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Fiscal stabilisers to play key role in economic revival: SBI Ecowrap report||Fiscal stimulus is the only way to jump start the country’s faltering economy now as there is very little ammunition left in the monetary policy to ignite a revival. “Only fiscal policy can rekindle animal spirits at this juncture; the monetary policy has almost nil headroom,” the State Bank of India’s economic research wing said in an analysis of the Reserve Bank of India monetary policy committee’s decision last week to hold rates and persist with its accommodative stand. “We firmly believe that even as the RBI has taken many measures to reinvigorate credit offtake, it continues to be low because corporate houses have deleveraged by repaying high-cost loans through funds raised through bond issuances. Corporate willingness for new investments remains low among all-pervasive uncertainty,” said the report. Among the fiscal steps that the government could look at are reasonable cuts in fuel prices and GST tax waivers for stressed entities. “The loss in revenue for growth collapse is not in the hands of the government and hence it may be worthwhile to support fiscal policy through tax adjustments. Otherwise, economic recovery will continue to be hamstrung with fuel prices at more than Rs 100 when the economy opens after lockdown,” the report said. The report also suggested that the RBI ought to consider shifting the focus on 7-8 year papers while announcing its open market operations/G-SAP plans. “This will smoothen the yield curve and also reduce upward pressure on the benchmark yield. Additionally, the RBI can also come up with a prior calendar of bucket-wise maturity for G-SAP 2,” the report said. It also said the RBI could buy more illiquid securities in each bucket which would allow banks to offload their held-to-maturity stocks and buy liquid ones. Bank privatisation Fitch Ratings on Monday said the plan to privatise two state-owned banks in the current financial year could face delays amid renewed challenges for the Indian banking sector because of the second wave of Covid-19. The government in the Budget announced plans to privatise two public-sector banks. Niti Aayog has been entrusted with the task of selecting the banks and one general insurance company for the privatisation. “The bold move to privatise state-run banks faces risk from political opposition and structural challenges, including heightened balance-sheet stress from the pandemic, which is likely to keep bank performance subdued for the next two to three years,” it added. CV sales volume The intense second wave of Covid-19 will limit growth in the volume of sales of domestic commercial vehicles to 23-28 per cent this fiscal compared with 32-37 per cent expected prior to its onset. Volume growth had hit a decadal low last fiscal, Crisil Rating said in a report. Credit metrics of CV makers are expected to improve as margins expand on better capacity utilisation and product mix. The CV market saw two consecutive fiscals of steep volume decline (29 per cent and 21 per cent in 2020 and 2021, respectively), following multiple headwinds such as revised axle norms, BS-VI transition, and the pandemic. While a sharp recovery from the lows was on the cards this fiscal, it will be constrained by a weak first quarter because of the pandemic. In April, freight rates fell 20 per cent month-on-month even as diesel prices remained elevated, hurting fleet operators. With inputs from Delhi bureau and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Tata Steel Mining Ltd gets bankrupt Rohit Ferro-Tech Ltd||Tata Steel Mining Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Steel Limited, has become the successful resolution applicant for Calcutta-based ferro chrome maker Rohit Ferro-Tech Ltd. Ten bidders, including Vedanta Ltd and Jindal Stainless, were in the fray for the assets of the company that include three ferro chrome plants, one in Odisha and the others in Bengal. It also has a stainless steel unit in Bengal. The committee of creditors of Rohit Ferro-Tech on June 5 approved the resolution plan of TSML, which has also received and accepted the letter of intent for the acquisition of the company. The plan will be implemented after receiving requisite approvals from the National Company Law Tribunal. T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel, told The Telegraph, “Tata Steel has a rich history in chrome ore mining and has one of the largest ferro alloy businesses in the world. The Rohit Ferro-Tech acquisition will strengthen our position in the business.” TSML has been chosen as the anchor company to carry out the commercial mining activity of Tata Steel Group. It is one of the four business verticals the parent is forming to drive scale and synergy of operations. The RFT acquisition will allow TSML to double its ferro chrome manufacturing capacity to 900,000 tonnes a year. One of the plants of Rohit Ferro is located only 40 kilometres away from the Tata chrome ore mines in Jajpur district  of Odisha. “Tata Steel Mining has been created as a vehicle for us to leverage our position as one of the oldest and largest miners in the country,” Narendran added. TSML has ferro chrome plants in Athagarh and Gopalpur in Odisha and three chromite mines, namely Sukinda, Kamarda and Saruabil, in Jajpur. The Tata company had acquired the mines in the 2020 mineral auctions for which leases were granted for 50 years. The mines have now been operational with an annual capacity of over 1.5 million tonnes, making it the largest player in chrome ore mining in India. RFT’s other ferro chrome plants are located at Bishnupur and Haldia in Bengal. The stainless steel plant is at Bishnupur. The company produced 56,400 tonnes of ferro alloys, according to the annual report, in 2019-20, compared with 63,749 tonnes a year before. It also produced 55,750 tonnes of stainless steel in that fiscal. It was sent for the corporate insolvency resolution process by an order of the Calcutta bench of the NCLT on February 7, 2020, and Supriyo Kumar Chaudhuri was appointed as the resolution professional. RFT owes Rs 3,901.93 crore to financial creditors, led by State Bank of India, which had nearly 50 per cent of the vote share in the CoC. Sources said the Tata bid could be in the range of Rs 500 crore. TSML was a late entrant in the fray for Rohit. It submitted an expression of interest after the final date of submitting EoI was over. However, the CoC allowed the Tata Company to participate in order to maximise value from the corporate debtor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
08-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal approves Piramal Group’s bid for DHFL||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday gave its approval to Piramal Group’s bid for bankrupt Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), subject to certain conditions. The tribunal’s Mumbai-bench, chaired by H.P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy, said the approval is subject to the final judgment from the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) and the Supreme Court’s judgment on Kapil Wadhawan in the matter. The Supreme Court will hear Wadhawan’s appeal on Tuesday, while the next date for the NCLAT hearing is June 25. In its order, the NCLT asked DHFL’s Committee of Creditors (CoC) to consider giving more money to small fixed deposit holders under the approved resolution plan. “We are not remanding the plan back to the CoC, we respect their commercial wisdom,” it said. The NCLT also rejected former DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan’s plea to get access to a copy of the resolution plan. On May 25, the NCLAT stayed the direction of the NCLT asking the lenders of DHFL to consider the offer by Wadhawan. The appellate tribunal had also clarified that its order should not come in the way of the NCLT deciding on approving the resolution plan selected by the CoC. The NCLAT’s direction had come on an urgent petition moved by the Union Bank of India on behalf of the CoC. On May 19, the NCLT asked the RBI-appointed administrator of DHFL to present the settlement plan offered by Wadhawan to the  CoC. In January this year, the CoC had voted in favour of selling DHFL to Piramal Capital and Housing Finance under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Last year, Wadhawan had made his settlement offer to the CoC. The offer was rejected by the creditors, citing lack of credibility and the valuations attached to the proposed asset sales. In the plan, Wadhawan had proposed to repay lenders by selling assets. In November 2019, the RBI had referred DHFL — then the third-largest pure-play mortgage lender —  for resolution under the code. DHFL had gone bankrupt with more than Rs 90,000 crore in debt to various lenders, including banks, mutual funds and individual investors who kept fixed deposits with the company. Delist plan DHFL’s shares would be delisted from the stock exchanges post acquisition by Piramal Capital, which has emerged as the successful bidder for the company, reports PTI. As part of the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), lenders led by Union Bank of India in January this year favoured the bid by Piramal Capital to take over the beleaguered housing finance firm. According to sources, shares of DHFL would be delisted post acquisition according to the IBC guidelines and Sebi delisting norms. Besides, sources said, the company may merge itself with DHFL for which a call would be taken after all legal and regulatory clearances are obtained. Jaypee Infra Suraksha group on Monday submitted “improved revised” bid to acquire debt-laden Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL), offering more funds to banks while reducing the timeline to complete some stalled projects for the benefit of homebuyers.  The Mumbai-based firm  is pitted against NBCC to acquire JIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
