09-06-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 334 points to close below 52,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 334 points on Wednesday, tracking heavy losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and L&T amid a weak trend in global markets.

The 30-share BSE index ended 333.93 points or 0.64 per cent lower at 51,941.64. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 104.75 points or 0.67 per cent to 15,635.35.

L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Maruti, Axis Bank and Bajaj Auto.

On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Titan, HCL Tech and Asian Paints were among the gainers.

"Domestic equities fell sharply as selling pressure in financials, auto and RIL dragged indices down," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.

This was the steepest correction after May 12, he said, adding that all key sectoral indices witnessed selling pressure as investors preferred to book some amount of profit ahead of crucial CPI data in the US.

Further, Asian markets also traded weak today mainly reacting on higher-than-expected jump in China's producer price index at 9 per cent for May.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong closed in the red, while Shanghai ended with gains.

Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 72.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Deepak Talwar believes Covid 19 has laid an important question. How do we revitalize and align MSMEs in India?||Covid-19, the world's most dangerous virus that has put cancer to shame, has damaged something irreparably in India: MSME sector. Seasoned market analyst Deepak Talwar said the pandemic halted the government's ability to help the sector in India. “In developed nations, governments have directly provided wage subsidies and credit to the stressed firms. The governments could do it because they had an advantage, they could map up the smaller firms. In India, most of the MSMEs are not registered. Why? No one has an answer,” said DeepakTalwar, considered one of the topmost market analysts in India. Talwar said there is a precipitous surge in unemployment that continues to shake the workforce in this pandemic. A key challenge for our policymakers and executives lies in the method in which they can be brought back to work.  Moreover, the impact on the value chain has had a cascading effect. They are currently facing an acute cash crunch due to operational challenges with low manpower. “The risk of delinquencies also exists for financiers offering unsecured loans to MSMEs, who typically rely on the assessment of the estimated cash flows,” said Deepak Talwar. “If the current business climate is to continue it would take nearly two months if not more for businesses to see significant negative impacts, such as temporary layoffs or temporary or permanent closure. The impact of the pandemic shall also lead to MSMEs facing difficulties to pay bank loans and leasing instalments and challenges in paying rent and utility bills,” said Deepak Talwar. So, what is the alternative? Talwar said the government must evaluate some of the points mentioned below: TREDS (Trade Receivable Discounting System) should be made mandatory for all MSME related transactions as it can improve the flow of working capital of the MSMEs at very competitive interest rates to and by reducing the receivable realization cycles, thereby allowing MSMEs in securing credit from a range of banks. Also, why not unlock funds under the ESIC (Employment State Insurance Corporation) as medical insurance cover and impart training in occupation, health and safety for MSME manufacturers? There is also a greater need for financial incentivization. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) needs to issue guidelines for higher provisioning revisions to banks in the absence of which liquidity injection into the system is getting delayed. The increase in the minimum threshold from Rs. 1 Lakh to Rs. 1 Crore to initiate corporate insolvency under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) can help those MSMEs that are under financial distress. “Force Majeure is an extraordinary situation beyond human control such as calamities and is described as an ‘act of god’. A Force Majeure clause frees both parties from contractual obligations. “Due to the pandemic several MSMEs have not been able to carry out their contractual obligations for which they have been held legally liable. So why not seek an amendment to Section 56 of the Indian Contract to include a state-imposed lockdown under Force Majeure?” asked Deepak Talwar. Talwar said the change in definition of MSMEs is a significant change as it has brought several smaller companies within the ambit of the MSME Act. And then, digitisation of MSMEs at an accelerated pace will be a crucial element in fast tracking the revival of manufacturing MSMEs. For example, argued Talwar, the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has significantly helped those MSMEs that were inactive and has helped them resume their operations by clearing payments to suppliers and paying salaries to employees. “So, banks must lend more under this scheme to support the smaller companies. And work towards a fixed waiver for raw material, electricity etc. in order to ease the burden of spending. We must remember MSMEs have been hailed as the backbone of the Economy that contributes nearly 29 percent to the GDP,” Deepak Talwar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on positive note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a positive note on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins and SBI amid strong foreign fund inflow.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 80.72 points or 0.15 per cent higher at 52,356.29 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 26.45 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,766.55.

ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, Sun Pharma, HDFC, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's and Bajaj Finserv.

On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex slipped 52.94 points or 0.10 per cent to 52,275.57, and Nifty declined 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to end at 15,740.10.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,422.71 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.

"Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. An improved prospect of economic recovery led by sharp drop in daily caseload, ramping up vaccination process and phased withdrawal of restrictions imposed by states has already led markets to witness fresh highs," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Going forward, with the easing of lockdown restrictions at state level, the government's higher allocation towards capital expenditures for FY22E should be helpful in driving economic growth in coming quarters, he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains.

Equities on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.65 per cent higher at USD 72.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Capesize vessel from Australia anchored off Sagar Island||A ship nearly twice the size of a standard football pitch has anchored off the Sagar Island, bringing thermal coal from Australia for the cement plants in Nepal. The capesize vessel, the jumbo class of ships which rule the seaborne movement of bulk cargo across the globe, has come to the port at Calcutta for the first time during the monsoon season, bringing significant advantage for trade in the eastern region. If the one-off movement can be made a regular affair during the rainy season when the sea gets rough, it may extend a new lease of life for the riverine port system around Calcutta and Haldia, which has been struggling to find a way to accommodate big ships. Industry expects a 10-15 per cent benefit in the overall cost to move cargo from Sagar to Haldia in comparison to bringing smaller ships with lower parcel loads (average 18,000-20,000 tonnes). “We have been handling cape vessels during winter at sandheads where the river draft is higher. But the operation can not be done between April and September. If the operation at Sagar becomes regular, the port can now handle such large vessels round the year,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, Calcutta (SMP), explained. Three out of 10 ships sailing globally are capesize, which can carry 180,000 tonnes of cargo in a single voyage. The marine industry trend is rapidly gravitating towards bigger ships to drive down logistic costs. “If we have to be future ready, then the port must find a way to handle capesize vessels round the year. Hopefully, this exercise will encourage trade to get such ships at regular intervals,” Kumar added. Alip Dutta, shipping agent for M.V. Lake D, which carries the Panama flag, said the end user benefits both on account of marine charges as well as cargo handling charges. “We are getting discounts for handling large volumes which we are passing on to the trade,” he explained. The ship, manned by a 20-member Filipino crew, has carried 66,000 tonnes of steam coal, after discharging 95,810 tonnes at Vizag. It sailed from Abbot Point in Australia on May 10 before calling at Vizag before refuelling at Singapore. Coal will be discharged from the ship by a crane to smaller barges of 5,000 tonne capacities, which will come to Haldia. It will then be put in freight trains that will go to Raxaul in Nepal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Renault, union spar over Covid protocol||Covid safety protocols, especially social distancing norms, have turned into a major bone of contention in the ongoing management-worker dispute at the Renault-Nissan plant in Tamil Nadu. The Madras high court on Tuesday tasked industrial safety officials to make further visits to the manufacturing facility and draw up uniform safety guidelines for the workers. The workers have threatened to go on strike for the second time, saying social distancing norms were being flouted and the risk to their lives outweighed the health benefits provided by the company. Ford and Hyundai also had to halt work at their plants last month after workers protested and some went on strike. In a court filing on Monday according to Reuters, Renault said it was following the practices at auto makers such as Maruti and Hyundai, but it was “impossible” to increase the space between workers beyond two feet to three feet at some workstations. While there are no industry standards for social distancing apart from the government mandated six-feet distance, companies are modifying work stations and tweaking workflows around the assembly lines to keep workers socially distanced. “Cases are falling more rapidly in the north than they are in the south. So, workers are panicking, particularly in Tamil Nadu where the caseload is still high,” said an industry expert, who is apprehensive of a spill-out of the worker dispute to the neighbouring states. On how social distancing is being maintained at assembly lines, he said: “Companies should ensure very few double operators on a car. However, in assembly lines, four workers work on the same vehicle. The four should start work at the four extremes of the vehicle. When they are at a situation of converging closer, work flows need to be tweaked, partitions put so that two work at the same time. Production is definitely impacted by such workflows.” Another way of distancing is when a single work process is happening on one vehicle, one can put an empty dolly between two vehicles being assembled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||NCLT allows Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies to take over Videocon Industries Ltd||Bankruptcy court NCLT on Tuesday allowed billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies to take over Videocon Industries Ltd for about Rs 3,000 crore. Twin Star, a part of Vedanta Group, will pay around Rs 500 crore within 90 days as upfront payment and the rest as non-convertible debentures over a period of time. A two-member Mumbai bench of the NCLT comprising members H. P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy approved the resolution plan by Twin-Star Technologies. Confirming the development, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas Anoop Rawat told PTI: ‘‘The NCLT has approved the resolution plan’’ filed by Twin Star Technologies. Rawat was assisting the resolution professional of Videocon Industries in the matter. The order was orally pronounced by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the courtroom and a detailed copy of the judgment is awaited. Videocon Industries also confirmed the development through a regulatory filing. Videocon Industries further informed in terms of the Resolution Plan, ‘‘the equity shares of the company are proposed to be delisted’’. Accordingly, an appropriate disclosure would be made upon receipt of the copy of the order by the NCLT approving the resolution plan, it added. This approval will also now consolidate Vedanta’s hold in the Ravva oilfield. Vedanta’s interest in Videocon is principally driven by the latter’s 25 per cent stake in the Ravva oil field in the KG Basin. Vedanta, through Cairn, holds a 22.5 per cent stake in Ravva and after this success, Vedanta will take its stake to 47.5 per cent, and it will be the biggest stakeholder ahead of ONGC’s 40 per cent. Videocon Industries owes around Rs 31,000 crore to the banks, which also includes interests. Earlier, the Dhoot family had offered to pay Rs 30,000 crore to the lenders to settle their loans and pull out 13 Videocon group companies from the insolvency proceedings. However, the creditors have chosen Vedanta Group’s offer, which has placed its resolution plan through one of its subsidiary companies. Jet meet adjourned The annual general meeting of Jet Airways scheduled to be held on Tuesday was adjourned because of lack of quorum. Jet Airways suspended operations in April 2019 and is currently undergoing an insolvency resolution process. The affairs of the carrier are being managed by resolution professional Ashish Chhawchharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business|| Franklin Templeton to challenge Sebi order at Securities Appellate Tribunal||Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) on Tuesday said it strongly disagreed with Sebi’s order on the closure of its six debt schemes and would challenge the direction at  the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). On Monday, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) barred the fund house from launching debt schemes for two years. Sebi also imposed a penalty of Rs 5 crore on Franklin. “We strongly disagree with the findings of the Sebi order and intend to file an appeal with SAT,’’ the fund house said in a statement today. Franklin Templeton said it placed great emphasis on compliance and believes it has always acted in the best interest of the unitholders and in accordance with regulations. Franklin said the net asset value of each of the six schemes at present is higher than what they were on April 23, 2020. “We believe this supports the decision made by the trustee in consultation with the AMC and its investment management team to wind up the six schemes.” Kudva ban Sebi has also barred Vivek Kudva, former head of Asia Pacific (APAC) for Franklin Templeton, and his wife Roopa Kudva from the securities market for one year. Sebi said the couple had cumulatively redeemed units worth Rs 30.70 crore while in possession of material non-public information. Vivek Kudva has been  asked to pay a penalty of Rs 4 crore, while a fine of Rs 3 crore has been imposed on Roopa Kudva. Vivek Kudva said he is reviewing the order and considering appropriate next steps which may include filing an appeal before the SAT. “I have always acted in accordance with Sebi regulations, including in this instance. My personal transactions in the two schemes (under winding-up) have been conducted in good faith and with no intent to gain unfair benefit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Group of ministers recommended flat 5% reduction in rates on all Covid-related items||The group of ministers (GoM) set up to decide GST relief on Covid essentials — including PPE kits, masks and vaccines — is said to have recommended a reduction in rates to a flat 5 per cent on all Covid-related items and sticking with the existing duty of 5 per cent on vaccines. The GST Council at its meeting on May 28 was divided over the contentious issue of fixing a zero tax on all Covid products. Sources said the council was likely to meet before the Centre starts procuring vaccines for distribution to the states. The new vaccine policy would be implemented from June 21. A group of ministers led by Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma in its report is learnt to have recommended temporarily slashing the rate to a flat 5 per cent on medicines, medical grade oxygen and pulse oximeters. The same 5-per-cent rate will also be applied on test kits, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy equipment, ventilators and other supplies, the ministerial panel said. The rates range from 5 per cent to 18 per cent The GST on vaccines is expected to stay at 5 per cent. Sources said the recommendations of the GoM were unlikely to be opposed by the Opposition states at the next council meeting as they themselves were in favour of a uniform 5 per cent rate on all Covid items. Besides, as the states would not be involved in vaccine purchases, they should not oppose the 5 per cent levy on the vaccines. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was against slashing of the rates on vaccines as the domestic producers would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and pass these on to the consumers by increasing the prices. In a series of tweets she had said “a 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence, exemption to vaccines from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer”. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra had written to Sitharaman proposing zero-rated tax on Covid items at least for a fixed period of time or taxing them minimally at 0.1 per cent to avoid any hurdles at the implementation stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Technical glitches continue to bedevil modified income tax website||Technical glitches continue to bedevil the modified income tax website on the second day — prompting finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to tweet: “Hope Infosys and Nandan Nilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided.” Sitharaman said she had been besieged by complaints from taxpayers and chartered accountants who said the website wasn’t working. Later at night, Infosys chairman Nilekani tweeted: “We have observed some technical issues on day one, and are working to resolve them.  Infosys regrets these initial glitches and expects the system to stabilise during the week.” Infosys was awarded the contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce the processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. In a tweet hunkashish123 said, “What milestone? Website is not working. First develop it properly after launching the portal. Recruit new people in the department and penalise the developer.” Bimal Jain, a chartered accountant, said “The success of the new income-tax portal depends on the smooth transition from the old portal and the working of the new one. At present, the site is not working smoothly and the taxpayers were not able to log into the portal”. He said the taxpayers would have to re-register their digital signature certificates, which could have been automatically transitioned from the old portal. “From the past experience of GSTN Portal, the government should have taken adequate measures to ensure that the site is able to handle traffic and no technical glitches are faced by the taxpayers.” On Tuesday morning, Sitharaman took to Twitter to announce the launch of the new portal www.incometax.gov.in, saying that the “important milestone to make the compliance experience more taxpayer-friendly” went live at 2045 Hrs on Monday. But, soon, her timeline was flooded with user complaints. Since the new site went live, several taxpayers complained of problems during logging in to the portal. The taxpayers could not link their mobile phone numbers to the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||World Bank slashes 2021-22 GDP growth forecast for Indian economy to 8.3%||The World Bank on Tuesday slashed its 2021-22 GDP growth forecast for the Indian economy to 8.3 per cent from 10.1 per cent estimated in April, saying economic recovery is being hampered by the devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. It projected a 7.5 per cent economic growth in the 2022-23 fiscal. The Washington-based global lender, in its latest issue of Global Economic Prospects released here, said an enormous second Covid-19 wave in India is undermining the sharper-than-expected rebound in activity seen during the second half of the 2020-21 fiscal, especially in services. ‘‘India’s recovery is being hampered by the largest outbreak of any country since the beginning of the pandemic,” the World Bank said. The projected growth compares to the worst ever contraction of 7.3 per cent witnessed in the fiscal ended March 31, 2021 and 4 per cent expansion in 2019-20. In April this year, the World Bank had forecast a 10.1 per cent growth in Indian GDP for FY22. This was higher than 5.4 per cent it had projected in January. But now the projections have been slashed. The multilateral lending agency said India’s GDP is likely to grow by 6.5 per cent in 2023-24. In its report, the Bank said that the global economy is set to expand by 5.6 per cent in 2021 — its strongest post-recession pace in 80 years. ‘‘For India, GDP in fiscal year 2021/22 starting from April 2021 is expected to expand 8.3 per cent,” it said. Activity will benefit from policy support, including higher spending on infrastructure, rural development, and health, and a stronger-than expected recovery in services and manufacturing, it said. The forecast for FY22 factors in expected economic damage from an enormous second Covid-19 wave and localised mobility restrictions since March 2021, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
09-06-2021||Business||Flipkart in talks to raise $3 billion from investors, icluding SoftBank ||Flipkart, the Walmart Inc-owned e-commerce firm, is in talks to raise at least $3 billion from investors, including Japan’s SoftBank Group and various sovereign wealth funds. The possible return of SoftBank to Flipkart comes at a time the e-commerce segment is witnessing strong growth as the pandemic has forced individuals to stay indoors and make online purchases. This trend is only expected to continue in the future. According to a Bernstein report, the e-commerce market is expected to grow to $133 billion in 2025 from $24 billion in 2018, a compounded annual growth rate of  around 30 per cent based on various estimates. It added that the increase in internet penetration, higher per capita income, broader selection criteria and convenient delivery are driving adoption and growth. While there are only three big players in the market — Flipkart, Reliance Jio and Amazon, the one with the “most compelling integrated value proposition, offline plus online and prime” will be the leader,  the brokerage said. SoftBank had sold its around 20 per cent share after Walmart agreed to buy a 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for $16 billion in 2018. While its return could be prompted by the robust potential of e-commerce in India, Flipkart will need the much needed capital to take on Amazon and JioMart. A Bloomberg report said that Flipkart is in talks not only with SoftBank, but also several sovereign wealth funds and that it is targeting a valuation of $40 billion. In 2020, Walmart had led a $1.2-billion funding round that valued the e-tailer at $24.9 billion post the infusion. Singapore’s GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority are some of the other funds with which Flipkart is in discussions, the report added. On the other hand, SoftBank could invest $300-600 million through its Vision Fund II (SVF2). For Flipkart, the fresh capital dose could also come ahead of a planned initial public offering next year. India remains an attractive investment destination for SoftBank. It has backed companies such as Paytm, Ola, policybazaar and Delhivery. Last month, SoftBank invested $250-million in banking technology start-up Zeta. Earlier this year, it led a $300-million funding round in Meesho which helped the social commerce platform attain the unicorn status. Some of the other SVF2 investments in India include Lenskart, Unacademy and MindTickle. Recent reports say that SoftBank may invest up to $4 billion in India during this calendar year across various sectors. Recently, Flipkart had said that it had hired 23,000 people in India across its supply chain, including delivery executives, between March and May. The company had also announced the expansion of its fulfilment centre capacity for grocery by more than 8 lakh sq ft over the next three months across Delhi, Calcutta and other cities. The additional fulfilment centre capacity will help the e-tailer cater to over 73,000 grocery orders per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
