10-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 359 points to close above 52,000||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged nearly 359 points to close above the 52,300-level on Thursday, with financial, pharma and IT shares gaining the most amid positive global cues.

The 30-share Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47. Intra-day, the index swung between a high of 52,346.35 and a low of 51,957.92.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75.

On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj FinServ, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, ITC and Kotak Bank were the prominent gainers rising up to 7.29 per cent.

On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HCL Tech, Ultratech Cement, PowerGrid, ONGC and Nestle suffered losses.

Of the 30 shares in the Sensex pack, 23 ended with gains.

Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with gains ahead of crucial US inflation data for May.

On the forex market front, the Indian rupee lost 9 paise to end at 73.06 against the US dollar on Thursday.

"Many states have eased lockdown restrictions since the peaking of the second COVID wave in early May. The central bank is maintaining its accommodative stance, while the government has launched another fiscal package via the distribution of free vaccines and food," said Jen-Ai Chua, Equity Research Analyst Asia, Julius Baer.

"India is expected to vaccinate two-thirds of its population with a first dose by early 2022 -- a key move that should boost its COVID containment efforts. We maintain our constructive view on the market," he added.

The active COVID-19 cases in the country have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, the Health Ministry data showed on Thursday.

Meanwhile, 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121; while a net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global equities.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 160.07 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 52,101.71 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 58.75 points or 0.38 per cent to 15,694.10.

PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ITC, Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and Dr Reddy's.

On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, Maruti and Nestle India were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 333.93 points or 0.64 per cent lower at 51,941.64, and Nifty slumped 104.75 points or 0.67 per cent to 15,635.35.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 846.37 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.

Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Previous session's selling pressure was due to profit booking ahead of crucial US CPI data and European Central Bank (ECB) policy meeting outcome, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

"While sharp drop in daily caseload and phased withdrawal of business curbs by the states have significantly improved prospects of economic recovery, the government's decision to increase MSPs for several Kharif crops is a sensible move to enhance rural income," he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.

US equities finished lower as profit-booking ahead of crucial May inflation data.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent lower at USD 71.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||LIC chairman M.R. Kumar's tenure extended||The tenure of LIC chairman M.R. Kumar has been extended by the appointments committee of the cabinet on Wednesday. Kumar’s term as LIC chairman was supposed to end on June 30, 2021, but the Centre extended his term by almost nine more months till March 13, 2022. Officials said the rules under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, have been amended to provide extension beyond 60 years in view of the ongoing preparations for the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation. The Centre hopes to mobilise Rs 90,000 crore by selling up to a 10 per cent stake in LIC. The maiden offer of LIC would be floated in 2021-22 as part of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore divestment target. The government owns 100 per cent in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to become the country’s biggest company by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The government as part of the finance bill had significantly increased the authorised capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore from Rs 100 crore to facilitate the listing. LIC has an asset base of Rs 31,96,214.81 crore. LIC collected the highest ever new business premium of Rs 1.84 lakh crore in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business|| Govt approves allocation of 5MHz spectrum in 700MHz (4G) band to Indian Railways||The government has approved the allocation of 5MHz spectrum in the 700MHz (4G) band to Indian Railways to improve its communication and signalling systems, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The spectrum from the government  will be used in a five-year project to upgrade 34000km of tracks, with Rs 12,000 crore to be invested in signalling systems and another Rs 12,000 crore in infrastructure for the 4G spectrum. The project will improve the safety of passengers on the transport network. The railways at present rely on optical fibre for its communication network but with the allocation of fresh spectrum, it will be able to use high-speed radio on a real-time basis. Tony Verghese, partner, J Sagar Associates, said the government has accepted a recommendation of the telecom regulator in 2019 to provide spectrum to the railways. “The Wi-Fi enhancement capabilities for end customers will not be a focus for now. However, the implementation of safer and faster journeys will result in increased revenues.” The cabinet has also approved a train collision avoidance system along with the grant of spectrum. The spectrum  will be used for modern signalling and train protection systems and ensure seamless communication between loco-pilots and guards. The spectrum charges will be levied on the basis of a formula to fix royalty and licence fees in the case of captive use, which will be recommended by the telecom regulator. Paddy MSP hiked The cabinet has also approved a hike in the minimum support prices for summer-sown crops, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. The Centre has hiked paddy MSP by Rs 72 to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 1,868 per quintal last year. The minimum support for sesamum has been raised by Rs 425 per quintal and urad, Rs 300 per quintal. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “It was expected that the MSPs would be aggressive this time as the pandemic has struck rural India and the farming community may be affected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Petronet LNG agreement to invest in Tellurian’s LNG project lapses||Petronet LNG on Wednesday said its non-binding agreement to invest $2.5 billion in US energy upstart Tellurian’s LNG project in Louisiana in return for gas supplies for 40 years has lapsed. The country’s largest gas importer is in talks with Qatar for gas. The non-binding deal was signed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s September 2019 “Howdy Modi” Houston visit and was billed as one of the largest foreign investments in the US to ship LNG abroad. “The MoU was not extended. As of today, there is no MoU with us,” Petronet managing director and CEO A.K. Singh told reporters on a call. The initial pact, he said, has expired. The parties had set March 31, 2020 as the deadline to sign the deal, which was first extended to May 31 then to December 31, 2020. Singh said the agreement lapsed because Petronet “did not get a request from Tellurian’s side for an extension” and the PSU had no role in this matter. On the reasons for the non-conclusion of the deal or the MoU not being extended, Singh said this was not because of Petronet. “We did not get a request from their (Tellurian’s) side for an extension,” he said but refused to elaborate. Petronet promoters had earlier questioned the need to make an equity investment and lock in such large volumes from one supplier for a 40-year period. In November last year, the PSU’s director-finance V.K. Mishra had said LNG was available at throwaway prices and “there appears to be no need to invest in liquefication terminals (which convert gas into LNG)”. Petronet, meanwhile, has opened talks with suppliers such as Rasgas of Qatar for LNG to meet the growing energy needs of the country. Its long-term deal to import 7.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Qatar ends in March 2028 and the company has time till December 2023 to decide on extending the deal. “We are in discussions with suppliers like Qatar for additional LNG volumes,” he said adding Petronet is expanding the capacity of the Dahej LNG terminal by five mtpa, planning a new east coast terminal and there was unused capacity available at its Kochi terminal too. GAIL split scrapped A proposal to bifurcate state-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd has been scrapped for now, and instead the company will monetise some of its pipelines by selling a minority stake through InvIT. GAIL chairman and managing director Manoj Jain said the company has sent a plan for monetising two of its pipelines to the oil ministry and an Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) is possible within the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||JSW Group takes 3 top primary steel producers of the United States to court||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group has picked up a legal fight with three top primary steel producers of the United States for ganging up against its outfit by not supplying basic raw material and thereby crippling operations. It has filed a federal court lawsuit in the Southern District of Texas against Nucor Corp, United States Steel Corp and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc alleging that these companies conspired to boycott and refused to supply JSW Steel USA with a critical feedstock (domestic semi-finished steel slab) beginning in 2018 and continuing till date. JSW Steel (USA) Inc and JSW USA Steel Ohio Inc alleged that the defendants’ cartel cost them hundreds of millions of dollars in lost profits, increased their expenses and caused them other damages, and also led to higher prices and significant harm to the steel buyers in the US and significantly fewer jobs for US steelworkers. As these three companies declined to sell slabs manufactured in the US, the Texan facility had to import slabs after paying high tariffs. Two years back, the company had also taken the US government to court for not exempting it from the levy. Commenting on the lawsuit filed now, Parth Jindal, son of Sajjan Jindal and the board member of JSW Steel (USA), said that the defendants have long been the dominant US steel companies and continue to use anti competitive tactics against smaller producers like JSW to succeed at all costs. “We bought into the US market a few years ago and made significant progress in improving our facilities and performance. In 2018, we announced our intention to make substantial investments to further expand and upgrade our facilities. These companies derailed those plans, and so we file this suit today to respond assertively. “As we allege, they stated repeatedly that they could make semi-finished steel slabs in the quantities and quality to meet our needs and that they were willing to sell it to us, but when we tried to get them to move forward, they dragged things out and made excuses. We are now convinced that it was all for show and that, in reality, they never intended to make or sell steel slabs to us,” Jindal said in a statement. Group boycotts are illegal in the US as they erode competition, raise consumer prices and disadvantage companies like JSW, board member John Hritz added. These three primary steel producers put together account for a two-third of steel production. The previous Trump administration’s decision to slap duty on import of steel to the US had an adverse impact on JSW’s US operation, which is split into two locations. The $12-billion Indian conglomerate, which operates India’s largest steel company JSW Steel, has two units in the US. It operates a plate and pipe mill in Baytown, Texas, which was acquired from the outfit of Prithvi Raj Jindal, elder brother of Sajjan Jindal, in 2007 at an enterprise value of $900 million. Slab is a basic raw material for making plate and pipe which is used by the energy industry in Texas Later JSW bought a steel facility at Mingo Junction, Ohio, where now an electric arc furnace has been constructed to make slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Quickening vaccination coverage critical for regaining growth momentum: Finance ministry report||The finance ministry in its monthly economic report has said the vaccination exercise needs to be speeded up for a quicker recovery of the economy. The report for May said the government must set as its paramount objective the vaccination of 70 crore people with at least the first dose by September. This will boost consumer and investor confidence. It even suggested vaccination in 24x7 shifts in August and September when supply was expected to increase significantly and the government may achieve the target of 1 crore shots a day. With the peaking of the second wave in the first half of May and the localised restrictions adopted to combat its spread, the economic impact of the virus is expected to be confined to the first quarter . The report said a healthy monsoon bodes well for farming and the softer lockdown by states is expected to translate into a “softer economic shock” in sectors such as  manufacturing and construction. UP favours rate cut The Uttar Pradesh government was in favour of reducing the duty rate on Covid equipment, state finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna said. Khanna is in the Group of Ministers to set GST rates on Covid essentials, including vaccines. He said he was expressing the views of his government as he himself was not in a position to comment being part of the ministerial panel. “However, the Uttar Pradesh government is in favour of tax rate cuts to facilitate patients,” Khanna said. Senior BJP leader Sushil Modi has suggested levying 0.1 per cent each of central GST and state GST on vaccines, oxygen ventilators and other essential medical devices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Uber to hire about 250 engineers in India||App-cab service provider Uber on Wednesday said it will recruit 250 engineers split between its tech centres at Bangalore and Hyderabad. The ride hailing service said it is building new teams and adding to the existing ones, including Uber infrastructure, Eats, Marketplace, Risk and Payments, Uber for Business (U4B), marketing and advertising platforms. Manikandan Thangarathnam, senior director - engineering, said, “Our teams in Hyderabad and Bangalore work on important global mandates, and pioneer various industry-first innovations. “In order to serve more people across the globe, we’re expanding our teams and are looking for bright engineering minds so we can collectively solve mobility and delivery challenges across all our global markets.’’ Recently, Uber’s tech teams have been heavily invested in building technology to enable safer rides and delivery across cities, including enabling mask-detection features and updating maps across countries. To facilitate more effective social distancing measures, Uber’s engineers have been accelerating digital payments in several countries, and also using machine learning and artificial intelligence to digitise several parts of Uber’s operations, including driver on boarding, and uploading digital menus. The cab aggregator had seen its services severely impacted due to the Covid pandemic as lockdowns globally to prevent the spread of pandemic resulted in lower trip volumes. The company in an SEC filing in May last year had announced layoffs of around 3700 full time employees. In India around 600 positions were reportedly impacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
10-06-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds net inflow tops Rs 10,000 crore in May||Equity mutual funds saw net inflows of over Rs 10,000 crore in May as investors overlooked the second Covid- 19 wave to focus on corporate earnings and better growth ahead. This is the third straight month where equity mutual funds are witnessing net inflows. It is the highest level of infusion seen since March 2020 when they saw a net infusion of Rs 11,723 crore. Data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India on Wednesday showed that net inflows into these schemes stood at Rs 10,083 crore in May after Rs 3,437 crore in April and Rs 9,115 crore in March. Barring equity-linked saving schemes, which saw a withdrawal of Rs 290 crore, all the equity schemes have seen inflows last month. Multi-cap funds saw the largest net inflow at Rs 1,954 crore. This was followed by a net inflow of Rs 1,368 crore in mid-cap funds, Rs 1,169 crore in focussed funds, Rs 1,137 crore in sectoral or thematic schemes and Rs 1,130 crore in flexi cap funds. “This kind of consistent numbers look favourable for the mutual fund industry and for the economy as a whole as it highlights investor’s confidence and normalcy taking its hold back in the economy,’’ said Mohit Nigam, head, PMS- Hem Securities. “We understand from the first wave of Covid that these waves will be short-lived and eventually economic activity will revive giving a boost to market sentiments. Therefore, buying on dips always makes sense and which is what reflecting in the mutual funds sales numbers quite positively,” Akhil Chaturvedi of Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company said. Contribution from systematic investment plans was Rs 8,819 crore in May against Rs 8,596 crore in April. However, investors pulled out Rs 44,512 crore from debt mutual funds. Stocks end in red Profit booking from mid-noon trades on Wednesday saw stocks giving up their early gains and ending in the red. The Sensex, which oscillated in a 730-point range, closed 333.93 points at 51941.64, extending its losing streak to the second session. The index had opened higher at 52401.41 and hit a high of 52446.92. However, the gauge later fell to a low of 51717.07 and closed 0.64 per cent lower. Though market experts feel the outlook continues to remains positive, they are now advocating caution given the lofty valuations in certain pockets, particularly the mid-cap and small-cap segments. The NSE Nifty slumped 104.75 points, or 0.67 per cent, to end at 15635.35.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
