11-06-2021||Business||Finance minister to chair GST Council meet on Saturday||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday chair the meeting of the GST Council, which is expected to decide on tax relief for COVID-19 essentials and black fungus medicine. The 44th GST Council meeting will be attended by Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, besides finance ministers of states and Union territories and senior officers from Union government and states, the Union finance ministry tweeted on Friday. The Council will discuss the report of the Group of Ministers, headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, on GST concessions on COVID-19 relief items like medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers and ventilators, among others. Besides, GoM also looked into vaccines, drugs and medicines for COVID-19 treatment and testing kits for its detection. Some state finance ministers in the GoM are understood to have pitched for a rate cut on COVID-19 essentials. UP Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, who is also a member of the GoM, had on Wednesday said the state is in favour of cutting taxes on COVID-19 essentials to facilitate patients, but will accept the decision of the GST Council on tax rates. The GST Council in its previous meeting on May 28 left taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. The GoM was set up to recommend rates for COVID-19 essentials. The Congress party- and other Opposition-ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Currently, 5 per cent GST is levied on domestically manufactured vaccines, while it is 12 per cent for COVID-19 drugs and oxygen concentrators. In the meeting on May 28, GST was exempted on import of Amphotericin B, a medicine used for the treatment of black fungus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty jump to lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed 174 points to close at its all-time high on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a largely positive trend in global equities.  After touching a record intra-day peak of 52,641.53, the 30-share BSE index ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 52,474.76.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15,799.35.  Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, TCS, HCL Tech, Infosys and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, L&T, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities extended gains with key benchmark indices Nifty and Sensex recording fresh all-time highs," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  A sharp rebound in IT, metals and RIL supported benchmark indices. Expectations of sharp recovery in economic activities and indications from government to roll out capital expenditure programme for FY22 faster lifted sentiments, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent higher at USD 72.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points and touched a record intra-day high of 52,578.07 in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE index was later trading 241.05 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 52,541.52 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 72 points or 0.46 per cent to 15,809.75.  PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ONGC, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HDFC twins.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HUL, Bajaj Finance, Titan and Tech Mahindra were the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47, and Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75..  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,329.70 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Improving business environment from the beginning of June, led by phased withdrawal of business curbs by the states has lifted sentiments among investors, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  High frequency key economic indicators are likely to see remarkable improvement from current month onwards, which should sustain premium valuations of the market, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red.  US equities finished with gains in the overnight session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent lower at USD 72.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Tata Digital to acquire a majority stake in 1mg Technologies||Tata Digital, a wholly-owned arm of Tata Sons, on Thursday said it will acquire a majority stake in 1mg Technologies, an online healthcare marketplace. The company, however, did not disclose the financial details of the transaction. Just days after the company said it will invest $75 million (Rs 550 crore) in fitness-focused Curefit Healthcare for an undisclosed stake, Tata Digital said its investment in 1mg is in line with Tata Group’s vision of creating a digital ecosystem which addresses the consumer’s needs across categories in a unified manner. Tata Digital said e-pharmacy, e-diagnostics and tele-consultation are critical segments in this ecosystem and have been among the fastest growing ones in this space as this sector enabled access to healthcare during the pandemic. The overall market is worth around $1 billion and is expected to grow at 50 per cent compound annual growth rate, driven by increased health awareness among consumers and greater convenience. This category will form a key element of the Tata Digital ecosystem offering. “The investment in 1mg strengthens Tata’s ability to provide superior customer experience and high quality healthcare products & services in the e-pharmacy and e-diagnostics space through a technology-led platform,” said Tata Digital CEO Pratik Pal. 1mg co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon said the investment by the Tatas “marks a significant milestone in 1mg’s journey to make high-quality healthcare products and services accessible to customers across India”. Last month, the Tatas had acquired a majority stake in BigBasket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Yes Bank to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities||Yes Bank on Thursday received board approval to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities. The board of directors at its meeting on Thursday considered and approved seeking shareholders’ approval to borrow funds in Indian/foreign currency up to Rs 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities, Yes Bank said in a filing. The Yes Bank shares closed 3.03 per cent up at Rs 14.64 apiece on the BSE. HDFC move Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd will raise Rs 2,000 crore through 10-year debentures at a coupon rate of 6.88 per cent. The secured redeemable non-convertible debentures will be open for bids on June 14 and will close on the same day. The issue has been rated AAA by Crisil and Icra. “The objective of the issue is to augment the long-term resources. The proceeds will be used to finance/refinance the housing finance business requirements of the corporation,” HDFC said. Stock of HDFC traded at Rs 2,561.75 apiece on BSE, up 0.67 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Credai seeks bagful of benefits from the Centre and states||Credai, an apex body of real estate developers in India, has sought a bagful of benefits from the Centre and the states after publishing a nationwide survey that claims the second wave of the pandemic has hit the business hard, leading to project delays and affecting homebuyers. According to the survey, which had sought feedback from 4,813 developers from 217 cities, 90 per cent of the respondents said the second wave was more devastating for the business than the first and 95 per cent of the developers feared project delays without any sops. The demands of the developers, some of which are already with the states and the Centre, include a fresh look at GST imposed on under-construction projects, one-time restructuring of loans and moratorium on the principal and interest for six months for the builders. They also hope that the states will provide some reduction in stamp duties to boost demand. “We wanted to show the depth of the pain being felt by the industry across the board. This is a very comprehensive survey done by Credai and shows the debilitating effect of the second wave,” said Harsh V. Patodia, president of Credai. The developers want the input tax credit to be restored for the industry or at least for those opting for it even at a higher rate. Developers should be given the option to choose between a 12 per cent GST with ITC (assessment scheme) or 5 per cent without GST (composition scheme). Patodia pointed out how spiralling prices of steel and cement were putting pressure on construction cost. “The government should put in place a mechanism to control the cost,” he said. While 75 per cent of the developers in the survey claimed a drop in customer enquiries, established players are still managing to sell more units than unbranded or Grade B developers. Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtor, said the brokerage did the same amount of bookings in April-May 2021 as in the same period of last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Franklin tells unitholders Sebi’s two-year ban will have no bearing on existing plans||Franklin Templeton AMC has told its unitholders that Sebi’s two-year ban on new debt schemes  will have no bearing on its existing plans. Early this week, market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) restricted the fund house from launching any debt scheme for two years even as it imposed a penalty of Rs 5 crore for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. In a June 8 e-mail to investors, Franklin Templeton AMC president Sanjay Sapre said Sebi’s order did not impact the current monetisation process of the six debt schemes being wound up by the liquidator. “The order is also not related to and has no impact on the other debt, equity, hybrid and offshore schemes managed by Franklin Templeton. We continue to manage over Rs 61,000 crore of AUM (as of March 2021) for over 2 million investors in India,” he said. In the letter Sapre added that the decision by the trustee in April 2020 to wind up the schemes was due to the severe market dislocation and illiquidity caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and was taken with the sole objective of preserving value for unitholders. The six schemes being wound up have distributed Rs 14,572 crore to unitholders as of April 30, 2021 and an amount of Rs 3,205 crore was available for distribution on June 4, he disclosed. After the distribution in the first week of June, the total disbursement would reach Rs 17,778 crore, which is 71 per cent of the AUM as on April 23, 2020. Sapre pointed out that Franklin Templeton's immediate priority and focus remains on supporting the court-appointed liquidator in liquidating the portfolio of the schemes under winding up and distributing monies to the unitholders at the earliest, while preserving value. The fund house is set to appeal against the SEBI order at the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). Sebi, in its order, said it had found that Franklin Templeton has committed serious lapses/violations with regard to a scheme categorization by replicating high–risk strategy across several schemes. Further, it committed violations in respect of non–exercise of exit options in the face of emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, the regulator added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Mehul Choksi's abduction meant to deny him UK legal cover, says lawyer||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi’s abduction in Antigua was meant to deny him the right to appeal before London’s British  Privy Council, his lawyer alleged on Thursday. The British Privy Council is the highest court of appeal in Antigua and Barbuda, where the Queen is the titular head, unlike in Dominica, which led to Choksi’s removal from Antigua to Dominica. In a media interaction through video conferencing, Michael Polak, a human rights lawyer who is part of Choksi’s legal team, said Choksi has the right to approach the Privy Council as a last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition. The charge came on a day the Dominican government reportedly declared the diamantaire a “prohibited immigrant”, which could help India in its extradition efforts. Choksi’s legal team had earlier filed a separate complaint in the UK Metropolitan Police, asking that his abduction be investigated. According to Polak, under Section 134 of the UK Criminal Justice Act, the British police can investigate cases of torture anywhere in the world and its courts can also hear such matters. They have reportedly named four individuals who were part of the alleged induction of Choksi. Choksi has alleged that he was picked up from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 evening and taken on a yacht, which took him to the waters of Dominica the next day, where he was handed over to the Coast Guard of Dominica on boat. In November 2018, a constitutional referendum was held in Antigua and Barbuda on whether the Caribbean Court of Justice should be made the final court of appeal, replacing the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) in London. However, this was defeated as more people voted to stay with the London-based court. Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state for Antigua and Barbuda. However, in 2015, Dominica had dropped the Privy Council as the final court of appeal. Reiterating his charge that Choksi was kidnapped and assaulted during the journey, Polak said that Choksi is an Antiguan citizen and should be sent backthere where his rights are protected. Choksi’s lawyers had filed a habeas corpus petition at the high court of Dominica after they were allegedly not given access to him. They are separately considering a bail application which will be heard on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services sees surge in tech spend||The IT services industry has only just begun to see a multi-year tech upgradation cycle, and Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is well positioned to capture the potential. This was the key message from the top brass of TCS at its 26th annual general meeting (AGM) that was held virtually. The onset of the pandemic in March last year had initially hit the industry. However, it staged a remarkable recovery as enterprises undertook several technology-led initiatives to connect with their customers amid the nationwide lockdown. Addressing shareholders at the meeting, TCS chairman N. Chandrasekaran said after a poor start to 2020-21, TCS quickly recovered to post a sharp growth over the next nine months following the initial lockdown related disruptions. The company ended the year on a robust note with better market share, industry-leading profitability and record order book. During the fiscal, its consolidated revenue grew around 5 per cent in rupee terms to Rs 1,64,177 crore even as operating margins were at an industry leading 25.9 per cent. The TCS chief added that the company has weathered the pandemic very well and has emerged stronger because of the agility, resilience and adaptability of its delivery model. He pointed out that during the year, enterprises adopted various technology initiatives as they wanted to shift to digital channels and contactless interactions with their customers. “The company is very well positioned to benefit from this multi-year technology upgradation cycle, and help customers translate their transformative visions into reality,’’ Chandrasekaran said. TCS managing director and CEO Rajesh Gopinathan also said that the company delivered industry leading operating margins during the year and that it is just witnessing the start of a multi-year tech upgradation cycle. For the year, the board of directors of TCS recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share, taking the total pay-out to Rs 38 per share. The TCS chairman added that it has also completed a Rs 16,000-crore share buyback at Rs 3,000 per equity share. Both combined, there has been an aggregate outflow of Rs 33,873 crore through dividends and buyback, or a pay-out of 95 per cent of the free cash flow. According to Chandrasekaran, investors have got a return of over 3000 per cent on TCS shares since its initial public offering in 2004. “Looking back, if an investor had invested in one TCS share at the issue price of Rs 850 in the maiden offer in 2004, the value of that investment today in a period of 17 years, would be around Rs 28,000, a return of over 3,000 per cent on your investment,’’ Chandrasekaran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||Govt to auction unmonetised large ONGC and OIL oil and gas fields||The government will auction unmonetised large oil and gas fields of state-owned ONGC and OIL to boost the country’s hydrocarbon production, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said as the government launched the third round of auctions for discovered small fields (DSF-III). “There will be no DSF next time. Next time, it will be a ‘major’ round (auction of large fields),” Pradhan said. Pradhan said companies cannot indefinitely sit on resources they may have discovered. These resources actually belong to the nation and they will be monetised by bidding them out to interested entities. For a nation that imports 85 per cent of its oil needs, resources lying idle for a long time cannot be permitted, he said. In the current DSF round-III, 32 oil and gas blocks with 75 discoveries have been offered. These small and marginal fields were discovered by ONGC and Oil India Ltd (OIL) but they were not economically viable to be developed because of their size. These exploratory fields spread over nine sedimentary basins cover an acreage of 13,685 square kilometres and have a potential of approximately 232 million tonnes. This is the largest number of discoveries on offer in any of the DSF rounds so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
11-06-2021||Business||GST Council meet to consider tax reliefs for Covid materials, vaccines and black fungus medicine||The GST Council will meet on Saturday to consider tax reliefs for Covid materials, vaccines and black fungus medicine based on the recommendations of a ministerial panel. The other big issue is the demand by states that the Centre extend the compensation cess period by another five years, which was recently articulated by Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra. Opposition-ruled states are also expected to quibble over the estimates of GST shortfall this year and mount pressure on the Centre to borrow the amount and pass it on to them. Last year, the Centre borrowed Rs 1.11 lakh crore but is less keen to borrow a huge sum this year as it assumes the responsibility of providing free vaccines country-wide. The recommendations of the group of ministers on Covid reliefs are yet to be made public, but it is learnt that the panel has proposed the GST on vaccines should stay at 5 per cent. It also wants a uniform rate — also 5 per cent — on all Covid items such as oxygen concentrators and pulse oximeters. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “While rate reductions on all essential medicines, including those used in the treatment of Covid, are a good welfare measure, it is necessary to ensure that the reductions are passed on in the form of lower prices to the patients.” Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, “It is good to see that the Council is showing an urgency to decide on critical issues. Hopefully, they will balance out the concerns of revenue collections and impact on the common man and take an informed decision on the rate cuts.” Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, who is also a member of the GoM, has said the state is in favour of cutting taxes on Covid essentials to help patients. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra had earlier written to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposing zero-rated tax on Covid-related items at least for a fixed period of time or taxing them minimally at 0.1 per cent to avoid any hurdles during the implementation stage. Sitharaman, however, had said a zero rate would mean domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset the taxes paid on their inputs and input services. They would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price. In a series of tweets she had said: “A 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC (input tax credit) and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
