12-06-2021||Business||GST council slashes tax rates on Covid medicines, equipment but not on jabs||The GST Council on Saturday slashed tax rate on COVID-19 drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen and oxygen concentrators but ignored demands for reduction in taxes on vaccines. The Council, acting on the recommendation of a group of ministers from different states, cut to nil GST on COVID-19 drug Tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B, from existing 5 per cent. Besides, hand sanitiser, pulse oximeter, BiPAP machine, testing kit, ambulance and temperature check equipment were among the 18 items on which GST rates were lowered. A 5 per cent GST levy on vaccines will continue which will allow manufacturers to get benefit of settling taxes paid on inputs. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman explained that the 5 per cent levy will not put any additional burden on common man as the government was procuring all vaccines and giving them to citizens for free. The reduced tax rates were based on a recommendation of a group of ministers, headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, and would remain effective till September 30, 2021. "It was felt that the GoM's recommendations has brought in a lot of substantial change. Many items, that were at 18 per cent and 12 per cent, brought down to 5 per cent. So there was a lot of substance in the recommendation made by GoM. The Council largely agreed to go with GoM's recommendation...," Sitharaman said while briefing reporters after the 44th GST Council meeting here. Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate on Covid vaccines was, however, retained at 5 per cent as the Council felt that majority of the vaccine procurement was being done by the Centre and given free to people. "Central government is purchasing 75 per cent and is paying GST also. But the impact of this GST on people will be nil since people would be getting vaccines free of cost at government hospitals. Centre is purchasing and it is given free to people," Sitharaman said. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said vaccines would continue to attract 5 per cent rate and the GST Council discussed that the Centre is purchasing all the vaccines -- at least 75 per cent is being purchased by the Centre. "The GST will also be borne by the Centre. But out of the income from GST, 70 per cent will be shared with the states... As far as people are concerned who are coming to get their inoculation done, it is tax free. It is not an issue with the people, they are not paying any tax, cost of the vaccine. So it is free for them," Bajaj said. He said the notification of lower GST rates would be issued "tomorrow or day after". While GST on Tocilizumab and Amphotericin B is slashed to nil from 5 per cent, the rate on Remdesivir and anticoagulants like Heparin is lowered from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. GST rate on ambulance has been cut to 12 per cent from 28 per cent. Tax on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator (including personal imports), ventilators, BiPAP machines and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) devices has been cut to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Also, tax on Covid testing kits, pulse oximeter (including personal imports) has been brought down to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment, gas/electric furnaces for crematoriums too will attract lower 5 per cent tax, compared to 18 per cent earlier. In the previous meeting of the GST Council on May 28, taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies were left unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. An 8-member GoM, under Sangma, was set up to recommend GST rate on Covid essentials. The other members of the GoM are Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Goa Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho, Finance ministers of Kerala (K N Balagopal), Odisha (Niranjan Pujari), Telangana (T Harish Rao) and UP (Suresh Kr Khanna). To a query on Congress saying that they were not made part of the GoM, Sitharaman said, "... I don't want to comment on what was said outside. In the Council, the three Congress ministers said that in the future at least you should consider having us in GoM. The selection into a GoM is never made on party basis, neither is the exclusion. There are several GoMs and several ministers are made members of the GoM. All states are given representation in one or the other GoM. Neither the inclusion, nor the exclusions happen on political party affiliations." Industry chamber PHDCCI said the calibrated reduction in the rates of GST on Covid relief essentials will go a long way in treating Covid cases and to provide required relief for treatment of infections. "PHDCCI looks forward to the continued reform measures by the government to mitigate the daunting impact of Covid on people and to make India free from the pandemic," it said in a statement. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said majority population will not be affected on account of no GST rate cut on COVID vaccines as most people are opting for free of cost vaccinations from the government. "For the limited few considering getting vaccinated at the private hospitals, the 5 per cent GST will continue to be a cost," Jain added. Deloitte India Partner Mahesh Jaising said with a growing demand for vaccines, while a deemed export option could have resulted in zero taxes for domestic vaccines, the GoM seems to have taken a balanced approach of retaining it at 5 per cent. "This is particularly as the GST credit chain is not broken and in any case, a significant portion of vaccine procurements is by the government itself," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Fooza Foods to divest 5 per cent stake for Rs 35 crore to fund expansion||Food delivery start-up Fooza Foods on Friday said it is divesting a 5 per cent stake in the company for Rs 35 crore to fund expansion. The company plans to foray into Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Hyderabad and Chennai. Dibyendu Banerjea, founder and managing director, Fooza Foods Private Limited, said the funds raised would come from both institutions as well as friends and family. The funding round is expected to be closed by the end of this month with a minimum ticket size of Rs 1 crore. “We are hopeful about the new venture and expansion plans. We have consciously decided to start with Calcutta for Fooza and gradually move pan India. We plan to expand to a new city every three months. We will start with Mumbai and expand further,” he said. At present, the platform has 50 riders delivering all over the city with around 350 orders a day. A dedicated fleet along with features such as pre-ordering of food have helped the start-up garner orders on the platform. Banerjea said that the platform was initially launched during the pandemic period as many chefs were looking for a marketplace to deliver quality cooked meals from home. Subsequently there was also demand for such a platform from home chefs and restaurants were brought on board to make the model sustainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Supreme Court refuses to pass direction on plea to redress hardship of borrowers amid Covid-19 wave ||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to direct the Centre and the RBI to grant any fresh financial stimulus or moratorium on loans during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it is in the realm of policy decision. “The government has many things to do. They have to spend money on vaccine, they have to spend money on migrant labourers. We cannot do it like this,” the apex court said, adding that it is for the Centre and the RBI to consider the issue. “These are all in the realm of policy decision. These are issues having financial implications and we are not the experts,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah told advocate Vishal Tiwari, who has filed the petition. The top court was hearing the plea that sought directions to the Centre and the RBI to take effective measures, including fresh loan moratorium, to address the financial stress of borrowers during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, Tiwari referred to the reports on how the second wave of the pandemic has affected the Indian economy and said the situation is much worse as compared with last year. The bench noted in its order that the petitioner has also annexed last month’s circular by which the RBI had issued a resolution of Covid-19 related stress for micro, Ssmall and medium enterprises. “The petitioner appearing in person submits that the circular does not sufficiently address the hardship of the borrowers. Be that as it may, financial relief is in the domain of the government and essentially related to policy matter,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||ED issues showcause notice to India's largest cryptocurrency exchange||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has issued a showcause notice to the country’s largest cryptocurrency exchange for undertaking transactions worth over Rs 2,790 crore in alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). Mumbai-based WazirX is a domestic crypto currency and bitcoin exchange start-up registered under the company name Zanmai Labs that was incorporated in December 2017. The notice issued by the central probe agency under various sections of the Fema names the exchange (WazirX), the company and directors Nischal Shetty and Sameer Hanuman Mhatre. The exchange and its promoters denied any wrongdoing and said they are “in compliance with all applicable laws”. The ED issued a statement saying that it stumbled upon the transactions of the exchange during an ongoing money laundering probe into “Chinese-owned” illegal online betting applications. The showcause notice is for transactions worth Rs 2,790.74 crore, the ED said. Shetty, also the CEO of the exchange, took to Twitter and said WazirX was yet to receive any showcause notice from the ED as mentioned in media reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India extends risk-based internal audit system to HFCs||The Reserve Bank of India on Friday extended the risk-based internal audit (RBIA) system to certain housing finance companies (HFCs) in a bid to enhance the quality and effectiveness of their audits. In February this year, the banking regulator had issued a circular mandating the RBIA framework for all deposit taking non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), all non-deposit taking NBFCs with an asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above and all urban co-operative banks (UCBs) having an asset size of Rs 500 crore and above. On Friday, the RBI included HFCs to this list. The provisions will apply to all deposit-taking HFCs, irrespective of their size. It will also cover all non-deposit-taking HFCs with an asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above, the central bank added. These HFCs have been asked to put in place an RBIA framework by June 30, 2022. According to the central bank, an effective RBIA is an audit methodology that links an organisation’s overall risk management framework and provides an assurance to the board of directors and the senior management on the quality and effectiveness of its internal controls, risk management and governance-related systems and processes. In the February circular, it added that the essential requirements for a robust internal audit function include sufficient authority, proper stature, independence, adequate resources and professional competence. As part of the norms, the central bank has said that the audit committee of the board or the board itself will have to approve an RBIA plan to determine the priorities of the internal audit function based on the level and direction of risk as consistent with the entity’s goals. The risk assessment of business and other functions of the organisation should at least be conducted on an annual basis. RBI has also said that every activity or location, including the risk management and compliance functions, shall be subjected to risk assessment by the RBIA. ``The senior management is responsible for ensuring adherence to the internal audit policy guidelines as approved by the Board and development of an effective internal control function that identifies, measures, monitors and reports all risks faced. It shall ensure that appropriate action is taken on the internal audit findings within given timelines and status on closure of audit reports is placed before the ACB/Board’’, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Index of industrial production falls to 126.6 in April||The index of industrial production fell to 126.6 in April from 145.5 in March — a decline of 12.9 per cent. “Whichever way we may look at the IIP data the level of industrial output of April 2021 does not provide an encouraging picture,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research. He attributed the fall in industrial output to the second wave of the coronavirus, which led to lockdowns in some states. The government has held back the release of the complete IIP data for April, as was done for the same month last year because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. “It may be noted that the nationwide lockdown and other measures implemented to restrict the spread of Covid-19 pandemic from the end of March 2020, had led to a majority of the establishments not operating in April 2020 and consequently, there were many units which reported ‘Nil’ production, affecting comparison of the indices for the months of April 2020 and April 2021,” the NSO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Coal India changes e-auction policy to allow domestic buyers to export coal from India||Coal India has made changes in its e-auction policy to allow domestic buyers, including traders, to export coal from India. The board of directors of the public sector miner has given its nod to the move that could lift coal offtake further. The change will be effective from June 8. Coal India officials said this is a major development since the introduction of spot e-auction of coal in 2007. While Coal India will not directly export, consumers who procure coal can now look at the overseas markets. The miner in turn can get a better premium on coal if demand picks up. The requirement of complying with government rules and all statutory guidelines and legal obligations, however, will lie solely with the buyer and the exporter. The change was brought about by an amendment to the existing clause in the auction policy which said coal procured through e-auction could only be used within the country and not exported. This is effective for two categories – spot e-auction and special spot-auction. Allocation under spot e-auction and special spot e-auction together accounted for 46 million tonnes (mt) of the coal sold in 2020-21, which was 37 per cent of the 124mt allocated for auctions during the year. The highest quantity allocated among all the five auction windows was for spot e-auction at 42.5mt. It fetched a 25 per cent premium over the notified price, again the highest. Special spot e-auction netted a premium of 13 per cent over the notified price. “Though Coal India would not be directly exporting coal, allowing those who procure coal under the two auction windows to export may prove to be catalytic for our sales. If there is a favourable response outside the country, we may witness more active participation as spot e-auctions book higher volumes,” said a senior official of the company. Spot e-auction is meant for all categories of Indian coal buyers, including traders. Special spot e-auction, introduced in 2016, is similar in every way but the booked quantity of coal could be lifted over an extended time period. “We feel upbeat about this development and will hopefully witness an upsurge in auction bookings under the two schemes,” said the executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India conducts a Rs 26,000 crore government securities bond auction||A large part of the benchmark 10-year bond devolved on primary dealers on Friday as the central bank was not comfortable with the higher yield sought by the participants. The Reserve Bank of India on Friday conducted a Rs 26,000cr government securities bond auction which included the benchmark 5.85 per cent 2030 paper. Against the notified amount of Rs 14,000 crore, the RBI received bids of almost Rs 39,150 crore. However, it accepted bids of Rs 4,024.23 crore, which led to Rs 9,975.763 crore devolving on the primary dealers. Devolvement happens when underwriters are forced to buy the unsold paper. It came at a cut-off yield of 5.99 per cent. Besides, the RBI offered for auction a two-year paper — the 4.26 per cent 2023 bond — amounting to Rs 3,000 crore and a 40-year paper — 6.76 per cent 2061 bond — amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. The central bank accepted bids worth Rs 3,750 crore for the two-year paper as there was a greenshoe option of Rs 750 crore. At the bond markets, the 10-year old benchmark settled at 6 per cent against the previous close of 6.01 per cent. After remaining below the 6 per cent mark for nine consecutive sessions in May, the 10 year paper has been trading above the 6 per cent mark since May 28. However, they have moved in a narrow range. A recent Bloomberg report has said that the RBI holding of the 5.85 per cent 2030 bond has risen to 52 per cent of its outstanding through measures such as  Operation Twist and the two tranches of government securities acquisition programme. Last week, after the announcement of the monetary policy, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the central bank is not fixated on maintaining a 6 per cent level for the 10 year paper. “There is nothing like 6 per cent is sacrosanct. We have talked about orderly evolution of the yield curve and focussing on that,’’ he said. If the results of Friday’s auction are any indication, it is likely to continue keeping them under check. Sensex peaks Equity benchmarks darted up to fresh lifetime highs on Friday as IT, pharma and energy counters saw brisk buying in tandem with a bullish trend overseas. After touching a record intra-day peak of 52641.53, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent up at its new closing high of 52474.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15799.35. During the week, the Sensex jumped 374.71 points, or 0.71 per cent, while the Nifty advanced 129.10 points or 0.82 per cent. Taper talk The US Federal Reserve is likely to announce in August or September a strategy for reducing its massive bond buying programme, but won’t start cutting monthly purchases until early next year, a Reuters poll of economists found. A significant number of Fed watchers also said the central bank would wait until later in the year before announcing a taper, now the main focus for markets fretting over rising inflation as an end to the pandemic in the US is in sight. Booming demand with the U.S. economy reopening is expected to continue and push up consumer prices this year, with the June 4-10 Reuters poll of over 100 economists showing an upgrade to both growth and inflation forecasts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposes to government to issue special Covid bonds to raise funds||Industry body PHDCCI on Friday suggested the government issue special Covid bonds to raise funds and provide economic stimulus. PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the country have created a difficult time for trade and industry, and the government has to step up with proactive as well as calibrated measures to help them. “To mobilise the fiscal resources of such stimulus support to the economy, the issuance of special Covid bonds could become an appropriate substitute to the market borrowings by the government,” it said. There is a need for effective fiscal measures such as a reduction in the GST rates to create demand in the economy along with Direct Benefit Transfers for the urban and rural poor, in-kind transfers, front-loading of infrastructure investments, among others, the chamber added. “Various governments, banks and financial institutions around the world have often adopted the innovative mechanism of issuing special bonds to raise resources for a speedy recovery in difficult situations,” PHDCCI noted. Such special bonds involve relatively less inflation risk, limit the crowding-out of private investments from other sectors of the economy and form a source of tax-free income for bondholders. FM view Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday asked various ministries to try to spend more than their capital expenditure targets as well as explore public private partnerships for viable projects. At the meeting with senior government officials, the finance minister discussed the road map for infrastructure development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
12-06-2021||Business||Tax cut pitch on Covid essentials ahead of GST Council meet||Ahead of the crucial GST Council meeting on Saturday, leading tax experts on Friday pitched for lowering the rates on Covid items, even as a temporary measure. The council would consider exemptions or reductions on vaccines, Covid items and black fungus medicines based on the suggestions of a ministerial panel. Bimal Jain, chairman of the indirect taxes committee of industry body PHDCCI, said the states may not object to the 5 per cent GST on vaccines as the Centre would procure 75 per cent of the vaccines and supply them to the states. However, the tax rates on Covid items should be reduced to make it affordable to the patients during the pandemic. He was speaking at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on GST input tax credit. The Congress party- and other Opposition-ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Jain pointed to several gaps in the credit system: credit is denied because the supplier has not paid GST. It is not available for goods distributed as sales promotion, which is considered as a gift. Input tax credit (ITC) is unavailable on CSR expenses and because of matching ITC with GSTR 2A or 2B. “The government must try to simplify the process of availing credit for all businesses,” Jain said. The input tax credit is a hugely contentious issue complicated by a concertina of rates and exemptions and relaxed reporting requirements for certain categories of companies — mostly small businesses — that slows refunds because of delays in invoice matching. Sanjay Aggarwal, president of PHD Chamber, said input tax credit was a major matter of concern for taxpayers incurring Covid-19 related expenditure as there are doubts on availing ITC on such expenditure. “No relaxation has been provided in the time limit for availing ITC as given under Section 16(4) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The taxpayers can only avail input tax credit for 2020-21 till October 20, 2021,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
