13-06-2021||Business||Prices of electric scooters and motorcycles are expected to come down ||Prices of electric scooters and motorcycles are expected to come down after the department of heavy industries made key changes in the scheme for Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Phase II (FAME II). In a notification issued late on Friday, the ministry increased the incentive for electric two-wheelers to Rs 15,000 per KWh from the earlier uniform subsidy of Rs 10,000 per KWh for all EVs, including plug-in hybrids and strong hybrids except buses. The department also capped incentives for electric two-wheelers at 40 per cent of the cost of vehicles, up from 20 per cent earlier. The move will result in prices of all electric two-wheelers being slashed by a considerable margin. Hero Electric managing director Naveen Munjal said, “The increase in the cap of subsidies for EVs will be a game changer, driving consumers towards electric scooters even as petrol prices continue to touch the Rs 100 mark.” Icra view Credit rating agency Icra believes the pace of penetration of electric two-wheelers will be relatively gradual in India unlike global markets such as China, Europe and USA. Shamsher Dewan, vice-president and group head (corporate sector ratings), Icra, said, “Affordability and range anxiety continue to remain key challenges, especially in the passenger car and truck segment. We expect the share of EVs to reach about 8-10 per cent level in two-wheelers, and over 30 per cent in three-wheelers by 2025. The penetration levels in cars and trucks are likely to remain low in the medium term.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||BEML Ltd land to be spun off||BEML Ltd on Saturday said Dipam and NITI Aayog have agreed to the proposal of incorporation of a wholly owned arm for the demerger of surplus land and asset as part of BEML’s strategic divestment process. BEML, formerly Bharat Earth Movers Ltd, was set up  in May 1964 as a public sector undertaking to manufacture  rail coaches and spare parts and mining equipment at its Bangalore complex. The company has been partially divested and, at present, the government owns 54 per cent of the total equity and the rest 46 per cent is held by the public, financial institutions, foreign institutional investors, banks and employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises incorporates new subsidiary for cement sector||After making his presence felt in the airports and ports businesses, Gautam Adani is now set to enter the country’s cement sector. The group’s flagship company Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL) on Saturday announced that it has floated a subsidiary to manufacture and process all types of cement. AEL said it has incorporated the new subsidiary — Adani Cement Industries Ltd (ACIL) — with an authorised share capital of Rs 10 lakh. It was registered with the Registrar of Companies, Ahmedabad, on June 11 and it is yet to begin business operations. AEL added that the new subsidiary will carry on business as a manufacturer, producer and processor of all types of cement. Gautam Adani’s foray into the sector comes at a time analysts are positive about the sector’s prospects given the government’s focus on infrastructure and attractive interest rates which are expected to help the real estate segment. Though the second Covid wave affected demand, a strong recovery is projected even during the monsoon season which is usually lean for the industry. Adani, who is the second richest Indian after Mukesh Ambani, is present in businesses such as edible oils, mining services, logistics, roads and renewable energy. It is now the largest private operator of airports in India with assets in Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangalore, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram and the Mumbai International Airport under its belt. It has also ventured into the redevelopment of railway stations. The cement entity would be pitted against UltraTech Cement, Shree Cement, Ambuja Cement, Nirma, ACC and Dalmia Bharat. “We believe India’s cement industry is entering a new upcycle that has no parallel in recent decades. We expect the next few years to be characterised by moderate volume growth (7 per cent CAGR over FY20-26E) and price increases (2.5 per cent). The Indian cement sector is back in the limelight, thanks to significant boost to infrastructure spending in the Union budget, the ongoing real estate revival, aided by low interest rates  and continued government focus on the affordable housing segment,” analysts at Emkay said in a recent note. Analysts at Edelweiss, too, are optimistic about the industry’s fortunes. As the second Covid wave recedes, there will be a recovery even in a seasonally weak monsoon month, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||GST Council slashes tax on Covid-19 medicines, equipment; retains 5 per cent tax on vaccines||The GST Council on Saturday slashed the tax rate on Covid-19 drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen and oxygen concentrators but ignored demands for a reduction in taxes on vaccines. The Council, acting on the recommendation of a group of ministers (GoM) from different states, cut to nil from the existing 5 per cent GST on Covid-19 drug Tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B. Hand sanitisers, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machines, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment were among the 18 items on which GST rates were lowered. “It was felt that the GoM’s recommendations have  brought in a lot of substantial change. Many items, that were at 18 per cent and 12 per cent, were brought down to 5 per cent,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while briefing reporters after the 44th GST Council meeting here. However, the GST rate on Covid vaccines was retained at 5 per cent as the Council felt that the majority of the vaccine procurement was being done by the Centre and given free to people. “The central government is purchasing 75 per cent and is paying GST also. But the impact of this GST on people will be nil as people would be getting vaccines free of cost at government hospitals,” Sitharaman said. Revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said: “The GST will also be borne by the Centre. But out of the income from GST, 70 per cent will be shared with the states.” He said the notification of lower GST rates would be issued “tomorrow or day after”. The FM added that no other issue such as compensation to states figured in the meeting. The council said the tax cuts are valid till September 30 and can be further extended, if needed, as the deadline nears. Ritesh Kanodia, partner, Dhruva Advisors, said: “The GST council’s decision to not cut the rate on vaccines will help to maintain the principle of fungibility of credit under GST and, thereby, not lead to any cost increase arising from loss of credits. Steps such as zero rating with credits or full abatement with credit could have also led to an aberration under the GST laws. “At the same time the government has ensured that people are not burdened with the the GST cost by picking up the same, except where it may not matter such as purchases by private parties.” M.S Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “While the reductions on medication and equipment are good measures, curtailment of the exemption period would make it difficult for businesses to plan new investments and expand their supply chains in order to ensure that they reach all corners of the country. Businesses engaged in manufacture and trading would hope that the period is extended beyond September 30.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, says: “The cut in rates will be much appreciated by the general public.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
13-06-2021||Business||Diesel at Rs 100 mark in Rajasthan; Karnataka sees Rs 100/ litre petrol||Diesel price on Saturday breached the Rs 100-per-litre mark in Rajasthan after yet another increase in fuel rates, which also led to Karnataka becoming the 7th state to sell petrol at Rs 100 a litre. The price of petrol was raised by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise. The hike — 23rd since May 4 — pushed fuel prices across the country to new highs. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 96.12 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.98 per litre. In Calcutta, petrol is being sold at Rs 96.06 per litre and diesel at Rs 89.83 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
