14-06-2021||Business||Jeremy Gosselin on What Makes a Bad Credit Auto Finance Firm Successful||There's a lot which goes into the making of this business, explained in detail. 26-year-old Jeremy Gosselin from Canada has taken over the automotive finance business, providing loans to even customers with a bad credit history. Today, his firm Mon Financement Automobile (www.monfinancementautomobile.com) is a known name in business which provides bank and private finance for automobile purchase. He says that with the growing demand for automobiles, demand for financing the purchases has also gone up, giving way for many to think about entering the automobile finance arena. But, it's not as simple as it seems as establishing a successful business which deals in financing for purchasers with bad credit history requires a lot of groundwork which is explained by Jeremy in detail. Individuals having bad credit history are likely to seek financing from a private finance company than a bank as the latter are likely to reject the loan request based on the past payment history of the loan seeker. A finance company for negative credit history buyers can be a lucrative business proposition if the processes followed are proper and timely. Here Jeremy chalks out a few important points which if followed can benefit the business positively. Spread the word about your specialization in financing bad credit buyers. A majority of your clients would come from car dealerships you have tied up with, but you can also attract an additional chunk by advertising your business via suitable means like radio, print, internet etc. Approach car dealerships who are willing to refer their customers to your firm. Get in touch with the small players initially as they are less likely to have their in-house finance options and most work in conjunction with third party finance companies. There can be a considerable amount of business coming in from these small car dealers if your approach is well enough to divert their focus towards your business. Financing for bad credit customers has its own risks which need to be handled on time to avoid unavoidable circumstances. The prospect of default is much higher in these cases and one has to keep reliable vehicle repossession agencies on your rolls and keep a tab on possible future defaults to be prepared well beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Jai Karan Walia and Clever Corp’s Synchronized Efforts Reap Results For Many Business Firms||Leveraging relationships and prioritizing strategic imperatives are key parameters set by Jai Karan Walia to excel in his professional work. The world has seen it all in recent times. Billions of people and billions of ideas. The current generation are blessed with some unique stuff that the old-timers just couldn’t dream off. Today, it is not so surprising to listen to young guns becoming successful entrepreneurs before even they turn 30 years of age. Gone are the days when slow and steady wins the race was the motto, bring on the new generation and they say fast forward it to models of sustainability and profitability. One rising superstar of the entrepreneurial world who has thrilled every one by his skills of pursuing his dream companies successfully is Jai Karan Walia. To be an Entrepreneur in very young age is very burdensome, but one cannot deny that young generation has changed the scenario of business era with great success and Jai Karan Walia is the perfect example of it. Born and brough up in Punjab, India, this young entrepreneur went from an amateur to a professional in short span of time. He had moved to Dubai in 2011 to complete his mechanical engineering and graduated from the renowned BITS Pilani institute. Jai also finished his post-graduation in EMBA from Hult Business School which is ranked 9th best institute in the world. To further learn and carve his professional skills, he worked as an intern with many multi-national organizations. Once Jai realized that he was ready for the bigger picture in life, he founded “Clever Corp” based out of Dubai. Understanding the growth and potential of Dubai as a location and it also being a hub for different businesses, it was an easy choice to attract the customers in this prime location and then build different branches around it. Clever Corp now operates in Abu Dhabi, China, and Nigeria as well. Clever Corp sets high standards of their professional work in being a business advisory setup that helps millions of upcoming companies and businesses get noticed in the business world. They excel in providing advisory services and in consultations. They have quickly become the numero uno choice among many clients. This consulting agency have helped deliver millions when it comes to revenue generation for many firms. With wide range of services and tailor-made solutions available under one roof, the customers job has become hassle free to grow his business. They dedicatedly believe in providing 100% customer satisfaction with 100% transparency and accountability. Clever Corp is also an established firm in real estate industry and are tax consultants as well. They were highly obliged to receive the 'Indo Arab summit award for best Business Setup in UAE in 2019', presented to them by the Union Minister of India. All the years of hard work and passion today has catapult Jai Karan Walia in establishing himself as a successful entrepreneur. At this tender age today, Jai is an owner of multiple properties in Dubai and also owns a series of luxury cars under his belt. We wish this resilient and driven individual al the very best for future endeavors. Do follow him on Instagram @jaikaranwalia or visit the website, https://theclevercorp.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||WPI inflation hits all-time high of 12.94 per cent in May||The wholesale price-based inflation accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May, on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and a low base of last year. In May last year, WPI inflation was (-) 3.37 per cent and in April 2021, WPI inflation hit double digit at 10.49 per cent. This is the fifth straight month of uptick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI, was 12.94 per cent for the month of May, 2021 (over May, 2020) as compared to (-) 3.37 per cent in May 2020. "The high rate of inflation in May 2021 is primarily due to low base effect and rise in prices of crude petroleum, mineral oils viz. petrol, diesel, naphtha, furnace oil etc. and manufactured products as compared to the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said. Inflation in fuel and power basket spiked to 37.61 per cent during May, against 20.94 per cent in April, amid hardening of global commodity prices. Prices of crude petroleum and other fuels had crashed last year in May due to lockdowns across the globe which had caused demand to plummet. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 10.83 per cent in May, against 9.01 per cent in the previous month. However, inflation in food articles eased marginally to 4.31 per cent in May, even as onion prices spiked. Inflation in onion stood at 23.24 per cent in May, against (-) 19.72 per cent in April. ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said the core-WPI inflation (manufactured non-food products) hardened sharply to a series-high 10 per cent in May 2021, with a broad-based uptrend across most sub-sectors. "The continued rise in global crude oil prices, a weaker rupee and the upward revision in domestic fuel prices remain risk factors for the upcoming WPI print. However, we expect the headline WPI inflation to recede modestly to 11.9-12.3 per cent in June 2021, as the base starts to normalise, Nayar added. PHDCCI President Sanjay Aggarwal said high fuel inflation is escalating the input costs of the industry and its competitiveness in the domestic and international markets. "At this juncture, we urge the government to consider petroleum products in the ambit of GST to rationalize the prices and to contain the rising inflation," Aggarwal added. ITM B-School HoD, Financial Markets, Krupesh Thakkar said though RBI might not look into these numbers too cautiously, these cost-push pressures would be seen in the Retail Inflation with a lag. "Of course, the yearly Consumer Price Index (CPI) figures do depend on its segment weightage and relative base impact, but these pressures cannot be ignored," Thakkar added. The RBI, which takes into account retail inflation while framing monetary policy, had earlier this month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows and committed to maintain an accommodative policy stance to support growth. RBI pegged retail inflation at 5.1 per cent in this fiscal ending March 2022, with upside risks from higher commodity prices and re-emergence of higher supply constraints amidst the current phase of lockdowns. Retail inflation data for May is scheduled to be released later in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 359 points to close above 52,300||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged nearly 359 points to close above the 52,300-level on Thursday, with financial, pharma and IT shares gaining the most amid positive global cues.

The 30-share Sensex finished 358.83 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,300.47. Intra-day, the index swung between a high of 52,346.35 and a low of 51,957.92.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 102.40 points or 0.65 per cent to end at 15,737.75.

On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj FinServ, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, ITC and Kotak Bank were the prominent gainers rising up to 7.29 per cent.

On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HCL Tech, Ultratech Cement, PowerGrid, ONGC and Nestle suffered losses.

Of the 30 shares in the Sensex pack, 23 ended with gains.

Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with gains ahead of crucial US inflation data for May.

On the forex market front, the Indian rupee lost 9 paise to end at 73.06 against the US dollar on Thursday.

"Many states have eased lockdown restrictions since the peaking of the second COVID wave in early May. The central bank is maintaining its accommodative stance, while the government has launched another fiscal package via the distribution of free vaccines and food," said Jen-Ai Chua, Equity Research Analyst Asia, Julius Baer.

"India is expected to vaccinate two-thirds of its population with a first dose by early 2022 -- a key move that should boost its COVID containment efforts. We maintain our constructive view on the market," he added.

The active COVID-19 cases in the country have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, the Health Ministry data showed on Thursday.

Meanwhile, 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121; while a net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 185 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 185 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 188.89 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,285.87 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 80.65 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,718.70.

Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1.65 per cent, followed by NTPC, SBI, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy's and HDFC twins.

On the other hand, Infosys, Reliance, TCS, Bajaj Auto and ONGC were the gainers.

In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 174.29 points or 0.33 per cent up at its new closing high of 52,474.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 61.60 points or 0.39 per cent to its lifetime peak of 15,799.35.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 18.64 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.

Elsewhere in Asia, stocks in Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Markets in China and Hong Kong were closed on Monday on account of a local holiday.

US equities finished mixed in the previous session.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.45 per cent higher at USD 73.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Sona Comstar bets auto market recovery by 2025 with electric vehicles||Auto components manufacturer Sona Comstar believes the global auto market will recover by 2025 with electric vehicles and mild hybrids leading a five-fold growth in demand. Sona Comstar  makes automotive systems and components such as differential assemblies, differential gears, conventional and micro-hybrid starter motors and motor control units. Its clients are car makers across US, Europe, India and China for both electrified and non-electrified powertrain segments. “In 2025, battery electric vehicles and mild hybrids are expected to account for 33 per cent of the global production compared with 8 per cent in 2020. Global automotive sales will rise from 70.3 million units in 2020 to 82.4 million units in 2023 and 91.5 million units in 2025 with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5 per cent,” said Sunjay Kapur, chairman Sona Comstar. He said battery electric vehicles will grow at CAGR of 36 per cent between 2020 and 2025. Mild hybrids will grow at 46 per cent and electric two-wheelers at 70 per cent in the same period. The company, which mopped up Rs 2,498 crore from anchor investors ahead of its IPO on Monday, is pitching itself as a lead player in the battery vehicle market as a manufacturer and global supplier. The total offer size of its IPO is up to Rs 5,550 crore with a fresh issuance of equity shares, aggregating up to Rs 300 crore and an offer for sale of equity shares aggregating up to Rs 5,250 crore. In August 2019, Blackstone announced the merger of Chennai-based auto component firm Comstar, which it controlled, with Sunjay Kapur’s Sona BLW to create Sona Comstar. The company generates around 41 per cent of its revenue from electric vehicles and mild hybrid sales and about 14 per cent revenue are from pure battery electric vehicles. It has been supplying differential gears in the battery electric vehicle markets since 2016 and differential assemblies since 2019. In 2020, it had 8.7 per cent share in the global BEV (battery electric vehicle) differential assembly market. The company has a 40 per cent market share in the Indian passenger vehicle segment for differential gears and 10 per cent share in the commericial vehicle segment and five per cent in the tractor segment. Among its customers are Dana, Volvo, Daimler, JLR, Geely and others. Mahindra and Mahindra, Maruti, Escorts, Ashok Leyland among others make up its Indian customers. The comany has manufacturing plants in Gurgaon, Chennai, Manesar and Pune with assembly plants in the US, Mexico and China. Its EBIDTA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization margins) have been 29 per cent in 2018-19, 27 per cent in 2019-20 and 28 per cent in 2020-21 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Caveat to I-T during raids||Taxpayers ought not to be forced to make confessions under duress during a search and survey operations when they are most vulnerable and anxious as tax sleuths rummage through their offices and homes. Tax experts are suggesting that in the interest of fairness, a taxpayer who has been subjected to a raid should get at least 15 working days to make their disclosures. During a search operation, a taxpayer rarely has access to all the relevant details and the benefit of advice from his tax consultant to be able to make a full disclosure. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said during a recent webinar that the practice of forcing a disclosure out of a harried taxpayer should be legally banned. Jain said that the Central Board for Direct Taxes had issued an instruction in 2003 (F. No 286/2/2003) in which it said: “Instances have come to the notice of the board where assessees have claimed that they have been forced to confess the undisclosed income during the course of the search and survey operations. Such confessions, if not based upon credible evidence, are later retracted by the concerned assessees while filing returns of income. The note went on to add: “It is advised that there should be focus and concentration on collection of evidence of income which leads to information on what has not been disclosed or is not likely to be disclosed to the income tax department... No attempt should be made to obtain confessions as to the undisclosed income.” Jain reckons that the tax sleuths should also hand over a copy of the statement recorded during a survey and search operation to the taxpayer so that he can then proceed with his best legal options. He added that the stipulation that two respectable witnesses should be present during a raid is rarely followed in its true spirit. In many cases, he said, servants of the taxpayers were shown as witnesses — which is inconsistent with the legal stipulation. He said the tax administration should allow the filing of wealth tax returns to enable assessees to prove the acquisition or disclosure of jewellery. The last wealth tax return was allowed to be filed for the assessment year 2015-16. Wealth tax was abolished in the budget of 2015.
Former income tax chief commissioner R.S. Upadhyay agreed that the CBDT had instructed that taxpayers should not be pressured to declared undisclosed income during a survey and search operation. However, the instruction was not always scrupulously followed which perpetuated a negative image of the department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Trading in the shares of DHFL suspended from Monday||Leading exchanges BSE and NSE will suspend trading in the shares of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) with effect from Monday. The move, aimed at avoiding “market complications”, comes against the backdrop of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) approving Piramal Group’s resolution plan for the bankrupt-DHFL. The resolution plan under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was approved by the tribunal on June 7. In separate but similarly-worded circulars issued on Friday, the BSE and the NSE said they would suspend trading in the shares of DHFL with effect from June 14. The approved resolution plan provides for delisting of equity shares of the company. According to the circulars, the company made an announcement on June 9, saying that “no value was attributable to the equity shares as per the liquidation value of the company estimated by registered valuers appointed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016”. In November 2019, the Reserve Bank of India had referred DHFL — then the third-largest pure-play mortgage lender — for resolution under the IBC. It was the first finance company to be referred to the NCLT by RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the IBC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||Coal India Ltd to reward its shareholders with an additional final dividend of 20-25%||The world’s largest miner — Coal India Ltd — is expected to reward its shareholders with an additional final dividend of 20-25 per cent at its board meeting on June 14, sources said. The company will declare its fourth-quarter financial results on that day. Though the miner has failed to achieve its production and offtake targets for 2020-21, it has surpassed the revised capital expenditure target of Rs 13,000 crore. “The board will try declaring another round of dividend but it is expected to be less than the two interim dividends of Rs 7.5 and Rs 5 on each share of Rs 10 each,” the sources told PTI. The total interim dividend for 2020-21 is Rs 12.5 per share and the final dividend could be Rs 2-2.5 per share to make the final total dividend not less than Rs 15 per share, the sources indicated. The government will be the largest beneficiary of the dividend as its shareholding stands at 66.13 per cent. The fourth-quarter numbers were expected to remain weak, according to analysts estimates but stock market participants remained bullish and the stock rose 6.24 per cent during the week. On the capex achievement the official said, “Initially, the target was Rs 10,000 crore but with the Covid-19 induced slowdown in the economy the government asked to raise it to support the economy. We raised the capex target to Rs 13,000 crore and we have surpassed it.” The capital expenditure for the 2020-21 fiscal was at Rs 13,115 crore, a 109 per cent rise compared with the previous year’s capex outgo of Rs 6,270 crore. Procurement of heavy earth moving machinery at Rs 3,453 crore topped the list of capex heads for FY21, followed by land at Rs 2,470 crore. Capex in joint ventures, in proportion to CIL’s shareholding, like Talcher Fertilizers Ltd and Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, accounted for Rs 2,194 crore. Spending on coal evacuation infrastructure such as coal handling plants, silos and constructing sidings amounted for Rs 1,398 crore while construction of rail corridors and railway lines amounted to Rs 1,166 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
14-06-2021||Business||RSH Global eyes exponential growth in Bengal and Maharashtra ||After carving out a strong presence in north India, personal care products maker RSH Global is eyeing an exponential growth in Bengal and Maharashtra over the next three years. The homegrown firm known for brands such as Joy, XMen and Karis expects to surpass Rs 300 crore in gross merchandise value from these two states over the next three years from around Rs 80 crore. The company is also looking to expand its presence in the northern region, which is its largest market. Sunil Agarwal, chairman of RSH Global, told The Telegraph that its entire focus in the first 20-25 years of operation were the northern and western regions of the country. “But there was always this recurring feeling on how can we grow in this market (Bengal). We had to first identify the hero product for Bengal. We zeroed in on face wash and sunscreen where we are now doing decent business. We have also started mass media advertising from last year. These will be the two major states where we will be putting most of our efforts and we expect a multifold growth,” he added. Agarwal’s optimistic outlook for these two markets comes at a time companies have been witnessing a slowdown in demand following the second Covid wave. The RSH Global chairman disclosed that the beginning to this fiscal was decent, but with most of the states opting for a lockdown, sales have been affected. However, he expects a sharp rebound from September. “We are confident that we can not only match last year’s figure (for the second half), but can even beat them,” Agarwal observed. For 2021-22, RSH Global is expecting a sales growth of 15-20 per cent over last fiscal. In 2019-20, it posted a growth of five per cent for the whole year as the first half was severely affected because of the nationwide lockdown. However, it bounced back strongly in the second half with a record growth of 50 per cent. According to Nielsen data, RSH Global is ranked the sixth largest skincare company in the Rs 13,000-crore market. The company is now looking to launch around 15 products over the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Four companies set to debut this week on India’s primary market||After a brief lull, India’s primary market will come back to life this week with four companies making their debut. And that may be just the start of a frantic few months of initial public offers with the new entrants banking on abundant liquidity and a strong retail interest. The four firms that will jointly raise Rs 9,123 crore are Shyam Metalics and Energy Ltd, Sona BLW Precision Forgings (Sona Comstar), Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences and Dodla Dairy. Macrotech Developers was the last company to tap the markets in April. So far in 2021, around 20 companies have tapped the main board. In the previous fiscal, domestic firms raised around Rs 31,500 crore through IPOs. Most of the companies who offered shares have enjoyed solid listing gains, which have prompted retail investors to jump into the subscription race. Of the 20 firms that have tapped the primary markets in this calendar year, around 16 are now trading higher than their issue price, thus showing investors who failed to get an allotment could pocket gains if they purchased the shares from the secondary market. These gains are seen even in the case of companies such as Barbeque Nation Hospitality, which is in a sector hit hard by the pandemic and the resultant lockdowns. Its shares are currently trading at Rs 827.45 — a gain of 65.49 per cent over its issue price. This is also the case with Easy Trip Planners (up 137 per cent), Nureca (up 278 per cent), Indigo Paints (up 77 per cent) and Laxmi Organic Industries (up 73 per cent). Speaking to The Telegraph, Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database Group said the IPO pipeline remained strong with around 50 companies either holding regulator approval or awaiting its nod. Haldea pointed out that the primary market takes a cue from the secondary market and as long as the latter remains strong, IPOs will continue to see brisk activity. He said one of the major highlights over the past one year was that retail participation has gone up significantly because of listing gains. “We have seen good interest across the board. Retail investors follow the institutional investors. So when there is a good institutional response, we find good retail investor participation as well,’’ he noted. Edible oil firm Ruchi Soya, which is owned by Baba Ramdev-led Patanjali Ayurveda, has filed draft document with Sebi to launch a follow-on public offer (FPO) to raise up to Rs 4,300 crore. The FPO is being launched to meet the Sebi norm of minimum public shareholding of 25 per cent in a listed entity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Tata Steel BSL Ltd reduces debt by 60 per cent||Riding on the commodity boom, Tata Steel has been able to significantly make good on its big-ticket purchase of Bhushan Steel Limited (BSL) three years ago that potentially makes it the most successful acquisition by the company. Within three years of taking over the stressed company from the bankruptcy court, Tata Steel BSL Ltd (TSBSL) has been able to reduce debt by 60 per cent already, thereby paring down the acquisition cost significantly. If the steel market continues to remain buoyant as it is, more deleveraging is on the way. Tata Steel Ltd had stumped up Rs 35,200 crore for the Odisha-based plant which can produce 5.6 million tonnes. While the parent invested Rs 19,700 crore from its own balance sheet, it also put in place a 12-year long-term take-out financing of Rs 15,500 crore for Tata Steel BSL. A back of the hand calculation suggests the company has been able to reduce leverage by Rs 9,300 crore, majority of which was achieved in the last fiscal alone. The gross debt at TSBSL came down by Rs 5,500 crore in 2020-21 due to strong cash flow from the business. “It is important to mention that since acquisition, Tata Steel BSL has reduced its leverage significantly by 60 per cent and, therefore, has significantly paid back the acquisition cost,” Tata Steel disclosed in its latest annual report. Tata Steel BSL is on its way to be merged with the parent as shareholders of the respective companies have approved the plan. TSBSL shareholders will get 1 share of Tata Steel for every 15 shares held in the company. The scheme of arrangement is pending approval from the National Company Law Tribunal. During the January-March quarter, the company achieved an earning before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) of Rs 21,648 a tonne, an EBIDTA margin of 35.3 per cent. It posted a profit of Rs 1,912 crore for the quarter and Rs 2,516 crore for the full year. It had recorded Rs 8 crore profit in the fourth quarter of 2019-20 and a loss of Rs 617 crore for the full year. Deliveries also rose to 4.31 million tonnes in the last fiscal from 3.57 million tonnes in 2018-19, the first year after coming under the Tata fold. Compared to TSBSL, the other big-ticket acquisitions of the company, namely Corus Group Plc, acquired in 2007, Natsteel and Millennium Steel (now Tata Steel Thailand) acquired in 2004 and 2005 respectively, have not panned out according to the plan. The acquisition of Usha Martin’s steel business in India in 2019 by Tata Steel subsidiary Tata Steel Long Products also fared well compared with the global adventures. Indications are that the first quarter of this fiscal could even be better than the last. Icra reported that steel makers will tide themselves over the second wave of Covid on the back of supportive international prices. While domestic steel demand was down 22 per cent in April compared with March and further by 1 per cent in May, the consumption in the domestic market was much higher (150 per cent) compared with the same period last year, which had much more stringent lockdowns. Moreover, the export momentum continued with 122 per cent year-on-year growth in April and another 30 per cent rise in May, as Chinese demand ensured strong demand and the price of the alloy rose in the international market. SteelMint data show that leading primary steel producers have increased prices by Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 per tonne, depending on grades from June onwards and the benchmark hot-rolled and cold-rolled prices perched at Rs 70,000 a tonne and Rs 85,000 a tonne, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||Dharmendra Pradhan blames high sales tax in Cong-led states for fuel price hike||Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday said Congress-led governments in Rajasthan and Maharashtra should cut high sales tax on petrol and diesel if the party was concerned about the fuel price burden on common man. The minister but did not say if BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where petrol has crossed the Rs-100-mark, would do the same. Petrol and diesel prices have risen to all-time highs across the country after fuel rates rose by Rs 5.72 per litre to Rs 6.25 per litre in less than six weeks. This is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and record high central and state taxes. Central taxes in Delhi make up 38 per cent of the price of petrol, while state levies make up another 23 per cent. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an event organised to inaugurate an oxygen plant set up by Indraprastha Gas Ltd at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Pradhan said central and state governments need additional money from the taxes on petrol and diesel to meet the expenses to fight the pandemic as well as on development work. “I accept that fuel prices are pinching consumers,” he said, adding the government is spending Rs 1 lakh crore on providing free foodgrains to poor this year alone, besides spending money on vaccines and healthcare infrastructure. Asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s repeated attacks on the Modi government for skyrocketing fuel prices, Pradhan said, “Why is fuel expensive in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab (which are ruled by non-BJP parties)?” “If Rahul Gandhi is concerned about the poor being hit by fuel prices, he should ask the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to cut taxes. He should ask (Maharashtra chief minister) Uddhav Thackeray to reduce taxes,” he said. Later nuancing his remarks, Pradhan said he has never done politics on taxes but if someone wants to make an issue out of high taxes they should first set their house in order. “I fully understand that the money collected from taxes on fuel goes into a lot of social welfare schemes and development work. I have never bickered over this. But if Rahul Gandhi wants to make an issue out of only one part of the taxes, I will have to say that they (Congress) have to look at the taxes in their own states, which are the highest in the country,” he said. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Because of this, petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in seven states and Union Territories —Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh. Of these states, the Congress is in power in Rajasthan and is a coalition partner with th Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. The BJP rules Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka and Ladakh too is under central rule. Andhra Pradesh has YSR-Congress in power, while TRS rules in Telangana. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT or sales tax) on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. International oil prices have crossed $72 per barrel in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries. Last year when rates collapsed to a two-decade low, the Union government instead of passing on the benefit to consumers raised the excise duty to record highs. The excise tax on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre when the Modi government took office in 2014, and that on diesel was Rs 3.56 a litre. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hitting th Rs 100-a-litre mark in mid-February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
14-06-2021||Business||A last  resort||On May 31, 2021, the Union ministry of labour and employment announced that provident fund account subscribers of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation would be eligible to avail themselves of a second non-refundable advance from their accumulated balance. While the objective is to reduce the financial hardship because of Covid-19 pandemic, given the purpose of the provident fund savings, questions arise whether it is a good idea to dip into the future corpus to meet present needs. EPF is a government managed retirement savings scheme for employees where both the employer and the employee can contribute to accumulate a corpus which is aimed at providing social security and financial coverage at retirement. Given the nature of the savings, there are only a handful of specified purposes such as medical emergencies, higher education and purchase of house. This was before Covid-19 pandemic hit last year. The country went into a lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus and that meant other than essential sectors, offices and factories were shut and salaries became irregular as corporate houses scrambled to keep expenses in check. To support its subscribers, EPFO allowed a special withdrawal to meet the financial needs during this difficult time. The government through notification GSR 225 (E) dated 27.03.2020 allowed withdrawal of non-refundable advance by EPF members in the event of the Covid pandemic situation by way of introducing sub-para 3 under paragraph 68L of the EPF Scheme, 1952. With this amendment, an EPF member could avail a non-refundable advance of three months of the basic wages and dearness allowances or up to 75 per cent of the amount standing to the member’s credit, whichever is lower. Such an advance, being non-refundable, is not liable to be paid back by the EPF member. The settlement time for such advances was also reduced from 20 days to three days. As of May 31, 2021, EPFO had settled 76.31 lakh Covid-19 advance claims disbursing a total of Rs 18,698.15 crore, according to government data. The response was only moderate given that EPFO has over 6 crore contributing members. The situation is a bit different in the second wave of the pandemic in 2021. There is no central government mandated lockdown. Moreover, in addition to Covid, there is also the threat of black fungus which has been declared as an epidemic. Keeping in view the trying times, EPFO allowed its members another round of advances. Members who have already availed of the first advance can also opt for a second advance. The provision and process for the withdrawal of the second Covid-19 advance is the same as in the case of the first advance. One of the primary reasons why personal finance experts discourage any withdrawal from the PF corpus is the relatively higher rate of interest offered by the EPFO of 8.5 per cent in 2020-21 compared with the bank interest rates of 4-6 per cent. After factoring in the power of compounding of interest and income tax benefits on contributions under section 80C of the Income Tax Act, it makes sense to keep the corpus untouched till the time of retirement. “Provident fund deposits are considered to be among the best investment instruments for building a retirement corpus as they provide a higher interest rate accompanied with great tax benefits. In normal circumstances, it is never advisable to withdraw an amount from the PF as it has an adverse impact on the retirement funds. Moreover, withdrawing a high return generating investment such as PF which is backed by sovereign guarantee and tax benefits should definitely be avoided and be treated as a last resort,” said Suresh Surana, founder, RSM India. “However, in exceptional circumstances such as the current situation, which have caused disruptions in income and sudden medical emergencies, PF withdrawal may be considered as an option as opposed to borrowing funds,” he added. Being non-refundable in nature, there is no need for repayment and the withdrawal does not warrant any tax. But as the overall corpus contracts, the interest earned also goes down. While it is better than taking an interest bearing personal loan in uncertain times with the risk of damaging credit score, PF withdrawal should be resorted to only if there are no emergency funds to meet the current requirements and only after exhausting all other liquid investments such as fixed deposits or other short term investments. ⚫If a subscriber has worked in multiple companies and is currently in service with an active PF account, PF accumulations in the previous accounts should be transferred to the active account for an easier claim. Name, date of birth and gender in all the accounts have to be the same ⚫An individual may not be in active service but may have still not availed the final PF withdrawal benefit. As long as the amount is with the EPFO a claim for Covid advance can be made ⚫The claim for this advance can be filed online if UAN is validated with Aadhaar and KYC of bank account and mobile number is seeded in UAN. In case of mismatch in KYC details and details in an EPF account, a subscriber has to file a request for demographic detail correction through the employer ⚫An EPF subscriber can apply for lesser amounts than the limits mentioned earlier ⚫An application for Covid-19 advance is permitted even if other advance claims are pending||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
