15-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry to meet Infosys over portal glitch||The Central Board of Direct Taxes on Tuesday said issues related to the glitches in the recently launched e-filing portal of the Income-Tax Department will be taken up at an interactive meeting on June 22 by the Ministry of Finance. Some senior officials are scheduled to have a meeting with a team of Infosys on Tuesday, ndtv.com reported. Other stakeholders including members from ICAI, auditors, consultants and taxpayers will also be a part of the meeting scheduled to be held between 11 am and 1 pm on June 22, a press release said. "Written representations on the problems/difficulties faced in the portal have also been invited from the stakeholders. Representatives from the Infosys team will be present to answer queries, clarify issues and receive inputs on the working of the portal, to remove glitches and sort out issues faced by the taxpayers," the release added. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on June 8 had sked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix technical glitches being encountered on the income tax department's new e-filing website after users flooded her Twitter timeline with complaints. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The portal went live on June 7. "I see in my TL grievances and glitches. Hope @Infosys & @NandanNilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided," she tweeted later. TL here stands for timeline. "Ease in compliance for the taxpayer should be our priority," she said while quoting a tweet from a user who was unable to log in to the new e-filing portal. Infosys had also developed the GST Network (GSTN) portal, used for GST payment and return filing. The software major had faced flak for the slow functioning of the GSTN portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
15-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty leap to new highs||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped by another 221 points to scale a new closing high of 52,773 on Tuesday, propelled by gains in index majors Reliance, Infosys, and HDFC twins amid largely positive global cues. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 221.52 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,773.05. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 57.40 points or 0.36 per cent to settle at a fresh high of 15,869.25. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Hindustan Unilever, IndusInd Bank, Infosys and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Titan, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and PowerGrid were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent higher at USD 73.09 per barrel. Meanwhile, the rupee slipped 2 paise to close at 73.31 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 220 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 220 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys, TCS and Reliance.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 220.67 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,772.20 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 62.35 points or 0.39 per cent to 15,874.20.

All the Sensex constituents were trading with gains in morning trade.

Asian Paints was the top gainer in the pack, surging around 1.5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, Hindustan Unilever, Bharti Airtel and Kotak Bank.

In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 76.77 points or 0.15 per cent higher at its new closing peak of 52,551.53. The NSE Nifty rose 12.50 points or 0.08 per cent to a record 15,811.85.

On the macro-economic data front, rising prices of edible oils and protein-rich items pushed the retail inflation to a six-month high of 6.3 per cent in May, breaching the comfort level of the Reserve Bank and thus rendering reduction in interest rates a difficult proposition in the near term.

The wholesale price-based inflation accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May, on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and a low base of last year. In May last year, WPI inflation was (-) 3.37 per cent and in April 2021, WPI inflation hit double-digit at 10.49 per cent.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 503.51 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red.

US equities finished mixed in the previous session.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 73.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Amara Raja announces plans for a foray into lithium ion segment||Amara Raja, the makers of lead acid batteries under the Amaron brand, on Monday announced its plans for a foray into the lithium ion segment. The Tirupati-based company also announced the reorganisation of roles and succession as it plans to expand its business. “From a lead acid battery company we now want to transform into an energy and mobility company. First part is value maximisation of the lead acid business for growth and profitability. Second is entry into new energy which is lithium ion and other related products and services,” industrialist and politician Jayadev Galla told The Telegraph. He will take over as the chairman of Amara Raja Batteries Limited from founder chairman Ramachandra Galla, who steered the company for 36 years. The company has set up a New Energy strategic business unit to focus on lithium cell and battery packs, EV chargers, energy storage systems, advanced home energy solutions and related products. GeNext on board The board of the directors of the company has decided to induct Harshavardhana Gourineni and Vikramadithya Gourineni as executive directors and next-generation leaders from the promoter family. Ramadevi Gourineni has stepped down as non-executive director of the company. Current CEO S. Vijayanand has been named president of New Energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||GST Council culture wrecked: Amit Mitra||The GST Council is moving away from a consensus-based approach to conduct business to an ‘authoritarian and majoritarian regime’ where big decisions are being rammed through without taking opposing views on board, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra alleged on Monday. Two days after his suggestions and those of eight other non-BJP ruled states to bring all Covid-related items to under zero rated tax were undermined and Mitra’s last minute objection was overlooked under controversial circumstances, the Bengal FM described the events at the Council as a ‘worrying sign’ for the future of the only all-inclusive federalist structure of the nation. He cited many instances from the past when the GST Council ploughed through differing opinions of the states to come to a consensus, especially when Arun Jaitley was the Union finance minister. “Things have slipped in the last couple of years. The Council has moved away from a consensus building approach to an omnipotent authoritarian regime,” Mitra said at a press conference. Nirmala Sitharaman became the FM during the second BJP government in 2019. The minister who had alleged that his voice was muzzled on Saturday, prompting him to write a letter to record an official dissent note, said the Council was being taken for granted when it comes to decisions on procedures or rates. He demanded that an enquiry should be made why he could not be heard as the microphones were controlled by the central government establishments. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also referred to it this afternoon, slamming the BJP for not allowing Mitra to speak. Even though rules of conducting business allows voting on a proposal, the Council, where all states and Union Territories are members, took that route only once in the past. Mitra said he had supported Gujarat when the Centre wanted to keep all business activities within 12 kilometres from the coastline under central GST. “If we go for voting, it becomes a majority decision, not based on consensus. What we can see that the Centre is not willing to build consensus but ram through their decisions,” Mitra said. The GST implementation council, which comprises nine members — secretaries from four states, four secretaries from the Centre and one from the GST secretariat — is now framing rules and bringing them to the Council for mere approval. Similarly, the fitment committee, which is supposed to look at rates, sends its proposals at the last moment to the states, which merely approve them at the meeting. At times, the decisions are taken outside the Council meeting. For instance, the Centre stuck to its guns insisting that states must borrow from the market to meet the shortfall in collection of cess to provide compensation at the end of a Council meeting in 2020. However, when the RBI suggested that the Centre should borrow and pass it on the states back to back, it agreed without calling a Council meeting. Asked what could be the next course of action for states that had demanded a zero rated tax on Covid related items, Mitra said he wanted to bring the matter before the ‘people’s court’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to Rs 500 crore through issue of securities||Tata Motors on Monday said its board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs 500 crore through the issue of securities on a private placement basis. A meeting of the duly authorised committee has approved subscription of up to 5,000 rated, listed, unsecured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of face value of Rs 10 lakh each, aggregating up to Rs 500 crore, the auto major said in a regulatory filing. The Mumbai-based company, however, did not share details as to how it plans to use the capital. Shares of the company were trading 1.03 per cent down at Rs 347.15 apiece on the BSE. Shriram Transport Non-banking finance company Shriram Transport Finance (STFC) on Monday said it has raised Rs 1,998.98 crore through its qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue. The issue, which was launched on June 7, 2021, received 6.3 times oversubscription, a company release said. Several foreign institutional investors and domestic institutional investors participated in the QIP issue. The issue was priced at Rs 1,430 per share, representing a discount of 0.23 per cent to the Sebi floor price of Rs 1,433.32. The company said its board also approved on June 7, 2021 a preferential issue of Rs 500 crore, equally split between equity shares and convertible warrants to the promoter, Shriram Capital Limited, at the issue price of Rs 1,440 per security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 15 crore penalty on Franklin Templeton AMC senior officials||Sebi on Monday imposed a penalty of Rs 15 crore on senior officials of Franklin Templeton AMC and its trustee for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. However, a spokesperson of Franklin Templeton said they disagree with the findings in Sebi’s order and intend to file an appeal with the Securities Appellate Tribunal. A fine of Rs 3 crore has been levied on Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Pvt Ltd and Rs 2 crore each on Franklin Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd president Sanjay Sapre and its chief investment officer Santosh Kamat, according to the Sebi order. In addition, the regulator imposed a penalty of Rs 1.5 crore each on fund managers — Kunal Agarwal, Pallab Roy, Sachin Padwal Desai and Umesh Sharma — as well as former fund manager Sumit Gupta. Besides, a Rs 50 lakh penalty has been levied on chief compliance officer Saurabh Gangrade. They have been directed to pay the penalty within 45 days. Sebi noted that the trustees of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (MF) and these officials failed to avert certain lapses in the functioning of the mutual fund. ‘‘The acts and deeds committed by them while discharging their duties are not in the interest of the unitholders in specific and the investors in general,’’ Sebi said in its 151-page order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Coal India reports marginal 0.79% fall in consolidated net profit||Coal India on Monday reported a marginal 0.79 per cent fall in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 on the back of low production and sales. Net profit during the quarter came in at Rs 4,588.96 crore against Rs 4,625.76 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Total income during the quarter under review was Rs 27,974.12 crore against Rs 29,820.97 crore in the year-ago period. Coal India had produced 203.42 million tonnes (mt) of coal during the quarter against 213.71mt a year ago. Offtake during the quarter was flat at 164.89mt against 164.33mt a year ago. The board of directors, which met on Monday, recommended a final dividend of Rs 3.50 per equity share for 2020-21. Coal India has already paid a cumulative Rs 7,703.43 crore through two interim dividends of Rs 7.50 per share and Rs 5 per share in November 2020 and March 2021, respectively. The consolidated expenses of the company during the quarter dropped to Rs 21,565.15 crore from Rs 22,373.46 crore in the year ago period. Average realisation of coal supplied through the fuel supply agreements was Rs 1,391.73 per tonne during the January-March quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 1,445.75 per tonne in the same quarter a year ago. There was also a moderation of coal sales realisation through the electronic auction from Rs 2105.74 per ton to Rs 1752.03 per ton during the quarter under review. Coal India scrips at Rs 159.30 per share was down 2.06 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||RBI proposes uniform regulatory framework for microfinance sector||The Reserve Bank on Monday proposed a uniform regulatory framework for the microfinance sector, wherein MFIs can provide collateral-free loans to households at board-determined interest rates. Microfinance is a form of financial service which provides small loans and other financial services to poor and low-income households. The key proposals of the “Consultative Document on Regulation of Microfinance” include a common definition of microfinance loans for all regulated entities, capping the outflow on account of repayment of loan obligations of a household to a percentage of the household income, and a board approved policy for household income assessment. It also suggests non requirement of collateral and greater flexibility of repayment frequency for all microfinance loans. According to the consultative paper released by the RBI on Monday, a microfinance loan would mean collateral-free lending to households with an annual income of Rs 1.25 lakh in rural areas and Rs 2 lakh in urban and semi-urban centres. The entities engaged in microfinance lending will be required to display board-approved minimum, maximum and average interest rates charged on loans. They will also be required to disclose pricing related information in a standard simplified fact-sheet. There will be no-prepayment penalty, said the consultative paper on which the RBI has invited comments from the stakeholders by July 31. On pricing related guidelines, the paper proposed that the board of each NBFC-MFI shall adopt an interest rate model taking into account relevant factors such as cost of funds, margin and risk premium and determine the rate of interest to be charged for loans and advances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||PNB Housing deal under Reserve Bank and Sebi scan||In a setback to PNB Housing Finance, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) are reportedly looking into ‘regulatory issues’ related to the proposed Rs 4,000 crore-investment by US-based private equity firm Carlyle and others in the housing finance firm. A PTI report quoting sources said that the concerns of minority shareholders, corporate governance and other regulatory aspects would be looked into by the two regulators. The news led to shares of PNB Housing Finance slumping 5 per cent to close at Rs 776.85 on the BSE on Monday. Late last month, PNB Housing Finance had announced that the Carlyle group will lead a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in the firm with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD and CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments, an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, LP and Carlyle Asia Partners V, LP, will invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants, at a price of Rs 390 apiece. However, a proxy advisory firm, Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES), expressed concerns about the deal. It wondered if Punjab National Bank (PNB) had willingly surrendered control without taking a fair compensation. The firm asked whether PNB had sacrificed over Rs 2,000 crore in a deal that was an “unfair transaction, against public shareholders and PNB”. The deal is “ultra vires” to the Articles of Association, it added. SES said the proposed deal will change the control of PNB Housing Finance — from PNB being the sole promoter to a joint control holder with Carlyle Group. PNB’s stake will come down to 20.28 per cent from the existing 32.64 per cent, while that of Carlyle will rise to 50.16 per cent from 32.21 per cent. Carlyle will become the major shareholder and promoter along with its persons acting in concert (PACs), including Puri. Earlier this year, the RBI had shot down a proposal of PNB to infuse capital into the subsidiary through a rights issue. Recently, PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said the bank will neither be investing nor divesting its stake but because of investment from other sources, its shareholding could come down to 21 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business||Retail inflation accelerates to a six-month high of 6.30 per cent in May||Retail inflation accelerated in May to a six-month high of 6.30 per cent as fuel and food prices rose at a higher pace, putting pressure on the central bank to tame prices amid a faltering economic recovery. Retail inflation in May breached the RBI’s comfort level on the back of costlier food items. According to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), inflation in the food basket was 5.01 per cent in May, significantly up from 1.96 per cent in the preceding month. The consumer price index (CPI) based inflation stood at 4.23 per cent in April. The previous high in retail inflation was 6.93 per cent in November 2020. Wholesale price-based inflation also accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and the low base of last year due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The government has asked the RBI to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The RBI, which mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy, had left the key interest rate unchanged earlier this month. The central bank has projected the CPI inflation at 5.1 per cent during 2021-22; 5.2 per cent in Q1; 5.4 per cent in Q2; 4.7 per cent in Q3; and 5.3 per cent in Q4 of 2021-22. “At 6.3 per cent, the retail inflation has already gone past the RBI’s target level. Although it is still too early to believe that retail inflation will remain above 6 per cent on a sustained basis given the high base of last year, a rising wholesale inflation, which is gradually finding a reflection in retail inflation, is going to make things difficult for the RBI. However, given the growth inflation dynamics, the RBI will not be in a hurry to tinker with either the policy rate or its accommodative policy stance,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research. Inflation in the fuel and light category remained elevated at 11.58 per cent in May against 7.91 in April. The inflation rate in edible oil and fats soared to 30.84 per cent in May from 25.91 per cent in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-19
15-06-2021||Business|| Adani group stocks clobbered on the bourses||An air of potboiler-worthy intrigue hung over markets on Monday after stocks of the Adani group were clobbered on the bourses, precipitated by media reports that the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) had frozen the demat accounts of three Mauritius-based overseas funds that had invested in Adani Enterprises, the group’s holding company, and three other subsidiaries that were valued at Rs 43,500 crore as of last Friday. Late in the afternoon, Adani Enterprises sent a note to the bourses denying that the demat accounts through which these funds held their investments in the group companies had been frozen. The clarification from the group came to the exchange 30 minutes before trading ended for the day. It said: “These reports are blatantly erroneous and is done to deliberately mislead the investing community. This is causing irreparable loss of economic value to the investors at large and reputation of the group,” the conglomerate said. The three overseas funds were Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund which together held shares in four Adani group companies: Adani Enterprises, Adani Transmission, Adani Total Gas and Adani Green Energy. Stock exchange data reveals that these funds collectively hold 6.82 per cent in Adani Enterprises, 8.03 per cent in Adani Transmission, 5.91 per cent in Adani Total Gas, and 3.58 per cent in Adani Green Energy. Adani Enterprises said the statement was being issued after its registrar and transfer agent — Ahmedabad-based Link Intime Pvt Ltd — had sent a “written communication...clarifying that the demat account in which the aforesaid funds hold the shares of the company are not frozen”. But by then, the damage had been done. Investor wealth worth around Rs 53,000 crore had been wiped out across Adani group stocks as six listed Adani group stocks were battered in a bout of frenzied trading. Adani Enterprises, the flagship firm, plunged around 25 per cent to an intra-day low of Rs 1,201.10, while the three other stocks fell by by up to 5 per cent. The meltdown struck Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone — in which these funds do not hold shares above the reportable threshold of 1 per cent — as well which plunged by almost 19 per cent. The NSDL website said these accounts had been frozen on May 31. It added that the freeze could be due to insufficient disclosure of information regarding beneficial ownership of these funds. Market regulator Sebi and the depository maintained a studied silence throughout the day. It wasn’t clear why the Adani group’s statement came only after 3 pm. If the accounts had not been frozen — and the statement had been issued earlier — investors would have been spared the mayhem in the markets. Market observers said it was not still not clear when the freeze on the accounts had been lifted. A Reuters report, quoting a senior NSDL official, said the depository had frozen accounts of the funds that hold certain other securities and not those holding Adani company shares, adding that freeze was “not new”. “Foreign portfolio investors generally have one account. But in certain circumstances, they can have multiple accounts. In this case, the funds hold at least more than one account, ” the report quoted the official as saying, adding that he had spoken on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak publicly on the issue. Widening empire The Adani group shares have seen a stupendous rally over the past one year as group chairman Gautam Adani — who was recently declared as the second richest man in Asia after Mukesh Ambani with a net worth of $66.5 billion —  expanded his empire by snapping up control of the Mumbai international airport,  winning city gas distribution rights across the country, promoting a clutch of seaports and even bidding for the redevelopment of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji terminus (CST) railway station. The stock of Adani Total Gas, for instance, has surged by 1087 per cent in the past year. Adani Enterprise has leapfrogged by around 972 per cent while Adani Green Energy has yielded a return of 237 per cent. There have been questions about the valuations of some of these stocks because of the low free float as promoters holding remains very high and a few overseas funds hold a substantial amount of the stock, leaving very little opportunity for retail investors to buy the stock. ‘‘When the floating stock is low, concentrated aggressive buying can push up stock prices way too high,’’ said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
