16-06-2021||Business||How to Calculate TDS on Fixed Deposit?||Fixed Deposits (FD) are popular financial instruments for growing money and earning assured interest on your savings. However, the accrued interest income is fully taxable as per the Income Tax Act, 1961. If the interest you earn falls under a taxable slab, the amount subtracted from the income on your fixed deposit investment is Tax Deducted at Source (TDS). Let us understand TDS rates applicable on FDs. How is TDS on fixed deposit calculated? TDS is applicable if the interest income exceeds specified limits in any provided fiscal year. Banks levy TDS at a 10% rate on the earned FD interest in a financial year. This amount is only deducted when your interest amount exceeds Rs. 40,000 in a fiscal year, and your income does not fall under the exempted slab. If you are a senior citizen (an individual over the age of 60 or more), no TDS applies if your interest income is lower than Rs. 50,000 for the given year. For NRI or Non-Resident Indian investors, TDS is deducted on the interest earned from FDs at a 30% rate, as per Section 195 of the Income Tax Act (1961). Surcharge and cess also apply to the deduction. 20% TDS is charged if you do not share your PAN details for the FD account with your bank. For joint account holders, TDS on FD is deducted against the PAN details of the primary account holder. Here the deductions do not apply to the secondary account holder. Banks typically deduct TDS on fixed deposits at a fiscal year’s end automatically. Besides, interest income earned from a tax saver fixed deposit is also liable for the tax deduction. It is crucial to understand that the interest earned is subject to taxation if it exceeds the limits mentioned above. The principal amount invested in an FD is not liable for the deduction. How to apply for a TDS waiver on FDs? If you do not earn interest income above the defined limits, you can inform your bank not to deduct tax at the source. As an Indian resident, you can apply for tax remission by submitting Form 15H or Form 15G to your bank. Here, Form 15H is for senior citizens and Form 15G is for whom the interest is not chargeable for TDS. Both the forms have a self-declaration section where you state that tax on your income (estimated) for the given financial year is non-deductible. Things to remember about FD tax deductions Your bank calculates the TDS when your interest is due for the deposit and not when the bank pays it. This means that you pay the TDS on interest income annually and not when your FD matures. If your bank has deducted tax at source, but you are applicable for a lower tax rate, you can file an Income Tax Return (ITR) and claim the amount as a refund. Besides, if you fall under a high tax slab of 20% or 30%, you must pay TDS through a self-assessment tax form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Net tax collection doubles so far this fiscal, says Centre||The net direct tax collection has doubled to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal, mainly driven by personal income tax and advance tax mop up, the I-T department said on Wednesday. The net direct tax collection also includes corporate income tax (CIT) collection at Rs 74,356 crore and Personal Income Tax, including Security Transaction Tax (STT) at over Rs 1.11 lakh crore. The net direct tax collections (after adjusting refunds) between April 1-June 15 stood at Rs 1,85,871 crore, compared to Rs 92,762 crore over the corresponding period of the preceding year, representing an increase of 100.4 per cent over the collections of the preceding year, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. Refunds amounting to Rs 30,731 crore have been issued in current fiscal. The gross collection of direct taxes for this fiscal stood at over Rs 2.16 lakh crore, compared to Rs 1.37 lakh crore in the corresponding period of the preceding year. The gross corporate income tax (CIT) mop up stood at Rs 96,923 crore and personal income tax (PIT) stood at over Rs 1.19 lakh crore. While Advance Tax mop up stood at Rs 28,780 crore, Tax Deducted at Source was at Rs 1,56,824 crore. Self-Assessment Tax stood at Rs 15,343 crore and Regular Assessment Tax at Rs 14,079 crore. "Despite extremely challenging initial months of the new fiscal, the Advance Tax collections for the first quarter of the FY 2021-22 stand at Rs 28,780 crore against Advance Tax collections of Rs 11,714 crore for the corresponding period of the immediately preceding Financial Year, showing a growth of approximately 146 per cent," the CBDT said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Modi invites global investors to invest in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for focus on 'repair and prepare' as the nation emerges out of a devastating pandemic. "Over the past year, we have witnessed a lot of disruption in different sectors. Much of it is still there. Yet, disruption does not have to mean despair," he said at VivaTech Summit. "Instead, we must keep the focus on the twin foundations of repair and prepare," he said referring to the need to augment healthcare infrastructure in the country as well as prop up the economy. Indian economy suffered its worst contraction in decades in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, as the pandemic-induced lockdown impaired economic activity. The government, however, continued with the reforms that would help sustain higher growth rates after the world emerges from the pandemic. India implemented huge reforms across sectors - from mining to space, from banking to atomic energy, he said. "This goes on to show that India as a nation is adaptable and agile, even in the middle of the pandemic." "India offers what innovators and investors need," Modi said. "I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of talent, market, capital, eco-system and culture of openness." Stating that India's strides in the world of tech and start-up are well-known, he said the country is home to one of the world's largest start-up eco systems and several unicorns have come up in recent years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
16-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty fall from record highs||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty retreated from record high levels on Wednesday following intense selling in Reliance and HDFC twins as investors turned cautious ahead of the outcome of the US Federal Reserve's policy meeting. The 30-share BSE index ended 271.07 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 52,501.98. It had closed at an all-time high of 52,773.05 on Tuesday. The broader NSE Nifty retreated from a record and declined 101.70 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,767.55. PowerGrid was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Reliance, L&T, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Nestle, NTPC, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv Hindustan Unilever and Infosys were among the gainers. Investors kept an eye on the two-day US Federal Reserve meeting, which is set to conclude on Wednesday. Lack of fresh trigger from overseas markets also weighed on the local stocks as Asian markets closed mixed. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a negative note, while Seoul settled with gains. Equities in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.14 per cent higher at USD 74.09 per barrel. Meanwhile, the rupee slips 1 paisa to close at 73.32 against the US dollar, logging its seventh straight day of losses. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) emerged as net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 633.69 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty decline ahead of US Federal policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex fell over 90 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 90.5 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 52,682.55 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 23.55 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,845.70.  PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Titan, HDFC Bank, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Hindustan Unilever, TCS and Infosys were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the BSE Sensex quoted higher by 221.52 points or 0.42 per cent at a new peak of 52,773.05. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 57.40 points or 0.36 per cent to settle at a fresh high of 15,869.25.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains.  US equities finished lower in the previous session ahead of the outcome of the Fed policy meeting on Wednesday.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) emerged as net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 633.69 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.95 per cent higher at USD 74.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Non-bank microfinance companies expect level playing field with banks and small finance banks||Non-bank microfinance companies (NBFC-MFI), which constitute 30.8 per cent of the overall microfinance credit portfolio, expect a level playing field with banks and small finance banks if the proposed changes under the ‘consultative document on regulation of microfinance’ released by the RBI take shape. With no caps on interest rate spreads, no restriction on number of lenders approaching a borrower, no end use restriction of credit and a simplified cost structure, NBFC-MFIs could explore differential rates for borrowers based on risk assessment and take the competition to banks and small finance banks which together constitute around 60 per cent of the micro credit outstanding. A CEO of an NBFC-MFI said under the existing guidelines there is a cap of 12 per cent on spreads that can be charged specifically by small NBFC-MFIs and  10 per cent on large NBFC-MFIs. There are no such thresholds under the proposed norms. Further, there are ceilings on the loan amount — Rs 75,000 for the first cycle and Rs 1,25,000 in subsequent cycles. As such limits were not applicable on banks and small finance banks, they could take on a greater exposure per borrower thus outcompeting NBFC-MFIs. The consultative document has shifted the threshold definitions around income and indebtedness of the household with the Reserve Bank paper recommending a 50 per cent limit on household indebtedness. “It was always a request from the industry that regulations should not be entity based. It will now be a fair game and both borrowers and lenders will have options,” said Kuldip Maity, MD and CEO, Village Financial Services. “The revised norms could swing the balance of competitive equilibrium in favour of NBFC-MFIs,” said HDFC Securities in a sector update. Small finance banks, which can now classify loans to small micro-finance institutions as priority sector loans, see the long-term benefits from the proposed regulations. “These recommendations are beneficial for the borrowers and the industry as a whole – so everyone will benefit in the long run,” said Nitin Chugh, MD and CEO of Ujjivan Small Finance Bank. “In having a common definition of microfinance for all regulated entities, it will ensure a level playing field,” said Alok Misra, CEO and director, MFIN “RBI’s consultative paper is forward looking and it will have an enormous positive impact on the sector,” said P. Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motors partially resumes operations at Bidadi plant in Karnataka||Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) has partially resumed operations at its plant at Bidadi in Karnataka on Tuesday. Operating at the prescribed workforce strength of 50 per cent, TKM is also training its employees for the “new normal”, both in terms of facilities and processes. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we are very clear that we will respond to the needs of those in the midst of this outbreak, making prompt decisions and taking immediate action to help ensure safety and security of all our employees and other stakeholders,” said a company spokesperson. The company said it will first focus on clearing pending orders that could not be met due to the non-production days of planned annual maintenance shutdown, followed by the lockdown announcement by the state government. It is also vaccinating both employees as well as their families. BMW Motorrad BMW Motorrad India has launched the all-new BMW S 1000 R in India. The roadster will be available as a completely built-up unit (CBU) and can be booked at all BMW Motorrad India dealerships from Tuesday onwards. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The second generation of the all-new BMW S 1000 R is designed as a power-packed roadster.” The motorcycle is available in three variants. The Standard variant is priced at Rs 17.90 lakh, the Pro variant costs Rs 19.75 lakh and the Pro M Sport is at Rs 22.50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Reserve Bank revokes deposit-taking status of Dewan Housing Finance||The Reserve Bank has revoked the deposit-taking status of Dewan Housing Finance (DHFL), the first financial services firm to go in for bankruptcy proceedings, and has reclassified it as a non-deposit taking housing finance company, before approving the Piramal group’s bid towards the end of the resolution process. The revelation comes in the June 7 NCLT Mumbai order that has approved the Rs 35,250-crore bid by Piramal Capital & Housing Finance, forcing an over 65 per cent haircut on the creditors and just Re 1 to its NCD holders to whom it owes more than Rs 45,000-crore. On the 14th page of the 86-page NCLT order by H.P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy, it says DHFL no longer is a deposit taking NBFC but a non-deposit taking one. The changes were made in February 2021 after the RBI gave a non-objection to the January 25, 2021 application by R. Subramaniakumar, the DHFL administrator, citing Rule 5 of its FSP (financial services providers) Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||HDFC mobile banking app faces some 'issues'||The mobile banking app of HDFC Bank faced some “issues” on Tuesday following which the lender asked its customers not to use the net banking facility till the problem was resolved. The problem was resolved in an hour. HDFC Bank said the issues surfaced late in the morning on Tuesday, though it did not specify what these problems were. Some customers complained that they were unable to log in to this service. “We are experiencing some issues on the MobileBanking App. We are looking into this on priority and will update shortly,” the lender’s vertical head of corporate communication, Rajiv Banerjee, tweeted. An hour later, Banerjee tweeted that the issues had been resolved. HDFC Bank has been in the news for network outages and after three instances, the RBI had taken strict measures, including prohibiting it from onboarding new credit card customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Union cabinet likely to tweak FDI policy to allow 100% ownership of BPCL||In a move to sweeten the deal for bidders of sale-bound BPCL, the Union cabinet is likely to tweak the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of the state-owned refinery by global players through the automatic route. Officials said the matter could be taken up by the cabinet at its meeting on Tuesday, which could send a positive signal to investors and fasttrack the privatisation of the state-owned refiner. According to the existing FDI policy, up to 49 per cent FDI is permissible through the automatic route in petroleum refining PSUs, without any disinvestment or dilution of domestic equity in existing PSUs by the government. However, the policy allows for 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining in the private sector. The limit of 49 per cent, however, remains for refining PSUs that have not been lined up for divestment, the officials said. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said the government received three preliminary bids for the acquisition of a controlling stake in BPCL. Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group and two American funds — Apollo Global and I Squared Capital — have reportedly submitted expressions of interest. Several rounds of discussions have taken place among the divestment department,  department of economic affairs and the trade and industry ministry — who  have all agreed on the proposal to issue the clarification. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, BPCL had reported a net profit of Rs 11,940.13 crore. It had posted a loss of Rs 1,361.01 crore in the year-ago period. The state-owned refiner had reported a 610 per cent increase in net profit to Rs 19,041.67 crore in the financial year 2020-21 against a net profit of Rs 2,683.19 crore in the previous fiscal. The government has lined up a host of companies for divestment, including the strategic sale of Bharat Petroleum, Air India and Shipping Corp of India Ltd and initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp of India Ltd. Besides the BPCL exercise, Air India has reportedly received multiple bids, including from the Tatas. The listing of LIC is also likely to be pushed back to the second half of the year because of the insurance behemoth's valuation, which involves the sales of its real estate and art assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry notifies new reduced GST rates on Covid essentials||The finance ministry has notified the new reduced goods and services tax (GST) rates on Covid essentials but remained silent on the rates of the items that are with the stockists. The reduced rates, which have come into immediate effect, will remain in force till September 30, 2021. “It is better that the government should clarify for no disputes... stockists should be allowed refund as they have paid higher rates of GST on stocks prior to the latest notification and will be selling at a lower rate,” Bimal Jain, tax expert, said. Uday Pimprikar, national leader indirect tax, EY LLP, said: “The GST mandates that the stocks need to be sold at a lower rate and the government should clarify to remove ambiguity where it exists.” The GST Council, chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state ministers, on June 12, had slashed the tax rate on Covid drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and other Covid essentials. The finance ministry’s revenue department on June 14, notified the lower rates for 18 Covid-related supplies like hand sanitiser, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machine, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment. “It remains to be seen how the industry will ensure that the said benefits reach the end users with immediate effect. The goods requires change in MRP to be reflected in the product packaging. This means the benefit will only reach the common public once the MRP on such products is revised to reflect the change. This may not be possible for the stock already lying with the retailers on such short notice,” said Shareen Gupta, partner J. Sagar Associates. Ranjeet Mahtani, partner, Dhruva Advisors, said in the case of MRP products lying in stock with retailers, the benefit of reduced rates will have to be passed on in the form of discounts or reduction of value. “Alternatively, the MRP will have to be adjusted to reflect the revised GST. For non-MRP products the invoices will have to be at the revised GST rate.” Smita Singh, partner, Singh & Associates, said though changes in GST rates have been brought forth to reduce the cost of Covid-related treatment, such change is applicable on goods supplied post issuance of notification. “An important aspect that escaped consideration is regarding treatment of goods already in stock on which MRP has been declared with old GST rate,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
16-06-2021||Business||NCLT voices surprise over value arrived in resolution of 13 Videocon group firms||A division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has voiced its surprise over the value arrived in the resolution of 13 Videocon group firms which will now be controlled by Anil Agarwal-led Twin Star Technologies. On June 8, the NCLT bench comprising Ravikumar Duraisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi  approved the resolution plan proposed by Twin Star Technologies. This plan was earlier approved by its committee of creditors (CoC) in December 2020. Videocon owed its lenders Rs 71,433.75 crore and the NCLT admitted claims of Rs 64,838.63 crore. The resolution plan proposed a payment of Rs 2,962.02 crore, meaning the lenders will lose 95.85 per cent of their dues (haircut). In its order, the two-judge bench observed that the registered valuers valued the assets of 13 companies which have varied business interests that include oil and gas, consumer electronics, home appliances, digital solutions, real estate, and electronic retail chain. The liquidation value of these companies was Rs 2,568.13 crore, while the fair value of the assets is Rs 4,069.95 crore. “Surprisingly the resolution applicant (Twin Star) also valued all the assets and liabilities of all the 13 companies and arrived at almost the same value of the registered valuers,’’ the bench observed. It pointed out that the regulations under the corporate insolvency resolution process say the liquidation value and fair market value be kept confidential, with the committee of creditors informed only at the time of finalising the plan. In this case, the liquidation and fair market values were known to the creditor’s panel at their 15th meeting. “Therefore, even if the confidentiality clause is in existence, in view of the facts and circumstances as discussed above a doubt arises upon the confidentiality clause being in real time use... therefore, we request IBBI (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India) to examine this issue in depth so as to ensure the confidentiality clause is followed unscrupulously...” “If not, IBBI can frame appropriate regulations, safeguards thereby the maximisation of value of the assets of the corporate debtor(s) would further increase, which in turn will benefit all the stakeholders,’’ the bench said. On the resolution plan, it observed that the assenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.89 per cent, dissenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.56 per cent and assenting unsecured financial creditors would get only a very meagre amount of 0.62 per cent. Dissenting unsecured financial creditors would get nil or zero amount and operational creditors would also get a very meagre amount of only 0.72 per cent. “The successful resolution applicant is paying almost nothing and 99.28 per cent hair cut is provided for operational creditors. During the course of hearing it is also submitted that voluminous number of operational creditors are also MSME and if they are paid only 0.72 per cent of their admitted claim amount, in the near future many of these operational creditors may have to face insolvency proceedings which may be inevitable,” the bench said. It requested both the CoC and Twin Star to increase the pay-out amount to the operational creditors especially MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-18
