17-06-2021||Business||Second wave wave shaved off Rs 2 lakh crore output: RBI||The devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in April-May is estimated to have cost the nation Rs 2 lakh crore in terms of output, revealed an assessment made by the Reserve Bank. The second wave's toll is mainly in terms of the hit to domestic demand on account of regional and specific containment rather than a nationwide lockdown, it said. "The impact of the second wave is hence estimated at about Rs 2 lakh crore of lost 2021-22 output," said a recent article on the 'State of Economy', written by functionaries of the central bank. Moreover, this wave has fanned into smaller cities and villages, sapping rural demand. The support from government spending may also moderate from the extraordinary expansion undertaken last year, it said. "On the brighter side, several aspects of aggregate supply conditions such as agriculture and contactless services are holding up amidst pandemic protocols. Industrial production and exports have surged on strong base effects, but there is also evidence of positive momentum," the authors said. They further said that "at the cost of reiteration, it is vaccination which will shape the recovery." The article, published in the RBI's monthly Bulletin, stressed that speed and scale of vaccination against COVID-19 will shape the path of economic recovery which has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances. Observing that vaccines by themselves will not end the pandemic, the article said "we have to learn to live with the virus, complementing vaccines with ramping up investment in healthcare, logistics and research." "The pandemic is a real shock with real consequences. Hence, there is a need to ensure that the recovery is built on a solid foundation of business investment and productivity growth," it added. The RBI said views expressed in the article are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Reserve Bank of India. For 2021-22, the Reserve Bank has projected real GDP growth of 9.5 per cent on the assumption that the impact of the second wave will be limited to the first quarter of the fiscal in which strong base effects from last year's precipitous contraction will come into play. Last month, the National Statistical Office (NSO) revised India's real GDP for 2020-21, revealing a shallower contraction (-7.3 per cent) than earlier estimated, with brighter outcome for the fourth quarter (January-March 2021).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 179 points to end above 52,300||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 179 points on Thursday, weighed by losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a largely negative trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 178.65 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 52,323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points or 0.48 per cent to 15,691.40.
IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Maruti, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto, Bharti Airtel and HDFC.
On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Asian Paints and Infosys were among the gainers.
"Bulls stepped back a bit following the economic forecast by the US Federal Reserve as the street stayed cautious on the slow economic recovery in emerging markets unlike some of the developed markets," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities.
The Fed's policymakers said they would raise their benchmark short-term rate, which influences many consumer and business loans, twice by late 2023. They had previously estimated that no rate hike would occur before 2024.
While metal names saw profit-booking, we did witness keen buying interest in cement and IT well supported by select consumer names during the volatile afternoon session of trade, Ranganathan noted.
Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red.
Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals.
International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 74.46 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Microsoft names India-born CEO Satya Nadella as company's Chairman||Microsoft's India-born CEO Satya Nadella has been named the company's Chairman, an additional role in which he will lead the work to set the agenda for the board. Microsoft Corp on Wednesday announced that the board's independent directors unanimously elected Nadella to the role of board chair, and unanimously elected John W Thompson as the lead independent director, a role he held previously from 2012 to 2014. In this role, Nadella will lead the work to set the agenda for the board, leveraging his deep understanding of the business to elevate the right strategic opportunities and identify key risks and mitigation approaches for the board's review, the company said in a statement. Nadella, 53, succeeds Thompson, who as the lead independent director, will retain significant authority including providing input on behalf of the independent directors on board agendas, calling meetings of the independent directors, setting agendas for executive sessions, and leading performance evaluations of the CEO, the technology giant said. In addition to these role changes, the board declared a quarterly dividend of USD 0.56 per share. The dividend is payable September 9, 2021, to shareholders of record on August 19, 2021. Nadella had succeeded Steve Ballmer to become Microsoft's CEO in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely negative trend in global equities.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 302.80 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 52,199.18 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 93.70 points or 0.59 per cent to 15,673.85.

Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, HDFC, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank.

On the other hand, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, UltraTech Cement and HCL Tech were among the gainers.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 271.07 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 52,501.98, and Nifty retreated from a record and declined 101.70 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,767.55.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 870.29 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.

Domestic equities do not look to be good as of now due to weak global cues, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

While soft bond yields and improving prospects of earnings visibility have resulted in FIIs' flow to turn favourable in the last couple of days, slight hawkish policy meeting outcome of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) may weigh on sentiments in the near term, he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals.

US equities finished lower after the US Federal Reserve indicated it might ease off economic stimulus earlier than previously thought.

The Fed's policymakers forecast that they would raise their benchmark short-term rate, which influences many consumer and business loans, twice by late 2023. They had previously estimated that no rate hike would occur before 2024.

In a statement after its latest policy meeting, the Fed also said it expects the pandemic to have a diminishing effect on the economy as vaccinations increase, thereby allowing for more growth.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.54 per cent lower at USD 73.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Flipkart expands Bengal presence by adding 2.2-lakh-square-feet fulfilment centre||Walmart-owned e-commerce firm Flipkart on Wednesday said it has expanded its presence in Bengal by adding a 2.2-lakh-square-feet fulfilment centre at Dankuni in Hooghly district. With the new facility, Flipkart now has more than 10 lakh square feet of warehousing space in the state covering seven fulfilment centres, besides 152 delivery hubs. The e-commerce firm in a statement said that the new facility will offer nearly 3,500 direct jobs and will cater to the needs of both Flipkart and Myntra customers in the eastern region. It will also help sellers offer a wider selection and enable faster deliveries not just in Bengal, but also the neighbouring states, Flipkart said. Bengal has the 10th largest seller base for Flipkart with 10,000 sellers. Flipkart said it has created around 50,000 jobs in the state. Flipkart also plans to set up an integrated logistics hub at Haringhata in Nadia district. The ramping up of the supply chain infrastructure comes amid the rising demand for e-commerce amid the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. More than 52 per cent of its consumers are from smaller cities which the e-commerce firm said signifies a rising adoption of online sales. “We are strengthening our supply chain presence in Bengal and this expansion will support small and medium businesses in the state while creating thousands of employment opportunities. E-commerce has helped serve citizens with a safe and sanitised supply chain and we will continue to serve the ecosystem that includes sellers, MSMEs, kirana partners and thousands of brands that we work with,” said Hemant Badri, senior vice-president, supply chain, Flipkart. The e-commerce firm also said that it has a partnership with Biswa Bangla to showcase traditional Bengali handicrafts, fabrics and artifacts on Flipkart Samarth. According to JLL, demand for warehousing space in the country is expected to increase in 2021 and reach around 350 lakh square feet of absorption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
17-06-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover India begins deliveries of new Range Rover Velar ||Jaguar Land Rover India has begun deliveries of the new Range Rover Velar in India from Wednesday. The new Velar is available in the R-Dynamic S trim with 2-litre petrol and diesel powertrains and sports price tags of Rs 79.87 lakh and above, ex showroom, in India. Rohit Suri, president and managing director of Jaguar Land Rover India, said, “The Range Rover Velar is one the most aspirational SUVs in India because of its design, luxury and technology. In its latest avatar, it has new technology and convenience features.” The model now comes with various new features such as air suspension, 3D surround camera and cabin air ionisation with PM2.5 filter. Toyota outreach Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has introduced a “Door Delivery” option for customers to procure genuine parts. The service is an extension of the “Toyota Parts Connect” — an outreach programme to enable customers have access to genuine parts — that was launched in 2015. Under the “Door Delivery” option, customers can opt to pick up parts from the dealerships or get it home delivered. Toyota has also increased the range of products under this programme, including car care essentials, engine oil and other categories such as tyres, and batteries. At present, the service is available across 12 cities and will be expanded to all the cities in the country by the end of this year. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, said, “Genuine parts play a vital role towards the safety of customers and vehicles. Therefore, it’s our continuous endeavour to improve the accessibility and availability of genuine parts for a user-friendly experience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Net direct tax collections double to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore this fiscal||Net direct tax collections have doubled to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal, buoyed by personal income tax and advance tax payments, the I-T department said on Wednesday. Tax experts said the Vivad se Vishwas scheme could have boosted the collections. Mop-up of net direct tax (which is arrived at after deducting refunds from gross collection) between April 1-June 15 was at Rs 1,85,871 crore, a 100.4 per cent growth over Rs 92,762 crore collected in the same period last fiscal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said in a statement. Refunds of Rs 30,731 crore have been issued in the current fiscal. Neeru Ahuja, partner at Deloitte India, feels taxpayers have taken advantage of the Vivad se Vishwas scheme and settled their old disputes and litigations with the income tax department along with depositing their tax dues. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said the jump in the direct tax collections reflects healthy exports and a continuation of various industrial and construction activities, given the lower stringency of the staggered regional lockdowns in 2021 versus the nationwide lockdown in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Shares of three Adani group companies hit lower circuit ||Adani group stocks extended their losses on Wednesday with the shares of three companies hitting their lower circuit for the third consecutive trading session. The drubbing on the bourses came despite a clarification from the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) that it has not frozen the demat accounts of the three foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) holding these shares. On Wednesday, Adani Total Gas ended with losses of 5 per cent at Rs 1,394 on the BSE; Adani Power tanked 4.97 per cent to Rs 127.25; the Adani Transmission scrip settled 5 per cent lower at Rs 1,369.35. Flagship Adani Enterprises closed in the red, shedding 5.77 per cent, or Rs 88.75, to Rs 1,449.30. Shares of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone cracked  7.17 per cent to Rs 706.85, while Adani Green Energy fell 3.10 per cent to Rs 1,171.25. Earlier this week, the Adani group stocks came under intense selling pressure on a report that the NSDL has frozen the accounts of three Mauritius registered funds — Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund — which collectively held shares worth Rs 43,500 crore as of last Friday in these counters. On Tuesday, the Adani group submitted a clarification by NSDL that the demat accounts of the funds (which held its shares) were in “active status”, but certain other accounts have been “suspended for debit” by the depository in terms of a Sebi order issued in June 2016. On June 16, 2016, market regulator Sebi had told depositories to freeze beneficiary accounts that would have received underlying shares involved in certain GDR issues. Sebi was investigating the issuance of certain GDRs in the overseas market by Indian companies. The investigations had revealed that a Dubai-based NRI and three entities connected had perpetrated certain fraudulent scheme in connivance with the promoters or directors of the issuer companies, with the intention of defrauding Indian investors. However, this order of Sebi did not specifically name the three FPIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||CESC board approves share split||The CESC board has considered and approved a proposal for the sub-division of the existing 1 equity share of nominal value of Rs 10 each to be sub-divided into 10 equity shares of a nominal value of Re 1 each, it said. The Alteration of Capital Clause of the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the company resulting from the said sub-division was also approved, the company added. The move is  subject to the approval of the company’s shareholders. CESC on Wednesday posted an over 13 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 429 crore in the March 2021 quarter, mainly boosted by higher revenues. The company’s consolidated net profit was Rs 378 crore in the quarter ended March 31, 2020, according to a BSE filing.  Total income during January-March 2021 rose to Rs 3,003 crore compared with Rs 2,729 crore a year ago. For the full financial year 2020-21, the consolidated net profit stood at Rs 1,363 crore compared with Rs 1,309 crore in 2019-20. Total income during the fiscal stood at Rs 11,874 crore compared with Rs 12,378 crore a year ago. The board also approved convening of its 43rd annual general meeting of the company’s members on August 18 this year through video conferencing or other audio-visual means. Spencer’s loss RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group firm Spencer’s Retail has narrowed its consolidated net loss to Rs 34.53 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 49.26 crore in the January-March period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Covid: RBI says second wave 'rolling back', stokes cautious optimism of early July rebound||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday said the second Covid wave was “rolling back as fast as it rolled in” — stoking cautious optimism of the possibility of a rebound by early July. Such a recovery, however, will rest on the speed and scale of vaccination in the country, the apex bank said in its June bulletin. The document said the Indian economy has the resilience and possesses the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances. Earlier this month, the RBI trimmed its growth forecast for the current fiscal to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent. Its latest observation comes at a time the states are reporting a lower number of daily cases though fatalities remain a matter of concern. There are also apprehensions about a third wave and the states have started their preparations to counter such a possibility. According to the RBI, the second wave of the coronavirus has largely affected domestic demand, while spreading into smaller cities and villages. Further, the support from the government spending may moderate from the extraordinary expansion undertaken last year. On the brighter side, agriculture and contactless services are holding up, while industrial production and exports have risen despite pandemic protocols, albeit on a low base. The central bank again reiterated the importance of the rollout of the vaccination programme across the country. “It is vaccination which will shape the recovery. The economy has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances,’’ the bulletin said. The report cautioned that vaccines will not end the pandemic by themselves. “We have to learn to live with the virus, complementing vaccines with ramping up investment in healthcare, logistics and research.” “The pandemic is a real shock with real consequences. Hence, there is a need to ensure that the recovery is built on a solid foundation of business investment and productivity growth,” the RBI said. Production shift Changes in lifestyle and work practices such as increased remote work and online shopping are likely to continue. Further, when patterns of demand shift, some firms may face closure and some industries may become permanently smaller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Govt hikes subsidies for DAP and some other non-urea fertilisers by Rs 14,775 crore||The government has hiked the subsidies for DAP and some other non-urea fertilisers by Rs 14,775 crore to keep the price of the crop nutrients for farmers low despite the rising costs. After urea, di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) is the most widely used fertiliser in the country. Last month, at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was decided that the subsidy on DAP fertiliser be increased by 140 per cent. Minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya told reporters on Wednesday that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the increase in subsidy amount for DAP fertilisers. “Farmers will continue to get DAP at the old rate of Rs 1,200 per bag,” he said. The move will help to ensure that farmers gets the key soil nutrient at the old rate despite the surge in global prices. According to Mandaviya, the subsidy for DAP fertilisers has been increased to Rs 1,200 per bag from Rs 500 per bag. The minister added that the additional subsidy burden on the exchequer will be Rs 14,775 crore. The government has allocated nearly Rs 79,600 crore for fertiliser subsidies in the 2021-22 Budget. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag, on which Centre was giving a subsidy of Rs 500. The companies were, therefore, selling the fertiliser to farmers for Rs 1,200 per bag. Drug regulator wants price cut Drug pricing regulator NPPA has asked pharmaceutical companies and medical device makers to reduce prices on products on which GST has been lowered. In a notification, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) noted that a change in tax rates has an impact on the maximum retail prices (MRP) of various drugs and formulations. “Recalling or re-labelling or re-stickering on the label of the container or pack of the already released stocks in the market is not mandatory if manufacturers are able to ensure price compliance at the retailer level through issuance of a revised price list,” it noted. According to DPCO 2013, MRP of drugs and formulations are inclusive of taxes. Therefore, any downward change in tax or GST rates should be reflected in MRP and the benefit of the reduction should be passed on to the consumers, it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
17-06-2021||Business||Bengal govt lobbies Centre to stop SAIL from dismantling Calcutta raw material division||The Mamata Banerjee-government is lobbying the Centre in a bid to stop Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) from dismantling its raw material division in Calcutta that oversees the mining and supply of iron ore to four integrated steel plants in the eastern region. State finance minister Amit  Mitra has written a letter to Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan in an effort to “save” the SAIL-owned steel plants at Durgapur and Burnpur from potential ruin because of an ill-conceived strategy. The letter was sent after a section of SAIL employees approached the chief minister urging her to intercede on their behalf and stop the move to close the division that was formed in 1989 and headquartered in the city. Even though the steel public sector unit has not made its decision public, a section of the employees claims that the board of the Maharatna company has cleared plans to close down the RMD, which oversees the  operations of the company’s iron ore mines located in Jharkhand and Odisha and monitors supplies to four plants, including Rourkela in Odisha and Bokaro in Jharkhand, in addition to the two steel plants in Bengal. RMD employees also speculate that dismantling of the division could rob the two plants located in the state of direct iron ore linkage even though no such policy has been officially announced. “Apparently, 15 iron ore mines, flux mines and collieries run by RMD would now be entirely allocated to Rourkela and Bokaro steel plants, where Odisha mines will be allocated to Rourkela and Jharkhand mines to Bokaro,” Mitra wrote. The state finance minister said that such a policy would leave Durgapur and Burnpur integrated steel plants of SAIL in a lurch, precipitating a situation where they would be forced to either "procure their raw materials from the open market, or remain at the mercy of Rourkela or Bokaro.” Mitra added that such an arrangement would make the operations of the two Bengal-based plants “inefficient, unprofitable and unviable”. “I am deeply apprehensive that these massive plants in Bengal would either be asset stripped or sold off in the name of divestment, having crippled them through the current policy shift,” he wrote to Pradhan, who hails from Odisha. The two plants of Bengal consume about 4.5 million tonnes of iron ore in a year. Before the formation of RMD, each of the SAIL plants used to have dedicated mines attached to it. For instance, Durgapur was linked to Bolani, while Bokaro used to get its supplies for Megatuburu and Kiriburu. IISCO irony IISCO Steel Plant used to be a separate company, nearly defunct but endowed with one of the largest and best quality of iron ore deposits located at Chiria and Gua. After RMD was formed, four steel plants of SAIL started getting uniformly blended and quality controlled iron ore from mines instead of being yoked to a single source. This transition ensured that productivity and quality of all four plants were maintained. Incidentally, Bhilai, the most profitable of SAIL’s five units, has its own mines which are outside the purview of RMD, which handles about 19 MT iron ore a year. If Chiria and Gua, which boast of over a billion tonnes of high quality iron ore, are really stripped off from IISCO, it would be a cruel irony to the Burnpur plant, a section of the SAIL employees argued. The merger of IISCO with SAIL in 2005 was hugely beneficial to the latter who got access to the mines. Now that the mines belong to the corporate entity, the plant does not have direct linkage or ownership of the deposit which came with the unit to SAIL. Mines are crucial but not a necessity for a steel plant if it produces good quality value added steel and runs efficiently. Steel giants located in Korea, Japan or in China do not have direct ownership of iron ore mines. However, when iron ore prices zoom — as they have now — steel plants vertically integrated with mines reap the biggest benefit. They get the raw material at a cost of Rs 650 a tonne when the market rates are close to Rs 10,000 a tonne. It is little wonder that the Bengal-based plants earned a profit before tax of Rs 1,486 crore last fiscal. These two plants, like the other plants of SAIL, are not known to be most efficiently operated as their private sector counterparts like Tata Steel or JSWs Steel, and prone to losses when the market tanks. Employees fear that Durgapur and IISCO may become unprofitable if they are forced to buy iron ore at market price when the commodity cycle turns south and steel prices soften.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-17
