18-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note after a volatile session on Friday amid a largely negative trend in global equities.

The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 21.12 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,344.45, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.05 points or 0.05 per cent lower to 15,683.35.

ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, M&M, Nestle India, SBI and HCL Tech.

On the other hand, HUL, Bajaj Auto, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers.

It was an extremely volatile trading day for domestic equities with benchmark Nifty recovering sharply from day's low, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Barring FMCG and pharma, all key sectoral indices traded in the red. Metals, PSU banks, and realty indices witnessed steeper contraction.

Further, heavy profit-booking was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks after sharp rally in recent weeks, Modi noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Tokyo closed lower.

Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 72.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Radwan Elhag Hamoud's Biggest Strength That Helped Him Build Elalami Media||Some people have natural talents that translate into career opportunities. This includes people like writers, chefs, mechanics, and computer programmers. Hobbyists in these areas can become entrepreneurs and might need some help in building their brands. Enter Radwan Elhag Hamoud, whose talent for strategic marketing and creating an online presence helps companies reach their target consumers. Radwan Elhag Hamoud has a fresh perspective on advertising as he realizes the future of marketing has gone digital. He has a unique ability to help businesses utilize social media marketing to their fullest potential. While he might seem like a wizard, there are no magic tricks involved. Radwan Elhag Hamoud simply understands the concepts of public relations and how to maximize a company’s persona. Whether it is through traditional on online avenues, the goal is to engage, influence, and sway the public’s opinion for the benefit of the organization. Not only has Radwan Elhag Hamoud mastered this, he has a reputation of creating success for a company when all other digital marketers have failed. He achieves this with unconventional thinking and an uncanny ability to find even the most elusive opportunity for a client to home in on. Radwan Elhag Hamoud considers the process behind this to be his biggest strength: monitor media, measure web traffic, and research metrics. To be a successful digital branding guru, you need technical skills and the ability to interpret internet use data. As Radwan Elhag Hamoud has mastered these abilities, he has established himself as an authority in his field. Radwan Elhag Hamoud also understands the administrative element of marketing and brand building. Running a business takes time, commitment, and organization. So does marketing one’s company as social media accounts must be updated, emails need to be reviewed, there are events to manage, and finances need to be in order. By walking clients through both of these areas, Radwan Elhag Hamoud provides a comprehensive solution that is custom-tailored to each client. This attention to detail has certainly contributed to Radwan Elhag Hamoud’s success as a leading digital marketer and online public relations consultant. With his knowledge of user data, building reputations, and uncovering hidden opportunities, Radwan Elhag Hamoud has built a formidable online empire based on getting results when no one else could.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Can Life Insurance Serve as a Steady Source of Post-Retirement Income?||The life expectancy figures in India have risen over the last decade. As per Statista, life expectancy in India has increased from 67-68 years in 2015 to 69-70 years in 2020. This implies that the post-retirement life span has also increased. This has a direct influence on the financial preparedness for retirement. While many of you might rely on your accumulated savings to get you through the non-working years of your life, the truth is, the annual rise in inflation (nearly 5-6%) combined with the longer life span and mounting medical expenses can all be an expensive outcome. To ensure a financially secure retirement, your basic need is to have a regular source of income in your post-retirement life. You should plan and invest in wise investment options like life insurance that offer you dual advantages of a life cover, along with guaranteed post-retirement income. With a regular source of post-retirement income, you will be better equipped to maintain your standard of living, combat the impact of inflation, and meet your and your family’s medical expenses in the future. How does life insurance help? Specific life insurance plans known as retirement plans are designed to provide you with financial stability during the non-working years of your life. These plans offer the double benefit of life insurance and investment. You pay regular premiums when you are working and enjoy tax exemptions on the premiums paid. The money is invested in the market, and it accrues over the policy tenure. At the vesting age, when you decide to receive the payouts, you can choose to take regular income withdrawals as per your preference. You also get life insurance cover throughout the policy term like a term insurance. Some benefits of the Retirement Insurance Plans With effective retirement planning and the right income options, you can easily secure the most important phase of your life, spanning decades. There is no margin for error here, so make the right choice and at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Infosys, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a largely positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 220.53 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 52,543.86 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 53.70 points or 0.34 per cent to 15,745.10. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, M&M, Maruti, L&T, NTPC and Titan. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech, Infosys and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 178.65 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 52,323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points or 0.48 per cent to 15,691.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 879.73 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Weak global cues led Indian equities to see profit booking in last couple of days, he said, adding that more than 100 per cent improvement in advance tax/direct tax collections in 1QFY22 so far indicates sustainable corporate earnings in coming quarters along with strong financial resources for the government to maintain budgeted fiscal deficit. Further, easing of business curbs by states led by sharp decline in COVID-19 positivity rates and reduction in daily caseload continues to offer comfort to investors, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red in mid-session deals. US equities ended on a mixed note in the overnight session, as S&P 500 and Dow Jones ended on a negative note, while technology stocks made a comeback and pushed Nasdaq to near a record close. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.92 per cent lower at USD 72.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Coal bed methane to be available for extraction from Jharia by 2026: Coal India||Coal India on Thursday said coal bed methane (CBM) would be available for extraction from Jharia by 2026. The PSU has also floated global tenders to develop two more CBM blocks — Raniganj in Bengal and  Sohagpur in Madhya Pradesh. Spread over an area of around 27 square kilometres, the Jharia CBM Block-1 will have an average production capacity of 1.3 million metric cubic metres per day . The life span of the project is 25 years. The public sector miner said a developer has been selected for the Rs 1,880-crore project. Jharkhand-based Coal India subsidiary — Bharat Coking Coal Limited — will invest 20 per cent in the project. The other two blocks in the pipeline — one with Eastern Coalfields and the other with South Eastern Coalfields — have a combined resource of 2.7 billion cubic metres. Methane from these two projects would be available after gas offtake begins from Jharia. Commercial prospects Methane has energy potential and the natural gas found in coal seams can be put to commercial use by supplying to city gas distributors or to consumers through pipelines . The commissioning of the gas pipeline in eastern India under the Urja Ganga project of GAIL is in progress and could help in the distribution of gas to the consumers. “This is for the first time that the company has taken up coal bed methane extraction on its own in its leasehold area. CBM extraction is part of diversifying the portfolio under clean coal initiatives,” said a Coal India executive. The useful exploitation of the gas would not only lead to its use as an energy fuel but would also prevent its release into the atmosphere during coal mining, the executive added. Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, the consultancy arm of Coal India, will be the principal implementing agency for the miner’s CBM development in its leasehold areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
18-06-2021||Business||Dominica magistrate court sends Mehul Choksi to state prison||A magistrate court in Dominica on Thursday sent businessman Mehul Choksi to a state prison, his lawyer in India said, but added that he would continue to remain in hospital as his medical condition had “deteriorated”. The diamond trader was earlier in police custody. “Yes, police custody has been changed to prison custody but he shall remain in hospital as his medical condition has deteriorated,” lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. The development is being seen as a ray of hope for India, which has approached the Dominica High Court seeking to be impleaded as a party in the case filed by lawyers of Choksi whose bail plea was earlier rejected. India’s multi-agency team, which had gone to Dominica to bring back Mehul Choksi, returned empty-handed on June 4 after the island nation’s high court had adjourned the hearing on the fugitive diamantaire’s habeas corpus petition. Choksi is wanted in India in a case of loan fraud worth about Rs 13,500 crore in the state-run Punjab National Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business|| Kotak Life Insurance expects to incur loss of Rs 225-275 crore in first quarter||Kotak Life Insurance expects to incur a loss of Rs 225-275 crore in the first quarter ending June 2021 because of higher Covid-related claims and an increase in mortality related provisioning on account of the second wave. Kotak Life is a subsidiary of Kotak Mahindra Bank. The private sector bank on Thursday shared an update by the life insurer on its business. It said that the second wave of the pandemic has led to an unprecedented increase in fatalities because of which there has been a rise in death claims since May. Its impact was discussed by the board of Kotak Life at its meeting on Wednesday. “We estimate that claims net of reinsurance for the quarter ending June 2021 will be significantly higher than expected. Due to increased claims and higher mortality related provisioning on account of the second wave, the company expects to incur a loss for the quarter ending June 2021 in the range of Rs 225-275 crore,” Kotak Life said. During the fourth quarter ended March  2021, the company had posted a net profit of Rs 193 crore against Rs 165 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business|| Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella appointed as new company chairman||Microsoft’s India-born CEO Satya Nadella has been appointed as the technology giant’s new chairman, an additional role in which he will “lead the work to set the agenda for the board”. Microsoft Corp on Wednesday announced that the board’s independent directors unanimously elected Nadella to the role of board chair, and unanimously elected John W Thompson as the lead independent director, a role he held previously from 2012 to 2014. “In this role, Nadella will lead the work to set the agenda for the board, leveraging his deep understanding of the business to elevate the right strategic opportunities and identify key risks and mitigation approaches for the board’s review,” the company said in a statement. Nadella, 53, succeeds Thompson, who as the lead independent director, will retain significant authority, including providing input on behalf of the independent directors on board agendas, calling meetings of the independent directors, setting agendas for executive sessions, and leading performance evaluations of the CEO, the technology giant said. Nadella, who has served as chief executive since 2014, has helped transform the company into a leader in cloud computing in recent years, resulting in blockbuster earnings and a market cap of close to $2 trillion, CNN reported. The company’s shares have soared more than sevenfold as Microsoft has been restored to the ranks of the top technology companies. Under Nadella’s leadership, Microsoft recovered from failures in the mobile phone and internet search market, as well as a waning of the importance of its flagship Windows operating system. Nadella has refocused the company around cloud computing, mobile applications and artificial intelligence while breathing new life into the Office software franchise by shifting it more to the cloud and to other operating systems. Nadella, the company’s third CEO, will also be the third chairman in Microsoft’s history, following Gates and Thompson. Steve Ballmer, the CEO before Nadella, never held the chairmanship as Gates kept that title for Ballmer’s entire tenure. In addition to these role changes, the board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.56 per share. The dividend is payable September 9, 2021, to shareholders of record on August 19, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business||RBI buys Rs 26,779 crore of the benchmark 10-year bond at 5.99 per cent ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday bought Rs 26,779 crore of the benchmark 10-year bond at 5.99 per cent as part of the third tranche of the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0), under which it bought Rs 40,000 crore on Thursday. The decision to buy the paper at 5.99 per cent — the cut-off yield for the 10-year paper, which was trading above 6 per cent earlier in the day — is yet another instance of how the central bank wants to keep a lid on long-term interest rates and ensure the yields on the benchmark paper move in a tight range, preferably below 6 per cent. The cut-off rate flies in the face of RBI governor Shaktikanta Das’s assertion there was nothing “sacrosanct” about the 6 per cent level. Before the auction, the 10-year security had hit a high of 6.07 per cent,though later it settled at 6.01 per cent. With this purchase, the RBI is estimated to hold more than Rs 81,000 crore of the 10-year bonds in the market, or around 77 per cent of the paper in the market, which could help the yields to stay range-bound. At the auction, the central bank purchased Rs 1,914 crore of the 7.17 per cent 2028 bond and Rs 5,882 crore of the 6.64 per cent 2035 bond. The RBI also bought state development loans of Rs 5,425 crore. Bond yields had inched up after the finance minister announced a huge Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme in the current fiscal. However, they have cooled down from the higher levels because of the various steps taken by the RBI. Stocks, rupee fall Domestic equity benchmarks retreated for the second straight session on Thursday, mirroring weakness in global markets after the US Federal Reserve surprised investors by signalling faster-than-expected rate hikes. A sharp drop in the rupee — which plunged 76 paise against the dollar — also sapped risk appetite, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 178.65 points, or 0.34 per cent, lower at 52323.33. The broader NSE Nifty declined 76.15 points, or 0.48 per cent, to 15691.40. At the interbank forex market, the rupee opened weak at 73.65 against the US currency, then lost further ground and finally closed at 74.08, showing a fall of 76 paise over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
18-06-2021||Business||Centre should come out with Rs 3 lakh crore fiscal stimulus, says Confederation of Indian Industry||The government should come out with a fiscal stimulus of Rs 3 lakh crore, including cash transfer to households through Jan Dhan accounts, to perk up demand and spur economic growth, industry chamber CII said on Thursday. The industry association also sought an expansion in the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) balance sheet to meet the demand exigencies of the Covid-19 pandemic. Newly elected CII president T.V. Narendran told a virtual media conference that the chamber expects GDP to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021-22 as the growth in the second half of the financial year will be supported by robust external demand and large-scale vaccination, allowing the resumption of economic activity. “CII estimates that there is fiscal headroom of up to Rs 3 lakh crore and this amount can be channelised towards direct cash transfers to the vulnerable people, higher allocation to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme, short-term Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate cuts and lower excise duty on fuel,” Narendran said. The most important thing is to support demand so that we have jobs and livelihoods, Narendran said. He said private sector investment is usually driven by two factors — demand and profitability. Demand, which was a bit soft prior to the pandemic, started recovering after the first wave but got impacted by the second. “I hope we will start recovering again, which is what we are forecasting, particularly in the second half of the year,” he said. “I think we have seen both (demand and profitability) coming back and I can say that from the steel sector point of view, for example, all companies have significant expansion plans.” If you add up all their expansion plans, it alone is Rs 50,000-60,000 crore of investments over the next three years, he said. Demand can also be revitalised through a time-bound tax concession of interest rate subvention for home buyers, he said. Narendran called for an increase in the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme to Rs 5 lakh crore along with the extension of the scheme till March 31, 2022 and the inclusion of more distressed sectors such as retail. He said the government should consider long-pending structural tax reforms such as the inclusion of aviation turbine fuel and other products under GST . A CII survey has showed that a significant majority of respondents reported infections among staff or their family and as a result, more than half of them expected adverse impact on production or sales in the June quarter. “With a majority of the population vaccinated by the end of this year, implementation of big-ticket reforms and a large fiscal stimulus, we will be able to reach the critical $5 trillion mark by 2025-26. This is the best-case scenario that CII has estimated,” Narendran said. On vaccination, he said there should be a minimum 71.2 lakh average daily vaccination doses from now till December 2021 to cover the entire adult population. “The Vaccine Czar (or minister) should be empowered to undertake actions like in the UK on a daily campaign to track domestic vaccine production and import supplies; equitable distribution of vaccines among states; track progress on vaccine deployment and administration; and use a dashboard approach and share progress reports daily,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-16
