21-06-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 230 points to close at 52,574||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded from the day's low to end 230 points higher on Monday, tracking recovery in HDFC twins, SBI and Reliance Industries amid a mixed trend in global equities.

After plunging over 600 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to settle 230.01 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,574.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 63.15 points or 0.40 per cent to 15,746.50.

NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by Titan, SBI, HUL, IndusInd Bank and UltraTech Cement.

On the other hand, Maruti, TCS, Tech Mahindra and L&T were among the laggards.

Domestic equities witnessed brisk recovery after seeing steep gap-down opening, but shrugged-off weak global cues once again, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.

"Strong rebound in PSU banks was a prime factor for market's recovery. Further, Reliance Industries also recorded some gains ahead of its AGM and arrested market's fall. Barring Auto and IT, most key sectoral indices recovered to green from initial losses," he added.

Notably, investors once again seemed to be lapping up quality midcap and smallcap stocks after the recent steep correction.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses largely ended with losses. In Europe, equities were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.

International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 73.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Sensex tanks nearly 600 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged nearly 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights ICICI Bank, SBI and L&T amid a steep correction in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 596.78 points or 1.14 per cent lower at 51,747.67 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 175.35 points or 1.12 per cent to 15,508. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by L&T, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, Maruti and SBI. On the other hand, NTPC, HUL, Sun Pharma and Asian Paints were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 21.12 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,344.45, while Nifty inched 8.05 points or 0.05 per cent lower to 15,683.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,680.57 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets do not look to be inspiring as of now. "Indian equities saw profit booking last week led by weak global cues. Undoubtedly, weakening INR, rising crude prices and doubts over sustainability of FIIs flow due to taper talk in the US aggravated investors' concerns. "While India's daily caseload falling below 60,000 offers comfort, indication of a third wave in the next 6-8 months in the country has raised fresh concerns," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 73.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Authum emerges as highest bidder for Reliance Home Finance||Authum Investment & Infrastructure Ltd has emerged as the highest bidder for Reliance Home Finance, the Anil Ambani group firm. Sources said that the NBFC has been selected as the top bidder by the lenders of Reliance Home Finance, led by Bank of Baroda. Authum made the highest bid of Rs 2,900 crore of which the lenders would receive Rs 2,587 crore, or 90 per cent, upfront and the remaining Rs 300 crore within a year. Voting for the Rs 11,200-crore debt resolution process of the Anil Ambani firm began on May 31 and concluded on June 19. It saw participation from over 91 per cent of the lenders by value. The other bidders included ARES SSG (a global fund with over $8 billion under management) along with Assets Care & Reconstruction Enterprise Ltd; Avenue Capital (a global fund with over $9.5 billion under management) jointly with Arcil and domestic NBFC Capri Global Capital Ltd. Authum is a domestic NBFC with around 15 years of presence and net worth of over Rs 1,500 crore as on December 31, 2020. The resolution plan of Authum was selected as it offered the highest net present value and has fewer and reasonable conditions, sources said. Its bid also scored highest in terms of ease of implementation and was found to be comprehensive for all the stakeholders, including the employees and customers of Reliance Home Finance, they added. Though the plan has been selected, a few more lenders are yet to give their approval because of internal delays. The resolution of Reliance Home Finance is the only successful one after Altico in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Centrum-Bharatpe joint venture to pump Rs 1,800 crore into PMC on merger ||The joint venture floated by Centrum Group and digital payments start-up BharatPe to launch a small finance bank will infuse Rs 1,800 crore capital into troubled Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) on its merger with the proposed bank, a top Centrum official has said. Last Friday, the Reserve Bank gave an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services, a step-down arm of the diversified financial services group, to set up a small finance bank (SFB) provided it took over the troubled PMC Bank. The in-principle approval has been in specific pursuance to Centrum Financial Services’ offer on February 1, 2021, in response to the expression of interest notification dated November 3, 2020, published by the PMC Bank, the RBI said. This paves the way for ending nearly two anxious years for PMC depositors whose over Rs 10,723 crore are still stuck in the crippled co-operative bank that has been under RBI administrator since September 2019. To launch the SFB, the Centrum group has sewed up an equal joint venture with Resilient Innovations, an arm of Gurgaon-based BharatPe. But Centrum Capital will be the promoter of SFB, under the prevailing laws, the group said. “We (the SFB joint venture) have set aside Rs 1,800 crore for the SFB, which eventually will be pumped into PMC once the government scheme for merger is notified. Of the Rs 1,800 crore, Rs 900 crore will be invested in the first year by the joint venture split equally between the two and the remaining capital in stages,” Jaspal Bindra, executive chairman of Centrum Group, said over the weekend. Whether they will take over the more than Rs 6,500 crore of NPAs of PMC and also the over Rs 10,700 crore of its deposits, Bindra said that will be known only after the government notified the merger scheme. “What terms and conditions the government will set in the merger scheme will decide the fate of huge bad loans and losses. In fact, this is the only little unknown we have as of now,” Bindra quipped. The seriousness of the promoters is evident from the fact that the groups have allocated nine-times more capital over the RBI mandate of Rs 200 crore for the SFB. If it succeeds, this will be the first SFB in nearly six years —  the first set of SFB licences were issued in August 2016 — when the monetary authority also made such licensing on-tap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Sebi asks PNB Housing to put on hold its Rs 4,000 crore-Carlyle deal||Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has asked PNB Housing Finance to put on hold its proposed Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle group. The market regulator feels the transaction is “ultra-vires” of the company’s Articles of Association (AoA). It has now directed PNB Housing Finance to carry out a valuation process by an independent registered valuer and then proceed with the allotment of preferential shares. Late last month, PNB Housing Finance had said that Carlyle group will lead a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in the company with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD & CEO of HDFC Bank. The transaction would have seen Pluto Investments S.a.r.l. (Pluto Investments), an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, and Carlyle Asia Partners V  investing up to Rs 3,185 crore through a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants at a price of Rs 390 per share. It would have also eventually resulted in the Carlyle group holding more than 50 per cent in the housing finance company, thus becoming the major promoter and shareholder along with Puri, while Punjab National Bank’s stake would have come down to a little over 20 per cent from 33 per cent at present. However, after the announcement, proxy advisory firm Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES) had raised a number of questions on the proposed deal. It had said that the preferential issue proposed is against the interest of public shareholders and also the shareholders of PNB and the exchequer. SES had also asked if PNB had willingly surrendered control without extracting a fair compensation while pointing out that the deal is “ultra vires” to the AoA of the housing finance company. According to SES, the company’s AoA clearly provide that either it must make a rights issue, or if a rights issue is not being made, it must issue shares at a price which has been determined by a registered valuer. The proxy advisory firm also added that PNB Housing Finance had not determined the price by valuation by a registered valuer. Following these concerns, the market regulator had begun to look into the “regulatory issues” related to the preferential allotment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Hyundai Motor India Ltd witnesses surge in market share in SUVs||Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) has been witnessing an increase in its market share in the SUV segment. Its market share in SUVs has risen to 26 per cent in 2020 from 11 per cent in 2015. The company has been increasing its portfolio of SUV offerings that include the Venue, the Creta, the Tucson and the Kona Electric together with the newly launched six and seven-seater Alcazar. The previously launched SUVs were contributing 45 per cent to the company’s sales. “Now, with the addition of the Alcazar, we expect it to grow even further,” Tarun Garg, director, sales, marketing and service, HMIL, said during a virtual meet after the launch on Thursday. The Alcazar is placed between the Creta and the Tucson and is priced in the range of Rs 16.30-19.99 lakh. The Alcazar will compete with the likes of the MG Hector Plus (Rs 13.62 lakh-Rs 16.37 lakh), the XUV 500 (Rs 14.13 lakh-Rs 18.76 lakh) and the Tata Safari (Rs 14.99 lakh-Rs 20.56 lakh). The Alcazar had received 4,000 bookings in 10 days before its launch. On the nature of the demand, Garg said: “We have launched the Alcazar in three trims and the bookings are equally divided among the three trims. About 55 per cent of the bookings are for diesel.” The price difference between the petrol and the diesel variant of the Alcazar is just about Rs 20,000. On the waiting period for the Venue and Creta, Garg said: “It is about four to eight weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Hard bargain on GST payouts||The Opposition-ruled states are set to drive a hard bargain at the next GST Council meeting — likely in early July — to discuss compensation to the states. Officials said the key areas of contention were the amount of compensation as well as the base year for a fresh formula of payout. They said the Council is expected to meet early next month to discuss the compensation issue and the borrowing plan for the current fiscal to meet the shortfall in the cess amount. At the last Council meeting on May 28, the central government proposed to borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore to fund the shortfall in cess collections for 2021-22. The government has projected the compensation for the current fiscal at Rs 2.7 lakh crore, assuming nominal GDP growth of 7 per cent for the year. The cess will fetch Rs 1-1.1 lakh crore, leaving the remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore to be funded by central borrowing. The Council would also decide on the compensation mechanism beyond June 2022, when the five-year initial window ends. At least six states — Bengal, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Odisha — are seeking the extension of the compensation period and the relevant cess on various ‘‘demerit’’ goods. At the May meeting of the Council, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there would be a special meeting of the Council on compensation. “We are in the last of the five years of 14 per cent compensation. Even from last year, there has been a worry if there will be an opportunity to extend it beyond July 2022. So, I have assured the members that there will be a special session only to discuss that one agenda: how the compensation cess will be collected, how long it will be collected and how much will be collected beyond July 2022.” The compensation is being provided to the states for the loss of revenue arising on account of the implementation of the GST. For this, 2015-16 has been taken as the base year while the growth rate of revenue is assumed to be 14 per cent per annum. For the payment of compensation, cess is being levied on certain goods in the 28-per-cent bracket. However, the question is whether the government will stick to the older formula or opt for a new one such as shifting the base year or on actual state GST revenues collected in 2021-22 (July-June year) .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
21-06-2021||Business||Air India has time till mid-July to challenge Cairn lawsuit||Air India has time till mid-July to challenge the lawsuit filed by Cairn Energy PLC demanding that a US federal court force the airline to pay a $1.26-billion arbitration award it had won against the Indian government in December last year, sources said. Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are “alter egos”, Cairn had said in the lawsuit filed with the US district court. The court should hold the airline company liable for the arbitration award, the company had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||ATM operators likely to deploy more terminals with RBI hiking usage charge||ATM operators are expecting to deploy more terminals with the Reserve Bank of India hiking a charge on their usage. From August, the interchange fees, which are the amounts paid by a card issuing bank to the bank owing the ATM, have been raised to Rs 17 per financial transaction from Rs 15 in case of cash withdrawal and to Rs 6 from Rs 5 for non-financial transactions. An RBI report said new ATMs were not keeping pace with the rise in the number of debit cards issued by PSU banks. The number of debit cards rose to 4,171 per ATM in March 2019 from 2,908 in March 2012. But the ATMs per 1 lakh debit cards have fallen to 24 from 34 . “In our judgement, a reason why banks and WLA operators (white label ATMs) were not putting in ATMs were because the economics of running ATMs were not making commercial sense. Cost of running an ATM will not change. But an increase in interchange fees have effectively brought down the transaction break even,” said K. Srinivas, MD and CEO, BTI Payments Pvt Ltd.  He said the rise in the charges would  encourage the deployment of more ATMs. Moreover, white label atm (WLA) licences available are on tap which may encourage more participation. BTI will consider expanding its network from around 8,500 sites to cross 10,000 in the coming months, Srinivas said. “Economic viability has an important co-relation towards deployment of new ATMs especially with increased cost of compliance. In my opinion several banks would now consider their ATM deployment strategy and we can expect net positive deployment numbers,” said Pranay Jhaveri, country manager – India and South Asia, Euronet Worldwide. “Currency in circulation has grown significantly post demonetisation. The government is also executing direct benefit transfer into bank accounts of citizens. All these factors have led to an increased usage of ATMs. The increase in interchange fees will give a new filip to ATM deployment in semi urban and unbanked areas which will enable citizens to access cash from their bank accounts,” Jhaveri added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||Decriminalise IT rules, social media platforms should follow rule of the land: CII president T.V. Narendran||The newly elected CII president T.V. Narendran has indicated the need to decriminalise the IT rules even as he asked the social media platforms to follow the rule of the land. “Overall we believe that we should decriminalise our regulatory framework from the point of view of the industry and corporate... (however) we would say that we would go by the law of the land,” Narendran told The Telegraph in an interview. He added that “we (the CII) would have a look at it (new IT rules). There is a committee that would go into the details and if required to make any recommendations to the government we will, especially from the point of view of the industry, we would do so. Our earlier recommendations on the Companies Act on decriminalisation have been largely accepted by the government and some are still pending which we will take up with them”. The new IT Rules, or the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were notified by the Indian government on February 25. They came into effect on May 25 and have created a storm over compliance. While WhatsApp has challenged the rules in the courts, criminal cases have been filed against micro-blogging site Twitter for hosting communally sensitive video on its platform. On the FIR against social media giant Twitter and the kind of signal it would send to global investors, Narendran said that it was not just in India, but across the world countries are figuring out how to deal with the social media firms. Several countries are looking at ways to regulate social media companies and put in place checks and balances, he added. Duty on fuel Narendran, who is also the chief executive and managing director of Tata Steel Ltd, emphasised the need to reduce the duties on petrol and diesel to provide relief to the common man as well as industry. “When the global crude prices were low, the government had increased the duties that helped the state coffers. Now, the crude prices are high, the government should provide relief to the common man and industry,” he said. Voicing the need to bring petroleum products under the ambit of GST (Goods and Services Tax), he said “airlines have to shell 60 per cent of the total cost on ATF and we demand that ATF should be also brought under GST”. Central and state taxes make up 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The Union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel. Driving demand Narendran said the GST Council should consider cutting the rates on consumer goods to trigger consumption. Last week, he had said the government should introduce a stimulus package worth Rs 3 lakh crore, including cash transfer to households through the Jan Dhan accounts “We have asked if we can reduce the GST on consumer goods by 2-3 per cent for at least six months to trigger consumption as people have spent significant sums on medical expenses. This could provide some relief to consumers and put money into their hands,” he said. Narendran said “smaller companies have struggled more than larger companies over the last year. That is why focus has been on industries that got impacted such as MSMEs, hospitality, travel and tourism to get consumption back. As far as bigger companies are concerned, reforms are always important because if you want to get the private sector investment cycle back, you need to continue improving the ease of doing business at both the Centre and state levels”. He also specifically pitched for cutting the tax rate on cement to boost construction activity in the country as it has a spiralling effect across the whole value chain. “At present, cement is taxed at the highest rate of 28 per cent, while most of the other building materials are taxed under 18 per cent. As cement is the most essential input for construction, the GST on cement could be brought down to 18 per cent or less. This would reduce the overall cost of all construction related projects. Reduction in real estate prices would boost demand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||BPCL and Air India selloffs gain pace as Covid second wave subsides||Contrary to fears that the selloffs of BPCL and Air India will be delayed till the next fiscal, the Centre now expects to complete the exercise in this fiscal as the second wave of the coronavirus subsides. The financial bids will now be called in September against apprehensions the bids can only be called in the fourth quarter, officials said. They said the Union cabinet would soon consider tweaking the foreign direct investment policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of a state-owned refinery by global players through the automatic route. The draft share purchase agreement is expected to be finalised by late July-early August and the financial bids called around September. The BPCL divestment that involves the sale of the government’s entire 52.98 per cent stake in the PSU, was cleared by the Union cabinet in November 2019. But there has been limited progress because the Covid outbreak has dimmed global oil majors’ interest in the stake sale. Only three bidders responded to the call for expressions of interest (EOIs) for BPCL and these include two private equity players and the Vedanta group. Both the bidders of Air India and BPCL given virtual data room access and the government replying to their queries, officials expect the due diligence to get over in the next three months. They said the bidders are likely to begin site visits soon. “After the bidders are comfortable and complete their due diligence, putting financial bids will not take much time,” the officials said. The Tata group and SpiceJet CEO Ajay Singh are the final two bidders for Air India. Both submitted expressions of interest (EoI) to the government in December 2020 and are expected to submit financial bids. Meanwhile, Air India has announced the sale of its properties located across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
21-06-2021||Business||Think out of the box: Introduction to index funds||Those of us who are artless enough to think that the dominant duo — Nifty and Sensex — alone will grab all the eyeballs in the world of indices for long should recalibrate their thoughts. A number of lesser-known yardsticks seem to be making inroads quite firmly. As the offer documents of some of the more recent equity funds filed by asset management companies reveal, an altogether new set of indices may well keep our investors engaged in the days to come. A surge in allocations in favour of index funds (and exchange-traded funds) may be viewed as the prime mover in this context. The trend may be seen in the backdrop of a new found interest in index-based investing, a notion that has generally found acceptance across the country and indeed globally as well. While the older and more established indices, including the two market leaders, remain by far the most popular ones, there is little doubt that the also-rans are now gaining fresh ground. These include diversified indices such as Nifty Midcap 50 and Nifty Next 50 as well as narrowed-down sectoral and thematic gauges based on industries such as financial services and healthcare. Some of the proposals that have been rolled out lately relate to exchange-traded funds — this category, still nascent, is likely to snowball into a colossal sub-set for sectors like metals, energy, consumption and automobiles. For ordinary investors, the indices chosen for these ETFs are fairly fresh in terms of use. While sectoral indices are not altogether new in the country, these yardsticks have remained relatively unexplored in the Indian market. Their introduction is expected to partially move investors’ attention away from the big daddies, Nifty and Sensex. However, not many ordinary investors are likely to adopt these indices, at least in the initial stages. It is also quite likely that institutional investors, especially the international sort, will simply keep investing in the top handful of stocks — may be in the first fifty or so. Indeed, the global moneybags have been mostly chasing the main index constituents in India for quite a while. A few reminders For investors who are keen to try out some of the new-generation funds, here’s a set of reminders to offer. Do check the following list: Despite the little niggling doubts, the rationale that sustains index-based investing stands out perfectly. Investors are aware that indexing takes the whole issue of active management out of the equation. Active management — that is, attempts by the fund manager to outperform the chosen index — seems to be going out of favour with a section of the market. In India too, there is a greater inclination these days towards passive management (simply put, it is all about exactly replicating the chosen index) than before. The fund manager concerned does not attempt to outdo the index at all; his performance, nevertheless, is subject to what is commonly known as “tracking error”. In short, this represents the difference between index returns and the returns actually generated by the fund. In the practical world, tracking errors can be generated because of a variety of reasons, not all of which can be appreciated fully by ordinary investors. In all likelihood, indexing will grow considerably in the Indian market, courtesy a set of newer, brasher investors who are more clued-in when it comes to index funds than the older generation. Already, as mobilisation and deployment figures will no doubt reveal, ETF investors are a growing community in the Indian market. As I foresee it, the involvement of new players in this space will simply add to the emerging trend. Investors have so far been mostly familiar with active management — indeed, that is how the domestic asset management industry has forged its own growth trajectory over all these years. Nevertheless, be that as it may, the industry seems serious about rolling out new kinds of index products in the days ahead. Considerable changes in this space have been already brought about in recent times, courtesy Indian players investing through international Fund of Funds. Today, elements such as Greater China, Nasdaq 100 and the FAANG basket are within our reach, thanks to special initiatives taken up by domestic asset managers. Perhaps “enhanced index” is the next way forward for some sections — but that is a separate idea and may warrant an independent scrutiny. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-15
