22-06-2021||Business||Sitharaman meets Infosys officials, reviews I-T portal tech glitches||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday reviewed with Infosys officials the technical glitches that continue to mar the new income tax e-filing portal. Sitharaman, along with Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj, CBDT Chairman Jagannath Mohapatra and other senior ministry officials, went point by point on the issues facing the new portal with officials of Infosys - the vendor which developed the site. While there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting, a statement issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said "the technical glitches shall be addressed fast". ICAI representatives attended the meeting on Tuesday. The portal launched on June 7 continued to face glitches, including longer logging in time, inability to generate OTP for Aadhaar validation, non-availability of ITRs for past years. Several stakeholders have submitted written inputs highlighting the issues facing the portal as well as areas that need to be fixed. The stakeholders have also highlighted weak user interface, inability to view old demand, grievances and intimation orders as the issues that need to be fixed. The ICAI in a statement issued after the meeting said that it has been asked to provide its continuous support and inputs to CBDT and Infosys, in resolving the issues, as early as possible. The Income Tax Department said the new portal was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly, however the technical glitches shall be addressed fast, for convenience of all, the ICAI statement said. The e-filing portal www.incometax.gov.in was launched on June 7, which the tax department as well as the government said was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. This is the portal that common income taxpayers will also use to file their annual returns for assessment year 2021-22, for income earned in financial year 2020-21. The last date for filing of such returns by individual taxpayers is September 30. At the company's annual shareholder meeting, Infosys had on Saturday stated that it is working to resolve the issues and has already succeeded on some fronts. Addressing shareholders' questions on the matter, Infosys said it is deeply concerned with the inconvenience caused by the technical glitches in the new income tax e-filing portal, and that it is working to resolve all the issues at the earliest. "Infosys is working to resolve the concerns in the new income tax e-filing portal. For the last week, several of the technology glitches, which impacted the performance and stability, have been addressed. And as a result, we have observed lakhs of unique daily users in the portal," said Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao while responding to queries during the AGM. Answering a shareholder's question, Rao informed that close to one lakh income tax returns have been filed so far on the portal. Ahead of Tuesday's meeting with Infosys, the Finance Ministry had on June 16 invited written representations from stakeholders regarding glitches or issues faced on the new income tax e-filing portal. Tax consultants have submitted their representations pertaining to technical and performance issues, issues of missing data, modules which are not working. Some consultants have also suggested that the old e-filing portal should remain active till the time the new portal stabilises and in the meantime beta testing be carried out to resolve the issues faced by users. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Sitharaman herself had on June 8 asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. A day after the launch of the new portal, social media users had flagged glitches in the new e-filing portal to the finance minister. Following that, Sitharaman took to Twitter and asked Infosys and its chairman to fix the problem. Replying to the tweet, Nilekani had said Infosys is working to fix the glitches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
22-06-2021||Business||Can Life Insurance Serve as a Steady Source of Post-Retirement Income?||The life expectancy figures in India have risen over the last decade. As per Statista, life expectancy in India has increased from 67-68 years in 2015 to 69-70 years in 2020. This implies that the post-retirement life span has also increased. This has a direct influence on the financial preparedness for retirement. While many of you might rely on your accumulated savings to get you through the non-working years of your life, the truth is, the annual rise in inflation (nearly 5-6%) combined with the longer life span and mounting medical expenses can all be an expensive outcome. To ensure a financially secure retirement, your basic need is to have a regular source of income in your post-retirement life. You should plan and invest in wise investment options like life insurance that offer you dual advantages of a life cover, along with guaranteed post-retirement income. With a regular source of post-retirement income, you will be better equipped to maintain your standard of living, combat the impact of inflation, and meet your and your family’s medical expenses in the future. How does life insurance help? Specific life insurance plans known as retirement plans are designed to provide you with financial stability during the non-working years of your life. These plans offer the double benefit of life insurance and investment. You pay regular premiums when you are working and enjoy tax exemptions on the premiums paid. The money is invested in the market, and it accrues over the policy tenure. At the vesting age, when you decide to receive the payouts, you can choose to take regular income withdrawals as per your preference. You also get life insurance cover throughout the policy term like a term insurance. Some benefits of the Retirement Insurance Plans 1. Life protection and regular income till 99 years: When you invest in the Retirement Plan, you enjoy a life insurance cover along with regular income and tax benefits. The payouts can begin from the 2nd policy year and continue till 99 years. This means that even during your retired life, you will have a regular source of income to meet your expenses. 2. Income options of your preference: You can choose your income payout period. You could opt to receive a regular income stream from the 2nd policy year or take the defer income option, where you start getting income a year post your policy tenure expiry. Further, you can also choose the guaranteed income type. You could either take a stable payout or select an increasing income option, where your payouts increase at a defined frequency. This gives you the freedom to plan your retired life well. 3. Added rewards and bonuses: You also benefit from the good financial health of the company. Every time the plan performs well, you have the chance to get added cash bonus as a reward. Each added reward helps to increase your retirement corpus. 4. Riders to enhance your coverage: These Plans helps you enhance your insurance coverage by offering additional riders. These include Critical Illness Rider, Income Benefit Rider, Accidental Death Benefit Rider, Accidental Total and Permanent Disability Rider, Waiver of Premium Rider and Payor Waiver Benefit Rider. 5. A reliable friend in times of urgent need: In case of financial troubles or urgent need of cash, you can also take a loan from your Active Income Plan. This means that even during critical times in retirement, you will have a reliable asset to fall back on. 6. Tax benefits: The premiums you pay in this plan are exempt from taxes under Section 80 (C). Moreover, the income you receive is also eligible for tax benefits under Section 10(10D). This will lower your tax burden in the present as well as in the future after retirement. With effective retirement planning and the right income options, you can easily secure the most important phase of your life, spanning decades. There is no margin for error here, so make the right choice and at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
22-06-2021||Business||Sensex ends flat, retreats from 53K mark on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex ended on a flat note after scaling the 53,000 mark on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels.

After touching a lifetime intra-day peak of 53,057.11, the 30-share BSE index settled 14.25 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 52,588.71.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 26.25 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,772.75.

Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by L&T, UltraTech Cement, TCS and Titan.

On the other hand, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and HUL were among the laggards.

Markets opened strong on the back of global cues and pick-up in the pace of vaccination. Tuesday's trade saw hectic activity in stocks pertaining to the 'unlock' theme, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities.

Nearing Mount 53K, however, Sensex witnessed profit-taking across the board in afternoon trade, he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Hong Kong was in the red.

Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.47 per cent lower at USD 74.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||NCLT clears Jalan Kalrock Consortium's revival plan for Jet Airways||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday approved Jalan Kalrock Consortium's resolution plan for the bankrupt-Jet Airways. As part of the revival plan NCLT has given 90 days to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Aviation Ministry to allot slots to the debt-laden Jet Airways. However, Jet Airways being given its important historic domestic and international routes remains unresolved The Kalrock-Jalan consortium had proposed to repay banks, financial institutions and employees ₹ 1,200 crore over next five years and plans to establish Jet Airways as a full service airline with 30 aircraft. Jet Airways, which suspended operations in April 2019, has been undergoing a resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) for two years. In October 2020, the Committee of Creditors (CoC) of the grounded airline had approved the resolution plan submitted by a consortium of UK's Kalrock Capital and UAE-based entrepreneur Murari Lal Jalan. In June 2019, NCLT admitted the insolvency petition against Jet Airways filed by the lenders' consortium led by the State Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points to hit record intra-day high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points to scale a fresh intra-day record in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank, amid a positive trend in global equities. After touching a lifetime intra-day peak of 52,957.13, the 30-share BSE index was trading 374.92 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 52,949.38 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 115.05 points or 0.73 per cent to 15,861.55. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, L&T, TCS, ICICI Bank, SBI and HDFC twins. On the other hand, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 230.01 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,574.46. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 63.15 points or 0.40 per cent to 15,746.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,244.71 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good as of now following firm global cues. US stocks finished sharply higher with Dow and S&P 500 recording 1.4-1.8 per cent gains as investors focused on strengthening of the US economy and strong corporate earnings, Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Further, India's daily caseload falling below 60,000 and ramp-up in vaccination programmes offer comfort, Modi said, adding that expectations of sharp improvement in high frequency key economic indicators from the current month supported by ease of business curbs in various states should continue to offer support to corporate earnings. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.35 per cent higher at USD 75.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank scrip surges on the bourses ||The Bandhan Bank scrip surged on the bourses on Monday on the back of an announcement by the Assam government last Friday to offer a relief package to bail out small-loan borrowers in the northeastern state. As an incentive to good borrowers who have not defaulted, the Assam government will provide a relief of Rs 25,000, or the current outstanding, whichever is lower. Relief will also be provided to borrowers who are overdue to help them regularise their repayments and to those who have no plans to leverage further. On the BSE, the Bandhan Bank shares gained almost 8 per cent to close at Rs 341.10. On the NSE, the stock rose 7.53 per cent to Rs 340.50. The Assam government’s package, estimated to cost around Rs 8,500 crore, is likely to be part of the state budget. It will address a key concern of elevated stress in the microlending sector in the state without affecting the credit score of the borrowers. The state’s outstanding loan at the end of March 2021 was around Rs 12,000 crore with delinquency levels in  double digits. According to the Crif Microlend report, a combination of economic stress, agitation over the Citizenship Amendment Bill, the Covid-19 pandemic and the Microfinance Bill has impacted lenders. Bandhan Bank has a substantial exposure in Assam with a portfolio of about Rs 7,000 crore or 12 per cent of its overall microfinance loan book. Regulatory backing Regulatory oversight is a major concern in the microfinance segment that includes banks, small finance banks, traditional non-bank finance companies (NBFCs) and non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) and even nonprofit institutions. While NFBC MFIs have their set of voluntary code of responsible lending, that is not applicable to banks or small finance banks. But the target borrowers of all lenders are the same, thus leaving room for overleveraging. Alok Misra, CEO and director, MFIN, told The Telegraph that the oversight of MFIN as self regulatory organisation is limited to NBFC MFIs. In order to have a more sustainable growth, the industry body has urged banks, small finance banks and NBFCs to consider the voluntary code of responsible lending and around 85 per cent of the industry is currently covered. “Had it got a regulatory backing, it would have been 100 per cent from day one,” Misra said. Brokerages on Monday remained bullish on the bank following the announcement of a package by the state government. The concern however will be addressed once the proposals in the consultative document on regulation of microfinance announced by RBI and applicable to all entities comes into effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Steel firms firm up plans to invest Rs 60,000 crore over next three years: CII president||Higher global steel prices have impacted the MSME sector and other industries with increased input cost, but it has also put more money in the hands of the steel firms, which are now going in for capacity expansion. “The steel prices are cyclical, much like several other commodities. Steel firms have firmed up plans to invest about Rs 60,000 crore over the next three years, the biggest private sector investment plans announced in recent times,”  newly elected CII president and MD of Tata Steel, T.V. Narendran, told The Telegraph. “I think we have seen both (demand and profitability) coming back and I can say that from the steel sector point of view, all companies are having significant expansion plans,” he said. Tata Steel is investing Rs 25,000 crore. “The industry is exposed to cycles... when companies make money and margins are high, capacity expansions takes place. When prices were low, many steel industries went into losses… the country needs to take a call on how to manage not just steel but most commodities..” The MSME engineering sector has expressed concerns on the rising steel prices. Narendran said he was conscious of those concerns, but added that steel prices in India were still the cheapest in the world. “They have a concern where they have a fixed price contract... I am not insensitive to their concerns,” he said. Volatility in prices is the unfortunate reality of the industry, it sometimes hurts producers and sometimes it hurts consumers and “both of us need to de-risk ourselves”, he added. “Domestic demand for steel had picked up pace in the second half of FY21. However, the second wave of the coronavirus has mildly hit demand from certain sectors. We expect it to be lower in the first quarter of FY22. However, in the second quarter, demand will return with unlocking of restrictions. Capacity utilisation rate of user industries will improve as more people get vaccinated ,” Care Ratings said . “Steel producers are likely to cover up the lost production in the subsequent months and therefore there is no change in our annual crude steel output forecast of 9-11% growth for FY22.  Domestic steel prices continue to remain at a sharp discount to international steel prices which indicates there is room for further price hike,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to substantially hike prices across models||Maruti Suzuki India, the country’s largest car maker, is set to substantially hike prices across its models in the July-September quarter because of a rise in prices of various essential commodities, including steel. The hike in prices would be the third increase for the car maker in 2021. “Steel prices have gone up by 80 per cent compared with May last year and prices of precious metals such as rhodium and palladium have increased by 250 per cent. So, the price increase could be substantial compared with the January and April price hikes,” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava told The Telegraph. The data showed that the average price hike across models in January was 1 per cent and in April it was 1.6 per cent. “In April, we passed on a part of the increased input costs to consumers thinking that the prices of these essential commodities will come down eventually. But that has not happened and as a last resort we are doing it to safeguard the company’s financial health,” he said. He noted that the price of steel has gone up from Rs 38 per kg to Rs 68 per kg, while that of rhodium has gone up from Rs 19,000 per gram to about Rs 66,000 per gram, thus impacting the production cost. Rhodium and palladium are used in the catalysers and their demand has gone up manifold because of the introduction of stricter emission norms across the world. The requirement of these precious metals in BS-VI models is substantially more, leading to a spike in the cost of the vehicle. “There are no signs that the prices of steel and precious metals would come down, in fact it is increasing. We are not in a position to absorb the impact and, therefore, would pass on some of it to the consumers in the July-September quarter,” Srivastava noted. Srivastava said “the company is still working out the price hike issue – whether it should be across all models or only to some models. The internal debate is on the input cost impact on the topline and the bottomline and how to work out an optimal solution to it”. Earlier in a regulatory filing, MSI stated: “Over the past year, the cost of the company’s vehicles continue to be adversely impacted by the increase in various input costs. Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some of the additional costs to customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Tea Board of India auction to commemorate International Tea Day||The special tea auction conducted under the aegis of the Tea Board of India to commemorate the International Tea Day met with good response from buyers. A special lot from Goodricke’s Badamtam tea estate in Darjeeling fetched the highest price among all the categories auctioned on Monday. A batch of Assam orthodox produced by the Chubwa tea estate of Amalgamated Plantations came a close second. The buyer — Golden Tea House — paid Rs 27,560 a kg for the Darjeeling tea from Badamtam, understandably the highest in the auction. Golden Tips Tea Co Ltd was the buyer for the Assam orthodox tea from Chubwa, fetching Rs 24,010 a kg. For the CTC variety, the honour was taken by Assam’s Amgoorie tea estate of Goodricke Group. Uniworld Tea Cheers Pvt Ltd was the buyer, which paid Rs 2,510 a kg. This is the second edition of the special auction conducted by the Tea Board. Tea sold in this auction was plucked on May 21, which is celebrated as the International Tea Day. Only small batches of high quality and speciality teas were produced and sold under this auction on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Facebook, WhatsApp urge HC to stay CCI notice on Privacy policy||Facebook and WhatsApp on Monday urged the Delhi high court to stay the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) notice asking them to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said it will pass an order on the application. During the hearing, the bench said as it was sitting on a vacation bench, it did not want to delve into the merits of the matter even as the main petitions are pending before a bench headed by the Chief Justice. “We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9 (the date already fixed for the main petitions),” the bench said. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single-judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. In their fresh applications filed in the pending appeals, Facebook and WhatsApp sought a stay on the CCI’s June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal allows PNB Housing Finance to hold extraordinary general meeting||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday allowed PNB Housing Finance to hold its extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on Tuesday. Among other proposals, the shareholders’ meet will consider the contentious deal with the Carlyle group. In an interim order, the tribunal said the results of the voting on the proposed transaction will not be declared and that it will be kept in a sealed cover till the final orders are passed. This came after the housing finance company filed an appeal against Sebi’s direction that it should not proceed with the transaction till a valuation is done by an independent valuer. On Monday, the shares of PNB Housing Finance were locked in at the lower circuit because of the Sebi order. It ended lower by 5  per cent at Rs 702.40 on the BSE. “The company has filed an appeal before SAT against the letter issued by Sebi on June 18,” PNB Housing said in a regulatory filing on Monday. Sebi had directed the company that it should not consider the first item of the EGM notice (of May 31, 2021) till such time as an independent valuation of the shares is done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Clarity on sops for chemical cell batteries||The production-linked incentives to  manufacture advanced chemistry cell batteries will be offered only to those firms that have been allocated the production capacity under the national programme on ACC battery storage through a transparent mechanism. According to a notification of the department of heavy industries, the incentives will not be offered to conventional battery pack segment of the industry as such manufacturing activities are already happening in the country. In May, the government approved the PLI scheme for manufacturing ACC (advanced chemistry cell) batteries at an estimated outlay of Rs 18,100 crore. ACCs are the new generation advanced energy storage technologies that can store electric energy either as electrochemical or as chemical energy and convert it back to electric energy as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-13
22-06-2021||Business||Rupee slumps to its lowest level in nearly eight weeks||The rupee on Monday slumped to its lowest level in nearly eight weeks, shedding 24 paise to close at 74.10 to the dollar as participants turned cautious, apprehending foreign fund outflows after hawkish comments from the US Federal Reserve. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened weak at 74.20 against the American currency, pared some initial losses and finally closed at 74.10, showing a fall of 24 paise over its previous close. This was the lowest level seen by the local currency since April 28. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.19 per cent to 92.04. “The rupee depreciated against the dollar on Monday on broad greenback strength and worries of foreign fund outflows due to hawkish comments from the US Fed,” said Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst at Reliance Securities. The unit had fallen to an intra-day low of 74.28, but trimmed losses on dollar sales by exporters, Iyer said, adding that “most regional currencies also weakened on Monday following the dollar’s strength and weighed on the prices”. Fifth in FDI inflows India received $64 billion in foreign direct investment in 2020, the fifth largest recipient of inflows in the world, according to a UN report which said the second wave of Covid-19 in the country weighs heavily on the country’s overall economic activities but its strong fundamentals provide “optimism” for the medium term. The World Investment Report 2021 by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), released on Monday, said global FDI flows have been severely hit by the pandemic and they plunged by 35 per cent in 2020 to $1 trillion from $1.5 trillion the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
22-06-2021||Business||Finance ministry take up tax portal glitches in meeting with Infosys||Two weeks since the new income tax return filing portal was launched, technical glitches continue to mar the site, an issue finance ministry officials will take up in a meeting with Infosys — the vendor which provided the IT solution —  on Tuesday. Several stakeholders have submitted written inputs highlighting the problems they face. Users have complained they are unable to view past e-filed returns, the web page is taking too long to load, the user interface is weak while old demand, grievances and intimation orders are unavailable. The e-filing portal, www.incometax.gov.in, was launched on June 7. This is the portal that income tax payers will also use to file their annual returns for the assessment year 2021-22 for income earned in financial year 2020-21. The last date for filing of such returns by individual taxpayers is September 30. The meeting on June 22 will also be attended by members from ICAI, auditors and consultants. Tax consultants have complained about missing data and modules which are not working. Some consultants have also suggested that the old e-filing portal should remain active till the time the new portal stabilises and in the meantime, beta testing be carried out to resolve the issues faced by users. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman herself had on June 8 asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. The Direct Taxes Professionals  Associations (DTPA) in a letter to Sitharaman has pointed out 40 problems in the new income tax portal for filing of returns. The DTPA has also urged the finance minister to extend by two months the date for payment of tax under the Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme (VSV) as also the date for furnishing TDS/TCS statements and for other compliance which are due by June 30. DTPA Representation Committee chairman Narayan Jain said, “There is no option for the VSV scheme even though the scheme is still on for payments... we are unable to file TDS/TCS statements, form 10A for making application for fresh registration of societies and trusts  under Sec 12AB and 80G not available in this portal.” “IT acknowledgements and Intimation under Sec 143(1) cannot be downloaded. Moreover, we are facing probems with DIN Number, IT payment challan numbers are not getting validated, while digital signature certificates not getting registered or updated.” DTPA president N.K. Goyal said that many taxpayers have got notices from the National Faceless Assessment Officers and Faceless CIT (Appeal) but taxpayers are unable to comply in the absence of an e-proceeding tab in the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
22-06-2021||Business||Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020 drafted by the consumer affairs ministry||E-commerce marketplace entities will have to put in place an effective grievance redressal system if they wish to shield themselves from lawsuits arising from a botched sale on their platforms. The move to recast the rules will subject e-commerce giants to a regulatory template that borrows heavily from the contentious regime that governs information technology giants under the revised intermediary regulations that came into effect last month. The consumer affairs ministry on Monday floated a draft Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020 that grants e-commerce players exemption from liability against lawsuits from irate consumers in much the same way as set out in the IT intermediary rules. “A marketplace e-commerce entity which seeks to avail the exemption from liability under sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) shall comply with sub-sections (2) and (3) of that section, including the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011," the e-commerce rules say. Section 79 of the IT Act grants an IT intermediary exemption from any liability if it “observes due diligence while discharging his duties... and also observes such other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe”. The protective cover disappears if the intermediary conspires, abets, aids or induces the “commission of an unlawful Act”. The extension of the same safe harbor provision to the e-commerce players may not ignite fierce protests as have been raised by Twitter and WhatsApp but there will be a deep sense of foreboding about the fallout of any guidelines that the government may frame in the future. The draft law also says that every marketplace e-commerce entity shall include in its terms and conditions governing its relationship with sellers on its platform, a description of any differentiated treatment which it gives or might give between goods or services or sellers in the same category. No logistics service provider of a marketplace e-commerce entity shall provide differentiated treatment between sellers in the same category, it added. Under the grievance redressal system, the e-commerce platform will have to provide all information relating to a seller including his address on request after a sale to aid dispute settlement resolution. E-commerce firms will now have to appoint a chief compliance officer who shall be responsible for ensuring legal compliance and is liable for any proceedings related to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by e-commerce entity. The compliance officer has to be a resident Indian citizen. The companies also have to appoint a nodal contact person for 24x7 co-ordination with the law enforcement agencies and officers to ensure compliance to their orders . A grievance redressal mechanism has to be put in place by the e-commerce entity along with appointing a resident grievance officer who is an Indian citizen. The co-ordinates of the grievance officer have to be put up on the website. The e-commerce firms must have mobile apps along with a mechanism for users to make complaints against violation of the provisions of the rules and other matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-14
