23-06-2021||Business||Centre eases voice BPO norms to make India global outsourcing hub||To cement India's position as a preferred global outsourcing destination, the government on Wednesday liberalised guidelines for voice-based BPOs removing the distinction between domestic and international units as well as permitting interconnectivity between all types of OSP centres. Broadly, the rules would allow global companies, say an airline, with a voice-based centre in India to now serve global and domestic customers with common telecom resources, something that required dedicated, separate infrastructure previously. Moreover, the restrictions on data interconnectivity between any BPO (business process outsourcing) centre of the same company, a group company or any unrelated company has been done away with, allowing for massive flexibility in resource management for BPO operations. The connectivity norms have also been eased for remote call centre agents, in any location, to link with customers. All in all, the measures would lead to major cost savings and significantly improve utilisation for BPOs, positioning India as a favourable hub for IT-enabled service operations. "In order to encourage our BPO industry, OSP guidelines that were liberalised in November 2020 have been simplified even further, offering greater ease of business and regulatory clarity. This will further reduce compliance burden and help our tech industry," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. While OSPs will have to self-regulate their operations and there is no requirement to submit reports to the telecom department on a routine basis, players will have to maintain call data record, usage data record and system log for all customer calls for a stipulated period, and abide by data security norms. These liberalised guidelines for other service providers (OSPs) would benefit BPO organisations giving voice-based services, in India and abroad. Simply put, OSPs are entities providing application services, IT-enabled services, call centre services or any kind of outsourcing services using telecom resources. The distinction between domestic and international OSPs has been removed. A BPO centre with common telecom resources will now be able to serve customers located worldwide, including in India. With the removal of the distinction between domestic and international OSP centres, the interconnectivity between all types of such centres is now permitted, according to the new guidelines. "Remote agents of OSP can now connect directly with the centralised EPABX/ EPABX of the OSP/ EPABX of the customer using any technology including broadband over wireline/ wireless", an official statement said. It added that there will be not restriction for data interconnectivity between any centres of the same company or the group company or other company. This would allow increased flexibility in sub-contracting of work by BPO to smaller players. Electronic Private Automatic Branch Exchange (EPABX) of the players can be located anywhere in the world. Companies apart from utilising EPABX services of the telecom service providers can also locate their EPABX at third party data centres in India, it said. "The guidelines issued today are revolutionary in nature and will make India a favourable destination for expansion of voice-related BPO centres," Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a briefing. India's IT-BPO industry stood at USD 37.6 billion (about Rs 2.8 lakh crore) in 2019-20 providing employment to lakhs of youths in the country. The Indian BPO industry has the "extraordinary potential" to rise to upto USD 55.5 billion (Rs 3.9 lakh crore) by 2025, the minister said. The business process management industry's revenues grew to USD 38.5 billion in 2020-21 from USD 37.6 billion in 2019-20, overcoming the backdrop of pandemic. "This was largely possible due to the industry's ability to work remotely and majorly enabled by the Government of India's relaxations of work from home requirements under the OSP regime, first temporarily, in March 2020 and then complete reforms under the new guidelines in November 2020," the official release said. In November last year, the government had announced simplified guidelines for BPOs and ITeS companies to reduce the compliance burden on them and to facilitate 'Work From Home' and 'Work From Anywhere' framework. The changed rules for OSPs at that time had sought to create a friendly regime for 'Work from Home' and 'Work from Anywhere', and had also removed frequent reporting obligations for such companies. The move had been dubbed significant by the industry which was asking for relaxations for 'Work From Home' to continue on a permanent basis, as the sector hoped to slowly move towards a blended working model, amid COVID-19 triggered 'new normal'. A study by industry body NASSCOM has found that over 72 per cent of the respondents surveyed were highly satisfied with the past OSP reforms. As many as 95 per cent of the respondent said it helped in reducing the compliance burden and cost of doing business in India, and an overwhelming majority felt it will help in making IT services more competitive globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Centre will actively pursue cases against economic offenders: Nirmala||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the government will actively pursue cases against economic offenders to bring back defrauded money of banks. The remark came soon after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) has sold shares worth over Rs 5,800 crore of United Breweries Limited (UBL) that were earlier attached under the anti-money laundering law as part of an alleged bank fraud probe against fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya. "Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered. #PSBs have already recovered Rs 1357 Cr by selling such shares. A total of Rs 9041.5 Cr shall be realised by banks through sale of such attached assets" the Finance Minister said in a tweet. According to ED, Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi have defrauded public sector banks by siphoning off the funds through their companies which resulted in total loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore to the lenders. The latest sale proceeds, as per the agency, would take the total value of recovery to Rs 9,041.5 crore, or 40 per cent of the over Rs 22,000 crore allegedly defrauded by the trio. The three, who fled overseas as probes against them gathered pace, are being investigated by central investigative agencies such as the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after they were alleged to have cheated banks. These frauds have been categorised as among the country's biggest criminal loan heists till date. The ED gave the low-down on these two cases -- the estimated Rs 13,000 crore fraud allegedly carried out by diamond trader Nirav Modi, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others in the Brady House branch of PNB in Mumbai, and the about Rs 9,000 crore Kingfisher Airlines fraud triggered by Mallya -- in a statement issued here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 283 points to close at 52,306||Equity benchmark Sensex gave up early gains and tumbled 283 points on Wednesday following losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 282.63 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 52,306.08. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 85.80 points or 0.54 per cent to 15,686.95.
Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, Tata Steel, HDFC, TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank.
On the other hand, Maruti, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and M&M were among the gainers.
Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red.
Equities in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals.
Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.84 per cent higher at USD 75.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Infosys, HUL and Maruti, amid a positive trend in global equities.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 145.45 points or 0.28 per cent higher at 52,734.16 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.70 points or 0.32 per cent to 15,822.45.

IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Maruti, Titan, Tata Steel, HUL and Infosys.

On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and HCL Tech were among the laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex settled 14.25 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 52,588.71, and Nifty rose 26.25 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,772.75

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,027.94 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.

According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good as of now. Indian markets witnessed brisk recovery this week so far led by improved prospects of economic rebound and sustained recovery in corporate earnings.

US markets extended gains as the Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's testimony offered comfort to investors, said Modi.

"Powell reiterated his view that recent jump in inflation would prove transitory and stated that Fed will do everything to support the economy as long as it takes to complete the recovery process. He further stated that the Central Bank would be patient before scaling back its soft monetary policy.

"This certainly has given some confidence that a reversal in policy rates or a bond buying programme is not going to happen soon. Further statements of Fed staffers will be watched out in coming days, which have been mixed so far," he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.60 per cent higher at USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
23-06-2021||Business||Webinar on money tips in a Covid world||It has been a wild, gut-wrenching ride for investors since the pandemic first broke in March 2020. First, there was that numbing dive into a despairing abyss and then the euphoric leap back to the top. But do investors have the stomach for such a volatile churn? Can they protect their wealth and still ensure reasonable returns? Those are just the sort of questions that Deepak Jain, head of sales — retail & institutional business at Edelweiss Asset Management Company, and Shibu Das, director, Fine Advice Pvt Ltd, will seek to answer at the webinar on Thursday. They will try and explain how and why you shouldn’t lose your shirt — and your sangfroid — when picking your way through a pandemic-battered economic wasteland. The focus will be on retaining your cool and cutting through the noise while pursuing long-term investment strategies. Knee-jerk reactions and huddling with the crowd doesn’t create alpha or wealth. Certainly, roaring bull markets don’t last a lifetime nor do crashing bear markets! Over time, investors who focus on their long-term goals have a better chance of withstanding rocky market phases. The pain of losing wealth usually outweighs the joys of raking in the notional moolah. When is the best time to place your bets; how important is it to seek financial advice; and most importantly how long should you stay invested in a mutual fund and what sort of goals can you realistically set for yourself: Jain and Das will be ready to field every curve ball you throw at them in the interactive Q&A at the end of the session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Covid: Pfizer in final stages of an agreement with India to supply vaccines||Pfizer is in the final stages of an agreement with the Indian government to supply Covid-19 vaccines to the country, CEO Albert Bourla said on Tuesday. Speaking at the 15th edition of the India-US Bio Pharma and Healthcare Summit which was organised by the US-India Chamber of Commerce, Bourla also disclosed that the US pharma giant has made a specific plan for mid- and low-income countries. These nations that include India, will receive at least two billion of such doses, of which one billion will be supplied in the current calendar year. His statements come at a time the government is looking to speed up the vaccination process in the country. Pfizer has reportedly sought indemnity protection against prosecution or lawsuits arising from any adverse effects for people taking its vaccine. “My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side,” Bourla said. He, however, added that a significant local manufacturing of vaccines being done at the Serum Institute of India will provide the “backbone of vaccinating” in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever adds 30 per cent more capacity in supply chain||FMCG major HUL has added 30 per cent more capacity in its supply chain, making it more flexible and agile, while adding alternative sources in order to meet the challenges in case of a third wave of Covid-19, its chairman and managing Director Sanjiv Mehta said on Tuesday. Addressing the company’s 88th annual general meeting virtually, Mehta expressed optimism that the rural markets will continue to be strong despite the second wave of the pandemic impacting the hinterlands. With commodity prices increasing, the company is keeping a close eye on the situation and going for calibrated price hikes so as to avoid impacting consumers in a big way, he added. Replying to a shareholder’s query on the preparedness of the company in case of a third wave of the pandemic, Mehta said, “Now we have made the supply chain much more agile, we have taken a number of initiatives to improve efficiency. We have added flexibility in our supply chain by adding 30 per cent more capacity, and we aim to preserve resilience through alternative sourcing.” “We also continue to invest in technological capabilities, and we have invested in creating a very safe environment for our workforce through tiered protocols,” he added. HUL’s supply chain is undergoing a massive transformation across the verticals and the company is digitising upstream sourcing network which allows optimisation of cost, Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Tamil Nadu economic advisory council given freedom to pick up issues and submit suggestions||The high-powered economic advisory council to Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin have been given the freedom to pick up issues and submit their suggestions to the chief minister. “It is different from many such panels in several ways. It is not a paid position, but an honorary one. Unlike such panels which are mandated for a specific issue and tasked to give a report, the EAC would identify issues and submit its suggestions. The state can also refer issues and seek suggestions,” state finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan told The Telegraph. “Essentially, the goal is not to make reports but to keep the system working efficiently with the best resources and inputs we can avail with their help whenever required,” Rajan said. “The tenure is for five years and would work in an unconventional manner ... meet in person or virtually, decide its own operational modalities.” The panel comprises Nobel Laureate Esther Duflo and former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. It also has Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser at the Centre, and Jean Dreze, welfare economist and social scientist. The fifth member is S. Narayan, former union finance secretary and former economic adviser to PM Narendra Modi. By opting for two macroeconomists (Rajan and Subramanian) and two social economists (Dreze and Duflo) and a former bureaucrat, analysts said the panel aims to strike a right balance to bring about growth that touches all segments of society, Thiaga Rajan, or PTR as he is better known, is an alumnus of the MIT Sloan School of Management. He has worked with global financial institutions such as Standard Chartered and Lehman Brothers. Tamil Nadu’s outstanding liabilities rose by 124 per cent to Rs 5.12 lakh crore in 2021 (BE) from Rs 2.28 lakh crore in 2016, RBI data shows. The state government aims to bring down the overall debt burden of the state. Thiaga Rajan “expects the fiscal deficit for the current fiscal to be Rs 90,000 crore due to the second wave. During the budget in July, some of the steps to deal with the fiscal situation would be outlined”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries issues notice of suspension of work in loss-making rayon unit||Covid has taken a toll on debt-laden Kesoram Industries, forcing the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla Group to issue a notice of suspension of work in its loss-making rayon unit. The decision, which will affect around 2,500 workers employed in the unit, was taken as demand collapsed during the second wave of the pandemic. The plant, based at Kuntighat in Hooghly district of Bengal, makes textile intermediaries which find uses mostly in Gujarat and Maharashtra, where the textile sector is mostly concentrated. “Demand has collapsed. We have run up huge inventories. The operations cannot be sustained any more,” an official of the company said. In the notice to the bourses, the company blamed the restrictions on the movement of non-essential goods during the regional lockdowns for the collapse. The business of the unit does not fall under the essential category. Bengal, like many other states, had clamped down on the movement of inter- and intra-state trucks, except essential items, to control the pandemic. The curb was put in place from May 15 and it will continue to be there till June 30, if not extended further. Kesoram operates the business under the wholly owned subsidiary Cygnet Industries. The subsidiary, which also makes transparent paper, had posted a profit before loss of Rs 34.48 crore and a turnover of Rs 237.56 crore in 2020-21. It was established in 1959 and transferred to Cygnet in 2016. The official said it had sustained the operation despite heavy losses last year but the parent could not continue to support any more. “Private equity investors, who has recently provided debt to the company, would baulk at the prospect of supporting a loss making unit for long,” a source privy to the development suggested. Kesoram had raised Rs 2,200 crore from a clutch of international and domestic investors such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss to retire debt of Indian banks and build working capital to operate the cement business. Continuous losses of the subsidiary may alter the mathematics which PE investors worked on to extend loan to Kesoram, albeit at a very high interest cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||I-T: higher tax for those who don't file returns ||The income tax department on Tuesday said its new utility — developed to help TDS deductors and TCS collectors identify non-filers or specified persons on whom a higher rate of tax will be levied from July 1 — will help ease compliance burden. Post July, non-filers of income tax returns for the past two financial years would be subjected to higher rate of tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) if such a deduction was Rs 50,000 or more in each of those two years. The provision was introduced in the 2021 Budget. The collectors would be required to check on the functionality of the PAN of the vendor from whom TDS is to be deducted or TCS to be collected, only at the beginning of the financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman asks Infosys to fix all issues on new income tax portal||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked Infosys to fix all issues on the new income tax portal immediately, while the software major said at least five technical glitches, including viewing past ITRs and e-proceedings, are expected to be resolved within a week. As numerous glitches have continued to mar the functioning of the new e-filing portal for two weeks since its launch on June 7, the finance ministry had called Infosys — the vendor which developed the site — for a meeting to hear out stakeholder concerns and suggest remedial measures for fixing the issues. The ministry had received more than 700 emails from stakeholders detailing over 2,000 issues, including 90 unique issues/problems with the new portal. “Issues such as e-proceedings, Form 15CA/15CB (used for remittances), TDS statements, DSC (Digital Signature Certificate), viewing of past ITRs are expected to be resolved in about a week. It was also decided that the timelines mentioned by Infosys to redress the issues would be placed in the public domain in due course,” the statement issued by the income tax department said. PAN-Aadhaar link Advocate Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA Representation Committee, has urged the finance minister to extend the date for PAN-Aadhaar linking by a minimum of three months in view of the ongoing pandemic. Section 139AA requires that income tax permanent account number be linked with the Aadhar of the taxpayer within June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
23-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal approves resolution plan for Jet Airways||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday approved the resolution plan for Jet Airways submitted by a consortium of UK-based Kalrock Capital Partners and Murari Lal Jalan. While London-based Kalrock is an alternative investment fund, UAE-based Jalan has a Calcutta background. He began his career in the 1980s in his family’s paper trading business in the city before shifting to Dubai. The resolution plan has been approved with a caveat. The tribunal has given the new owners 90 days to approach the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) for the restoration of the airline slots. The aviation regulator has already farmed these out to IndiGo and SpiceJet and has said that these cannot be re-allocated to Jet. The DGCA in an affidavit told the tribunal Jet does not qualify for the grant of slots on the basis of historic precedence and the allocation would be based on the regulator’s guidelines. “It is submitted that there can’t be any automatic revival of approvals granted to Jet Airways and re-instatement of slots, which were with Jet Airways and the same would be as per the extant guidelines and regulations/rules,” the DGCA had said in the affidavit . The tribunal said the historic rights will not be available to Jet but has urged the government to ensure that the resolution plan doesn’t come apart because of the regulator’s intransigence on slot allocation. The tribunal added that if the DGCA does not allot slots in 90 days, the consortium can come back to it and seek an extension. Though there is some degree of uncertainty on whether Jet will get back its slots, there are reports of the combine getting an assurance from around 30 airports of slots. After it suspended operations in April 2019, Jet Airways’ lenders led by the State Bank of India initiated the insolvency proceedings in June 2019. It was in October 2020 that the committee of creditors (CoC) approved the resolution plan submitted by the consortium. The stock markets reacted positively to the announcement with the shares of the now defunct airline being locked in at the 5 per cent upper circuit. On the BSE, it ended at Rs 99.45 on Tuesday. “The consortium maintains its stand that it wants to work alongside the ministry of civil aviation, the DGCA and all its competitors to put Jet Airways back in the skies. ” Our team will study the written order once issued by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and we will provide a detailed response on the next steps subsequently,’’ the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said. The airline’s resolution professional Ashish Chhawchharia told PTI that Jet could be back in the skies by the end of this year if everything goes well. Jet Airways owes Rs 7,453 crore to its financial creditors and Rs 6,658 crore to its operational creditors and more than Rs 359 crore to workmen & employees, among others. Owner-watch Kalrock according to its website is an alternative investment adviser, largely active in verticals such as real estate, venture capital and special situations. In an interview to BloombergQuint in October last year, Manoj Narender Madnani, a board member at Kalrock, had said it would keep Jet Airways as a full service airline and not convert it into a budget carrier. Madnani also disclosed that they had identified candidates for the senior leadership team of the airline, which will be a mix of Indian and foreign aviation industry executives. Jalan, on the other hand, moved from paper trading in Calcutta to photo imaging and in 2003, acquired Kanoi Paper. He then moved into other sectors such as real estate and healthcare. Jalan later shifted to Dubai where he pursued the real estate business and made his presence felt in new regions such as Uzbekistan apart from the UAE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-12
