24-06-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 393 points amid firm global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 393 points on Thursday, tracking gains in Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 392.92 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,699. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 103.50 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,790.45. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and SBI were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmarks recovered sharply mainly led by sharp rebound in financials and IT. Improved prospects of sustained earnings recovery and recent weakness in rupee also augur well for IT stocks, he said, adding that favourable cues from global markets also aided sentiments. Further, RIL AGM was in focus today in second half of the session, and investors seemed to be in a profit booking mode, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 75.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Mukhesh Ambani reveals JioPhone Next, world’s cheapest smartphone||Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani on Thursday announced 'JioPhone Next', a power-packed affordable smartphone that has been jointly developed by Jio and tech titan Google. JioPhone Next will be available from September 10, and will be the most affordable smartphone globally, Ambani said while addressing RIL's annual general meeting. The "extremely affordable" smartphone will have cutting-edge features, including voice assistant and language translation, among others, he said. He further said Reliance Jio will use Google Cloud for 5G. Last year, Google had announced an investment of Rs 33,737 crore for a 7.7 per cent stake in Reliance Industries' technology venture Jio Platforms. The tech giant had also teamed up on technology initiatives, including development of affordable smartphones for the price-sensitive, tech-savvy Indian market. Among the other announcements made during the convention was Saudi Aramco chairman and head of the Kingdom's cash-rich wealth fund PIF, Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan joining the board of Reliance Industries as an independent director in a precursor to a USD 15 billion deal. Ambani, who had two years back disclosed talks to sell a 20 per cent stake in the company's oil-to-chemical (O2C) unit to Saudi Aramco, announced the appointment of Al-Rumayyan at the company's annual meeting of shareholders. Harvard educated, Al-Rumayyan, 51, will replace Yogendra P Trivedi, 92, who has expressed desire to retire, Ambani said at the company's annual shareholder meeting. On the sale of 20 per cent stake in the O2C business, he said the deal is likely to conclude this year. "We look forward to welcoming Saudi Aramco as a strategic partner in our O2C business," he said. Ambani also announced a Rs 75,000 crore investment in setting up four 'Giga' factories to make solar photovoltaic cells, green hydrogen, batteries and fuel cells over the next three years. He said Reliance will set up 100 GW of solar power generating capacity. "We plan to build four Giga Factories to manufacture and integrate all critical components of the new energy ecosystem: solar photovoltaic module factory, energy storage battery factory, electrolyser factory, fuel cell factory," Ambani said. These four factories will involve an investment of Rs 60,000 crore. "We will invest an additional Rs 15,000 crore in the value chain, partnerships and future technologies, including upstream and downstream industries. Thus, our overall investment in the new energy business will be Rs 75,000 crore in 3 years," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid heavy foreign fund inflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 216.23 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 52,522.31 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 59.95 points or 0.38 per cent to 15,746.90.  TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Infosys, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Titan, NTPC, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex index ended 282.63 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 52,306.08, while Nifty declined 85.80 points or 0.54 per cent to 15,686.95.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,156.53 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Sharp contraction in daily caseload and ramp-up in vaccination programmes offer comfort to the market.  "We believe expectations of a sharp improvement in high-frequency key economic indicators from the current month supported by ease in business curbs in various states should continue to offer support to corporate earnings," he added.  US equities traded sideways and ended mixed on Wednesday after two days of back-to-back gains.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.12 per cent higher at USD 75.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||Amit Mitra suggests ‘course correction’ to steer functioning of GST Council||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has suggested a ‘course correction’ to steer the functioning of the GST Council and bring back a ‘consensual atmosphere’ instead of the ‘acrimonious’ undercurrent which has engulfed this top federal decision-making body of indirect tax. In a letter written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Mitra noted how the GST regime is going through a ‘dangerous time’ with the shortfall in tax collection and fraudulent transactions hitting a peak. He called for the need to ‘rebuild trust and faith’ among diverse political constituents who are part of the Council. “What pains me most is that the GST Council meetings have become acrimonious, vexing and almost toxic with erosion of mutual trust that had held fast between states and the Centre since the inception of the GST Council,” Mitra wrote in his latest letter to Sitharaman. The Bengal FM cited many past instances when the chair of the council, which is constitutionally filled by the Union FM, yielded to suggestions from even a single state and in return, states agreed to central proposals despite their reservations. “But I am afraid that arriving at such consensus, even for simple matters, have become elusive,” Mitra wrote, adding that “…an undercurrent has emerged in the recent times that while the chair hears the submissions of all the states very patiently, there is a predetermined conclusion with which the government of India, aided by its top bureaucrats, comes to the GST Council meetings.” While Mitra did not name anyone, his examples suggested that Sitharaman’s predecessor Arun Jaitley used to be more patient with Council constituents and worked to build consensus. Compensation balloons The Centre may have to arrange Rs 74,398 crore to compensate the states on account of a shortfall in GST collection in 2020-21. This amount would be payable to the states by factoring in a 3 per cent negative growth during 2020-21, and over and above the Rs 1,10,000 crore borrowed by the Centre and transferred back to back to the states to meet the shortfall in the compensation cess pool. The cess collection in the last fiscal stood at Rs 91,000 crore. Bengal is expected to get Rs 3,850 crore from the outstanding payment from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
24-06-2021||Business||DHFL committee of creditors vote against proposal to raise payouts||The committee of creditors (CoC) of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) has voted against a proposal to raise payouts made to fixed deposit holders and non-convertible debenture (NCDs) investors. If the proposal was accepted, the recovery for fixed deposit holders would have gone up to around 41 per cent from 23 per cent of their total claim earlier. The CoC voted on the proposal after the National Company Law Tribunal suggested it on June 7 when it approved the Piramal group’s resolution plan for the housing finance company. The fixed deposit holders had submitted claims of Rs 5,299 crore of which Rs 1,240 crore was accepted. They would have recovered an additional amount of around Rs 1,000 crore had the lenders cleared this proposal. “Considering the number of small investors and senior citizens who have to meet higher expenses, especially in this pandemic situation, and  other essential needs... we are of the view that they should get a fair, increased share money out of the resolution plan,” the division bench of Justice Ravikumar Duraisamy and Justice H P Chaturvedi had observed in their June 7 order. The tribunal, therefore, proposed that with regard to the distribution among various creditors such as fixed deposit holders, NCD holders, small investors, Employees Provident Fund Trust, the CoC should look at increasing the payments to them. Sources said around 89.19 per cent of the creditors voted against the proposal. The lenders had also put to vote payment of an additional sum of around Rs 500 crore to unsecured NCD holders and the entire admitted claim of Rs 39 crore made by the Army Group Insurance Fund. These proposals were also turned down by the financial creditors. In January this year, the CoC had voted in favour of selling DHFL to the Piramal group under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Vaccination rebate on air fares||Take the jab, get a discount! From flight tickets to burgers to fixed deposit rates, consumers are flooded with such offers that double up as a sales promotion as the economy limps back to recovery after the second-wave restrictions are gradually lifted. Budget carrier IndiGo is offering a discount of up to 10 per cent to vaccinated individuals, including those who have got the first dose. This discount will be available from Wednesday. It will be calculated on the basic fare. “This offer will not only strengthen their resolve towards vaccination, but also ensure that they can travel safely at affordable fares with IndiGo,” Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy & revenue officer of IndiGo, said. The airline clarified that limited inventory is available under the offer and, therefore, the discounts are subject to availability. This offer cannot be clubbed with any other offer, scheme or promotion. Aviation analysts said carriers have price bands to play with and the discount would be within that to attract passengers as the unlocking of the restrictions have provided an opportunity for increased movement. It is likely that other carriers could come up with counter-offers as airlines across the board have been hit by the pandemic. Uco Bank has announced that it is offering 30 basis points, or 0.30 per cent, higher interest on fixed deposits of 999 days for applicants who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Central Bank of India’s Immune India Deposit Scheme offers an additional 25 basis points for FD with a maturity period of 1,111 days. Senior citizens who have got vaccinated will get 0.50 per cent higher interest rate on fixed deposits. Godrej Appliances is offering extended warranty for its products for individuals who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. McDonald’s India (north and east) has launched the “We Care” initiative on its mobile application that allows vaccinated customers to access special deals like a 20 per cent discount on a minimum order of Rs 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Nirav Modi loses first stage of extradition appeal in London court||Nirav Modi has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in a London court just over two months after the wanted diamond merchant’s extradition to India was ordered by UK home secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The case was before a high court judge for a decision “on the papers” submitted to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the home secretary’s decision on April 16 or the Westminster Magistrates Court’s February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. A high court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was “rejected on paper” on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||ED recovers 40% of money laundered by Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Wednesday said they have recovered 40 per cent of the money, which is Rs 9,0141.5 crore, allegedly laundered by Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya even as the Centre has fired blanks in its recent attempts to bring back Choksi from the Carribean, which involved sending a special plane from India all the way to Dominica. The ED’s announcement is being seen as an attempt to cover up the government’s embarrassment over its failure to promptly extradite Mehul Choksi from Dominica after his alleged abduction from neighbouring Antigua where he is a citizen. While the names of Modi and Choksi allegedly figure in the Rs 13,500-crore scam at PNB, Mallya owes around Rs 9,000 crore to more than a dozen banks. According to the agency, the trio have siphoned off funds through their companies which resulted in a total loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore to the lenders. The ED said that after the FIRs were filed by the CBI against the trio, it took swift action and seized assets worth Rs 18,170.02 crore, including Rs 969 crore in foreign countries. The sum represents 80.45 per cent of the total bank losses. Tax pacts The Cabinet on Wednesday approved an agreement between India and the Carribean nations Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for the exchange of tax information and assistance in collection. The pact is a unique arrangement which will allow representatives from the two nations to enter each other’s territory to interview individuals and examine records for tax purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Guenter Butschek to step down as Tata Motors MD and CEO||Tata Motors on Wednesday said Guenter Butschek will step down as its MD and CEO with effect from June 30. He will, however, continue as a consultant to the company till the end of this fiscal year. The auto major also said it has elevated Girish Wagh as executive director with effect from July 1, 2021. Wagh heads the company’s commercial vehicle operations. In a late night statement, the auto major noted that Butschek, who had informed the company about his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, will be stepping down from his role as CEO and MD from June 30, 2021. “I would like to thank Guenter for leading Tata Motors successfully over the last five years and creating a strong foundation for the future. I look forward to his continued inputs as a consultant to the company,” Tata Motors chairman N. Chandrasekaran said. Butschek, the former Airbus chief operating officer, had joined Tata Motors as managing director and chief executive of local operations in 2016, filling up the positions left vacant after the death of Karl Slym in January 2014. Since then, he has been on a mission to turn around the bleeding domestic business of the home-grown auto major. Tata Motors’ domestic business has successfully transitioned to a business unit structure, with the commercial vehicles division headed by Wagh and the passenger vehicle division headed by Shailesh Chandra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
24-06-2021||Business||Eveready's Burman family want professionals to run the company||The Burman family, which owns Dabur's and is the largest shareholder in Eveready, wants professionals to run the Calcutta-based dry cell battery maker and is open to the idea of raising its stake “at the right price”. The Burmans, who have close to a 20 per cent stake in Eveready, suggested that a team of professionals, headed by a chief executive, should be hired to manage the affairs of the Calcutta-based company. “All we want is that the company should be run professionally. This will benefit all shareholders, large and small,” Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur India Ltd, told The Telegraph. Amritanshu Khaitan, who belongs to the promoter family of Eveready, is now the managing director. Khaitans now hold only a 4.77 per cent stake in Eveready. Aditya Khaitan, uncle of Amritanshu, is the non-executive chairman. Burman, who spearheads the family’s investments to myriad ventures is mindful of the efforts put in by the present management, including in cleaning up the balance sheet. The battery maker posted a stellar performance operationally in the last fiscal, clocking an 86 per cent growth in operating EBDITA, which stood at Rs 224.7 crore. However, the company ended the fiscal year with a net loss of Rs 309.13 crore on the back of a provision of Rs 629.7 crore, which was linked to financial assistance extended to group firms over the years. “Our view is that the board and company should take a prudent view. If the money is not recoverable, it should be written off, which they have (done) now. The company should try and recover this money through all ways and means available,” Burman added. Asked to comment on the performance of EIL in 2020-21, he underlined how difficult the past year has been. “I think performance on an operation profitability basis has been good given that this was an exceptional year in more ways than one.” However, he maintained Eveready should be run by professionals. Asked if this means hiring a professional CEO, Burman said, “Yes, (a) professional team should be running every company.” The Burmans themselves follow a hands-off style of management where the family members sit on the board but leave the executive role to an outsider who is a professional. The flagship of the family, Dabur India, is a case in point. Even though four members of the family are on the board, it is managed by a professional who is an outsider. Burman Family Holdings, the strategic investment platform of the family, also lets businesses where it invested to be managed by a team of professionals. Some of the notable investments by Burman Family Holdings are Aviva Life Insurance and  Universal Sompo General Insurance. Eveready is not listed under the holdings portfolio, though. Even though the Burmans have made no bones that they want a professional team to run Eveready, cleaning up the balance sheet is likely to make the company more attractive. “A clean up is always good and investors should get a clear and accurate picture about the company’s business and finances,” Burman said, adding that the Burman family would consider buying more shares at the “right price”. The Burman family, which traces its roots to Bengal, invested in Eveready  at an average price of  Rs 80-100. The stock closed at Rs 311.7 on the BSE on Wednesday. “We are satisfied with our investments. We are long term holders,” he said. However, the Calcutta-born industrialist said the family has “no plans” to join the board of Eveready “at the moment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-11
