25-06-2021||Business||Government  deadlines for various income tax compliances||The government on Friday extended deadlines for various income tax compliances and also exempted from tax the amount given by an employer to employees for COVID-19 treatment. Also, ex-gratia payments received from employers by family members in case of employees' death due to COVID would be exempt from income tax in fiscal 2019-20 and subsequent years. The limit for such tax-exempted payment would be Rs 10 lakh in case it is received from any other person. "In view of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, taxpayers are facing inconvenience in meeting certain tax compliances and also in filing response to various notices. "In order to ease the compliance burden of taxpayers during this difficult time, reliefs are being provided...," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. The tax department said many taxpayers have received financial help from their employers and well-wishers for meeting their expenses incurred for treatment of COVID-19. "In order to ensure that no income tax liability arises on this account, it has been decided to provide income-tax exemption to the amount received by a taxpayer for medical treatment from employer or from any person for treatment of Covid-19 during FY 2019-20 and subsequent years," it added. In case of taxing capital gains arising out of transfer of residential house property, the CBDT said for relief in taxation, the re-investment deadline would be September 3, 2021 for such capital gains. Section 54 of the Income Tax Act provides that in case there is capital gain on account of transfer of a residential house property, such capital gain can be exempt from tax if the taxpayer invests the capital gain amount into another house property within 2 years (in case of purchase of new house) or within 3 years (in case of construction of a house) from date of transfer of original house property. The CBDT circular now provides that in case any such time period of 2 / 3 years is expiring between April 1, 2021 to September 29, 2021, it will be extended to September 30, 2021. Besides, the deadline for making payments under the Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme has been extended by two months till August 31. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31 with an additional amount of interest. The last date for PAN-Aadhaar linking too has been extended by three months to September 30, 2021, while the same for furnishing Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to the employees by employers has been extended till July 31, from July 15, 2021. The due date for furnishing TDS statement for the last (January-March) quarter of the 2020-21 has been extended to July 15, from June 30, 2021. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by an authorised dealer for remittances made for the June quarter would have to furnished by July 31. Also, the deadline for furnishing Equalisation Levy Statement in Form No. 1 for the financial year 2020-21, has been extended by a month till July 31, 2021, while for processing Equalisation Levy returns, the time limit has been extended by 3 months till September 30, 2021. Commenting on the measures, Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said this would give much needed tax relief to taxpayers, who have received monetary help from their employer, friends and extended families, either for treatment of COVID-19 or on account of death of a family member from the coronavirus infection. "Though the relief is granted retrospectively from FY 2019-20 onwards, since the due date for filing ITR for FY 2019-20 has already expired, it would be important to see whether the Government revives the time limit for filing ITR for FY 2019-20," Kumar added. The extension of various due dates, be it for PAN-Aadhaar linking, payment of tax/ penalty under Vivad se Vishwas scheme, completion of assessment proceedings, completion of penalty proceedings, registration of charitable trusts and institutions for income tax exemption etc, will provide additional time, both to taxpayers as well as tax authorities, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||Sensex surges 226 points to end at record high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 226 points to end at a fresh lifetime high on Friday, boosted by ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Infosys amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index closed 226.04 points or 0.43 per cent higher at record 52,925.04. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.90 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,860.35. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, L&T and Maruti. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, NTPC, HUL, Titan and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities rose mirroring an upbeat mood in the global markets after US President Joe Biden embraced Senate infrastructure deal to help stimulate the economy. "The overall mood in Wall Street was lifted since the US jobless claims ticked down as the economy heals," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. On the domestic front, recovery was seen in banks and metal stocks following its consolidation during the past few days, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 75.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on positive note amid positive global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Friday amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 65.90 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 52,764.90 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,822.45.

Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, HCL Tech, ICICI Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and SBI.

On the other hand, Reliance Industries, HUL, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank and Nestle India were among the laggards.

In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 392.92 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,699. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 103.50 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,790.45.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,890.94 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.

According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be muted as of now.

"While Indian equities remained buoyant led by improved prospects of economic recovery in the backdrop of sharp contraction in daily caseload and ramp-up in vaccination programme, a sharp rise in crude price with Brent surpassing USD 75/barrel and recent weakness in INR have emerged as key overhangs for the market, he noted.

On the global front, he said, US equities recovered sharply after President Joe Biden announced that he has reached a deal with a bipartisan group of lawmakers on an infrastructure plan.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent higher at USD 75.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||RBI announces prudential norms for dividends by NBFCs including housing finance companies ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday announced prudential norms for dividends by non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including housing finance companies (HFCs). The rules link dividend payment to their capital ratios and net non-performing assets and will be effective from the profits of financial year ended March 31, 2022 A dividend paying NBFC must have a net NPA ratio of  less than 6 per cent in each of the last three years, including at the close of the financial year for which the dividend is proposed to be declared. The RBI has also imposed a ceiling on the dividend payout ratio, which is the ratio between the dividend and net profit. This will be 60 per cent each for core investment companies and standalone primary dealers and 50 per cent for other NBFCs. There is no ceiling for NBFCs that do not accept public funds and do not have any customer interface. Systemically important and deposit-taking NBFCs will have to maintain a minimum capital ratio of 15 per cent — Tier I and Tier-II capital — to  pay dividend. Housing finance companies should also maintain a  minimum capital ratio of 15 per cent by the end of the fiscal. SPAC rules Sebi is planning to come out with a framework on special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) next week, which will enable the listing of start-ups on domestic stock exchanges, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
25-06-2021||Business||National Anti-profiteering Authority alert on Covid profiteering||The National Anti-profiteering Authority (NAA) has urged the top brass of the GST administration to ensure that the producers and suppliers of medical devices and drugs lower the prices of Covid-related supplies so that the benefits of the GST rate cuts are passed on to the consumers. The profiteering watchdog in an office memorandum also asked senior tax officials to ensure that complaints about companies and suppliers not reducing  the prices are taken up on a priority basis. “Suppliers are required to commensurately reduce the prices of each of the supplies of goods and services made by them so that the benefit of the reduction in tax rates and/or input tax credits is passed on to the recipients/consumers,” the NAA said in its instruction. Tax officials have been told to collect all the evidence needed to take action against “errant suppliers of various goods and services”. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Businesses dealing with medical supplies that have undergone a GST rate reduction need to ensure they have adequate documentation to demonstrate that the rate cuts have been passed on to the consumers.” The move comes after the Centre notified tax rate cuts on Covid-related medical supplies with effect from June 14, as cleared by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council. The concessional tax rates on 18 classes of items will remain in force  till the end of September. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said, “The office order issued by the NAA is a step in the right direction. The government should give wide publicity to Section 171 of the CGST Act and educate the consumers of their rights against companies who are not passing on the benefit of the reduction in GST rates on Covid items.” If a supplier is found raising the base price to pocket the tax benefit meant for consumers, anti-profiteering authorities could order refund of the allegedly overcharged amount to the consumer or deposit the same in designated consumer welfare funds if identifying individual buyers is not possible. In addition to returning the overcharged amount with hefty interest, any profiteering behaviour may invite a penalty provision, which has been in force since January 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||India presses Opec for 'affordable' oil price within a 'reasonable band'||India on Thursday pressed oil cartel Opec for an “affordable” oil price within a “reasonable band”. It also urged the producers to phase out production cuts. Opec nations such as Saudi Arabia have traditionally been India’s principal oil source. But the world’s third-biggest oil importer has started tapping newer crude oil sources after Opec and its allies ignored its calls to ease supply curbs. As a result, Opec’s share in India’s oil imports has dropped to about 60 per cent in May from 74 per cent in the previous month. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in a virtual dialogue with Opec secretary general Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo reiterated concerns over oil prices, which have shot up above $75 per barrel —  the highest since April 2019. The spike has led to retail petrol and diesel prices climbing to a record high. Petrol is above the Rs 100 per litre mark in nine states and Union Territories. Diesel is being sold at over Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Saudi Aramco-Reliance Industries deal likely this year||The much awaited deal between Reliance Industries (RIL) and Saudi Aramco is set to be concluded this year after a delay of more than 14 months. As a precursor to the proposed transaction, first announced by Mukesh Ambani in 2019, Yasir Othman al-Rumayyan, head of the Saudi oil giant, is joining the board of RIL as an independent director. Analysts feel the appointment of al-Rumayyan has come along expected lines. But investors want more clarity on the stake sale in the O2C business including timelines given that nearly two years have passed since Ambani announced the deal. RIL plans to offload a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business, which comprises its twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and its petrochemical assets, to Aramco for an enterprise value of $75 billion. The deal was to conclude by March 2020 but was delayed by the pandemic. There was some headway in August last year when Saudi Aramco said it is undertaking a due diligence. There have been reports that the Saudi oil major has proposed a cash and share deal. Speaking to the shareholders at the 44th annual general meeting, chairman Mukesh Ambani said the proposed transaction is likely to be concluded this year. “Despite several challenges because of Covid-19, we have made substantial progress in the past in our discussions (with Saudi Aramco)... This continued engagement and resolve from both sides, even during this pandemic, is a testimony of the strong relationship between Saudi Aramco and Reliance.” “I expect our partnership to be formalised during this year,’’ he added. However, his statement did not impress the stock markets. The Reliance Industries stock ended with losses of 2.35 per cent at Rs 2,153.35 with sources saying the absence of a specific announcement on the deal and its value disappointed the Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Centre worried about rising inflation accompanying expected rebound in growth ||The Centre is worried about rising inflation accompanying the expected rebound in growth as the second wave of the coronavirus recedes and the states unlock themselves. Principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal on Thursday said rather than rushing in and announcing a bunch of new measures, it is more sensible to watch and act quickly based on the situation. “We need to watch carefully what the data is saying rather than pre-judge how the economy will behave from here on,” Sanyal said at an event organised by the Merchant Chamber of Commerce. “While we continue doing all the good things that were said in the budget and continue to support demand, we need to be very careful of the secondary impact of inflation,” Sanyal said. “(Inflation is an) international problem already,” Sanyal said, citing record inflation in the US and other countries. US headline CPI inflation rose from 2.6 per cent in March to 5 per cent in May. Retail inflation in May touched 6.2 per cent in India on account of high food and energy prices, in excess of the RBI’s upper tolerance band of 6 per cent. The pandemic has resulted in a significant increase in health expenses and consumption of household non-durable goods. A surge in fuel prices has added to travel costs. He added that there is another scenario of a differentiated recovery with some sectors showing growth. This requires a more targeted response than a universal one. Another scenario could be a short-term bump in economic activity due to pent up demand which may not be sustainable. In that situation, the government has to provide support and will do what is necessary on the monetary and fiscal front. “When you are dealing with high uncertainty, it is important to stress and acknowledge the uncertainty rather than what Friedrich Hayek (Nobelo winner) used to say to have a presence of knowledge. So, surveillance and situational awareness is more important than some false forecasting tool or model,” he said. S&P forecast S&P has scaled down the country’s growth forecast to 9.5 per cent this fiscal from the earlier 11 per cent with a warning that there was risk to the outlook from further waves of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries etches green energy vision ||A battle royale is set to erupt in green energy. At the Reliance Industries’ virtual AGM on Thursday, Mukesh Ambani said the company would invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy — which will pit him against Gautam Adani, whose group has set itself the target to be the No.1 solar company in the world by 2025 and a top renewable energy player in the world in another 10 years. Reliance’s ambitious plan in new energy was the key theme at the 44th annual general meeting (AGM) of the company with chairman-cum-managing director Ambani claiming they will make new energy a “truly global business’’. Addressing the shareholders, Ambani said Reliance has started work on developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex on 5,000 acres at Jamnagar. This will be amongst the largest such integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. It will have four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. The term giga factory was first coined by Elon Musk, the Tesla chief, when the company began work on its huge battery unit outside Sparks, Nevada. In solar energy, RIL will build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit. There will be an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen, while a fuel cell unit will convert the hydrogen into energy. “Over the next three years we will invest over Rs 60,000 crore in these initiatives. Reliance will thus create and offer a fully integrated, end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem,’’ the RIL chief said. The Jamnagar complex will also provide infrastructure and utilities to manufacture ancillary material and equipment needed to support the Giga factories. Reliance will also support independent manufacturers to be part of this ecosystem. It will invest an additional sum of Rs 15,000 crore in value chain, partnerships and future technologies, including upstream and downstream units. “Thus, our overall initial investment from our own internal resources in the new energy business will be Rs 75,000  crore (over $10 billion) in three years… Jamnagar was the cradle of our old energy business. Jamnagar will also be the cradle of our new energy business,’’ Ambani said. The Adani group, which is present in solar power, wind power and hybrid power — harnessing both wind and solar energy — and solar parks, had also announced its venture into the lithium battery segment earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
25-06-2021||Business||Jio-Google phone by September||Jio and Google on Thursday announced that they have jointly developed a made-for-India JioPhone Next smartphone that will be available from September 10, which is also Ganesh Chaturthi. The two companies have also expanded their partnership, wherein Jio and Google Cloud will collaborate on 5G technology. Jio will use Google Cloud’s technologies to power its 5G solutions and boost the internal needs of key businesses such as Reliance Retail, JioMart, JioSaavn and JioHealth. Reliance will shift its core retail businesses to Google Cloud’s infrastructure, enabling the firm to take advantage of Google’s artificial intelligence and machine learning, e-commerce and demand forecasting offerings. On the new smartphone, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani said, “As you have come to expect from Jio, it is my promise that JioPhone Next will be, by far, the most-affordable smartphone not just in India but globally.” Though the price of JioPhone Next was not disclosed, it will have cutting-edge features, including voice assistant, language translation, automatic read-aloud of screen text and smart camera with augmented reality filters and security updates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-10
