26-06-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products to launch American gourmet coffee brand Eight O’Clock in India||Tata Consumer Products Ltd is going to launch American gourmet coffee brand Eight O’Clock in India next week, 15 years after it acquired the business in the US. TCPL will sell the coffee directly to consumers in India, who can place orders online and get them delivered home. The Tatas had bought the company, the fourth largest in the roasted and grounded category of coffee in the US, for about Rs 1,015 crore from Gryphon Investors in 2006. Apart from the US, the 102-year old Eight O’Clock coffee brand is also available in Canada and Europe. This is the second premium coffee brand launched by TCPL, which has brought Starbucks to India through a joint venture, as it plans to strengthen its  presence in the coffee market in India. “I am happy to say that Eight O’Clock coffee will be launched in the D2C (direct-to-consumer) segment next week,” Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons and TCPL, told shareholders at the 58th annual general meeting. The coffee business in the US grew 7 per cent in volume and 9 per cent in value (constant currency) in 2020-21, Sunil D’Souza, managing director & CEO of the company, later said. Eight O’clock Coffee Ltd, USA had reported a revenue of Rs 1,293 crore in the last fiscal and a profit of Rs 145 crore. The USA is the largest coffee market in the world, estimated at $11 billion. Earlier this year, TCPL launched Sonnets by Tata Coffee, a premium range of roast and ground coffee, again in the D2C segment. Responding to a shareholder on the way forward in coffee, the chairman said: “In all our portfolio we are really pushing (for) very strong distribution and market share gain, you are already seeing market share gain in tea and coffee is a long way to go but there is a big opportunity. We will definitely look at significant growth in this segment.” Food and beverages, which primarily include tea, are two of the strong pillars for TCPL which took over the consumer facing businesses of Tata Chemicals two years ago. Apart from salt, its portfolio now includes pulses, spices, ready-to-cook items, mineral water, and breakfast cereals. “When we did the integration we had committed synergies of Rs 100-150 crore in 18-24 months. We remain well on track to meet, if not exceed, the quantum and the timing of the synergies that we committed,” D’Souza said during the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Pharmeasy to acquire Thyrocare in Rs 4,546 crore-deal||Online pharmacy chain PharmEasy will acquire Thyrocare Technologies Ltd for Rs 4,546 crore. API Holdings Ltd, the parent of PharmEasy, on Friday announced that it has signed definitive documents to acquire a 66.1 per cent stake in Thyrocare from Dr A. Velumani and affiliates at a price of Rs 1,300 per share aggregating to Rs 4,546 crore. The acquisition will be done by Docon Technologies Pvt Ltd, a 100 per cent subsidiary of API. Docon will also make an open offer for an additional 26 per cent stake at the same price for Rs 1,788 crore if the offer is fully accepted. This is at a discount of almost 8.15 per cent to the closing price of the Thyrocare scrip on Friday. On the BSE, the share ended with gains of 6.23 per cent at Rs 1,448.05. The announcement, which came after market hours, further said that current chairperson A. Velumani will be separately acquiring a minority non-controlling stake of less than 5 per cent in API as part of a series of equity investments by existing and new investors of the company. PharmEasy — founded by Dharmil Sheth, Dhaval Shah, Harsh Parekh, Hardik Dedhia and Siddharth Shah — is also present in the B2B pharma marketplace and consultation. The company has a base of more than 12 million consumers, a network of more than 6,000 digital consultation clinics and 90,000 partner retailers across the country. At present, it serves over 1 million users for their pharmacy and diagnostics needs, conducts 3,00,000 consultations and issues over one million digital prescriptions on a monthly basis. On the other hand, Thyrocare is the largest B2B player in the diagnostics space and has a network of over 3,330 collection centres across 2,000 towns in India. According to the companies, their collaboration is unique and transformative for the Indian healthcare sector. The synergies of both are expected to accelerate the delivery of high-quality diagnostic and OPD services. ‘‘We are delighted to partner Thyrocare. We will provide world-class customer experience in diagnostics by leveraging technology and building on the pan-India presence of Thyrocare,’’ Siddharth Shah, CEO of API Holdings, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries share falls, analysts seek more clarity||Shares of Reliance Industries (RIL) slipped for the fourth day as analysts sought more clarity about its Rs 75,000-crore plan to invest in clean energy amid some apprehensions about its current valuation given its run-up over the past few weeks. The RIL scrip ended with losses of 2.28 per cent at Rs 2,104.30. “There was no O2C completion, no timeline on WhatsApp-JioMart, no timeline on IPOs of Jio/Retail...we would not be surprised to see some of the outperformance over the last six weeks reverse,’’ analysts at JP Morgan said. A note from Citi said clarity on the green energy projects and aspects is needed and it may be “premature” to incorporate any value accretion. Meanwhile, RIL has paid Rs 3,213 crore as corporate tax in 2020-21 — a decline of 61.6 per cent over the previous fiscal’s Rs 8,386 crore. The tax payout is perhaps the lowest since 2015. Consolidated revenue fell 18.3 per cent to Rs 5.39 lakh crore. However, annual profit rose 34.8 per cent to Rs 53,739 crore. Moody’s on 5G tech Moody’s on Friday said countries in the Asia-Pacific region, including India, that are late in adopting 5G technology will get insignificant revenue from the services. The governments in late adopter markets will have to play a significant role in 5G services roll-out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||R.C. Bhargava says states play key role in wooing big businesses||Industry veteran and chairman of Maruti Suzuki India, R.C. Bhargava, on Friday said the role of the state governments in making the manufacturing sector more competitive is more important for industry than an antagonistic Centre-state relationship. Bhargava was speaking on the prospects of a revival of manufacturing in eastern India at an event organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “I don’t think it matters whether the state and the central government are at loggerheads as long as the state government does what it should do to make manufacturing competitive in the region,” Bhargava said. The fundamental consideration for any industry, Bhargava said, is how to make its goods affordable to consumers. Instead of a policy that increases the cost of inputs and finished products, what industry needs is an enabling low-cost environment for manufacturing. Affordability will spur demand, which in turn will create employment and earnings for the government which can subsequently be used for social development. “If the eastern region wants to grow, they have to understand that the bulk of what requires to make industry come to the East lies in the hands of the state governments, the officers and the entire administrative machinery and not with central government or anybody outside,” Bhargava said. Bhargava rued that the government tends to not recognise the importance of time —  whether in making payments to private businesses or interacting with them. “If industry is to become more competitive, both at the political and the administrative level it has to be recognised that time is an extremely costly and valuable input for industry,” Bhargava said. Bhargava further said that the government should not create a situation where labour feels it can disregard whatever the management says with somebody there to bail them out. Bhargava, who had experience in both government and industry, was equally critical of industrialists. He said that industrialists have to comply with tax laws, give up ostentatious consumption, and operate their companies in the interest of all stakeholders including employees. No expansion Bhargava said that there is no immediate new capacity planned by the automotive major, including that in the east. “At the moment we are not looking at any site anywhere, because we have enough capacity. The market for cars is growing very slowly. In the last five years and I am excluding the Covid years, the compounded annual growth of car sales in India was 1.3 per cent. If industry is growing at that rate, why would somebody create large capacities anywhere,” he said. “Unless growth in India picks up sharply the question of investing in other parts of the country does not arise at this point of time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Centre plans another stimulus to provide relief to some sectors||The government is working on yet another economic stimulus measure which is likely to provide relief to sectors hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic. The package could include a scheme to promote health infrastructure in non-metro cities and a hike in the surety limit of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from Rs 3 lakh crore, sources said. They said the package will focus on augmenting dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities, including ramping up of hospital beds, strengthening the procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, bolstering the national and the state health infrastructure, and setting up more laboratories and testing centres. The sources said the package may be cleared next week as experts have forecast the third wave of the pandemic could hit the country in the middle of July that will put the medical infrastructure under strain. While the amount of the package for health infrastructure is unclear, the allocation would help in augmenting facilities in small towns. However, the ECLGS scheme would be expanded to hospitals, which can take up to Rs 100 crore in loans for facilities at non-metros. In new hospitals, up to 75 per cent of the loans will get the surety, while it will be 50 per cent of the loan in case of expansion. Earlier this week, the Centre extended the free foodgrain scheme of 5 kg under the ration system till November. “Interventions may continue for the vulnerable sections of society as well as industry as and when the need arises,” the official added. Sources said the RBI and finance ministry officials were working on relief measures for stressed borrowers. Around 80 per cent of small and medium businesses (SMBs) across India are “insecure” about their future following the first and second Covid wave-induced lockdowns, a survey conducted by the Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) and its 40 partner SMB associations shows. “Over the past year, CIA has provided vital suggestions and modifications required on several initiatives taken by the central and state governments for the benefit of MSMEs. As a result, we realised a data-backed survey would help consolidate the feedback from this sector, to bring out the pain points and provide solutions,’’ said CIA convenor K.E. Raghunathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
26-06-2021||Business||Government extends income tax compliance deadlines||The government on Friday extended the deadlines for various income tax compliances and also exempted from tax the amount given by an employer to employees for Covid-19 treatment. Ex gratia payments received from employers by family members in case of employees’ death because of Covid would be exempt from income tax in fiscal 2019-20 and subsequent years. The limit for such tax-exempted payment would be Rs 10 lakh in case it is received from any other person. Along with these reliefs, the government extended the deadline for a bunch of tax submissions. The deadline for making payments under the Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme has been extended by two months till August 31. Taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31 with an additional amount of interest. The last date for PAN-Aadhaar linking has been extended by three months to September 30, 2021. The date for furnishing Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to the employees by employers has been extended till July 31 from July 15, 2021. In case of taxing capital gains arising out of transfer of residential house property, the CBDT said for relief in taxation, the re-investment deadline would be September 30, 2021 for such capital gains. “Taxpayers intending to claim the exemption in respect of sums received during FY 2019-20 would need to revise their return of income to claim refund of tax paid. Hence, it is expected that the government may also extend the due date for filing a revised return for Assessment Year 2020-21. Taxpayers shall have to carefully read the fine print to check the applicable deadlines as a diverse set of dates have been prescribed under different sections,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner, J Sagar Associates, said. Tax expert Narayan Jain said, “The exemption for amount received for Covid treatment or amount received on death of Covid patient is a humanitarian decision. We welcome the extension of various timelines.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-9
