27-06-2021||Business||Ashok Leyland earmarks major part of capital expenditure for light commercial vehicles||Ashok Leyland, the flagship of the Hinduja group, has earmarked a major part of its capital expenditure for 2021-22 for light commercial vehicles (LCV). The company has lined up a capital expenditure of Rs 750 crore for fiscal 2021-22 compared with Rs 670 crore last year. “We will be doing some debottlenecking and tooling (of the LCV plants),” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, Ashok Leyland Limited, said while talking to reporters on the recently declared results. The company is betting big on its products Dost and Bada Dost in the LCV segment which will see some “long-term funding”. Medium and heavy commercial vehicles (MHCV) will get some residual funding. For the company, domestic bus volumes have been down because of the pandemic as public transport has taken a hit. “The bus sector will revive when the lockdown situation completely eases,” said Sondhi. Ashok Leyland is also betting on fleet replacement by various state governments planning to replenish their old vehicles. It commissioned its bus plant in Andhra Pradesh in March this year. The company will focus on exports, defence, power solutions, LCVs and auto parts business even as it expands the product reach of its core medium and heavy commercial vehicles. “We will intensify our efforts in Central Asia and African countries to strengthen our presence,” he added. The focus on digital initiatives will help leverage the benefits of efficiency and cost. Customer requirements will be at the core of all the digital initiatives. Emerging businesses such as electric vehicles (EV) and customer solutions will assist in complementing the core business. Ashok Leyland has created a dedicated EV-only entity called Switch Mobility based in the UK. Sondhi said the economy will grow at 9.5 per cent, helping the auto industry to make a comeback. “The tipper has good demand, the demand for mutli-axle vehicle and long haul tonnage will have a come back. M&HCV will b extremely strong in six to 12 months,” said Sondhi. To a question on whether rising commodity prices will lead to a price hike, Sondhi said: “We had increased prices in the third and fourth quarters. We are now internally monitoring the situation.” The company is planning to add shifts and ramp up production in July as “the economy opens up more”. The company also announced the formation of an Environmental, Social & Governance Committee headed by an independent director at the recently concluded board meeting. The role of this new ESG committee will be to provide appropriate oversight and guidance in the company’s journey on organisation-wide ESG initiatives, priorities, and leading ESG practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Singapore International Arbitration Centre to start final hearing over plea filed by Amazon ||The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) will start its final hearing over a plea filed by e-commerce major Amazon against the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future Group and Reliance Industries from July 2. According to a regulatory filing by Future Consumer (FCL) on Saturday, a tribunal was constituted by SIAC for arbitration proceedings related to the Future-RIL deal on January 5, 2021. The filing noted that “Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has filed two applications before the Tribunal, first being an application challenging the jurisdiction of the Tribunal; and second being an application for vacation of the EA (Emergency Arbitrator) Order”. “According to the schedule finalised by the Tribunal, hearing for both the applications would commence on July 12, 2021,” the March quarter 2021 earnings filing by FCL said. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The scheme of arrangement entails the consolidation of Future Group’s retail and wholesale assets into one entity, Future Enterprises Ltd, and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. The deal has been contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons, which in turn is a shareholder in FRL. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons (which owns a 7.3 per cent equity in BSE-listed Future Retail Ltd through convertible warrants), with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Amazon had dragged Future into arbitration at SIAC and in October, an interim award was passed by the EA in favour of the US-e-commerce major that barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Amazon and Future Group have also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. Future Consumer, in its filing on Saturday, said both FRL and Amazon have filed a suit/ challenged each other's position relating to the deal/EA order in various courts of India and the matter is sub-judice and currently pending with Indian Courts for disposal. In April, RIL had extended the timeline for completing the deal with Future Group by six months to September 30, 2021. While the deal has received clearance from regulators such as CCI, Sebi and bourses, the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting the nod from the NCLT and shareholders. “NCLT has heard the application relating to the Scheme (deal with Reliance) and the intervention application filed by Amazon and has reserved the order on the said application filed by Amazon,” FCL said in the filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Vedanta will not go family way, says Anil Agarwal||Vedanta Resources chairman Anil Agarwal on Saturday said the company will be institutionalised at any cost and will not go to his family. The company, he said, cannot be run on a defensive mode. “Our company will not go to our family. Our family is also an institution, a complete institution ... If it (the family) gets capable of (running Vedanta in the future) then it is a different thing. But a company cannot be run on a defensive mode,” he said. He was speaking during a webinar on ‘Vedanta of Business’ organised by the Ficci Ladies Organisation, the women business wing of Ficci. “We are the largest producer of oil in India, largest producer of silver, zinc... we will at any cost institutionalise it (Vedanta). “In my opinion 75 per cent must go back to society... 25 per cent is more than enough for the family,” the metals and mining magnate said further. India is a land of entrepreneurship with the advantage of location, young talent, natural resources and sea on three sides, the mining baron said, adding that the country is moving towards a self-reliant economy. But the world always looked at India as a market and never wanted to see it grow. But the process of self-reliance has grown and the youth and startups with new ideas are taking the country to newer heights, he said. India has the largest deposit of oil, gold and minerals and it is high time we explore them, Agarwal said. Especially the young and the women entrepreneurs have to do it, he added. Worldwide, an average of 44 per cent women are entrepreneurs and head various companies. In India, it is still about 20 per cent. It is time for women to come up as they are convincing and they deliver, Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
27-06-2021||Business||Singapore court snubs PhonePe||Digital advertising firm Affle claims to have won the initial legal battle in a case filed against it by Walmart-owned PhonePe in a Singapore court in the Indus OS stake sale matter. PhonePe had placed a bid to acquire a 92 per cent stake in Indus OS at a valuation of around $60 million. However, the biggest shareholder in the company, Affle Global Pte Ltd (AGPL), has opposed the deal. AGPL estimates that the valuation of OSLabs, known as Indus OS, is around $90 million and has refused to sell its 25 per cent stake at a lower valuation. The company operates app store ‘Indus App Bazaar’, which comprises over four lakh apps accessible in English and 12 Indian languages. AGPL had filed an injunction suit against the resolution passed by Indus OS approving the stake sale to PhonePe which has been challenged by the fintech firm in a Singapore court. Both AGPL and Indus OS are registered in Singapore. “AGPL has attended more than seven court hearings held in Singapore High Court from May 19, 2020 till June 18, 2021. As on June 18, PhonePe has clearly lost the corporate legal battle in Singapore,” AGPL said. However, Fintech firm PhonePe and OSLabs have refuted the claims made by AGPL that it has won the legal battle. AGPL told PTI that according to the last hearing in Singapore High Court on June 18 , PhonePe has lost its existing voting rights in OSLabs’ general meeting in view of the orders made by the court. According to AGPL, OSLabs' resolutions circulated for PhonePe's 92 per cent acquisition of OSLabs Pte Ltd were deemed invalid by the Singapore High Court. It added that the OSLabs' resolutions for the issuance of new shares that aimed to dilute existing shareholders were also deemed invalid by the court. “It, therefore, follows that any corporate actions taken by OSLabs according to the invalid resolutions may be deemed invalid unless explicitly validated by SIAC arbitration tribunal,” AGPL said. In an e-mailed reply, PhonePe said Omidyar Networks, JSW, Micromax etc have transferred their shares held in Indus OS in conformity with the transaction as agreed to by the parties who signed the term sheet but only AGPL is contesting even though it was one of the signees of the term sheet for the equity sale. AGPL alleged that the term sheet for approval of the Indus OS stake sale had expired on March 12 and the dates and signature pages of the PDF were allowed to be tampered to extend the expired validity without proper amendment or consent. It said PhonePe will not be able to use its acquiring voting right for deciding on resolution. When contacted, Indus OS denied all the statements made by AGPL in their entirety. “All the statements are misleading and replete with misrepresentations. The issues mentioned by AGPL are the subject matter of pending disputes between the parties in arbitration and in the Singapore courts, where these issues are to be determined. Accordingly, given the sub-judice disputes, OSLabs is neither required to nor deems fit to comment on or engage with AGPL’s statements,” Indus OS said. PhonePe said AGPL has issued incorrect statements and the matter is sub-judice and no final finding has been given yet. “The court has merely directed OSLabs to hold an EGM in connection with a subject-matter for which certain written resolutions had been passed,” a PhonePe spokesperson said. PhonePe claims that when Indus OS board approved the resolution for stake sale on May 3 — the day EGM was held — the fintech firm was not a shareholder in Indus OS and that it was not barred. “It is clarified that the court has directed the holding of EGM with old shareholders,” the Walmart-owned firm said. It said all the allegations made by Affle in respect of low-balled valuations in the present transaction are incorrect and a meagre attempt to justify its own illegal and malafide actions. “When Affle and all others signed the term sheet they agreed to the valuation being offered by PhonePe as it was a key term...What changed in a month's time that the proper valuation agreeable to all investors suddenly is being called a low-balled valuation when nothing fundamental changed in the status of OsLabs,” PhonePe said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
