28-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 189 points to close below 53,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 189 points on Monday led by losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and HDFC amid a negative trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 53,126.73 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 189.45 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,735.59. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty settled 45.65 points or 0.29 per cent down at 15,814.70. It touched a lifetime intra-day peak of 15,915.65. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Reliance Industries, UltraTech Cement and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. "After opening at a record high, the domestic markets slipped into the negative zone tracking cues from global peers due to spike in COVID cases across Asia," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. PSU banks were in focus in anticipation of progress in privatisation, he said, adding that the market got volatile in the closing hour during the FM's announcement on fresh stimulus, though it was focused on COVID-19 relief package mainly for healthcare and stressed sectors, which will benefit the broader economy. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent lower at USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Sitharaman announces relief measures to offset economic downturn amid Covid second wave ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fees for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869 crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package - mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-hit sectors - totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. Addressing a press conference, Sitharaman said, "Economic relief measures are being announced today." She provided Rs 23,220 crore of additional funding for setting up children and paediatric care/paediatric beds at hospitals to prepare healthcare infrastructure to deal with any emergency arising for Covid wave hitting children. To incentivise job creation, the government committed to paying the employer and employee's share to provident fund (PF) for all new recruitments done till March 2022. Previously, the government paid Rs 902 crore for 21.42 lakh beneficiaries of 79,577 establishments. With the tourism sector being hit hard by the pandemic, Sitharaman  announced up to Rs 10 lakh loan to tourist agencies and Rs 1 lakh loan to tourist guides while waiver of visa fee for the first five lakh foreign tourists visiting India after travel restrictions ease. Tourist visa fee waiver will cost the government Rs 100 crore. Other announcements included an additional Rs 19,041 crore for providing broadband internet cover to all village panchayats, an extension of tenure of production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing by a year and Rs 88,000 crore of insurance cover for goods exporters. The support measures were announced as states start lifting restrictions after new coronavirus infections showed a decline. The economy seems to be on a recovery path after being hit by a devastating second wave of infections that was dubbed as the world's worst Covid-19 surge. Sitharaman said the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme is being expanded to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from Rs 3 lakh crore. Under the scheme, a collateral-free loan is provided by banks to small businesses and the government stands guarantee for any default. The ECLGS, launched last year, has helped cash-starved small businesses raise funds during the Covid-19 lockdown for working capital and to meet their orders. As much as Rs 2.73 lakh crore has been sanctioned under the three previous ECLGS programmes, of which Rs 2.10 lakh crore has already been disbursed. Another Rs 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors was announced. This included Rs 50,000 crore for the health sector, with a three-year single loan of Rs 100 crore carrying an interest of 7.95 per cent. Loans to other sectors such as tourism and hospitality would come at 8.25 per cent per annum interest rate. Also, micro-finance institutions will extend 25 lakh small borrowers loans of up to Rs 1.25 lakh at an interest rate that is 2 per cent lower than the benchmark lending rate, she said. The government also extended the loan guarantee programme to the tourism sector, after last month widening it to airlines and hospitals. Credit at low cost Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda said the objective of credit guarantee is to encourage banks to lend to enterprises so that they get credit at low cost. The measures announced Monday are "to ensure money comes into hands of small, medium and large enterprises," he said. The credit programme supplements separate measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month to boost credit for health care services and provide fresh lending to vaccine-makers. It provided an on-tap liquidity window for banks worth Rs 50,000 crore to extend credit to health services and vaccine manufacturers until March 2022. The extension of free foodgrains to 80 crore poor till November will cost Rs 93,869 crore more, bringing the total cost of the programme to more than Rs 2.27 lakh crore, Sitharaman said. Free foodgrains The government had last year announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to provide free 5 kg per month of foodgrains to over 80 crore poor to help them tide over the impact of stringent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. Stating that the wheat procurement has touched an all-time high of over 432 lakh tonnes in the Rabi marketing season of 2021-22, she said the government will provide an additional subsidy of Rs 14,775 crore to farmers directly for buying DAP and other complex fertilisers. The additional amount will raise the fertiliser subsidy to Rs 42,275 crore. DK Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India, said the thrust of this package is to stimulate the sagging growth in credit offtake mainly by providing interest rate concessions with a focus on priority sectors such as health, power and other infrastructure. Additional outgo of over Rs 93,000 cr Of the measures announced, the Centre will see an additional outgo of Rs 93,869 crore on free food grains, Rs 15,000 crore on health (its share out of Rs 23,220 crore spending) and Rs 9,520 crore for village broadband connectivity (Rs 19,041 crore for two years). This totals to Rs 1,18,390 crore or 0.5 per cent of estimated GDP for 2021-22, Srivastava said. While Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head Research & REIS, JLL,  said the measures announced are "timely booster shots to keep the economy afloat", Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA Limited, said the announcement contained a mix of new schemes focussed on relief for the pandemic-affected sectors, extension of earlier schemes, as well a reiteration of recent announcements such as free food grains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points to fresh high||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty scaled fresh intra-day records in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC. After touching a lifetime high of 53,126.73, the 30-share BSE index was trading 142.85 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 53,067.89 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was trading 42.25 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 15,902.60. It touched a lifetime intra-day peak of 15,915.65 in the opening session. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Titan, TCS, UltraTech Cement, Bharti Airtel and L&T were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex closed 226.04 points or 0.43 per cent higher at record 52,925.04, and Nifty advanced 69.90 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,860.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 678.84 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets look modestly good as of now. A sharp fall in daily caseload and satisfactory ramp up in vaccination process overshadowed concerns emerging from higher crude prices and weakening rupee, he said, adding that better-than-expected 4QFY21 earnings performance of companies has also supported the market's uptick. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.17 per cent lower at USD 75.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Twitter interim grievance officer for India steps down||Twitter’s interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, leaving the micro-blogging site without a grievance official as mandated by the new IT rules to address complaints from Indian subscribers, according to a source. The source said that Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed as the interim resident grievance officer for India by Twitter, has quit from the post. The social media company’s website no longer displays his name, as required under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. Twitter declined to comment on the development. The development comes at a time the micro-blogging platform has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country’s new IT rules. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism to resolve complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be resident in India. Twitter in response to the final notice issued by the government on June 5 had said that it intends to comply with the new IT rules and will share details of the chief compliance officer. In the meantime, the microblogging platform had appointed Chatur as interim resident grievance officer for India. Twitter now displays the company’s name in the place of grievance officer for India with a US address and an email ID. According to a government official, the company has lost legal protection as an intermediary and will be legally held responsible for all content posted by its users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Haryana govt pays IL&FS Rs 1,925 crore as interim termination payment in Gurgaon metro project case||Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) on Sunday said that it has received Rs 1,925 crore from Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) as an interim termination payment in the Gurgaon metro project case. The payment received in the escrow accounts comes in compliance of the Supreme Court’s March 26 order that ruled in favour of IL&FS in the project. The project was developed through IL&FS subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles (SPVs) — Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Ltd (RMGL) and Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon South Ltd (RMGSL) — a company statement said. The apex court in its order had directed HSVP to deposit 80 per cent of the total debt due amounting to Rs 1,925 crore within three months into the escrow accounts of the two SPVs.  The dues are more than Rs 2,400 crore on basis of audit conducted by the CAG. IL&FS had bagged the two-phased Gurgaon Metro Project developed through RMGL and RMGSL in 2009 and 2013. Due to multiple unmet obligations by HSVP, the special purpose vehicled had terminated the concession agreements in September 2019 and demanded termination payments as per the concession agreement under authority event of default, IL&FS said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||States concerned about proposed e-commerce rules, fear negative impact on jobs, MSMEs||Some states, mostly those ruled by non-BJP parties, are apprehensive about the new set of e-commerce rules proposed by the Union consumer affairs ministry to check mis-selling and fraudulent discounts as they fear there could be a negative impact on jobs and market access for MSMEs. These state governments plan to suggest strong safeguard measures in the proposed rules to ensure that any changes in the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 do not hamper their economic growth engines and revenue collections, officials from those states said. However, it would be kept in mind that their suggestions do not come in the way of the proposed rules enhancing the overall consumer protection framework, they asserted. These officials said it is a sensitive matter that needs to be tackled carefully as protecting consumers’ interest is as important as safeguarding jobs, MSMEs and lakhs of self-employed individuals, including artisans, weavers and those in the agriculture and allied sectors who have been benefiting immensely from the e-commerce platforms. The officials said formal suggestions on the draft rules would be made to the Centre, which has invited suggestions till July 6. A senior official of a big non-BJP-ruled state said there is a view that the proposed rules can disturb the state’s business ecosystem, especially with regard to MSMEs and small entrepreneurs and will also limit the choices for consumers, rather than safeguarding their interest. He pointed out that MSMEs contribute almost two-thirds of the annual revenues generated on just two major platforms — Amazon and Flipkart —- while there is a big chain involved comprising businesses, self-employed individuals, warehouses, farmers etc and these platforms have created lakhs of jobs in the recent years. A large number of foreign and domestic investors and other business entities, who have either invested in various e-commerce platforms or are doing business with them, are also said to be wary of the proposed rules which were released last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Mixed trend in credit card use: report||Consumers are not warming up to credit cards like before. In December, the central bank had barred HDFC Bank from issuing new cards because of various service outages. While HDFC Bank has been barred from onboarding new customers, its rivals have not been able to take advantage of the curbs to expand their credit card base. HDFC Bank remains the largest player with 1.49 crore cards as of April 30 against 1.54 crore outstanding cards in November 2020. According to the Digital Payments report of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, Kotak Mahindra Bank, HDFC Bank, Amex and Citi reported a fall in their outstanding cards till April. Others such as ICICI Bank reported a strong year-on-year growth of 18 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank (15.2 per cent), RBL Bank (14.4 per cent), and SBI Cards (13.6 per cent). Sources said the lockdown may have played a part in some of the banks showing a drop in the number of outstanding cards, but they can catch up once the restrictions are lifted. The lockdown also had its impact on another front with card spends falling 18 per cent to Rs 59,400 crore in April. On a per card basis, the monthly spend declined to Rs 9,500 from an average of Rs 10,500 over the past six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
28-06-2021||Business||Delay in issuing term life insurance policy in April and May||The number of days taken by an insurance company to issue a term life insurance policy has gone up in April and May. A combination of factors such as the time taken to obtain a medical report and tightening of guidelines by the reinsurers led to the delay. Insurance intermediaries and aggregators said that normally it would take around 10 days on an average to get a term life insurance policy issued from the submission of a proposal form. This has gone up to around 15-16 days over the last couple of months. Once the documents are submitted, verified and payments made, prospective buyers are required to undergo either a physical medical test or a telemedical test.A  co-ordination team from the insurance company sets a date for the tests to be done at home or diagnostic centres. The tests may range from ECG, blood sugar to TMT for people in a higher age bracket and cotinine tests to evaluate tobacco use. If an individual has declared a past ailment, additional tests may be required. “There are multiple factors such as age, sum insured, past ailments, family ailments, existing insurance policies which are taken into account to determine whether a telemedical check-up is adequate or a physical check-up is needed,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdary, business head, term life insurance, Policybazaar.com With re-insurers tightening regulations in the Covid pandemic, many insurance companies are preferring a physical check-up before issuing policies. But  the diagnostic centres are under stress because of the pandemic, while there is a paucity of lab persons to do the check-ups at homes. This has increased the time taken to obtain the reports which has led to the delay in the issue of the the term policies. The delay, however, has not impacted the growth rate both in the number of policies issued or new business premium collected net of free-look cancellation. According to Irdai data, while the number of policies in April and May has gone up by 30.40 per cent, premium has gone up by 11 per cent for the entire industry, including 23 private players and LIC, over the corresponding months of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Linde plea to ramp up liquid oxygen facilities||Linde India, the largest producer of industrial gas in India and the world, has called for building liquid oxygen storage plants in hospitals to meet the future surge in demand if a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hits India. The company cautioned that installing PSA oxygen plants, some of which are being put up under PM Cares Fund, is not the “panacea” to tackle the future surge and advised complementing them with liquid storage facilities deep down to the district level as an effective solution. “Just a word of caution…PSA is not a panacea. It is a machine that produces oxygen of a particular grade. It cannot take care of any surge demands,” Abhijit Banerjee, managing director of Linde India, said. After being grossly under-prepared to anticipate the surge in demand of medical oxygen (MO) during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in May, the Centre as well as various states are now trying to enhance the capacity of MO in the country. The PM Cares Fund has released funds to set up 551 such PSA units. Banerjee pointed out that there have been instances in the past when oxygen generation through pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants were found to be unreliable. They were either producing less than the rated capacity or oxygen of purity below Indian medical standard. The plants, which require rigorous maintenance, can also be rendered useless during power outage or unscheduled and scheduled maintenance. “PSAs do reduce the base demand of liquid oxygen to an extent but they are not the end solutions. We have been telling the governments and hospitals to enhance liquid storage capacity,” Banerjee said during a virtual interaction organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Linde, which emerged as one of the largest suppliers and facilitators of MO during the second wave, has also urged governments to change the rules for setting up storage plants. The safety requirements are now obsolete and not prevalent in many parts of the world. Apart from limiting the storage capacity, they also prevent many hospitals from having them in their premises. Before the pandemic, the requirement of MO was about 800-850 tonnes per day (tpd) in India. In September-October last year during the first wave, the requirement went up to 3,000tpd. In May, the all-India demand was a bit less than 10,000tpd. Moreover, most of the installed capacities to produce oxygen were in the east while demand drove up in the north, south and west of India. It threw up a logistics challenge of quickly moving the MO to the region which needed it most. Supply of oxygen to industry was completely cut off, barring a few exceptions. Corporates such as Tata Group and ITC Ltd has partnered Linde, procuring ISO containers from overseas markets on rent and airlifted them to India for faster supply. These 20-tonne containers were then filled up and put up on Concor rakes to reach destinations faster than the road network and thereby increasing supply. Learning from the experience, some of the states are also setting up cryogenic air separation plants. Banerjee, however, noted that viability gap funding from the governments may be needed as the quantum of oxygen needed for a hospital or even a cluster of hospitals is not big enough to commercially justify investment in a cryogenic air separation plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cairn to target more state-owned firms to recover money due from Indian government||After Air India, Britain’s Cairn Energy plc plans to target assets of more state-owned firms and banks in countries from the US to Singapore as it looks to ramp up efforts to recover the amount due from the Indian government after winning an arbitration against the levy of retrospective taxes. A lawyer representing the company said Cairn will bring lawsuits in several countries to make state-owned firms liable to pay the $1.2-billion plus interest and penalties that are due from the Indian government. Last month, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are “alter egos” and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. “There are a number of state enterprises which we are considering for enforcement action. Enforcement action will be soon and it may not be in the US,” Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, told PTI. A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India had unanimously in December overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. The government of India, despite participating in the arbitration proceeding over four years, has not accepted the award and has filed a “setting aside” petition in a court in Netherlands - the seat of the arbitration. Pressed by its shareholders — some of whom are big global investors — Cairn is seeking to recover the award by confiscating assets and bank accounts of state-owned entities in foreign countries. “The (arbitration) award is registered and either recognised or soon to be recognised in several countries, and Cairn will continue to ramp up enforcement proceedings around the world to pursue the value of the award for its international shareholders,” he said. He, however, refused to either name the companies that Cairn will target or the countries where lawsuits will be filed. Cairn has already got the arbitration award registered and recognised in the US, the UK, Netherlands, France, Canada and Singapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cabinet secretary-led panel holds crucial meeting on bank privatisation||Inching a step closer to the privatisation of two public sector banks, a high-level panel headed by the cabinet secretary recently held a meeting to thrash out various regulatory and administrative issues so that the proposal could be placed with the group of ministers on disinvestment or Alternative Mechanism (AM) for approval. Following the announcement made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her 2021 budget speech, the Niti Aayog has suggested a couple of bank names for privatisation to the core group of secretaries on disinvestment headed by the cabinet secretary in April, sources said. Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank are reported to be probable candidates for privatisation. The meeting of the high-level panel deliberated on the recommendation of Niti Aayog on June 24, sources said, adding the panel would after tying up all the loose ends will send the names of the shortlisted PSU banks to AM for consideration. Headed by the cabinet secretary, the members of the panel include secretaries in the departments of economic affairs, revenue, expenditure, corporate affairs and legal affairs, as well as the secretary of administrative department. The panel also has secretaries in the department of public enterprises and the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) as its members. According to sources, the panel also examined issues pertaining to the protection of interests of workers of banks which are likely to be privatised. Following a clearance from AM, it will go to the Union cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for the final nod. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one insurance company, during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Cabinet ready to clear bad bank proposal with govt guarantee of Rs 31,000 crore||The Union Cabinet is likely to clear the proposal to set up a bad bank — National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) — with a government guarantee of about Rs 31,000 crore. Sources said the proposal, announced in the budget, could be taken up at the meeting of the council of ministers this week as the plan is to start work on the formal structures of the bank from next month. They said the actual transfer of NPAs from the banks to NARCL would take place by the end of this fiscal. Banks have reviewed 101 non-performing assets (NPAs) in the first phase and now plan to transfer 22 accounts amounting to roughly Rs 89,000 crore to the bad bank. Punjab National Bank managing director S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao has said the bank has identified stressed assets worth Rs 8,000 crore in its book for transfer to this asset reconstruction company. The PNB managing director expects the bad bank to be operational from July this year. “We are expecting everything to be put in place by June 30 and from July 1 onwards things will start functioning. The Indian Banks Association has already indicated this,” Rao added. Public sector banks together are expected to pick up a 51 per cent stake in the bad bank. Rao said that PNB shareholding will be less than 10 per cent. The bad bank was initially proposed by the Indian Banks Association, and later endorsed by the government in the budget. In her budget this year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said an asset reconstruction company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt of PSU banks that will enable them to clean up their books. It will then manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she added. Security receipts National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL) will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is loss against the threshold value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
28-06-2021||Business||Borrow wisely: Options to consider for borrowing in pandemic-affected times||Ongoing economic and pandemic-related challenges have pushed household finances to the brink for many. Many have had to dip into savings to meet ends; many others have had to borrow. Borrowing is relatively straightforward for the privileged few whose incomes have been stable through the pandemic. The borrower’s financial stability assures lenders that their loans will be repaid on time. But for those without stable income or a good credit history, opening a new line of credit is relatively tougher. The income instability signals to lenders that you may struggle with your repayment, and the weak credit history says you’ve had problems with loan payments before. A stable income and a good credit score allow you to borrow at low interest rates. If you don’t have these, you could still borrow — but the rules of the game change. Here are some options you could consider as you look to borrow in these pandemic-affected times. Personal loans These are term loans without any collateral or guarantees, typically given to borrowers with steady incomes and good credit scores upwards of 750. The bank where you have your salary account has most likely already created a pre-approved offer for you. You could contact the bank, access your netbanking website or app, or check loan aggregator platforms to know about your pre-approved offers. You’ll need to meet the lender’s eligibility criteria such as stable income through salary or pension above a defined limit (for example Rs 30,000 a month). If your credit score is low, you could still get a personal loan. However, your may have to pay a much higher rate of interest. Covid loans Several public sector banks have created unsecured loans for customers looking for liquidity to deal with their Covid-related problems. One large government bank has, for example, announced a loan of up to Rs 5 lakh with a three-month moratorium. The repayment needs to be done in 57 months after the moratorium. The loan is given to salaried and non-salaried bank customers or pensioners who’ve had covid cases in their family after April 1, 2021. This is a collateral-free loan aimed at making it easy for Covid-impacted borrowers to meet their medical expenses. Credit card borrowings A credit card is a versatile credit line. During a financial crunch, you could meet short-term needs by shopping with your card and paying only minimum dues (normally 5 per cent of the total outstanding). Once you have liquidity, pay your dues as a lump sum. Don’t forget that the interest rate on your credit card (3-4 per cent a month) is much higher than a personal loan (typically 9-24 per cent per annum). Therefore, quick repayment is key to stop the snowballing of debt. If you don’t have a credit card but have a good credit score and stable income, you can apply for one with a preferred bank after due comparison of features. If you don’t have stable income or a good credit score, you could take a card against a fixed deposit with a spending limit of up to 90 per cent of the deposit. Home loan top-up This is a smart way of borrowing but often overlooked. If you have an ongoing home loan towards which your payments have been regular, you could approach your lender for a top-up loan. This would allow you to borrow over and above the home loan through the same loan account. The advantage? You’re borrowing from the same lender and, therefore, can avoid much paperwork. Being a secured loan, it’s also cheaper than a personal loan or credit card debt. For example, a large private lender sells home loans at 6.75 per cent and home loan top-ups at 7.60 per cent. With this, you have a single consolidated, low-cost loan that will be easier for you to manage. Loans against property Loans can be taken against fixed deposits, shares, mutual funds, gold, and immovable assets. These are typically for borrowers with unstable incomes or poor credit scores which make it tougher for them to get other kinds of loans. When the borrower provides a security, the risks to the lender reduce. If the borrower is unable to repay his dues, the lender can simply liquidate the security to recover them. Each lender, be it a bank or a non-banking financial company, has its own terms and conditions. Against gold and fixed deposits, it may be possible to get up to 90 per cent of the asset’s value as loan. With market-linked securities such as gold, mutual funds, and shares, a fall in prices would lead to an increase in the margin money requirement, which you’ll have to fulfill. With any loan — secured or unsecured — there is the obligation to repay in full. In collateralised loans such as gold loans, non-payment can lead to forfeiture of the security. Full and timely repayment would help your credit score, making future borrowings easier. A loan could meet your funding requirement and can bail you out of an emergency. However, irregular repayments could complicate matters and deteriorate your financial health. So carefully compare your options and evaluate the affordability of repayments before taking a decision. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-8
