29-06-2021||Business||Google most attractive employment brand, finds study||Technology giant Google India has emerged as the most attractive employer brand', followed by Amazon India and Microsoft India, says a survey. According to the findings of Randstad Employer Brand Research (REBR) 2021, Google India scored high on financial health, strong reputation, and attractive salary and benefits parameters -- the top three Employee Value Proposition (EVP) drivers. Amazon India emerged as the runner-up, followed by Microsoft India. Others in the top 10 most attractive employer brands in India for 2021 include Infosys Technologies at fourth place, Tata Steel (5th), Dell Technologies Ltd (6th), IBM (7th), Tata Consultancy Services (8th), Wipro (9th), and Sony (10th). Moreover, the survey findings this year reflect a shift in employee sentiments, where work-life balance has taken center stage, making it as important as financial compensation while selecting an employer. The research captures the views of over 1,90,000 respondents (general public, aged 18-65) on 6,493 companies in 34 countries. It provides insights into the perceptions and drivers of choice of potential employees. The research revealed that in 2021 too, work-life balance (65 per cent) trumps attractive salary and benefits (62 per cent), as the most important driver for the Indian job seekers while choosing an employer. This is followed by a COVID-19 compliant work environment (61 per cent) and job security (61 per cent). "The parameters they (job seekers) consider while choosing an employer are truly evolving over the last few years, especially post the pandemic, hence the idea of employer branding itself has gone through a drastic transformation," Viswanath PS, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Randstad India said. Now, these job seekers are more likely to accept jobs and stay in those organisations where they are valued, supported with compassion, and where the culture aligns with their own beliefs and purpose, he added. "In the coming years, we foresee a clear trend of employees seeking benefits beyond monetary aspects and attributing more importance to other EVP drivers like provision for full-time remote work, a COVID safe environment at physical workspaces, mental wellness support, etc," he said. The survey noted that the good reputation of the employer along with the financial health of the organisation were considered key factors for both male and female respondents. A higher percentage of female respondents (54 per cent) also accorded more importance to the possibility of working remotely/from home compared to their male (49 per cent) counterparts. The survey further noted that 21 per cent of Indian employees changed their employer in the last half of 2020 and 36 per cent intend to switch employers in the first half of 2021 and this behaviour is more so for those employees aged 25 to 34. Additionally, 21 per cent of those affected by COVID changed their employer in the past six months. Around 66 per cent of white-collar employees consider attractive salaries and benefits almost of equal importance to strong management (67 per cent) and job security (67 per cent). In terms of blue-collar workers, 64 per cent of them consider a COVID-19 safe work environment as the most important driver. This is different from the average employee who considers work-life balance the most important driver while choosing an employer, the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
29-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 186 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 186 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Infosys as investors booked profits at higher levels. The 30-share BSE index ended 185.93 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,549.66. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 66.25 points or 0.42 per cent to 15,748.45. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, Mahindra and Mahindra, SBI and Axis Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, HUL, NTPC, Dr Reddy's and Nestle India were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended losses as profit-booking in financials, auto and metals dragged benchmark indices down. Weak cues from global markets also weighed on sentiments, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.27 per cent lower at USD 73.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Cabinet may soon clear proposal for government guarantee on bad loans ||The Union Cabinet may soon clear a proposal to provide a government guarantee to security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of the resolution of bad loans. Indian Banks' Association (IBA), entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has pegged the government guarantee to be around Rs 31,000 crore. The proposed bad bank or NARCL will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is a loss against the threshold value. According to sources, the proposal is before the Cabinet and its nod is required to extend the sovereign guarantee to security receipts issued by NARCL. Approval from the Cabinet that is expected soon will pave the way for operationalisation of the bad bank announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget this year, the sources added. The Finance Minister in Budget 2021-22 announced that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up the bank books. "An Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt," she had said in the Budget speech. It will then manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she had said. Last year, IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard. Meanwhile, state-owned Canara Bank has expressed its intent to be the lead sponsor of NARCL with a 12 per cent stake. The proposed NARCL would be 51 per cent owned by PSBs and the remaining by private sector lenders. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders. The lead bank with an offer in hand of NARCL will go for a 'Swiss Challenge' wherein other asset reconstruction players will be invited to better the offer made by a chosen bidder for finding a higher valuation of a non-performing asset on sale. The company has picked up those assets that are 100 per cent provided for by the lenders. Banks have identified around 22 bad loans worth Rs 89,000 crore to be transferred to NARCL in the initial phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Upliftment of Indian Modern-Agro Businesses by Rana Kapoor||Yes Bank under the leadership of Rana Kapoor provided support to the Indian agricultural sector, forged partnerships to promote organic farming and customized fintech products for the industry YES BANK is a high-quality, customer-centric, and service-driven bank that has grown from inception in 2004 to now provide a complete range of products, services, and technology-driven digital offerings, catering to corporate, MSME & retail customers. Headquartered in Mumbai, it's a pan-India presence across all twenty-eight states and nine Union Territories in Bharat together with an IBU at GIFT City, and a Representative workplace in Abu Dhabi. Under Rana Kapoor’s leadership, Agri and Food Business has been a key focus sector for Yes Bank. Yes Bank has successfully fostered the holistic development of India’s Food and Agribusiness sector by providing comprehensive banking solutions driven by strong knowledge expertise since inception. Moreover, the bank has emerged as a leading knowledge resource in this sector by providing innovative advisory services and detailed research reports. In 2007, Rana Kapoor drove the bank towards entering into a partnership with the Agriculture Insurance Company of India (AIC) with the motive to distribute agriculture insurance products to its customers which included crop insurance products and weather derivatives to protect the farmers. Working along the same lines, Yes Bank launched Yes Joint Liability Group (JLG, an initiative to provide banking services and products to people, especially in the rural and the semi-urban areas of India. Following the methodology of Joint Liability Group, it strives to provide term loans to its members, for the purpose of empowering their income generation and social development. The bank cooperates with NBFCs and other institutions to provide direct financing to this target group. These institutions have extensive networks in India and cover the most deprived and economically disadvantaged people. Moreover, Yes Bank has backed and collaborated on R&D projects, National Skills Foundation of India, which have resulted in innovations like Grain Moisture Detection, Agricultural Drone Sprayer, Agrisk Data Analytics. India has always been agriculture driven nation and even after 75 years of independence, the agriculture sector continues to be the dominant sector of employment with almost 50% of the working population employed in agriculture. It also contributes about 20% to the Indian GDP and stood as the only sector that reported a positive growth during the COVID-19 pandemic. In today’s modern day and age, the agricultural sector needs constant evolution and upgradation through latest technologies like Internet of Things (IoT), Smart Sensors, Agricultural Robots, and Satellite Imagery. The gaps in the operation style of agriculture sector and resources available have been filled with customised financial products from Yes Bank. Rana Kapoor ushered in the usage of cutting-edge technology in banking and specialised products for the agricultural sector of India by building customized fintech solutions to meet the needs of this sector. In Maharashtra, the bank also cooperated with the government to initiate a yellow revolution to increase egg production. In addition to State Governments, Yes Bank under Rana Kapoor worked closely with other Government Ministries such as Food Processing, Agriculture, Commerce & Industry to catalyze the investment ecosystem and on several key policy initiatives of national importance. The long history of Rana Kapoor’s immense contribution to the agricultural sector has been recognised and applauded across the nation. His expertise in finance and agriculture also got him acknowledgment from GB Pant University – the institution behind India’s Green Revolution. In May 2011, he was awarded a Doctorate in Science from GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology for his contribution to the food and agribusiness sector in India through innovative banking for farmers and agribusiness entrepreneurs. With his knowledge-driven approach and intensive efforts, he has been instrumental in promoting agriculture and ancillary sectors such as agri-tourism and has continued the legacy of the Green Revolution in the 21st century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on flat note amid mixed global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a flat note on Tuesday tracking a mixed trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 22.82 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,758.41 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 7.45 points or 0.05 per cent up to 15,822.15.

Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, L&T, TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and ITC.

On the other hand, ICICI Bank, M&M, HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and Infosys were among the laggards.

In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 189.45 points or 0.36 per cent lower at 52,735.59, while Nifty settled 45.65 points or 0.29 per cent down at 15,814.70.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,658.72 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.

According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be flat as of now.

The slew of measures by Finance Minister on Monday to spur economic activities augurs well, he said, adding that the increase in allocation for Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme from Rs 3 trillion to Rs 4.5 trillion is a fantastic move to support the pandemic-hit sectors and ensure liquidity, which also offers comfort to banks.

Notably, a sharp fall in daily caseload and satisfactory ramp up in vaccination process have overshadowed concerns emerging from higher crude prices and weakening rupee, he said.

As per V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the strongest headwind for the market now is the continuous FII selling which is logical in the context of the high valuations.

"With strong DII buying (worth Rs 1,277.08 crore on Monday) and over-confident retail activity, FIIs are now in a position to sell aggressively without pulling the markets down significantly."

On the global front, US stocks ended higher with S&P 500 and Nasdaq recording fresh highs.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent lower at USD 73.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||SC does not stay NCLAT order for revival of Incab Industries||The Supreme Court did not stay the NCLAT order that had mandated the revival of cable company Incab Industries instead of sending it for liquidation. Kamla Mills, one of the top financial creditors of the ailing company, and Shashi Agarwal, who was removed from the position of the resolution professional (RP) of Incab by the appellate authority, had moved the apex court challenging the June 4 order of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). Even as the appellants pressed for the stay of the NCLAT order, Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Sanjiv Khanna of the apex court did not grant it but agreed to hear the matter. Advocates representing some workmen from Jamshedpur and Calcutta said the bench had observed that the NCLAT had passed a reasoned order. Rishav Banerjee and Akhilesh Srivastava, who represented workmen of Incab headquarters in Calcutta and its plant in Jamshedpur, respectively, opposed the prayer of a stay and pressed that the resolution process should continue. The NCLAT had directed that the Calcutta Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) appoint a new RP who would collate all the claims submitted by the creditors and form a committee of creditors. However, Kamla Mills and one Fasqua Investment Pvt Ltd would not be part of the CoC. The NCLT, Calcutta had ordered liquidation of Incab, which was set aside by the NCLAT. Kamla Mills, which was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on Monday, had claimed that Incab owed Rs 1,554 crore to it. Kamla Mills was part of the CoC with a little over 77 per cent vote share. Fasqua had a 13.28 per cent vote share in the CoC. Kamla Mills argued that its appeal would be rendered futile without a stay as the revival process would continue without it being part of the CoC. Advocates of the workmen had argued before the NCLAT that Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investment are ‘related parties’ and they should not be part of the CoC. The appellate authority had observed that the RP had formed the CoC without verifying the claims of financial creditors. The CoC had then voted in favour of liquidation of the company, which was later approved by the NCLT, Calcutta but overturned at the NCLAT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Export target of $400-billion for current fiscal bit ambitious: Fieo||The $400-billion export target for the current fiscal is a bit ambitious but can be achieved with aggressive marketing and venturing into new markets, according to exporters’ body Fieo. The foreign trade agreements (FTAs) would help in boosting shipments. “The target seems a  ambitious but achievable. My priority will be export promotion. I will create an export promotion cell to identify new markets and new products,” Fieo president A. Sakthivel told reporters. He said the free trade agreements with countries, including the UK, Europe, Australia and the US, would help further push the country’s exports. The marketing push may come from these agreements and such pacts will also help in attracting foreign investments, particularly those looking at both the Indian market and exports. ‘One of the reasons for the success of Vietnam in attracting investment and relocating units is its effective FTAs (free trade agreement) with the rest of the world. It is extremely encouraging that the government is moving simultaneously with many trade partners in this direction,” the newly elected president said. He urged both industry and the government to increase their marketing budget. Sakthivel suggested that the government should look to raise the market access initiative funds from the current Rs 200 crore. A marketing scheme to take exports to $1 trillion in the next five years may be rolled in with a minimum corpus of Rs 1,000 crore annually. Reacting to the economic package announced by the government, the FIEO president said “the Rs 33,000 crore for Project Exports will facilitate both goods and services  as many economies are opening up with large investment to propel exports from India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||July most conducive time to hold CA exams, ICAI tells Supreme Court||ICAI told the Supreme Court on Monday that July is the most conducive time to hold CA exams as the Covid-19 spread is now at a substantially low level, offering an opportune moment for chartered accountants to further their professional career. The CA examinations, which are conducted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in May, were postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and are now scheduled to be held from July 5-20. ICAI told the top court that as on date, the numbers of Covid-19 cases are comparatively low and thus it would be in the best interests of the candidates if the examinations are held according to the revised schedule and not cancelled or postponed. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said that as it has not received the ICAI note, it will hear the matter on Tuesday. The top court is hearing a batch of pleas seeking different reliefs, including an opt-out option for the candidates, postponement of the exam, and increase in the number of centres this year. At the outset, senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the ICAI, said they have circulated a note which if taken into consideration deals with some of the issues raised in the petitions. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for one of the petitioners, said they are not seeking deferment but want more centres to be given as many of them have been unilaterally closed by ICAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business||Sebi keeps in abeyance processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for IPO||Markets regulator Sebi has kept in abeyance the processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for an initial public offer worth Rs 3,600 crore. Go Airlines (India) Ltd, which has announced a plan to rebrand itself as ‘Go First’, filed preliminary papers for an initial share sale in May. The proceeds will be mainly used to repay dues. The “issuance of observations (has been) kept in abeyance”, according to Sebi's latest update on processing status of Go Airlines’ draft offer documents. The information was updated on June 25.  In Sebi parlance, issuance of observations implies its go-ahead for the IPO. SpiceJet plan No-frills carrier SpiceJet plans to raise funds through issuance of equity shares or debt instruments and the proposal will be discussed at its board meeting on Wednesday. In a regulatory filing late on Sunday, SpiceJet said its board of directors will consider “options for raising fresh capital through issue of equity shares/debt instrument on preferential/qualified institutions placement basis” at the scheduled meeting on June 30. SpiceJet shares gained over 2 per cent to close at Rs 79.65 on the BSE on Monday. Aditya Birla Sun Life Sebi has kept proposed initial share-sale of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC in “abeyance”, an update with the watchdog showed on Monday. However, the regulator did not clarify further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| Bajaj Finance Ltd develops wallet application called Bajaj Pay||Bajaj Finance Ltd has developed a wallet application called Bajaj Pay and is on course to come out with an integrated payment solution for merchants. The non-banking finance company (NBFC) is also developing five proprietary marketplaces to provide various options to customers to buy financial products and services. These initiatives are part of its business transformation to focus on building an omnichannel model to deliver significant business velocity, reduce operating costs and improve customer experience, the NBFC said in its annual report for 2020-21. In May this year, BFL had received the Reserve Bank of India’s approval for the digital wallet business. The company added that after receiving the nod, it has developed a wallet application called Bajaj Pay which will offer an integrated payment solution comprising UPI, EMI cards and credit cards to its customers. The payment solution for its 98,300 merchants — also named Bajaj Pay — is expected to expand its market share. Bajaj Finance disclosed that it is also planning to join hands with more than 25 adjunct app ecosystems which have related products or service offerings. At present, Bajaj Finance focuses on six broad categories — consumer lending, SME lending, commercial lending, rural lending, deposits and partnerships and services. In his communication to shareholders, chairman Sanjiv Bajaj said as the first wave started to abate, the company accelerated its business by focusing on customers less susceptible to the economic consequences of the pandemic. He added that BFL utilised this crisis to rapidly grow the transformational journey it started in the third quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| Securities Appellate Tribunal stays Sebi order on Franklin Templeton||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday stayed the June 7 order of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) barring Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd from launching any new debt scheme for two years. In an interim order, the tribunal also asked the fund house to deposit Rs 250 crore in three weeks as it felt that the market regulator’s direction to deposit Rs 512.50 crore was “excessive” at this stage. This will be, however, subject to the result of the appeal. Sebi in its order had asked Franklin Templeton to refund investment management and advisory fees of Rs 512.50 crore and pay a penalty of Rs 5 crore. The matter will be heard again for final disposal on August 30. Franklin Templeton MF had shut six debt schemes on April 23, 2020 citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes — Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund — had an estimated Rs 25,000 crore as assets under management. Sebi in its order found that Franklin Templeton MF had “committed serious lapses/violations with regard to scheme categorisation (by replicating high–risk strategy across several schemes) and calculation of Macaulay duration (to push long term papers into short duration schemes)’’. It also committed violations in respect of non–exercise of exit options in the face of an emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, the regulator had noted. “We find that the appellant (Franklin Templeton MF) has been in this business for more than two decades and some of the schemes have been in existence for more than 10 years. No complaints whatsoever have come on record to indicate the poor management of the schemes by the appellant. “We have been informed that the appellants were running 48 equity and debt schemes out of which 28 were debt schemes and as on date six schemes have been wound up by the appellant and, therefore, 21 debt schemes are still running,’’ the division bench of Justice Tarun Agarwala and Justice M.T. Joshi said in the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-6
29-06-2021||Business|| India’s attempts to list its sovereign bonds on global bond indices stuck||India’s attempts to list its sovereign bonds on global bond indices are stuck because of “niggling issues”, Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic adviser to the finance ministry, has said. The Centre, which has been looking to list these bonds for quite some time now, expects to do it during this fiscal as it wants to broaden the investor base and lower borrowing costs, he said. There are large global institutional investors who track indices such as the Bloomberg Barclays Emerging Market Bond index or the JP Morgan Emerging Bond index. In the current fiscal, the government is set to borrow over Rs 12 lakh crore and it is expected to stay at high levels even in the next fiscal. In an interview to Bloomberg Quint, Sanyal said there are certain niggling issues that have to be sorted before the Union government can list the domestic securities on such global bond indices. “We are putting together various micro-structures for it...Euroclear and all that is getting done. The bond indices people are also examining it... if they come back and tell us there is more to be done, we will look at that,’’ he added. For such a listing to happen, the domestic bonds should become eligible for settlement through Euroclear — a platform which settles international securities transactions. A key challenge is whether capital gains tax should be levied if there is a transaction between two non-residents. Earlier this year, a PTI report quoting economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said the inclusion should happen in the second half of this fiscal and some specified securities which will be listed on the indices will not have any lock-in requirement. Last year, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had opened certain specified categories of government securities for non-resident investors as part of an initiative to deepen the bond market. In a notification, the central bank had said that a separate route called the Fully Accessible Route (FAR) for investment by non-residents in securities issued by the government of India has been set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
29-06-2021||Business||Mismatch between credit and deposit growth rates hurting banks ||A mismatch between credit and deposit growth rates is hurting banks who are finding no fresh investment commitments in the private sector to turn around the low credit demand. The rise in overall deposits of scheduled commercial banks as of March 2021 stood at 12.3 per cent year-on-year, significantly outpacing the credit growth of 5.6 per cent, thus putting pressure on the margins. The slowdown in credit growth, according to Care Ratings, reflects a degree of risk aversion with banks being selective in giving fresh loans  to the corporate segment. The borrowers, too, are unwilling to raise debt. “The real challenge for the banking sector is on one hand there is deposit growth and on the other hand it is not able to grow significantly on the credit side and that hurts,” V.S. Radhakrishnan, deputy managing director, SBI, said at a Merchants Chamber of Commerce & Industry event on Monday. “Credit offtake is a matter of concern in the banking industry. There is a huge slowdown in fresh capex commitments by the private sector. Scaling down and deferring of capex is happening in a big way,” said Radhakrishnan. He added that corporates are also looking to deleverage balance sheets through various measures, such as accessing the equity market, selling non-core assets and using internal cash to pay off debt. A study of SBI’s economic research wing analysed the data of more than 1,000 listed companies in 2020-21 and found more than Rs 1.7 lakh crore of debt was reduced during the pandemic year. At the same time primary issuance of bonds increased 9 per cent. Radhakrishnan said even as there is a degree of uncertainty among lenders in assessing the risks of certain businesses, there is a short-term concern among banks in lending to PSUs at very low rates, resulting in profitability taking a beating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
29-06-2021||Business||Covid: Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 6.28 lakh cr relief package||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Rs 6.28-lakh-crore relief package — laden with loan guarantees, previous expenditure announcements and insurance support, which mean little by way of fresh expenditure proposals — was just what the doctor did not order to revive an economy devastated by the twin waves of the coronavirus, with experts warning of a third wave making its way towards the economy. None of the major proposals of industry chamber CII found their way in the FM’'s package announced Monday. Newly elected CII chief T.V. Narendran had estimated that there was fiscal headroom of up to Rs 3 lakh crore and this amount could be channelised towards direct cash transfers to the vulnerable people, higher allocation to the rural job scheme, short-term Goods and Services Tax (GST) rate cuts and lower excise duty on fuel. Plans in wraps The finance minister did not indicate whether the relief package was a part of a series of stimulus measures to be announced in the coming days  or whether this was just a one-off measure. A week ago industry chamber PHDCCI had said  calibrated measures were needed to support the country's economic recovery and to diminish the daunting impact caused by the two waves of the coronavirus. “There is a need to re-fuel household consumption to enhance demand in the economy as it will have an accelerated effect on the expansion of capital investments in the country,” PHDCCI president Sanjay Aggarwal said. “These are not really new schemes but extensions that have the power to help growth over a period of time,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. The finance minister used the occasion to shoe-horn a budget proposal on power sector revamp within the relief package announced Monday. Sabnavis said the measures were more in the nature of medium-term reforms that will help farmers, exporters, power sector and manufacturing. Unlike advanced economies, which offered huge stimulus packages for households, India has relied on pumping more state funds into infrastructure, state guarantees on bank loans to pandemic-hit businesses and free foodgrain for the poor. “Most of the fiscal support is still below the line and in the form of loan guarantees, and not direct stimulus,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Emkay Global Financial Services, told Reuters. She said that given the limited efficacy of monetary easing, continued countercyclical fiscal policy support — and avoiding a premature consolidation — remained crucial. Muted reaction The government’s fresh stimulus measures failed to lift investor spirits with the BSE Sensex closing 189 points lower after hitting record levels earlier during the day. Though the benchmark indices were in a negative territory ahead of Sitharaman’s announcement which came towards the end of the trading session, it could not turn the tide. Views remain divided with some experts opining that the actual reaction may be seen on Tuesday when investors would have analysed the steps. There are others who feel that since expectations were not high in the run-up to the stimulus package, stocks movement will be determined by other factors such as the spread of virus, vaccination roll-out and corporate earnings. After touching a life-time high of 53126, the Sensex ended the day at 52735.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-7
