30-06-2021||Business||MZero Set to Revolutionize Purchasing Potential for Massive Retail Revolution ||Cryptocurrencies have reached the highest point by introducing tokenization which revolutionized many sectors like gaming, pharma, data, real estate, and supply-chain. As a result, in 2021, the market hit $2 trillion - with DeFi solely contributing $80 billion to the market. However, adoption hasn’t been able to keep pace with the growth. To this day, most users see crypto as a tool for investment only. Though DeFi introduced many concepts existing in centralized finance minus the intermediaries, it has ended as a technology for nerds, stifling massive retail adoption. MassDeFi, a decentralized lending and borrowing protocol, has revolutionized the DeFi and CeFi space by acting as a bridge connecting the two financial worlds for a massive retail revolution. Consumer Expenditure Model Evolving Under Decentralization At the moment, when the perception has been built for cryptocurrencies to be treated as an investment instrument, MassDeFi, through MZero, has introduced a revolutionary concept to drive retail adoption. To explain the MZero product and the upside it grants to users, you need to first compare it with a typical credit card or other zero interest credit buying opportunities available. All of these credit buying solutions lock your resources for a specific period. For example, while buying through a credit card, your credit limit equalling the purchase amount will be blocked. Or, likewise, if you are availing direct-financial bodies for consumer purchases, they will give you a 0% interest facility but you cannot buy another necessity during the loan period. MassDeFi’s MZero coupons are pegged against the cryptos you submit in their collateral vault. Once you get these coupons, they can be used at POS, e-Commerce stores, or other checkpoints for purchase. The upside of the MZero coupon is your assets are frozen only till the time you pay the principal amount with interest. Meaning, the borrower can withdraw the asset midway of the contract by paying the interest computed on a pro-rata basis. Thus, if users/borrowers/loaner see an upside in the market, there is full liberty given to them  to withdraw their assets from the collateral vault and sell the same in the open market. Hence, monetizing their expenses. This advantage has set a precedent to drive a massive retail adoption where over 100 million cryptocurrency holders, who might not be banked, can enjoy benefits of loans and financing along with investment. These upsides are hard to come in a centralized financing system where prior financial records are necessary to get credit purchases. Rishabh Gupta, the CEO of MassDeFi says, “Cryptocurrency is more than just an investable instrument. The true value of a currency can only be realised when it can be used to fulfill real life needs such as paying for utilities, shopping etc. But considering the upside potential crypto assets have, the ecosystem needed a solution where the user can retain the ownership of the asset while they are spending it to avail facilities. That’s exactly what the M-Zero product of Mass Defi offers. Through our partnerships with gift card partners, POS partners M-Zero brings to you a 0% interest loan for your spending needs against your crypto assets as a collateral. We have already signed partnerships with partners that have their network of merchants across 200 nations. Bottom Line At the moment, the centralized financial system has a lot of bottlenecks that have not been identified and innovative yet. Through DeFi, the global consumer market could for the first time experience new ways of financing and getting economically empowered. Protocols that support staking, yield farming, borrowing, and lending have broadened the scope, but a massive retail revolution will happen when you use crypto for buying even candies which MassDeFi has introduced through its diverse range of products with MZero being one of them. Follow Us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/DefiMass||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sensex ends 67 points lower amid profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex surrendered early gains to end 67 points lower on Wednesday as investors booked profits at higher levels amid a largely negative trend in global markets. After rallying nearly 400 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to settle 66.95 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 52,482.71. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 26.95 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,721.50. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC, NTPC, HUL and L&T. On the other hand, Infosys, Reliance Industries, Nestle India and Martui were among the gainers. "Domestic benchmark indices gave up gains towards the final session as continued profit-booking in financials dragged markets," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, buying was visible in IT, metals and auto companies, while pharma broadly remained resilient. Further, RIL also aided market to arrest the fall. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks continued to outperform broader indices, he said, adding that volatility index corrected marginally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul closed with gains. Equities in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.79 per cent higher at USD 74.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday led by gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and Maruti amid a positive trend in global markets.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 200.35 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 52,750.01 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 60.15 points or 0.38 per cent up to 15,808.60.

Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Titan, Infosys, Tata Steel, M&M, Asian Paints and Nestle India.

On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank and HUL were among the laggards.

In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 185.93 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,549.66, and Nifty tumbled 66.25 points or 0.42 per cent to 15,748.45.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 116.63 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.

"Market mood is changing fast. The major positives for the market now are the steadily declining fresh COVID cases (around 37,000 on Tuesday) and fast-rising vaccinations, which will facilitate further easing of restrictions and rebound in economic activity," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.

The fact that FIIs have ceased selling and the DIIs have turned aggressive buyers is a strong positive. Therefore, it is quite possible that the market may again favour the bulls and the 'buy on dips strategy' may resume, he stated.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.

Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in the overnight session.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.43 per cent higher at USD 74.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Nalco profit up nine-fold at Rs 935.74 crore for quarter ended March 31, 2021||National Aluminium Company Ltd (Nalco) has reported a nine-fold rise in consolidated profit at Rs 935.74 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, helped by a strong operational performance and favourable prices. The company had posted a consolidated profit of Rs 100.51 crore in the year-ago period. Consolidated income increased to Rs 2,874.47 crore from Rs 2,042.27 crore a year ago. “After the peak period of Covid-19 outbreak and with the opening of the markets, we witnessed a significant recovery in the second half of 2020-21,” Nalco chairman and managing director Sridhar Patra said. “With further easing of restrictions, we are hopeful of a robust growth in the long run with our focus on increasing the production in mining and refining segments and opening up of the new coal blocks, he said. In 2020-21, Nalco achieved the highest ever production of bauxite at 73.65 lakh tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Bharti Group to invest additional $500 million into OneWeb ||Bharti will invest an additional $500 million (over Rs 3,700 crore) into OneWeb to become the largest shareholder in the satellite communications company that billionaire Sunil Mittal-run Bharti Group along with the UK government had rescued from bankruptcy last year. The investment is a result of exercise of a ‘call option’ by Bharti. On completion of the transaction and with Eutelsat’s $550 million investment, Bharti will hold 38.6 per cent. The UK government, Eutelsat and SoftBank will each own 19.3 per cent, OneWeb said in a statement. The transaction is expected to be completed in the second half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval. “OneWeb, the global low-earth orbit (LEO) satellite communications company, has secured further fundraising on the anniversary of the successful bid by the UK government and Bharti Global (Bharti) to purchase OneWeb from US Chapter 11 to bring its total funding to $2.4 billion,” OneWeb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Facebook to publish interim report on July 2 on messages or posts it removed between May 15-June 15||Social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it will publish an interim report on July 2 as mandated by the IT rules and provide information on the number of messages or posts it has removed between May 15 and June 15. A final report will be published on July 15, which will contain details of user complaints received and action taken by the US firm. “The report on July 15 will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is currently being validated,” a spokesperson of Facebook said. Last month, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology wrote to all significant social media intermediaries (SSMIs) with registered users in India requesting details of compliance under the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code), Rules, 2021. The new IT rules are designed to prevent misuse of digital platforms and provide registered users of these social media platforms with a robust grievance redressal option. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. The rules also require intermediaries to publish compliance reports every month mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken, links and information removed or disabled access through proactive monitoring. SSMIs, classified as those with over 50 lakh registered users in India, are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be residents of India. The government had said in February that there are 41 crore Facebook users in India. WhatsApp and Instagram have 53 crore and 21 crore users, respectively. There are 44.8 crore YouTube users, while 1.75 crore users access Twitter in India. A parliamentary panel on Tuesday asked Twitter to explain within 48 hours why it had blocked access of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to their accounts, sources said. The missive from the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, headed by Tharoor, came amid a continuous tussle between the microblogging platform and the Centre over various issues, including new IT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Sebi tightens rules for independent directors||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday tightened the rules regarding independent directors to improve corporate governance and check the influence of promoters in listed companies. At its board meeting, the market regulator also took a slew of other crucial decisions to reduce the subscription size in REITs and InvITs apart from making mutual funds more accountable when it comes to new fund offerings (NFOs). The regulator decided that the appointment, re-appointment and removal of independent directors (IDs) shall be done through a special resolution of shareholders. The nomination and remuneration committee, which picks the independent directors, have to make greater disclosures on the skills required for the director and how the director possesses the skills. The composition of the committee has been modified to include 2/3rd independent directors, instead of the existing requirement of majority of independent directors. There will be a one-year cooling period for an independent director transitioning to a whole-time director in the same company,  holding firm, subsidiary or any company belonging to the promoter group. Sebi also tightened rules for asset management companies (AMCs) to ensure that they have more “skin in the game”. Its step could lead to fund houses investing more in their NFOs (new fund offerings) depending on risk level. At present, AMCs have to make an investment of 1 per cent of the amount raised or Rs 50 lakh, whichever is less. Sebi also reduced the minimum application value to Rs 10,000-15,000 from Rs 55,000 in REITs and InvITs and the revised trading lot will be one unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries signs deal with Abu Dhabi National Oil Co to build chemical project in Ruwais||Reliance Industries has signed an agreement with Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc) to build a multi-billion-dollar chemical project in Ruwais, Abu Dhabi, marking the group’s first investment in a greenfield overseas project. Reliance, which operates the world’s biggest refining complex at Jamnagar, Gujarat, is becoming more international in its focus. Previously, it has bought stakes in some overseas explorations and manufacturing assets. “This is a significant step in globalising Reliance’s operations, and we are proud to partner with Adnoc in this important project for the region,” Mukesh Ambani, the chairman of Indian oil-to-telecom conglomerate, said in the statement. Last week, Ambani announced the appointment of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan as a director on Reliance’s board and said this is the “beginning of the internationalisation of Reliance”. The group hopes to formalise a deal to sell a 20 per cent stake to Aramco in its oil-to-chemical business. In a joint statement, Reliance and Adnoc said they expected final investment decisions for the projects and awards of related engineering contracts to be taken in 2022. The planned project at TA’ZIZ Industrial complex will have a capacity to produce 940,000 tonnes of chlor-alkali, 1.1 million tonnes of ethylene dichloride and 360,000 tonnes of PVC annually, the joint statement said. Reliance and Adnoc had signed a memorandum of understanding in 2019 to build an ethylene dichloride facility in Ruwais. Sources said one of the major drivers behind the joint venture is to capitalise on the huge demand of commodities such as PVC in India. They said the project would leverage the cheap raw material costs in the region. The project will be constructed in the TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone. It is expected to continue the momentum of Adnoc’s downstream and industry growth plans as part of which it is implementing petrochemical, refining and gas projects, with a number of projects recently completed across the downstream portfolio. In these projects, Adnoc is investing over AED (Dirham) 18 billion. Since 2018, it has also attracted significant foreign direct investment from international partners in the downstream business, including refining, fertilisers and gas pipelines. The TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone is a joint venture between ADNOC and ADQ — the state owned holding company. It was launched in November 2020. “We at Reliance are excited to enter into a strategic partnership with Adnoc for establishing a world-class and world-scale chemical project at TA’ZIZ in Ruwais,” Ambani said. “This important milestone further bolsters our long-standing relationship with Adnoc. It is also yet another testimony to the enormous potential in advancing India-UAE co-operation in value enhancement in the energy and petrochemicals sectors,’’ the Reliance MD said. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
30-06-2021||Business||Petrol cheapest in Calcutta at Rs 98.64 a litre||Motorists in Calcutta now pay the least among the four metro cities for petrol in the country. Delhi has traditionally been the city where it is most affordable to use personal vehicles and two-wheelers. However, after a Rs 0.34 a litre rise in prices on Tuesday, petrol now costs Rs 98.64 a litre in Calcutta, while it costs Rs 98.81 a litre in Delhi. A litre of the fuel now retails at Rs 104.9 in Mumbai and Rs 99.80 in Chennai. Oil industry veterans expect Chennai to become the second metro after Mumbai to hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark, followed by Delhi and Calcutta. “Unless the taxes are cut either by the state or the Centre or international prices cool off, petrol prices should cross Rs 100 a litre in all four metros in the first week of July,” an oil industry expert said. A number of tax tweaks in Delhi and Bengal over the last 15 months changed the historical price trend. In May 2020, the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had hiked the value added tax (VAT) on both petrol and diesel to shore up revenue amid the nationwide lockdown, which completely halted economic activity and dried up tax collection. After the restrictions were eased, the government rolled back VAT on diesel from 30 per cent to 16.75 per cent but the same was not done for petrol. It continues to attract a 30 per cent VAT, up from 27 per cent previously. In contrast, Bengal not only maintained the VAT on petrol and diesel, it actually cut prices by Re 1 on February 22 ahead of the Assembly elections in the state. As a result, the traditional gap between Delhi and Calcutta had narrowed and the latter overtook eventually. Bengal collects Re 1 a litre as cess from petrol as well as diesel. The price of diesel, however, continues to be the cheapest in Delhi among the four metros, followed by Calcutta. After a Rs 0.28 a litre hike overnight, diesel prices in Calcutta now stand at Rs 92.03 compared with Rs 89.18 a litre in Delhi and Rs 96.72 and Rs 93.72 a litre in Mumbai and Chennai, respectively. Bengal imposes a 25 per cent and a 17 per cent VAT on petrol and diesel, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-5
