01-01-2021||Jharkhand||State greets 2021 with prayers, hope and fun||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: state to conduct dry runs in three-four districts on Saturday||Medical officers and other staff of Jharkhand engaged with vaccinating people against Covid-19 will on Saturday conduct dry runs in Ranchi and four or five more districts on Saturday to gauge preparedness and fix loopholes ahead of the nationwide immunisation campaign. While the Union health ministry has called for dry runs across all state capitals, the Jharkhand health department has decided to conduct independent dry runs in more districts. Besides Ranchi, health department sources said, dry runs have been planned in Pakur, Palamau, East Singhbum and Chatra. “Deliberations are still on and the number of districts may increase or decrease by one. At each chosen site, a team of four officials will conduct dry runs in two-hour windows. Besides vaccination, we shall also be evaluating crowd handling capabilities at specific sites,” said an official. In Ranchi district, dry runs are expected to be conducted in five places, including Sadar Hospital and health centres in Bundu and Ratu and a few rural blocks. “Each vaccination booth will have three rooms—one for registration, the second for vaccination and the third for monitoring the patient for 30 minutes to an hour,” said an official of the district administration. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the purpose of the drive was to test the operational feasibility of Co-Win, a software application designed for the Ccovid-19 vaccination campaign, identify grey areas if any and plug gaps. “Once the Covid-19 vaccine is out, it will be a Herculean task to undertake safe immunisation. At the same time, it is equally important to adhere to all protocols and meet specified targets in a proper time frame. Hence, the government is initiating the drive to test the preparedness of all those tasked with vaccination work,” he said. The state health department has identified about a dozen areas for monitoring capabilities, including planning for vaccination, usage of Co-Win application, mapping of sites, uploading of data, deployment of vaccinators, mobilisation of logistics from the storage site to the designated centre. The state health department is understood to have prepared a panel of 7,000 vaccinators who have been provided training. This apart, the state has readied 275 cold chain points, while a state-level vaccine warehouse has been set up at  Namkum (Ranchi) in addition to existing  regional warehouses in Palamau and Deoghar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel thanks workers, doctors on New Year   ||Tata Steel welcomed the New Year on Friday with celebrations held across various locations in Jamshedpur. The steel major thanked front-line employees who have been at their workstations during the ongoing Covid crisis and to all doctors and health care workers who not only took care of the company but also served the community selflessly. “The collective response to the global health and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 has only strengthened the company’s core values in building a stronger Tata Steel that will serve the nation and communities at large better in the coming years,” said managing director of Tata Steel T.V. Narendran. New Year cake cutting functions organised at the general office lawns of the Jamshedpur works and Tata Main Hospital were graced by the MD, Tata Workers’ Union president R Ravi Prasad and other senior company officials. Some dignitaries joined the session virtually. All safety protocols were followed. “One year back we did not realise what an eventful year we had ahead of us, and in the last 12 months all of us, as corporates and individuals, have had to recalibrate ourselves to the new realities and reflect on what is really important in our professional and personal lives,” said Narendran in his new year message. On Day One of the New Year, temples across steel city witnessed a huge rush since early morning. Picnic spots Dimna Lake, Palna dam and Chandil dam witnessed a rush of picnickers as parks are yet to re-open. The district health department carried out rapid antigen tests at Dimna. Police were deployed in strategic locations and in picnic spots to keep a check on eve-teasing and petty crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia group pushes anti-pollution drive on New Year’s Day||A group of Jharia youth, led by speech therapist Aklaque Ahmad launched an awareness campaign on Friday to draw the attention of authorities regarding air pollution resulting from coal dust air due to various practices like open cast mining. The group, named Youth Concept, has been working on environmental issues since long. On Friday, it installed more than 25 flags, bearing messages from local residents to conserve the environment. A signature campaign was also carried out during the programme, which began at the heart of Jharia town at Katras More. Owner of Deshbandhu Talkies, Dhanbad’s oldest single-screen cinema hall, Gopal Agarwal, and president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti Murari Sharma were present during the campaign. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ahmad said, “The basic aim behind the programme was to highlight the urgency for taking steps to contain pollution in Dhanbad. It has been named among the 102 cities and towns of the country under the national clean air programme, where air pollution is to be reduced by 35 per cent within three years.” “The BCCL or the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation have taken no significant step despite promises of installing water sprinklers, green walling of the residential areas, ensuring coal transportation in covered vehicles among others,” Ahmad said. The speech therapist added that the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has not even utilised the Rs 3 crore fund to purchase dust sweeping machines. “We organised the programme to draw the attention of the concerned authorities towards the plight of Jharia residents and wrote their messages on flags,” Ahmad said. Messages like: “Jharia is most polluted town in the country, please take action about it” ; “pradushan ke karan logon ka swashya buri tarah prabhavit ho raha hai (pollution is causing ill-effect on our health)” ; “pradushan failakar BCCL hamare swasthya ke saath khilwad kar rahi hai (BCCL is playing with our health by polluting the environment)” ; “swagatam 2021 akhir  hamen kab milegi pradushan se mukti (Welcome 2021, but when will we get rid of pollution)” ; “Hemant uncle hamen pradushan se naye saal me mukti dilaiye (Hemant [Soren] uncle, get us rid of pollution this new year)” were displayed on flags to highlight the condition of the town. Meanwhile, over 50 people under the leadership of private tutor cum social worker Pinaki Roy took part in an oath-taking programme organised on the new year at Sabzi Bagan Primary School under the banner of Institution for national amity. It was done as part of their annual programme, during which they resolved to work throughout the year for the promotion amity among the people. Highlighting the aim of the programme, Roy said, “At a time when the nation is making progress, there should also be an effort to inculcate the feeling of patriotism among the masses so that they contribute to the progress of the nation.” “Holding such programmes like taking an oath in the name of the nation provides an opportunity for the propagation of nationalist values for which our forefathers have sacrificed their life,” added Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nurse found murdered, body partially burnt||The partially burnt body of a middle-aged nurse was found at her home in Kadma on Thursday night with police detaining a close acquaintance who visited her regularly as the prime suspect. The deceased, Anita Sharma (43), was working at Brahmananda Narayanan Multispeciality Hospital in Tamulia. She was staying on the first floor of Jayanti Apartment on Road No 3 in Ramnagar. Police said there were injury marks on her head, neck and face. Moreover, the body was partially burnt. "Someone murdered the nurse by hitting her head, neck and mouth. Later, the assailant tried to get the body burnt at the victim's flat,” said OC of Kadma police station Ranjit Kumar Singh. The OC said police were informed about the incident around 10.30pm on Thursday by a man who identified himself as Arvind Singh, a resident of Baghbera locality. “Later, we came to know that Arvind Singh (50) was in a live-in relationship with the deceased for the past six years," Singh told The Telegraph Online. The OC said police had detained Arvind Kumar Singh as he was a prime suspect. "We have detained Arvind because he is the person who used to keep visiting the victim's residence regularly. His replies to our queries are not satisfactory. He will remain in police custody for another day," the OC said. According to police, Anita divorced her husband, Sunil Singh, in 2002. She was living with Arvind Singh in her flat since 2014. Police have deployed finger-print experts at the scene of the crime. Anita’s body has been sent to MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem. "Let the suspect remain in police custody for another 24 hours.  We anticipate he will eventually divulge everything.  Moreover, the autopsy and finger-print reports are expected to come in a week. These will help us prove the case,” the OC added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Liquor truck mishap results in free alcohol for villagers on New Year's-eve||A liquor truck enroute to the Selatuwa government wine shop under the Chainpur Police Station of the Palamau district met with an accident on Thursday at the Semra village, when it hit an elderly man and toppled down right after that. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Palamau, K. Vijay Shankar, while talking about the incident, said as a result of the accident, packs of government wine got scattered on the road. While several bottles got destroyed, a good number of them remained intact and this gave the local villagers a chance to steal the alcohol lying on the road. Sources said a huge number of villagers gathered at the site and began collecting the bottles for New Year festivities, having never dreamt of such an opportunity. Ram Pukar, a passerby who was crossing the area, said there was sort of a competition among the villagers as to who could collect more numbers of bottles, with some villagers even asking their children to pick them up. Talking about the accident, Chainpur Police Station officer-in-charge Uday Kr. Gupta said that the man who was hit by the van was taken to a hospital. The driver and other members on board fled the scene, leaving the van abandoned there, he said. The liquor was lifted from Daltonganj to ship to the Salatuwa government wine shop, the OC said Gupta further informed that the police has registered a road accident case, while adding that the villagers were in a hurry to collect the free alcohol. Shankar said that the  invoice for the consignment of the wine was worth Rs 1.70 lakhs and the van was carrying 90 crates of alcohol. He explained that it was not illicit liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant appeals to PM, seeks more funds of homes of the poor  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren appealed for an increase in the central funding for the Light Houses Project, a Union government-aided scheme to provide homes for the economically weaker sections launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an online ceremony on New Year’s Day. Modi laid the foundation stone for the project in Ranchi and five other cities in the first phase on Friday. As many as 1,008 houses, some of them built using prefabricated structures, will come up in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on about seven acres with an estimated budget of Rs 133.99 crore. The other cities where similar houses will be built are Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow. As per the modalities of this scheme, besides the Centre’s and state's contribution, each beneficiary will have to pay about Rs 7 lakh to avail of the homes. Hemant believes the amount earmarked for individuals is beyond the reach of the poor. "PM sir, you are aware about the poverty in this state. Unlike the situation in other states, the poor in Jharkhand find it difficult to manage a day's meal. I am of the view that many won't be able to spend Rs 7 lakh. Considering the condition of Jharkhand, it is my humble appeal to increase the central share so that individual's investment amount can come down," he said in his address at the function. The Prime Minister, however, did not make any immediate commitment. State urban development department officials said that anyone earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum would be eligible for this scheme. On Thursday, director of municipal administration under the department Vijaya Jadhav said the idea behind the Light House Project was to provide state-of-the-art houses, built in record time using latest technology, at affordable rates. "In Ranchi, the houses will be built using prefabricated structures, most of which will first be constructed in workstations and brought here to customise as houses. The technology will make it easy to install houses also reduce environmental hazards,” she said. Jadhav said each house would be of 315sqfeet with a bedroom, kitchen, balcony and toilet. “There will also be water and power facilities, lifts, parks and other amenitie in the complex,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Revellers celebrate New Year on wasteland-turned-garden||More than a thousand people, out to celebrate new year, marked the day by visiting a mine wasteland situated 170 feet above the ground at Gondudih Colliery of Kusunda area of BCCL, on Friday. The celebrations at Brindavan Eco Park of the Colliery began at around 10 am, as revellers took selfies amid a wide variety of flowers, cooked meals on site, and playing badminton and other games. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the Venue, Sakshi Kumari, a private school teacher who came with her family to celebrate, said, “I have heard about the site from my relatives at Bhuli (Dhanbad) several times. Fortunately this year I am staying in Bhuli during this time and did not miss the opportunity and came here to celebrate the new year.” “The view of the site is really good and anybody who has not visited the place will not be able to believe that a wasteland situated on a great height can be developed into a beautiful park” said Kumari. Puja Kumari, a Bhuli resident who is pursuing her education in Ranchi, said, “As classroom teaching like other institutes is suspended at our institute and we are locked at our homes we decided to celebrate new year at the nearest place. So we arrived here this morning for the first time and found the place beautiful.” Puja said she and her close ones have been carrying masks and sanitisers, and were enjoying their time while following all the Covid-related guidelines. Ramayan Prasad, the in-charge of the Brindavan Eco Park and a BCCL Foreman, said that the ground is situated on 11.2 acres of land and is home to over 25,000 varieties of plants -- from flower trees, fruit trees, to medicinal plants. “We have a workforce of 12 BCCL staff to look after the upkeep. People start to come here from 6 am and the crowd remains till 7 pm,” Prasad said. He added that the development of the eco park began in 2014 when BCCL offered 2.5 acres of land, and the area increased gradually over time. “We have sufficient seating arrangement at the site, with benches made of bamboo,” he said, adding that people can stand at the top of the park to get a beautiful view of the adjoining Gondudih Colliery. Talking about safety protocols, the in-charge said, “We are not allowing entry of people without masks and sanitisers. For those who forget to bring the items from home, we are providing them with the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Modi lays foundation stone of Light House Projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday laid the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) at six sites across six states, a programme that seeks to build over 1,000 houses each in these cities in 12 months. Speaking at the event organised virtually, Modi said housing for the poor and the middle class has been a priority for his government. The LHPs are being constructed at Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). He said various measures taken by his government in the last six years has restored the confidence of the common man that he can own a house. Earlier, he said, people's dream of having a house of their own was shaken as despite spending money they would often not get the promised home in time and were not sure of legal support, if needed. High interest rate was also a dampener, he added. Construction sector acts as a force multiplier for the economy, he noted and added that his government has taken a number of steps to boost the real estate sector and will continue to do so. Speaking of the Light House Projects, he said they are driven by modern technology and innovative process. Houses being built under it will take less time to build and will be resilient, affordable and comfortable, he said, noting that modern construction practices from countries like France, Germany and Canada will be put into practice. They will serve as incubation centres, he said, urging architects, planners, engineers and students to visit these projects. The prime minister also announced winners under the Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators - India (ASHA-India) and gave out annual awards for excellence in implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) Mission. During the event, he also released a certificate course on innovative construction technologies named 'NAVARITIH' (New, Affordable, Validated, Research Innovation Technologies for Indian Housing) and a compendium of 54 innovative housing construction technologies identified through GHTC-India. Besides the prime minister, the housing and urban affairs minister, chief ministers of Tripura, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh were present on the occasion. The Light House Projects (LHPs) showcase the best of new-age alternative global technologies, materials and processes in the construction sector for the first time in the country at such a large scale, the government has said. They are being constructed under GHTC-India which envisages providing an ecosystem for the adoption of innovative technologies in the housing construction sector in a holistic manner. They comprise about 1,000 houses at each location along with allied infrastructure facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||New Covid cases above 200 for third consecutive day||The number of Covid-19 infections continued to hover over the 200 mark for the third consecutive day with Jharkhand registering 240 new cases in the last 24 hours along with three deaths on Thursday night, as per the health department's bulletin. One death each surfaced from Ranchi, Khunti and Bokaro. Day's overall recovery figures in the state stood at 218. With 110 new cases, Ranchi's active cases have reached 775, almost half that of 1659 live cases which exist in the state currently. Other districts with double-digit spikes included Bokaro (13), Dhanbad (26) and East Singhbhum (31). As many as five districts, including Covid free Pakur, remained free of any new infections. So far the state has tested 47,99,240 samples since the outbreak of the virus in March 2020 out of which 1,15,113 turned positive. Of them, 1,12,425 have been cured while 1030 deaths have taken place. State's seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.14 per cent compared to the national average of 0.17 per cent. The seven-day doubling rate is 479.47 days that of 413.35 days pan-India. Recovery in the state 97.66 per cent, seven notches above the national average whereas the mortality rate in the state 0.89 percentage than that of 1.40 per cent in the country. On New Year day today, state disaster management department has appealed picnickers to enforce restrain from going to crowded places, use masks mandatorily and adopt all prescribed safety protocols to curb any chances of infection. Simultaneously, the different district has also announced random covid testing at public hotspots in view of an expected surge of the crowd to in new year revelry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cash support for Jharkhand sportspersons ||The Jharkhand government has given financial assistance to meritorious sportsperson, majority of them archers, plagued with monetary problems under sports welfare fund. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday gave away financial assistance to two players who were present at the programme held to mark first anniversary of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand at Morabadi ground in Ranchi while five others would receive the amount in their bank’s account. The players who received the cash physically from the chief minister included national level archer Jagarnath Gagrai from West Singhbhum district and karate champion Bimla Munda (Kanke Ranchi). While Jagarnath, a double gold medallist at Cuttack Senior National Archery championship, was not able to purchase the expensive recurve archery kits and had to practice with traditional Indian archery kits was given Rs 2.5 lakh, Bimla Munda a gold medallist in national karate championship 2019 was not able to pursue his career in sports due to financial constraints was given an amount of Rs 1 lakh. The other beneficiaries of the Rs 2.5 lakh fund included Krishna Pingua, Asmita Biruly and Gunaram Purty, all national level players who are unable to compete in international competitions owing to fund crunch. “It is a morale booster for us as we can now compete in international level with modern equipment. One day we will bring home medals from the Olympics,” said Krishna Pingua, who won bronze at the Khelo India Archery Championship in 2017 and gold at the 64th National School Championship Archery Championship in 2019. The government also announced assistance of Rs 2.7 lakh to 18-year-old Komolika Bari, who won a gold medal in the World Youth Archery Championship, 2018. She has also been selected for the next Olympic games and is currently training in Pune, Maharashtra. Her father Ghanshyam Bari, who came to Morabadi Ground to take the cheque, said her daughter could get a bow only with help from the locals, hoped that his daughter would also get a job. Hockey coach, Pratibha Barwa also got a financial grant of Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid vigil at Jharkhand picnic spots ||Picnickers and revellers have to face action if they don’t abide by the Covid-19 protocols during the New Year celebrations at the scenic spots in Jharkhand. State chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has directed all the 24 deputy commissioners on Wednesday to ensure the compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid out for Covid-19 at all the popular picnic and tourist spots that are likely to witness a huge turnout during New Year celebrations. “The chief secretary has asked all the deputy commissioners to ensure compliance of the SOPs laid out in the directive sent earlier this month at the popular picnic spots. They would have to take steps to ensure social distancing, wear masks and also see that people use hand sanitisers at those spots. “This apart, there should be no consumption of tobacco products at the spot. The deputy commissioners would also have to ensure proper Covid-19 testing wherever they feel necessary,” principal health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. Meanwhile, authorities in Ranchi and Jamshedpur (in East Singhbhum district) have increased vigilance at the popular tourist and picnic spots and also arranged for Covid testing facilities. “Directive has been given to officials for random Covid test at popular spots such as Jonha, Hundru Falls, Dassam Falls and Kanke Lake. Those found without masks or not maintaining social distance will be slapped with cases under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. Even the state tourism department has pulled up its socks to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed at the spots maintained by them. “Even though we have not issued any SOPs for tourists, we have installed hoardings and banners highlighting Covid-19 protocols,” said state tourism director A. Dodde. State tourism deputy director Vidyanand Sharma Pankaj said over 1,600 paryatak mitras (appointed by tourism department on contractual basis for the maintenance of tourist spots) have been issued the necessary directives. “They will be in constant touch with the respective local thanas and if any individual or group does not follow Covid protocols, they will first try to persuade them and if they do not relent, they will inform the local thana for necessary action,” Sharma said. The paryatak mitras, who mainly monitor major waterfalls at tourist spots, have also been asked to ensure that visitors do not go near the danger spots. Tourists in large numbers from Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh flock to the tourist spots in Jharkhand for picnics between December-end and February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
