02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city parking zones extended, move irritates residents||The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body which looks after the parking matters of the steel city, has turned even residential areas into parking zones, thereby deepening issues in the area. Though the JNAC had implemented its parking policies in the Sakchi and Kadma localities, vehicle owners are getting more affected after the same was deployed in the Bistupur area more expansively. “Parking problem continues to get murkier in the city, especially in the posh Bistupur area. Until recently, we would have to pay parking charges on the Bistupur Main Road only, but a vehicle owner has to pay the parking charge at the place along the bypass road of the Bistupur Main Road.  Such a move on the part of the civic body is not only pinching our pocket, but also is very irritating,” said Gulab Singh, a resident of Kagalnagar in Sonari while talking to this website. Singh, who is a businessman, said he used to park his car at the parking lot behind the Bank of Baroda or on the bypass road, depending on the nature of his work at Bistupur. “But surprisingly I had to pay a parking charge -- Rs 20 -- for keeping the car on the bypass road on Saturday.  On turning around, I saw a board nearby, informing about parking of two-wheelers and four-wheelers," said the businessman. He said it seems that there is no such area left in Bistupur where one can spend a little while without paying the parking charge. At a number of places, the vehicle owners could be spotted quarreling with workers over payments of parking charge on the stretch of Bistupur Main Road's Bypass Road, which was earlier a free-parking zone. The civic body is also fixing more boards on the new areas to make people aware that a number of places have now become parking zone, Parking charge for two-wheelers is Rs 10 and for cars Rs 20. City manager, JNAC, Sandeep Kumar Singh said they are extending the parking areas for the benefit of the vehicle owners. “Parking fees that are charged from the vehicle owners are too negligible in comparison to the vehicle's cost.  If a vehicle remains parked in a parking lot, then it always remains safe. We are therefore extending our parking lots so that more and more people can be benefitted,” said the City Manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. The JNAC officer informed that they are going to put up “No-Parking” sign-boards at some stretches of the Bistupur main Road and the Bypass Road shotly.  He informed that once such boards are fixed, if any vehicle is found parked in the No-parking zone, then a police officer would pick it up with a towing vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 300 health workers join state dry run in 6 districts||The state health department, which conducted a dry run for Covid-19 immunisations at 13 locations in six districts on Saturday, dubbed the marathon exercise a success, hinting of more such trials in the coming days to prepare for the actual launch of the vaccine expected later this year. As many as 325 healthcare workers took part in the dry run aimed at finalising logistics management to crowd handling, getting to know the functioning of the app, Co-Win, which has been developed for the nationwide immunisation drive. Dry runs were held in Ranchi, Simdega, Pakur, Palamu, East Singhbhum and Chatra. At each site, a mock drill was held during which participants rehearsed the entire process, from arriving at the vaccination centre to getting registered, taking the shot and waiting at an observation room. Data collected was also updated in the system. In Ranchi, the drill was held at the community health care (CHC) in Ratu and the sub-divisional hospital in Bundu. Nodal officer for vaccine programme Ajit Prasad said, “The dry run was a success. Over 300 health workers took part. No major glitches have been reported yet, and based on feedback of participants, further preparedness will be undertaken.” In the coming days, he said, all designated vaccine centres would be equipped with facilities to tackle exigencies, if any, after the actual vaccination. In Jamshedpur, about 25 health workers were part of the dry run, civil surgeon, R.N. Jha said. “Health workers posing as patients received calls from the hospital for vaccination. Upon their arrival, sanitization protocols were performed at the vaccination centre and registration was done. After that, patients proceeded to the designated spot for getting vaccines. Then, he/she was lodged at an observation room. After half an hour they got discharged.” Jha said the process of getting registered and then receiving the vaccine took 12 minutes, after which a beneficiary was sent to the observation room where he/ she was made to wait for half an hour. So far, the state health department has prepared a panel of 7,000 vaccinators who have been provided training. This apart, the state has readied 275 cold chain points while a state-level vaccine warehouse has been set up at Namkum in Ranchi, in addition to two existing regional warehouses in Palamau and Deoghar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel promises to plant trees, residents unimpressed||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant celebrated New Year’s Day on Friday by announcing its resolution to plant one lakh trees in the city in the next 12 months. To achieve the goal, Director in-charge, Bokaro Steel Plant, Amarendu Prakash made an appeal to each family residing in the township to plant at least one tree in 2021, saying that the company will provide them with free saplings by installing several counters. “We have four lakh residents in the Bokaro Steel Plant township, which roughly means one lakh families. If each family plants a tree we will achieve our target of planting one lakh trees in 2021,” Prakash said, adding that saving the environment for future generations is a major concern of the company. The director asked residents to take precautionary measures for Covid-19. However, all this failed to impress them as Prakash did not address major issues in the city. Problems like rising encroachment of quarters and land, growing theft of electricity and water, hindrance in expansion of Bokaro Airport with encroachment on the company’s land, problems faced by owners of commercial plots, Bokaro Steel Plant-dependent SMEs growing sick in lack of orders, installation of solid waste plant and others remained unaddressed. Instead, in an online interaction via Facebook, Prakash went on to talk about business-related achievements, saying that the company in December has made the highest ever cash collection of Rs 2,200 crore by selling its steel products. The amount collected is also the highest, in comparison to other steel plants of the parent company, Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), he said. “Our team has made it by increasing the quality of our product and reducing production costs. We are progressing. Our production and performance are improving month by month,” Prakash said. “This New Year we should also make a commitment to ourselves to make ‘Every month- A better month’. We will work with a commitment to make every month better than the past one. Like we will perform better in January than December and will follow till the end of this year. Production of hot metal, hot roll coil and cold roll coil was the best in December,” he added. Prakash also said that all the services in the township will be made online to ensure transparency and less time-consumption. From attending to complaints to its completion, everything will be online for the residents, he said. People can lodge complaints online about the civil or other problems that they face in quarters. “We have already introduced this online submission of note-sheets and other documents inside the plant and in the coming six months’ time, all the services will be made online for the benefit of people. It will speed up work and decision making, and is time-saving too,” said Prakash. He also announced to celebrate 2021 as “Sports and WellBeing Year”. Prakash appealed to residents to come forward and participate in the sports events organised by the BSL all round this year. Prakash pointed out that Bokaro is the only town in the country which has bagged the status of “Global Active City”.They will celebrate this year as a sports festival organising marathon, cycling, online chess, and other sports events. For that to happen, he sought the participation of all the residents of the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||In Palamau, nervousness the order of the day during dry run||At Medinirai Medical College and Hospital, as the nervous nurse held the syringe during the dry run for administering a vaccine on Saturday, the health officer asked her to hold it straight, and at a right angle to the arm of the woman health worker who was posing as the recipient. She got it right immediately, and admitted she was a bit uneasy because of the presence of a large number of officials, including civil surgeon John F Kennedy and district reproductive child health officer Anil K. Singh. Chhaterpur sub-divisional hospital, 48km from here, was the second venue in Palamau where the dry run was held under the supervision of medical in-charge R.K. Agarwal. Deputy commissioner of Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “The dry run has enabled us to know where we need to concentrate more during the vaccination drive. We have asked for a wall clock at every observation room so that we can make a note of the time a beneficiary is vaccinated before he is made to wait there for half an hour.” At Medinirai, the nurse’s nervousness was contagious. As health worker Santosh Kumar sat before the vaccination desk, he saw the nurse getting ready with his injection. The man in all seriousness asked her to ensure there was “no air bubble in the syringe” before she administered the dose. Santosh thought he was getting his first dose of the real vaccine. When told this was a dry run, he seemed relieved and willingly rolled up his sleeves to facilitate the mock jab. After that he went to the adjacent observation room to wait for the regulation half hour. Deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said it was natural for people to be apprehensive. “In any case, people generally fear injections. In case of the coronavirus shot, so many half-baked ideas are being circulated, it is natural that people will be worried,” he said. Later, Ranjan inspected ice lined refrigerators and cold chain facilities. District reproductive child health officer Anil K. Singh said with the given infrastructure, Palamau could store 8,500 doses of the coronavirus vaccine. Civil surgeon Kennedy explained that a vaccinated individual would have to come back to the same centre after 28 days for his/her second dose. “Vaccinated individuals cannot change his/her immunisation centre,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Boy, 4, dies as father fails to notice accident||A four-year-old died Saturday on the spot at a shop in Karni Road of Itkhori, Chatra, when jute bags containing cow fodder fell on him. Ravi Dangi, the father of the toddler named Babu, was present at his shop when the accident took place, but failed to notice it. He was later found under the heap of jute bags when relatives began searching for him. Ravi and his wife immediately rushed to the government health centre with their child but doctors said he was brought dead. The doctors said that the boy had suffered injuries on his head and other parts of the body, apart from being suffocated. They added that a few bags, each weighing 50 kilograms fell on the boy, which resulted in his death on the spot. Talking about the accident, relatives of the family said Ravi runs a shop of cow fodder in his house. He was busy with customers on Saturday when the child reached the spot and started playing, by climbing up the bags. It was then when a few of them suddenly fell down, crushing the toddler. All this happened without the father noticing before his wife started searching for the boy. Ravi, his wife and neighbours finally spotted the fallen bags, and moved them aside to find Babu underneath. Itkhori police officials said they came to know about the incident, adding that the body of the toddler was handed over to his parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bird lovers raise awareness on conservation||In a bid to promote bird conservation, a group of 30 bird lovers under the banner of ‘Dhanbad Birders’ have been working relentlessly over the past three months to raise awareness among the masses. The group, in order to achieve its goal, has been doing a range of activities, including installing 25 thought provoking exhibits, submitting reports to the concerned authorities about the presence of a wide range of birds and demanding bird conservation steps by declaring the sites as prohibited areas. Founded by a retired banker A.K. Sahay on September 14, the club through an extensive survey across the town has identified six spots that are hotspots of bird-watching and has presence of at least 20 species. The group, headed by a renowned radiologist of Dhanbad Dr. Amit Vishwakarma as its president, has also identified seven bird sites on the outskirts of the town. The aim of the Dhanbad Birders is to raise awareness among the common people about the significance of wildlife and environmental conservation. It has engaged in sustained information campaigns and has installed 25 exhibits containing messages from renowned experts like Carol Inskipp and Dr. Asad Rahmani at several places across the town. Talking about the species of birds on Saturday, Sahay, a renowned author on Ornithology and a wildlife columnist, said, “For identifying the birds spot within the town and on its outskirts, we made thousands of field trips since September 14, the results of which were amazing as we were astonished sighting so many varieties.” The six bird spots identified within the town comprise -- Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch), and Bhelatand Village. The seven sites in the outskirts include -- Dhokra near Domerpur (17 kms from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 kms from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), Foothills of Dhangi Pahar in PradhanKhanta (14 km from Dhanbad). Dr. Vishwakarma detailed the major species that have been identified in these areas. Out of the 30 species identified at Jagjivan Nagar the major ones included Orioles, Green Bee-eater and Flameback. Among the 25 species in DS Colony, the prominent ones were Bronze winged Jacana and Sparrow. The major species identified among 24 species of Bartand included Red Naped Ibis and wood sandpiper while among the 23 species identified at Bekar Bandh the major species are Parakeet, Doves and Mynas. In Bhetaland, the prominent species were identified as Laughing Dove, Asian Openbill, Sun Bird and Prinia. Among the six spots  Bartand has special features as flocks of more than 200 mynas can be sighted here. Similarly the speciality of Bhelatand village and Jagjivan Nagar is the presence of Indian Silver Bill and Verditer species respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||25 health workers join East Singhbum dry run||The East Singhbhum district health department carried out a dry run for Covid vaccinations at two health hubs on Saturday, days after a dozen-odd people staying a hotel here tested positive for the coronavirus. In all, 50 health workers were involved in the dry run at Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal and at the Ghatshila sub-divisional hospital. The session, carried out in accordance with the Union health ministry guidelines, began at 9 am and continued till 12.30pm in the presence of district civil surgeon R.N. Jha and district chief medical officer Sahir Pal at the respective hospitals. "We carried out a dry run on 25 beneficiaries at Sadar Hospital in Jamshedpur and as many beneficiaries at the government hospital in Ghatshila. All those subjected to the dry run were the health department workers. We gathered information about the persons to be immunised, fed in other details, verified documents and uploaded the data in the Co-win app," said the district civil surgeon. After that, Jha said, the vaccination was conducted. The practise session was a success, he added. As on Friday night, the number of Coronavirus cases in the East Singhbhum district stood at 17,628 of which 228 were active cases. On Thursday night, 11 foreigners, staying at the Fortune Park Centre Point at Bistupur, tested positive for the virus, in addition to a hotel staffer. This prompted the district administration to quarantine all of them in the hotel. "We have instructed all the 12 persons to remain in quarantine at the hotel for the next 10 days. At the end of the ten days, we will collect blood or swab samples of all of them for testing to find out if they had contracted the new variant of the virus," said medical officer  Pal, who is also district surveillance officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||New cases of Covid-19 continued to surpass recoveries in the state as 128 fresh cases of infections were reported in the last 24 hours against 105 people who got cured on Friday. No fatalities occurred during the same period. Of the total new cases in the day, Ranchi recorded 71 while Palamau and East Singhbhum recorded  11 and 12 cases each respectively. As many as 14 districts reported single-digit figures while seven out of 24 districts had zero cases, according to an official bulletin of the state health department. As many as 1,15,241 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,12,529 recovered since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Total casualties currently stand at 1030. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand now stands at 0.14% against the national average of 0.16%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state is 508.21 days against the national figure of 424.26 days. The recovery rate is 97.64 per cent than that of the national average of 96.10 per cent while the mortality rate in the state is 0.89 per cent vis-a-vis 1.40 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
