03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Woman gives birth aboard New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express||A woman traveling by special Rajdhani Express 02454, coach B11 went into labour on Sunday. RPF personnel aboard the train informed senior officials at Barkakana railway station under Ramgarh district. A team, along with a doctor were assembled at Barkakana railway station, and were waiting for the train to arrive. As soon as the train reached the station, the doctor delivered a baby girl in the box of the train. Dr Deepti Jha facilitated the safe delivery and said both the baby, and the mother Meena Devi (27) were well. "It was a normal delivery. The baby is premature, but both the mother and child are healthy," said Dr Jha. After the delivery, Meena and the baby were referred to the Sadar Hospital in Ramgarh. "My wife was pregnant and about a month away from the date of delivery; she was working in Dharampur Shimla. We were returning to our ancestral village Gumla. She went into labour on the running train. We informed the RPF and TT. They informed the Barkakana railway station master about the case.  On behalf of the station master, the team of doctors of Barkakana Railway Hospital was informed and Dr  Deepti Jha was called.  The doctor got the baby delivered in the train. Both mother and child are fine after delivery," said Ajay Uraon, Meena’s husband. "The New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express stops at Barkakana Junction for just 5 minutes. But the railway management kept the train standing for 1 hour and 30 minutes for the delivery. No passenger complained," said Barkakana divisional traffic manager (DTM ) Manish Saurab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Headless, naked body of a young girl found in Ranchi||A headless body of a girl believed to be in the mid-20s was recovered from forests in Ormanjhi, over 20 km from the district headquarters in Ranchi on Sunday, sending locals into a tizzy. The body found was also without clothes and bore heavy injury marks suggesting that she may have been abused and raped before her murder. Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam, who rushed to the spot in the morning soon after being alerted by locals, said that police is trying to ascertain the identity of the girl. “Dog squad was pressed to trace the head to establish her identity but we haven’t got any success. Police are on the job to crack the case,” he said. On the possibility of rape, the police are yet to officially make any comment till the post mortem is done. Police sources, however, suspected that the girl may have been raped, beaten severely and then beheaded to dodge the identity of the deceased. “Criminals may have killed her somewhere else and thrown the body here,” suspected another cop. Sources also claimed said that police found a few empty bottles of beer in the vicinity. The incident has again prompted opposition BJP to attack Hemant Soren government over the safety and security of women in the state. BJP’s women wing president Arti Kujur said, “How long will the women continue to face abuse, rape and murder. When will police act to plug loopholes? Such an incident happening right at the doorsteps of capital is proof enough of poor patrolling and ineffective policing.” Notably, close to 1,500 cases of rape and crime against women and child were reported in Jharkhand in 2020. Speaking with reporters on New Year eve, DGP MV Rao had said that an internal study conducted by state police had revealed that 90 per cent of cases involved criminals who were either matriculate or educated or even less than that and role of consumption of liquor was common in every incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Eight shops burgled in Dhanbad, valuables worth lakh stolen||Less than a week after the burglary worth Rs 7 lakh that took place in a book whole seller’s godown at Purana Bazar in Dhanbad, another burglary took place on Sunday in eight shops of Hirapur Hatia where cash and property worth Rs 1 lakh were stolen. The incident came to light when Parmimal Chandra Dey, one of the victim shopkeepers, arrived this morning at his sweets shop and found a broken lock. Upon entering his shop he found silver coins and some sweets worth Rs 20,000 was missing from the shop. Other shopkeepers, like retail vegetable sellers Uday Kumar Sao and Pappu Sao, also claimed that that silver coins worth Rs 900 and Rs 700 were stolen from their respective shops. Burglars took away cash worth Rs 20,000 from the sweet shop of Birbal Chandra Dey. Cash and vegetable worth Rs 500 were stolen from the vegetable retailer Hareram Sao while coins worth Rs 500 were stolen from the shop of Rajendra Sao in his neighbourhood. Cash and goods including the decoration articles and puja articles were stolen from the shop of Bittu Singh and Jagat Verma also. Talking to the media, Hareram Sao said that the cash lying in the shop was targeted in a majority of the shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP protests two alleged cold related Dalit deaths in Gumla and Bokaro||Deaths of two Dalits due to cold in Bokaro and Gumla has sparked off a controversy, with schedule caste wing of Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), accused failure of Hemant Soren-led government in providing blanket and other beneficial schemes to the poors in the state. BJP also announced to stage dharna in front of Governor’s house in Ranchi on January, 5 to bag attention of the government over such failure that causing the death of poors. The nights are cold these days, with temperature plummeting below 10 degrees Celcius. However, the government denied charges of deaths of the two poors due to cold. The president of the schedule caste wing of BJP and Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri on Sunday visited Passi Tola of Surihi panchayat under Nawadih block where a 60-year-old man Raghu Passi died of cold and met his family members. He said that a BJP team has also visited Ambedkar Village in Palkot of Gumla district where a man Sukhan Nagrachi died of cold and provided help to his family. Bauri said “they are demanding from government to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation each to the family of the deceased in Bokaro and Gumla. These incidents have exposed the failure of the Hemant Soren government in providing facilities to the poor people of the state. In Bokaro, about 50 families reside in that Passi Tola of Nawadih, of them, only two-three people have got blankets from the government. It is our BJP team who went and distributed blankets and provided food grains to the deceased family”. He added, “the administration is trying to hide the matter, but failed, as we have approached and seen things with our eyes. The deceased family didn’t have ration cards and lacks pucca houses. I have asked the officials of the district administration to provide these Passi people ration cards soon, so that they can be benefitted from the government schemes, and also construct houses for them under Pradhanmantri Housing scheme. BJP is all set to stage dharna at Governor’s residence over these two deaths due to cold”. “In Gumla also, the deceased Sukhan Nagarchi was found dead due to cold on Saturday. He left behind two small children and his wife. His daughter is one year old and his son is four years old. The deceased's wife Rupa Devi told that the family does not have a ration card or a pucca house to live in,” said Bauri. The place in Bokaro where the Passi found dead on the first night of New Year is located at a distance of four kilometers from the Nawadih Block. The administration has also sent a team led by an additional collector Vijay Gupta to inquire the matter. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh said the team conducting site inspection found the deceased, Aadhaar card which identifies him as a resident of Jamtara district. He had come to meet his daughter-in-law about three days ago and was living near Budhan Pasi nearby. DC also said, that it was told by Budhan Pasi that the deceased ate with them all and slept as usual in the nearby hut and died in the night. In the course of the investigation, the officers found government-provided blanket laying the bed on which he was dead. A bonfire was also found burnt at a few distances. There was no shortage of food for the family of the deceased. Food was found made in two stoves. There was no negligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Chowk revamp as tribute to ex-Dhanbad SP||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh announced on Sunday the district administration plans to renovate the Randhir Verma Chowk situated near the district headquarters. Singh made the announcement while talking to the media on the sidelines of a programme organised by Randhir Verma Memorial Society on the 30th death anniversary of former Dhanbad superintendent of police Late Randhir Prasad Verma at Randhir Verma Chowk on Sunday. Randhir Prasad Verma, who sacrificed his life fighting with the terrorists foiling a bank robbery attempt 30 years ago on January 3, 1991, was awarded Ashok Chakra posthumously. “The sacrifice made by Late Randhir Prasad Verma is a source of inspiration for not only for the people of Jharkhand but for youth across the country,” said Singh. “We appeal to the youth and also our officials to take inspiration from Late Randhir Prasad towards the duty and responsibilities,” said Singh. “As the square developed several years ago is lying in a dilapidated state, the district administration has decided to renovate the same and no dearth of fund would come in the renovation and beatification of the square bearing the statue of Randhir Prasad Verma,” further said Singh and added the renovation would be completed within a few months. Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant Minz who also paid tribute by garlanding the statue of Randhir Prasad Verma said, “The supreme sacrifice made by Randhir Prasad Verma sir is worth emulating for every policeman.” “The sacrifice made by him has further strengthened the credibility of police service among people police service is meant for the common people,” added Minz. Meanwhile, unlike the previous years when the programme used to be quite elaborate with the participation of large number of people including politicians, social workers and bureaucrats, the function this year was held in a simple manner due to Covid constrains but several dignitaries including Dhanbad MP, PN Singh; Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha, and Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh visited the chowk and paid floral tribute. Meanwhile, a similar function was also held near IIT (ISM) gate during which tributes were paid to a non-teaching staff of IIT (ISM), Shyamal Chakraborty who died during the same incident after receiving gunshot injuries. Talking to the media, after paying tribute to Shyamal Chakraborty, former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chakraborty said, “Though Randhir Prasad Verma fought the terrorists single-handedly and made the supreme sacrifice while foiling the bank robbery attempt, Shyamal Chakraborty who was also present in the bank as a customer resisted the bank dacoity and became a victim of the attack of the terrorists.” “We want the recognition of the sacrifice of Shyamal Chakraborty as unlike other customers he could have turned passive but he tried to save the public property and recognition of his sacrifice will inspire the common people towards the protection of public property,” added Arup Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Health officials mull more sessions on Co-Win app||Health officials of the state are satisfied with Saturday’s dry run of Covid-19 vaccination protocols but would like to hold more sessions for operators who would be feeding data in the Co-Win app where details of beneficiaries and doses will have to be uploaded in real-time. The most heartening outcome of the dry run, held at 13 sites in six districts including Ranchi, was that there was no internet glitch, which is a challenge in itself, given Jharkhand’s varied topography. “At 13 chosen sites for the dry run, we did not face any internet or other technical glitches,” said state director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are hopeful the situation prevails when the actual vaccination happens. Today we have multiple internet service providers that can reach out to the remotest parts of the state. Still, we shall analyse this aspect threadbare in the coming days,” he said. On Sunday, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the country’s drug regulator, announced the approval of two Covid-19 vaccines of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for restricted use, setting the stage for the first phase of the immunisation exercise. According to the state chapter of NHM, 1lakh to 1.25 lakh people will be administered the vaccine in the first phase, ground works for which was almost ready. During Saturday’s drive in Ranchi, Pakur, Simdega, Palamau, East Singbhum and Chatra, 325 health workers took part. While the practice sessions were primarily free of problems, Shukla said he was concerned about the possibility of man-made glitches. “For example, at one centre in Pakur district and another in Bundu in Ranchi, data entry operators initially fumbled with online registration and data entry. So, we need to hold a refresher course to help these people to go through the process again.” Sources in the health department said they were expecting to start vaccinations for the first phase from the second week of January. “We will get a formal intimation. But we think the vaccines will start arriving by next week,” said an official. Shukla doesn’t anticipate major hurdles in the first phase as the chosen beneficiaries will primarily be from the health services. “Those identified for the first phase of inoculations are mostly from the health sector who are aware of the dos and don’ts. So, we don’t anticipate much problem in administering the vaccine to them. The real challenge will lie when the general public will be covered,” said Shukla. Palamau civil surgeon John F Kennedy said around 3,500 health workers would get the vaccine in the district in the first phase. Asked whether he was sure about the infrastructure requirements, given that Palamau is one of Jharkhand’s remotest districts with serious connectivity issues, he said, “Let’s hope for the best.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Three special floorball players from state to join national camp||Three special athletes and a coach from Jharkhand will be attending the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year. The camp, which is scheduled between March 15 and 20 in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh is being organised by Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) with logistical support from Sports Authority of India (SAI).  It is the final camp for selecting the national floorball squad for the Russia Games. The three special athletes include Sital Sikka, Rakesh Bagh (both from East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih). Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) will go as a coach. According to Special Olympic Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, all the three floorball players are good and expected to perform well at the preparatory camp. “We have instructed these special athletes to start working on their fitness as final selection for India floorball team will be held during the camp in Bilaspur,” Sahota added. The SOB has plans to hold two camps for Sital, Rakesh and Rahul in Jamshedpur subject to the approval of JRD Tata Sports Complex from Tata Steel sports wing. “We have planned to organise the first camp at the end of January or first week of February while the second camp will be conducted (prior to departure of the athletes to Bilaspur) from March 7 to 12,” the SOJ assistant area director informed. The state chapter will shortly approach Tata Steel sports wing for seeking permission to hold the training camp at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. “Training camp is essential to keep our athletes in fine fettle before their leave for Bilaspur. After all, it’s the final selection of the national floorball outfit,” Sahota said. The special athletes and coach will proceed to Bilaspur on March 13 and will be back on March 22. The SOJ will ensure that valid passports, Aadhar cards, and IQ certificates of the special athletes are ready by February 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad techies launches new app to monetise skills and assets||A group of IIT (ISM) graduates, along with other techies, have developed a mobile app that serves as a platform to increase incomes of people through effective utilisation of skills and assets. Ashish Kumar, an IIT (ISM) B.Tech (Mining Machinery) 2018 batch graduate, developed ‘Buddin - Teaching, Renting & Gig Jobs’ in six months along with Ashish Ranjan, IIT (ISM) Dual Degree (Fiver Year B.Tech+M.Tech) Applied Geology 2019 graduate:  Kartikeya Kumar, IIT (ISM) B.Tech (Applied Geology) 2020 graduate; and Kislay Kumar, Haldia Institute of Technology 2018 graduate. “Our mission is to make everyone financially self-sustaining using either skills or resources and our vision is to build an ecosystem where finding or providing gig jobs are hassle-free,” said Ashish Kumar. Highlighting the features of the app, Kumar said, “Our platform is totally free for users with firewalls for security. The app works on a real-time basis,”. He  added that the user can create an account within two steps and it is easy to post in the app with two clicks. “The app has different sections, including education, service provider, parking, skill and professionals, car/bike pooling and renting, logistics which acts as provider of service as well as seeker,” further added Ashish Ranjan. Citing an example, Ranjan said that in the education section one can find the appropriate and cost-effective tutor in his vicinity while in service section one can find an electrician or plumber or carpenter or mason. The electrician, plumber, carpenter or mason can vice versa utilise their idle time to earn money. “If one plans a trip by car to Hyderabad in an emergency and posts the information in the car renting section of the app, another person who has plans to visit Hyderabad can coordinate with him and go along with him by mutually sharing the fuel cost, etc.” said Ranjan. Regarding the parking section he said that a person visiting Dhanbad for one month and facing difficulty to park his vehicle, he can find the parking lot in his area while the parking owner can use his space temporarily for making money. “So far more than 1,500 persons have downloaded the app. The app can be downloaded through this link https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cuvette.seeker_provider_app,” said Ranjan and added that one can use his extra time to utilise his skill through this app even if he is engaged in a job which will help him to add on his income. “We have organised a one-hour promotion of our app on Sunday through which those NGOs engaged in free of cost teaching can connect with the underprivileged children deprived of education,” said Kartikeya Kumar and added they developed the app in six months although the idea came into their discussion about a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||More than 150 Covid cases over on Saturday||Jharkhand logged 151 new cases of Covid-19 on saturday while the number of fatalities rose to 1,034 with four more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the state health department data showed on Saturday night. As per the bulletin, 205 people have recovered from the virus on Saturday. One death each was recorded in Dhanbad, Garhwa, Palamau and Ramgarh. Among fresh cases Ranchi led the charts with 71 fresh infections. East Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Bokaro reported 20, 15, and 11 cases of coronavirus respectively. A total of seven districts remained free of the virus, while 13 of them got single digit cases in the last one day. So far, 1,15,392 people got infected by the virus since March last year, while1,12,734 recovered in the state. The recovery rate in the state  97.69 per cent vis-a-vis 96.10 per cent nationally. The seven-day growth is 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent, whereas the doubling in the state is 495.68 days compared to the national average of 424 days. The mortality rate is 0.89 percent compared to the national average of 1.40 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
03-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Couple with suspected Maoist link lynched in Jharkhand||A couple with alleged Maoist link were beaten to death after a villager was allegedly murdered in Jharkhand’s Palamau district on Friday night. The incident which happened in Kundilpur village under Manatu police station, nearly 190km northwest of state capital Ranchi, came to the notice of the police only on Saturday morning as the area falls in a rebel-hit region with hilly terrain and is situated near the border with Gaya district of Bihar. According to police, a couple identified as Prakash Singh, 45, and Terengini Devi, 41, allegedly involved with the CPI-Maoist, which is active in the region, had come to the village on Friday and had an altercation with their neighbour Binod Singh over a land dispute. In a fit of rage, Prakash used a muzzle loading firearm (usually used to hunt pigs) at Binod, killing him on the spot. Hearing the sound, the villagers, mostly relatives of Binod, gheraoed the couple and allegedly beat them with lathis till they died. The irate villagers also torched the house of the couple in Kundilpur. Palamau SP Sanjeev Kumar, however, denied it was a mob lynching. “We would not term it a mob lynching as nothing was planned by the villagers. It was only after the murder of a villager, relatives of Binod Singh ganged up in retaliation and beat the couple to death. We are yet to ascertain if the couple really have any Maoist links as they do not have any police case against them. However, villagers claim that they were involved with the Maoist group in the past,” the SP said. Kumar further said that separate cases have been lodged by the two sides. While Binod’s son has lodged a case of culpable homicide against Prakash and his wife, Prakash’s son has lodged a case of murder against five relatives of Binod. “We have managed to arrest four persons named in the complaint by deceased Prakash Singh’s son and would also arrest the other remaining villagers,” Kumar said. The bodies of the three victims have been sent to Palamau Sadar Hospital for post-mortem. In September last year, a rebel associated with the People’s Liberation Front of India (a splinter group of CPI-Maoist), identified as Sandeep Tirkey, who had four murder cases in his name, was lynched by a mob at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla district. Jharkhand has hit the national headlines on several occasions for alleged mob lynchings. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella organisation of various organisations and activists, has claimed that 24 people were lynched in the state between March 2016 and June 2020, mostly over caste and religious hatred issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
