04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Massive protests at Ranchi involving rape and murder of girl||Massive protests against the rape and beheading of a girl rocked Ranchi’s VIP road on Harmu bypass on Monday evening. Traffic was disrupted for over an hour which forced chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade to retreat from its original route and take a detour. Kishoreganj chowk at Harmu turned into a flashpoint in the evening at around 6pm when a sudden surge of protestors comprising men and women hit the streets demanding arrests. Acc Police recovered the girl’s body from a forest in Ormanjhi, over 20km from Ranchi, but her severed head was yet to be found at the time of filing this report. A massive search operation that re-commenced on Tuesday morning is on. Over 500 protestors blocked the road, holding sticks, banners and some even carried flaming torches. According to eyewitnesses, as the CM’s carcade reached towards Kishoreganj, protestors suddenly turned rogue, attempting to break barricades and welding sticks in air, injuring at least one traffic constable. The mob also gheraoed a pilot vehicle in Soren’s carcade and attempted to vandalise it, but major damage was averted after police swung into action. Soren and his carcade was then forced to take a detour from Ranchi Lake to reach his residence in Kanke road while returning from his office in Project Building. While senior officials of the city police were still to issue formal statements, both JMM and Congress condemned the protests as unruly and being orchestrated by ‘anti-government’ forces. In a video statement, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said strict action will be taken against vandals who attempted to attack the CM’s convoy. “We condemn the heinous act which occurred in Ormanjhi and the government and police are equally sensitive towards such incidents and are working to crack the case. We also respect protests and demonstrations but whatever happened today wasn’t spontaneous, but orchestrated. Police have started identifying all rogues to nab them and have also initiated a probe to expose all those behind it,” he said. Congress’s Alok Dubey too echoed similar feelings, stating that the attack attempt on the CM’s carcade and cops is a crime. BJP, on the other hand, which organized different protests across the city, demanded the chief minister’s resignation. Misfiqa Hassan, party spokesperson said, “If this government can’t provide safety to women and children, chief minister Hemant Soren should immediately resign. Our party will continue to fight for justice for the Ormanjhi rape and murder victim.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Class X and XII students return to schools with precautions||Students of classes X and XII came back to their school campuses after a hiatus of nine months on Monday. Many private schools affiliated to CISCE and CBSE opened their doors on Monday while some will open on Tuesday after proper preparations. While the rest of the students will continue to attend online classes, students of classes X and XII will attend school as per a special roster that allows 50 per cent of a class to be present on a single day. Schools conducted thermal scanning of students and arranged for sanitizers in classrooms. Schools were pre sanitized too. Students were required to bring consent forms signed by parents and submit the same to the respective school administration. "It was so good to be back. We met our friends and interacted face to face with our teachers. It was primarily doubted clarification for history, Hindi, English, and maths. However, I think the school will re-do the schedule and we have been asked to come on Fridays and Saturdays where all subject classes will be held with only 25 students in one classroom," said class X student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Jasmehr Marwa. Schools like Motilal Nehru Public School, JH Tarapore School, Little Flower School, Hill Top School, Tarapore School Agrico also reopened on Monday adhering to strict guidelines. School principals said that there was a lot to be done including pre-board tests, practical classes, and even revision before the board exams begin. While CBSE will kick off from May 4, CISCE is expected to conduct it in April though an official date is yet to be announced. "Consent forms were a necessity as per administration norms. Only 50 percent of students in a classroom are allowed on a single day for which we have also prepared a schedule. Though there were online classes, a lot is yet to be done, especially practicals," said the principal of Rajendra Vidyalaya in Sakchi, Rakhi Banerjee. Some schools like Jamshedpur Public School and Gulmohur High School will open tomorrow as they want to be better prepared. Gulmohur High School also conducted a meeting with its teachers on Monday. Jamshedpur Public School which will reopen tomorrow will directly start with their pre-board exams. The school intends to have multiple rounds of pre-board exams as this time students will come only with parents' consent. "Everyone may not come. Even if someone has a normal cold, they would stay away. So, we have decided to have two-three rounds of pre boards so that students can revise and appear and also revise in the process. Before the exams start, we have a lot to cover, especially practicals followed by its exam in March," said the principal of Jamshedpur Public School, Namita Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad plunges under darkness as Damodar Valley Corporation continues to cut power supply||The difficulties of common people have increased further with the Damodar Valley Corporation increasing the load shedding hours over pending bills worth Rs 4124 crore with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) since Sunday. Expressing disgust over the situation, Manoj Keshri, a resident of Hetli Bandh locality of Jharia and a painter said, “The long hours of power cuts have made our life a virtual hell as besides facing darkness we are also getting difficulty even in operating motors required for filling of the overhead tanks.” Echoing sentiments, former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said, “The water supply situation in Jharia is also linked to the regular power supply. An uninterrupted power supply for 8 hours is required for filling up of the intake well of water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority at Jamadoba. We apprehend that water supply will also be affected due to the irregular power supply,” and added that they would demand the immediate resolution of crisis otherwise they will be compelled to come on the road. Ratnesh Kumar, a resident of Karkend Bazar in Dhanbad said, “At a time when online classes are taking place in the majority of educational institutions, the situation has turned so pathetic due to increase in power cut hours that we are finding it very difficult to even charge the laptops and smartphones which are very crucial for uninterrupted classes of our children.” Former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, Surendra Arora who is also president of Shakti Mandir Management Committee of Dhanbad and owns a gift shop at Bank More locality of Dhanbad said, “The long hours of load shedding being carried out by DVC is totally unwarranted and uncalled for and not in the interest of common power subscribers.” “If at all the DVC has any issue with the JBVNL over the pending bills it should have been settled between the duo and common customers should not have been penalised,” further said Arora and added that the traders are also facing difficulty as at a time when the recession has affected the market and they are compelled to bear the extra cost of inverters, generators and other power back up facility. Notably, DVC began the load shedding from December 21 due to pending dues worth around Rs 4142 crore and again increased the power cut to 50% since yesterday due to non-payment of dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||JAC announces dates for intermediate and matriculate exams||Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), the state government agency responsible for academic administration, on Monday announced this year’s matriculation and intermediate board exams to be held from March. Examinations have been delayed by over two weeks. The announcement was made following a meeting at the JAC office in Namkum. Chairman Arvind Singh said, “We shall start matric and inter exams on March 9 and end on 26. Usually, our exams are held from February 15 every year but in view of the challenges of completion of syllabus and other issues because of the continued lockdown of the schools due to covid-19, we have decided to conduct exams this time from March.” The JAC has asked all districts to begin identification and finalization of examination centres, keeping in mind Covid safety guidelines. Singh said that with the pandemic far from being over yet, they will ensure that there are enough examination centres across the state so that students and examiners don’t have to face any problems and all safety protocols are followed. Speaking further, he however said that they will keep in mind proper timeline in declaration of results in accordance with other boards in the country so that students in the state don’t lag behind while seeking admissions in higher centres of learning both within Jharkhand or outside. “We usually churn out results between April-May. But with many boards now digressing from their actual exam calendar because of the unprecedented times, we shall try to match our results in such a way that students don’t face any problem for taking admissions outside the state,” said Singh. The registration process has already begun for matric and inter. The last date for registration is January 22 without late fee while with penalty, one can do so till January 30, said Singh. The state government last month allowed reopening of schools for class 10 and 12. All schools are mandated to call students for practical or other works only after getting consent from parents. In November, the state education department also slashed syllabuses by 40 per cent across all classes. Officials maintained that all schools have been sent the updated syllabus last month and the JAC too has started working on devising question papers based on the revised syllabus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad lawyers protest, demand reopening of courts ||Facing pitiable financial condition due to closure of courts ever since the imposition of lockdown in March, more than 100 lawyers took out a footmarch on Monday from Randhir Verma Chowk to Dhanbad Court and submitted memorandum to the principal district and session judge of Dhanbad Basant Kumar Goswami. The lawyers later also submitted a memorandum to the Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh demanding resumption of physical court sessions. The copies of the memorandum have also been sent to registrar of Supreme Court of India and registrar of Jharkhand High Court. Talking to the media at the sidelines of the footmarch, Dhaneshwar Mahto, Central President of Adhiwakta Kalyan Samiti under the banner of which the protest programme was organised said, “We are demanding resumption of physical court session which is closed for more than nine months.” “The memorandum submitted to the principal district judge of Dhanbad would be sent to the High Court and Supreme Court and also the chairman of the Bar Council of India,” added Mahto, who is also the former vice president of Dhanbad Bar Association. The memorandum submitted to the deputy commissioner would go the chief minister, Hemant Soren, as well. “We have also submitted a similar memorandum on June 3 last year to different concerned authorities but due to the severity of Covid situation majority of the institutions were closed then. The courts were not opened but as the situation has changed now and schools, colleges, market, train and other offices have opened up, we are demanding resumption of physical session of courts.” “Not only lawyers but large number of litigants of remote areas are facing difficulty due to the closure of physical courts,” said Mahto and added that they would be compelled to sit on a dharna if no decision with regards to opening of courts is taken soon. Echoing sentiments, Jubair Alam, a member of Adhiwakta Kalyan Samiti said, “The lawyers are facing great difficulty due to the closure of physical court as our livelihood after all is dependent on the court proceedings. If the physical court sessions will not be restored our condition is going to worsen further.” “We are demanding resumption of courts with all safety measures like mandatory wearing of masks, used of sanitizers, maintaining of six feet of physical distance which is being practiced at all other offices and public places,” further said Alam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express to resume run from Jan. 11||The Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express will be resuming operations from January 11 after more than nine months and residents of Palamau, Garhwa and Latehar districts couldn't have been happier. According to an official communication from East Central Railway, the train will start its run from Sambalpur on January 11 and from Jammu Tawi three days later, from January 14.  Both the up and down services will be available four days a week. The train will continue to run till further orders. Residents of Latehar, Garhwa and Palamau districts can avail of the Up Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The Down trains will go through these districts on Thursdays, Fridays, Sundays and Mondays. A K Tiwari, station superintendent of the Daltonganj Railway Station said that the train was in demand by the residents of Latehar as there was no train to Delhi so far. Tiwari also said while Rajdhani has stoppages in Daltonganj and Garhwa but there is no stoppage at the Latehar district. Tiwari added this train will now have three stoppages in Latehar district which are Tori, Latehar and Barwadih railway junctions. Travelling to Delhi at this time was a big problem for the people of Latehar district. Sources said patients who were advised to seek treatment in Delhi AIIMS were the worst sufferers in Latehar district as there is no available train to Delhi. This long express train has stoppages in Delhi, Chandigarh and Ludhiana. A large number of businessmen in the state also do their trading of winter wears in Ludhiana. Businessman R D Singh said, “With the resumption of this train, businessmen will now rush to Ludhiana to bring in winter wears as Ludhiana is the hub of summer and winter hosiery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC peaking at the right time in ISL||Jamshedpur FC’s current form in the seventh Indian Super League (ISL) can well place them on a strong pedestal as the cash-rich tournament rolls on in Goa. Tata Steel-owned JFC are placed fourth in the table with 13 points from 9 matches, behind table toppers ATK Mohun Bagan (20 points from 9 matches), Mumbai  City FC (19 points from 8 matches and hosts FC Goa (14 points from 9 matches). The likes of goal machine Nerijus Valskis and winger Jackichand Singh in the frontlines and skipper Peter Hartley and Stephen Eze in the backline has given ample hope to the team management that the Men of Steel are showing the right form in the crucial juncture of the lengthy fixture. But for some bad refereeing, Jamshedpur would have climbed up on the points table. Jamshedpur will be playing 11 matches in January and February and head coach Owen Coyle, who believes in a spirited display from his boys, seems to be happy that his plans are falling in place. The conversions by forward Valskis from feeds have done a world of good for JFC. In fact, it was expected that the Lithuanian striker will fire all cylinders. “The confidence in the team has gone up. Cohesiveness in the unit is also apparent. The players are giving their all to help the team win the tournament. Though it’s a long way to go but I think the boys are peaking at the right time,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. According to him, a more tactical style of play inside the penalty area was not possible because of the kind of pressure and excitement, especially in the dying stages of the game. “I think we have suffered on the tactical front in some earlier matches but players cannot be blamed for that. We are happy with the form of our players and looking at the tournament with a positive frame of mind,” Choudhari added. He also applauded the performance of goalie T.P. Rehenesh. “He (Rehenesh) is our second goalkeeper but it is difficult to replace him with Pawan Kumar (first choice goalie) unless some untoward incident happens,” he said. The JFC CEO added it was difficult to conduct the ISL during the pandemic. “But hats off to the organisers for conducting the tournament in a hassle-free manner. The logistics related to the event was being handled very well in Goa,” Choudhari added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma SP uses social media to create book bank in police station ||Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib utilised social media platforms to get books through crowdsourcing for a book bank situated in Koderma police station campus. Getting books from different parts of the country, Waquarib made the library functional on Monday claiming that a good library or book bank can help in minimising the rate of crimes. This library was started by the then Koderma SP, Shivani Tiwary in 2018 but soon it became non-functional. After knowing about it, Waquarib requested people to send him books for this library. He used social media platforms for this purpose and got a good response. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Waquarib said he got co-operation from people in different parts of the country who sent books for this library. “I have utilised crowdsourcing to strengthen the book bank,” he informed. He said students of standard-VI and above can take advantage of this library by going through books available here. “We have competitive books as well,” he added. Waquarib has deployed policemen for the smooth functioning of this book bank. From March to October, the book bank will be functional from 10 am to 7 pm. From November to February, timing will be 11 am to 6 pm. “Proper sitting arrangements are also done at this book bank,” added Waquarib. According to him, the main objective behind the opening of this library is to help the needy and poor students who failed to purchase the required books. He said books are the best friend of a man and it can transform anyone's life. “I strongly feel that a library can help in reducing crime,” added he. Waquarib, before becoming an IPS officer, was a doctor. He is joining health camps in the remote naxal areas of Koderma checking patients, prescribing medicines as well. He said as a police officer his priority is to maintain law and order. “But for my own satisfaction, I am checking patients as well whenever I’m getting the opportunity,” said Waquarib, an MBBS and MD degree holder from Aligarh medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||SBI organises special training for visually impaired students in Jharia||The State Bank of India, Jharia branch organised a one-hour special training on its premises for 10 special children including four visually challenged students on Monday. The children are students of the state government-run resource centre for the specially-abled children of Jharia who came to know about the different aspects of banking, including account opening, passbook updation, and withdrawal of money through ATMs. During the event, the students were also provided with gift hampers comprising of biscuits, chocolates, sweets along with a school bag. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Manoj Singh, senior faculty cum physiotherapist of Jharia resource centre, who accompanied the students during the one-hour training said, “The programme was organised on the occasion of World Braille Day in order to sanitise masses in general about the significance of braille for the blind and visually impaired people.” Special educator cum speech therapist of Jharia based resource centre, Akhlaque Ahmad said, “The scholarships provided by the state social welfare department as well as the education department to these students are directly transferred into the joint bank account with their parents. The children can operate the account under the supervision of their parents or on their own.” “If the children themselves can operate the account it will be very convenient for their parents who have to accompany their children every time at the bank,” said Ahmad and added that majority of the automated deposit cum withdrawal machine of the banks are enabled with Braille script so the visually challenged students can operate the machine under the guidance of the bank officials. The branch manager of SBI Jharia branch, Satya Prakash Akhauri, who was present during the special training programme, also instructed the bank staff including the accountants to extend all help to such children when they visit the bank and also provided his mobile number to all the students so that they can directly contact him if any inconvenience caused during the bank account operation. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Monday, Satya Prakash Akhauri said, “The special training was jointly organised by the bank in association with the resource centre on the occasion of the World Braille Day to raise awareness about the fact that how braille plays a significant role in complete realisation in human rights in the lives of blind and partially sighted people,” and added that all the bank staff have been instructed to avoid discomfort to such students. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the training programme, Kajal Kumari (17), a visually challenged student of the resource centre, daughter of a construction site worker, Kallu Ram and house maker Hira Devi said, “The experience at the bank was quite memorable as all the bank staff and officers patiently listened to our queries and explained the minutest details and also guided us to find the Braille script on the automated deposit and withdrawal machine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Night temperatures to rise due to a western disturbance ||The Ranchi Meteorological Centre has predicted a gradual rise in night temperatures in most parts of the state during the next three days. Weathermen said on Monday that a western disturbance was impacting Jharkhand's weather. The disturbance, a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies with its axis at 5.8 km above mean sea level, was running roughly along longitude 72°E to the north of latitude 34°N and moving away north-eastwards. The western disturbance resulted in an induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and was hovering at 1.5km above mean sea level. Another trough over north Punjab was hovering at 1.5km above mean sea level. "Partly cloudy sky would prevail over Jharkhand for the next three to four days.  Shallow to moderate fog is also likely to prevail in the morning for the next two days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours with dominating westerly winds. Shallow fog resulted in poor visibility on Monday morning at several places, especially those located in high terrains. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.8°C, three notches above normal on Monday, while steel city Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 12.2°C, two notches above normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2°C, four notches above normal, while Bokaro recorded 11.1°C, one notch below normal. Chaibasa in adjoining West Singhbhum district recorded a minimum reading of 12°C, three notches above normal. Most districts in the Santhal Pargana region, including Dumka, recorded a minimum reading between 10 °C and 14 °C.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 137 fresh Covid cases, one casualty in a day||Jharkhand's Pakur district along Bengal borders, on Sunday, registered two new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, weeks after turning zero and successfully maintaining status quo till now. As per the health department bulletin last night, fresh cases also continued to surge in Ranchi with 70 more testing positive out of 137 across the state in the last 24 hours. State also reported one death from Gumla whereas 159 people have recovered during the same period. East Singhbhum remained another district with double-digit spike getting 16 new cases, while six districts, including Giridih, Godda, Khunti, Lohardaga, Saraikela and Simdega didn't get any cases and the rest reported single-digit spike. Out of 1601 total active cases in the state, 770 exist in Ranchi alone. The state's total cumulative caseload of infections now stands at 1,15,529 of which 1,12,893 recovered since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Also, 1035 died since then, with East Singhbhum registering maximum fatalities of 335 so far. The recovery rate in the state now stands at 97.71 per cent compared to 96.20 per cent nationally. The seven-day growth rate is 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent. The doubling rate is 503.02 days compared to the national rate of 429.77 days while the mortality rate is 0.89 per cent than that of 1.40 per cent in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government offers scholarship to ST students  ||The Jharkhand government has announced scholarships to 10 talented Scheduled Tribe students every year for pursuing studies in leading foreign universities. Scholarships will be given to students pursuing masters or M.Phil programmes in some selected subjects at particular foreign universities. Instituted in memory of the iconic tribal leader, it will be known as the Marang Gomke (meaning great leader) Jaipal Singh Foreign Scholarship Scheme 2020, informed a circular issued by the state’s Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Castes, minorities and backward classes welfare department. The local students did not get enough scope for proper utilisation of their talent primarily because of limited opportunities available within the state, the circular, signed by departmental secretary Amitabh Kaushal, mentioned as the reason behind instituting the scholarship. “Financial assistance will be given to ten selected talented students belonging to Scheduled Tribes every year for pursuing masters/M.Phil programmes in leading foreign universities,” it added. The eligible ST students who are permanent residents of Jharkhand can avail the scholarship up to the age of 40 years if they pursue full degree programme for masters or M.Phil of duration of either one year or two years, the circular informed, adding priority would be given to such students who will have some teaching or work experience in related fields. The state government will offer the selected students their actual course fee, annual maintenance allowance of £10,000 and annual contingency and equipment allowance of £1,200, besides visa fee, cost of air passage and medical insurance premium. But the offer will be limited to only to those going for studying at 15 chosen universities of Great Britain and Northern Ireland such as Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Bristol, Sussex, Imperial College London and London School of Economics and Political Science. The scholarship will also be limited to students pursuing higher studies in 22 selected subjects only. The subjects will include anthropology/sociology, agriculture, art and culture, climate change, development studies, environment science, forest conservation and ecology, law and human rights, media and communication, public policy, sports medicine, tourism and hospitality and sustainable development. “The scope of the scholarship may later be extended to other subjects and also leading universities of other countries,” the government circular assured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Man pretends to be disappeared boy from Hazaribagh village||Subodh Kumar Mishra went missing at the age of 11, 13 years ago from Jharpo village in Tatijharia village of Hazaribagh district. His father, Kauleshwar Mishra, a farmer, and his mother were distraught with his disappearance. One and a half months ago, a young man knocked on their door, claiming to be Subodh. The couple thanked god for sending their son back. But the couple’s happiness did not last long. It was recently discovered that the man claiming to be Subodh is Mohammad Shafiq from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kauleshwar said Subodh left home after he was scolded for not taking care of his studies. When Shafiq came to the village and told them that he was Subodh, the couple did not suspect him, overcome by emotion. But Shafiq came under suspicion when he started taking loans from people known to Kauleshwar. On Sunday,he went to visit Subodh’s sister and demanded gold ornaments from her. He said he was in need of financial help and as a sister she should help him. The woman didn't waste time and informed her father who reached there with villagers. Kauleshwar confronted the young man, and started beating him, saying he had no doubts that he was not his son. He admitted to being Mohammad Shafiq from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. He arrived at Subodh’s village and came to know about his disappearance. Shafiq said that he took advantage and eventually produced his Aadhar card, irking villagers who beat him up. Tatijharia police said they have received a complaint against Shafiq and he will be sent to jail under sections 420 of the IPC. Kauleshwar said, “What Shafiq did was not right. He caused more pain to us. We didn't feel so bad when Subodh ran away. Shafiq ko saza milni chahiye (Shafiq should be punished),” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
