05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Health centre with OPD facility to come up at Belgarhia||Aiming to provide all basic facilities to the people who were rehabilitated from different underground fire-affected areas to newly developed quarters of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority in Belgarhia, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has formed a committee last week to explore the prospects of improving basic facilities in the colony. On Tuesday, he has identified a site to establish a health centre with OPD facility. The team led by Dhanabd civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others including rehabilitation and resettlement in-charge of JRDA Gulzar Anjum, Dhanbad Sadar hospital in-charge Dr Rajkumar Singh, JRDA executive engineer Amrendra Kumar and district Mineral Foundation Trust officer Subham Singhal also carried out the cost estimation for the establishment of the centre, including the cost to purchase the equipment, medicines, furniture etc. The committee also discussed the manpower required for the operation. Uma Shankar, during his visit to Belgharia township on December 21, came to know about the lack of basic facilities including health care. The Belgharia residents have complained to him about the lack of government health care facility in the colony and also informed him about the poor private health care facility in the area. He said the new health centre with OPD facility will be established at the earliest with 24x7 deployment of manpower. He further said that an ambulance will always be there at the centre to make it easier for the residents to reach other hospitals during any emergency. “The team led by the civil surgeon will also prepare a medical calendar for the centre to organise periodic camps for diabetes and other ailments,” said Singh. During the inspection, he also came to know about the irregular water supply in the colony. He had instructed the JRDA authorities to constitute a committee of residents to look after the water and electricity supply. Out of 1.04 lakh families, only 4,500 of them are living in around 595 underground fire-affected sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||AJSU-P enters Bengal politics, to contest in assembly elections 2021||The All Jharkhand Students Union Party (AJSU-P), NDA’s lone constituent in Jharkhand, will  make a foray into Bengal politics by contesting in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.. The party organised a pre-poll rally from Purulia by holding a conclave on Tuesday. Former Jharkhand deputy CM and AJSU-P chief Sudesh Mahto demanded the formation of a separate Manbhum-Junglemahal Territorial Administration for the development of Kurmis, Mahtos, and other backward castes who reside in the bordering areas of Jharkhand. The organisation has also resolved to fight for granting Kurmis SC/ST status in Bengal, formation of separate linguistic and cultural council to safeguard indigenous languages and called for a separate religion code for nature worshippers residing in the forest and tribal belts of the adjoining district. Addressing the rally, Mahto said, “Several people living here fought alongside AJSU-P during the statehood movement for Jharkhand but remained cut off due to bifurcation. However, AJSU-P has now decided to fight for the cause of our brothers and sisters here to help them achieve socio-economic justice.” Party spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said that they have decided to step into Bengal considering the emerging political situation. “After fighting for Jharkhand, it is time for us to fight for our people in Bengal. Hence, we have decided to fight elections this time,” he said, adding that the party shall be focusing on districts bordering with Jharkhand. “From today, we have officially begun our Bengal campaign,” he added. AJSU-P is an ally of BJP in the state, but it hasn’t yet formally decided whether to fight in alliance with the saffron camp or go solo. “We shall take an appropriate call on the number of seats to fight and other modalities at an appropriate time after evaluating the ground situation through our pre-poll campaigns. But AJSU-P will certainly be in the fray this time,” Bhagat informed. ASJU-P and BJP contested separately in the 2019 assembly polls in Jharkhand after lack of consensus on seat sharing. The decision, however, proved costly for both camps making way for the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance to form government. Despite contesting from 70 seats, AJSU-P won only two seats, three less than its previous tally of five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||10 vaccination centres coming up at each block of Ranchi district||As many as 10 Covid-19 vaccination centres will be set up in each of the 18 blocks of Ranchi, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced on Tuesday after a marathon meeting with district officials to monitor their state of readiness for the actual roll out. “We have decided to set up 10 vaccination centres equipped with all-around facilities in every block. Directives have been given to health officials and others tasked with the job to start identification of potential places in this regard,” Ranjan said. There will be five officials to man each centre. “At each centre, there will be four vaccine officers and a vaccinator. All those coming to the centre for vaccination will be first registered in Co-Win application devised by the Union government after matching their photo-based identities,” he said. Tuesday's meeting was to collect feedback on the maiden dry run and to fine tune groundwork required for the immunisation exercise. Ranjan said every vaccine centre would be equipped with a proper waiting area, washrooms, a logistics storage section, seamless internet connectivity, power and other utilities to prevent any breakdown of the established vaccination protocol. “We will also set up help desks at each vaccine centre and a dedicated observation room to keep a tab on those who take the vaccination,” he said. Ranchi was among the six districts where dry runs for the vaccine administration were held on Saturday. Sources said over 5,000 health workers have been identified in the district to receive the vaccine in the first phase. As many as 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh health workers across the state are in the priority group. “In the second phase, other frontline workers and those above 50 will be given the vaccination in Ranchi,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Group of 6 opens fire on packed bus in West Singhbhum||A group of armed men opened fire on a passenger bus plying between Ranchi and Chiabasa near Bandgaon valley on Monday night, but police are not sure if it was the handiwork of Naxalites even though the area in West Singhbum, about 150km from here, is a Naxalite den. No one was injured although the bus's rear glass screen was shattered. On Tuesday morning, the bus driver Sitaram Singh had lodged an FIR at Chaibasa police station. In his complaint, Singh said at 9.30 pm when he was crossing the Ranchi- Bandgaon-Chaibasa road, around half-a-dozen armed men suddenly blocked his way and tried to stop the vehicle. When he tried to escape, they had started firing from behind. According to Chaibasa police, five rounds of bullets were fired, one of them broke the vehicle’s rear glass. Singh said since the vehicle was packed with passengers, it was his responsibility to save their lives. He informed the police that the bus conductor had advised the passengers to bow down when the miscreants continued firing. West Singhbhum district superintendent of police Ajay Linda had confirmed the incident and said that they were investigating the matter. “On Monday night, some armed miscreants fired a few rounds of bullets on a bus. But we are yet to find out whether Naxals were involved in this attack. Generally, Naxals do not tend to fire on any passenger vehicle. Those attackers must be criminals who intended to rob the passengers,” said Linda, while speaking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out that as the bus driver had refused to stop, the miscreants got angry and some of them started firing at the vehicle. Linda said as soon as they got the information, a police team immediately reached the spot. However, they could not catch the culprits. Linda said a fortnight ago a gang of five armed miscreants had tried to stop a bus on Jhinkpani-Chaibasa route and eventually the gang was arrested by the police. After an investigation, it was discovered that the gang had tried to rob the passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||16-year-old arrested for Kadma nurse’s murder||The 16-year-old son of Arvind Kumar Singh has been arrested for the murder of Anita Sharma after he confessed saying the nurse’s affair with his father was the cause of severe unhappiness in the family. Revealing the breakthrough, DSP (headquarters-II) Arvind Kumar said on Tuesday that the boy is a plus-two student of a prominent school in the steel city. He told the police he was upset with the nurse as she had an “illicit relationship” with his father. "The boy had come to the nurse's flat (in Kadma) from his house in Bagbera about 7km away early on December 31 on his father's bike. He first tried to convince her to call off the relationship with his father as this was affecting their family. “But when she did not assure him, the boy asked for Rs 200 to refuel his bike. As the woman went to fetch the money, the boy came from behind and strangulated her. Subsequently, he stabbed her repeatedly with a kitchen knife to ensure she died," Kumar told reporters on Tuesday evening. Arvind (50) found the partially burnt body of Anita (43) in her first-floor flat at Jayanti Apartment on Road No 3 in Ramnagar at Kadma late on December 31 and then informed police. A devastated Arvind, who also has a 14-year-old daughter, rued having introduced his son to Anita, who was a nurse at Brahmananda Narayana Superspeciality Hospital at Tamulia. "It was my grave mistake that I had taken my son to my beloved's place. Had I not taken him along before, nothing would have happened," he said. Kadma police station OC Ranjit Kumar Singh, who solved the case, said they had used a team of forensic experts at the crime scene. "The boy had wiped the blood-stained knife. Hence, there was little chance of getting any prints. But we had CCTV footage of the assailant entering the house of the nurse. This is the only material evidence which we will produce before the court for his conviction," he said. The boy, a minor, was sent to a remand home after he was presented before a judicial magistrate in the evening. DSP Kumar said the boy was wearing cotton gloves which he used to wipe the blood stains from the knife. He then threw both the knife and the gloves in a water tank at the nurse’s home. “Subsequently, the boy sprinkled sanitizer on the nurse's body and set her on fire. Hence the partial burns,” he said. Kumar said Arvind claimed repeatedly that he had killed Anita. “We kept him in custody for the past four days but spoke to all his family members. During interrogation, we realised there was strong opposition to, and resentment about, Arvind’s relationship with the nurse. “Serious quarrelling was a regular affair at home for the past one-and-half-years, ever since the family got to know of their relationship which was at least six years old. We focussed on the boy and after questioning, he gave in,” the DSP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town committees announce mass marriage for poor||Dhanbad social organisations, in a bid to help people of the economically disadvantaged sections, have come forward to help them in organising weddings during a mass marriage function. The Sri Sri Bhagavati Jagran Committee, the management section of the district’s biggest temple, Shakti Mandir, has decided to organise the function on February 21 for people who could not marry during the lockdown. Addressing a press conference at the temple office, committee president S.P. Sondhi said they had organised a mass marriage for 11 pairs 10 years ago, and are taking the initiative again in view of the economic slowdown due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. “The committee will make all efforts to continue the tradition in the coming years in order to extend helping hands to the people of the economically weaker sections of the society,” he said. Surendra Arora, the joint secretary of the committee said that the registration for the event has started on Tuesday and will continue till January 31. “Applicants will have to submit the copies of their Aadhar Card, Voter Card and the certificate issued by local mukhiya/ward councilor certifying details of their parents along with the application,” he added. “The scrutiny of the application forms will be carried out on February 5 and selection list would be announced on February 6,” Arora said, adding that the selected pairs would receive wedding outfits on February 15. The Mehendi ceremony will be held on February 20, he said. Secretary of the temple committee Arun Bhandari said that on February 21, the marriage procession will be taken out at 10 am on an e-rickshaw. “It will return to the temple after passing through Pani Tanki and Telephone Exchange Road. The marriages will be then solemnised in the temple Samdhi Milan and Jaymala rituals at around 2 pm,” he said. Bhandari also informed that the ceremony will end at 4 pm and the temple authorities will give the couples all necessary items to start a new life, such as utensils, furniture and clothes. Another group of volunteers, under the banner of Sarv Dharm Samuhik Vivah Samiti, had on December 27 also made a similar announcement of conducting mass marriage on January 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Three SUVs stolen in wee hours||Three SUVs (white Mahindra Scorpios) were stolen from different parts of the district in the wee hours of Tuesday, the police said. However, the police have lodged an FIR and started conducting raids in various areas of the district to arrest the culprits. According to information, two SUVs were stolen from the main market area at City Centre under Sector-IV police station. Meanwhile, another was stolen from Bokaro Thermal area under Bermo Sub-Division. The police have started an investigation and also collected CCTV footages from the areas where the miscreants came in a white Hyundai i20 car. DSP City Gyan Ranjan said, “We are carrying out an investigation to trace the stolen vehicles and arrest the criminals. All the police stations have been informed about the matter. We suspect that the same gang is involved in the incidents. They are professional thieves as they broke the locks easily and took away the vehicles.” Ranjan said the first SUV was owned by Arun Kumar Singh, an income tax lawyer, who stays near Bokaro Mall in the City Centre area. Singh said, “In the morning, I found my vehicle missing. I immediately informed the matter to the police. After seeing the CCTV footage, it was clear that four thieves were involved in the crime. One of them came near my vehicle, broke its back glass, and entered inside. After a few minutes, he drove it away.” The second incident was reported near a Maruti showroom. The vehicle owner, who owns a shop just opposite the showroom, used to park his car there. Both the incidents took place within an hour, the police said. Meanwhile, the third SUV was owned by Shambhu Yadav, a retired employee of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Yadav had parked the vehicle in front of his house and on the next day, he found it missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rs 50,000 police reward for information on Ormanhji culprits||Ranchi police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for anyone providing information on the rape and beheading of a young girl whose body was found in the forests of Ormanjhi on the outskirts of the state capital on Sunday morning, triggering statewide outrage. In a communiqué announcing the reward, police said they had registered a case under IPC sections of 302, 304, 201 and 120 B. “The informant’s identity will be kept strictly confidential,” police said and released phone numbers of senior SP (9431706136), rural SP (7250514449), Silli DSP (7764066357) and Oramnjhi police station in-charge (9431706138). Police are yet to locate the severed head of the victim. “The age of the victim seems in be between 18-22. She is about five feet tall,” read the police communiqué. It added that the victim had a mole in her right arm and right feet. The incident has triggered a wave of protests in the capital with both the Opposition and citizen’s groups staging demonstrations to denounce poor policing and demand immediate arrest of the culprits. On Monday, the BJP held a series of protests through the day. But there was a flare-up during one at Kishoreganj Chowk on VIP Road in Harmu leading to the injury of a policeman posted there. The protestors turned violent and resorted to vandalism. They also threatened to attack chief minister Hemant Soren’s cavalcade forcing him to take a detour via Ranchi Lake to reach his official residence from Project Building. The incident led to a political slugfest between the ruling and Opposition camps with the latter accusing “anti-government” forces of having orchestrated the violence. Both JMM and Congress, partners in the ruling alliance government, accused the BJP of fanning the violence and condemned the rape and beheading at Ormanjhi, appealing to the police to apprehend the culprits as soon as possible. Referring to the Ormanjhi victim as Ranchi’s “Nirbhaya”, the BJP and its allies hit back at police and the state government for trying to give spontaneous protests a “communal colour” and bury genuine anti-government sentiments. State BJP president Deepak Prakash tweeted: “There is a different between protests and attack CM sir. People are now coming to streets to protest against unending crime and attack on women in this state. But the district administration and police is wielding sticks to silence voices of dissent. We demand justice to Ranchi’s Nirbhaya CM sir.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get a new blood bank||Dhanbad district will soon get a new state-owned blood bank with a storage capacity of 400 units on the Sadar hospital campus near Randhir Verma Chowk. According to the secretary of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society, Kaushlendra Kumar Singh, on Tuesday, necessary equipment for the blood bank was brought with funds from National Rural Health Mission. Among the equipment bought are deep freezers, blood bank refrigerator, donor couch, plasma throwing bath, dielectric tube sealer, blood mixer and collector, semi-automated reader, centrifuge for Gel ID cards and refrigerated water bath (cryo bath) were purchased in Ranchi in 2020. He said all those necessary items will be brought back to the district hospital. Singh said, “The items were purchased in Ranchi which could not be brought back to Dhanbad due to Covid-19 restrictions. Those will be handed over to the district Red Cross Society which will carry out the installation work to start operating the new blood bank from the hospital campus.” “The Department of Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare will arrange manpower for the blood bank,” said Singh. A new blood bank near the district headquarters will prove extremely beneficial for the patients during any emergency. Till 2012, a blood bank with 900-unit storage capacity used to operate on the same campus. However, due to space constraints, it was shifted to the Shahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) at Saraidhela. He said the health department had planned to set up a blood bank on Sadar hospital campus 2013. There was also a plan to establish two storage facilities, with a capacity of 25 units each, at Baghmara and Govindpur Primary Health Centres. However, the plan could not materialise due to various reasons. Singh said the new proposal was finalised on December 17. “To improve the standard of the blood bank, we should first raise awareness among people. They should be encouraged to donate blood,” said Gopal Bhattacharya, general secretary of social organisation Bengali Welfare Society. Till now, Bhattacharya has donated blood for almost 56 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi logs half of the fresh Covid cases in a day||Recoveries outshined fresh infections of Covid-19 on Monday with 232 declared cured in comparison to 160 new cases besides one fatality, as per the bulletin issued by health department last night. Ranchi, however, remained vulnerable of all 24 districts with 81 new cases and one death in the last 24 hours. As many as 141 got cured in the capital during this same period, the bulletin added. Other districts with double-digit single day growth included Bokaro (12), Dhanbad (16) and East Singhbhum (14). On the other hand, seven districts namely Chatra, Godda, Jamtara, Khunti, West Singhbhum, Lohardaga and Pakur reported cases in single-digits. Active cases in three districts--Giridih, Godda and Pakur are currently in single digits out of  1528 total active cases. Since the outbreak of the virus in March last year, 1,15,689 total infections reported of which 1,13,125 defeated the virus while 1036 have succumbed so far. Jharkhand's seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent. The doubling rate of is 537.82 days against the national figure of 428.28 days. State's recovery rate stands at 97.71 per cent compared to 96.20 per cent in the country whereas the mortality rate is 0.89 per cent than that of 1.40 nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand issues alert on bird flu||The Jharkhand government on Monday afternoon issued an advisory to all the 24 districts unit of animal husbandry unit to report unnatural deaths of birds immediately to the government and send samples to the Ranchi lab at the earliest. The directive was issued by director state animal husbandry department, Nancy Sahay in the wake of detection of bird flu virus from the carcasses of crows in two states of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh even as entire country is fighting Covid-pandemic. “We do not have a single case of such bird flu cases in any of our neighbouring states (Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar). But we do not want to take chances and have issued advisory to all our district animal husbandry officers (DAHO) to be on vigil 24x7 and coordinate with local thanas, animal watch groups, poultry owners etc, on a regular basis and immediately inform about deaths of any birds in their respective areas. Effort should be made to send the sample of the dead bird at the earliest to our Kanke-based virology lab for confirmatory test,” said Nancy Sahay. The director said that DAHOs have been directed to establish contact with poultry sellers in their respective districts to keep an eye on poultry products brought from other states and inform immediately about suspicious deaths so that samples can be sent for confirmatory tests and the dead birds be buried as per protocol. “We have enough stock of testing kits at our labs and at the moment we are simply keeping a tab as a precautionary measure. We will issue necessary guidelines like culling if the need arises,” the director added. The state forest department has also sounded the zoos and bird sanctuaries authorities to be on high alert in the wake of crows death in a few states. The directive assumes significance as Jharkhand witnesses an influx of a large number of migratory birds during winters. Jharkhand chief wildlife warden Rajeev Ranjan informed that an advisory in this regard has been sent to all zoos and bird sanctuaries asking them to take all necessary precautions to prevent the transmission of the disease. “We have also asked to keep a close vigil on the health of the animals in the zoos,” Ranjan said. Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, popularly known as Birsa zoo, at Ormanjhi block, has enhanced the routine spray and health check of animals in the zoo. The birds are being served amino modulator drugs in water and food to make their immune system stronger against the diseases. Significantly, the state has had instances of deaths of crows due to bird flu in 2020 and also in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure wing’s winter leadership expedition||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has announced its winter leadership expedition programme during January and February. It will organise six treks for as many batches of trekkers during these two winter months — three each to Darwa Top (13,500 feet) and Dayara Top (12,500 feet) in Uttarakhand and each trek will be of one week duration, informed a release issued by TSAF on Monday. The first three of those will be Darwa-Dodital treks to be conducted this month, beginning on January 9 while the next three are scheduled for Dayara Top next month, the first of the series beginning on February 2. “Participants can expect snow during these treks which increases the beauty of the mountains and makes it an unforgettable experience,” the TSAF release informed the trekkers of a possible bonus. It further assured that TSAF followed all standard safety practices to minimise Covid risks during it expeditions, adding those included small closed grouping, maintaining social distancing, sanitising equipments and tents and above all a Covid-19 test as part of a pre-check. The organisation recently conducted one such expedition with no record of any infection, the release assured and added that they have an expert team of guides for conducting those treks. In case of any query the participants have been advised to contact TSAF either through its official website or its social media handle on Instagram. India’s first woman Everester and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal was associated TSAF since its inception in the mid-80s and functioned as its director during her association lasting for three and a half decades. She trained many adventure enthusiasts at TSAF and also successfully led many expeditions under its banner during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
