06-01-2021||Jharkhand||State  to exit tripartite agreement with power ministry, RBI for DVC power||Jharkhand will exit from the tripartite agreement signed with the  Union power ministry and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by the former chief minister Raghubar Das. The agreement was signed to purchase power from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) to prevent the arbitrary deduction of money from the state’s coffers. Describing the agreement as lopsided, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved its cancellation. Announcing the decision later, state energy secretary Avinash Kumar said a cabinet nod was being sought to prevent auto-deduction of money from Jharkhand’s account in RBI. “Despite repeated requests to the Centre to clear outstanding dues, the Union ministry last year invoked tripartite agreement clause to auto-debit the money from our accounts in RBI. Considering all aspects, the state government is of the view that the agreement made in the past is lopsided and hence, we shall exist from it,” said Kumar. In 2017, Raghubar Das government entered into a tripartite agreement to give payment security to DVC for procuring power. However, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre invoked the tripartite agreement in October 2020 to auto-deduct Rs 1,417.50 crore in lieu towards the outstanding dues. DVC has been claiming Rs 5,608.32 crore dues from the state government for supplying power between March 31, 2015, to August 23, 2017. But Jharkhand has challenged it, saying that after re-assessment, the pending dues were Rs 3,919.04 crores. The auto-deduction, however, deepened the tussle between state and Union government with chief minister Hemant Soren accusing the Centre of deliberately harassing the state, which was hard-pressed for funds amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year seeking his intervention. Speaking to reporters outside Project Building post-cabinet meeting, Hemant said, “This is one of the many faulty policies and decisions taken by the previous BJP government which wasn’t in the interest of this poor state. In our RBI account, we get funds under different heads for the overall development of the state. To prevent further auto-debit by the Centre, we have finally decided to exit from the agreement.” The cabinet has also approved new regulations to hold Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examinations replacing the earlier rules framed in 1951. “Now, recruitment exams will be held under fresh rules and regulations which are in sync with today’s time. It is surprising that the previous government didn’t do anything to addressing the problems in recruitment bodies to simply things and are continuing with the decade-old rules,” said Soren. According to the new rules, there will be a requirement of educational qualification and age for candidates for all exams. In preliminary examinations, the number of candidates will be selected 15 times higher than the actual vacancies to shortlist the eligible ones through a comprehensive screening process. “If any aspirant from the reserved category qualifies on merit, he/she can have the option of choosing whether to opt for the reserved and unreserved category for the final selection of service,” department secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau police arrest Maoist insurgent from Gujarat||Palamau police have arrested a Guddu, a Maoist insurgent carrying Rs one lakh reward on his head, from Kosamba in Gujarat on January 2, said SP Sanjeev Kumar on Wednesday. Kumar said a police team went to Gujarat to arrest him. The 40-year-old was evading arrest since 2009 when he joined the squad of Arvind Mukhiya, a subzonal commander of the CPI (Maoist). The SP said Guddu remained highly active from 2009 to 2012. Around eight cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and fighting with police were filed against him in these three years. From 2012 to 2015, Guddu was not much active but he remained in constant touch with the rebel group. Guddu was hiding in Kosamba where he was doing some odd jobs, the police said. Kumar said Guddu had no information about their arrival in Kosamba. Chhaterpur SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh tracked him. Singh said after getting SP’s order, they were tracking Guddu since November 2020. Singh said a small police team went to Kosamba last year to ascertain Guddu’s whereabouts. When they found him, another team went there and finally arrested Guddu. The SDPO said it was not an easy operation. They took the help of local police to arrest him. The police team was staying in Kosamba for over four days. Kumar said Guddu was remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Providing security, rescuing minors, RPF does it all||The South Eastern Railway's Railway Protection Force ( RPF)  personnel have been playing a significant role in providing security to passengers as well as in guarding railway property and its vital installations, as suggested by Railway data. According to the records, in December the RPF conducted regular drives against miscreants involved in theft of passenger belongings. During the month of December, a total number of 31 miscreants were arrested under the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966 and property worth Rs 21 lakh was recovered from Tatanagar, Ranchi, Rourkela and several other railway stations under SER zone. Moreover, 300 offenders were booked under different sections of the Railways Act and Rs 97,575 was realised as fine from Chakradharpur, Ranchi and Kharagpur divisions. Regular drives were also conducted by RPF and commercial department and 688 ticketless travellers were caught and Rs 2,09,960 was realised as fine. The records further show that 34 left-behind luggage of passengers were recovered by the RPF during the month and 21 cases of smoking in train were detected by RPF under the Tobacco Act and fines amounting to Rs.4,200 were realised. Apart from this, RPF personnel of South Eastern Railway have taken active part to conduct 145 cleanliness drives and also removed 51 encroachments at various divisions, including Ranchi and Chakradharpur under SER jurisdiction. They have also rescued six  minor boys and 23 minor girls in December, who were handed over to their relatives with proper verification and acknowledgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||2 police officers suspended for attack on CM’s pilot car||Two police officers were suspended on Wednesday for Monday’s attack on the pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren’s entourage when a mob took to the streets at Kishoreganj to protest against the murder of a young girl whose headless body was found at Ranchi’s Ormanjhi area. The move to suspend the OCs of Kotwali and Sukhdevnagar police stations came a day after the state government formed a two-member committee, comprising senior IAS and IPS officials, to probe the incident. Police have also filed cases against 68 named and several unnamed individuals. On Tuesday, the chief minister’s office also indicated that showcause notices had been served on Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha and deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan for their inability to tackle the protest. The body of the young girl, believed to be between 18 and 22 years of age, was recovered from a forest in Ormanjhi on Sunday, triggering a public outrage and political slugfest between the ruling and Opposition camps. Sources said the medical board that conducted the post-mortem on the body had ruled out rape. But police were yet to confirm the finding. They had also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for anyone with information on the case as the girl’s identity was yet to be established. A five-member special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to probe the incident. Wednesday’s suspension orders were issued by DGP M.V. Rao in the morning while he was reviewing the law-and-order situation at Jha’s office at the district collectorate. Rao told the media that action was taken against the OCs _ Sunil Tiwari of Sukhdevnagar and Brij Kumar of Kotwali _ for failing to gather accurate intelligence regarding the scale of the protest. He also added that action was being taken against those who were involved in Monday’s protest, calling it a ploy to attack the chief minister’s convoy. “Police will not spare anyone for Monday’s violent protest. Continuous arrests are being made since Tuesday based on CCTV footage. No one is allowed to take the law into his own hands,” Rao said. Both JMM and Congress have accused the BJP of orchestrating the violent protests. On the other hand, the police action prompted the BJP to criticise the state government for “silencing dissent” and deliberately targeting its workers on Tuesday and Wednesday. Leader of the BJP legislative party and former chief minister Babulal Marandi said that no BJP flags were carried by anyone during the Kishoreganj protest. The public outburst, he said, was spontaneous because of the pent-up anger against the government’s failure to control law and order. “It is the failure of police in the first place. Whenever CM passes, roads are secured properly by road opening parties. How come so many protesters descended on the CM’s route without police knowledge?” Marandi said on Wednesday. The administration, he said, was acting out of political vendetta to arrest innocent people. “We also learnt about kids being picked up by police along with their families. Even some BJP cadres were reportedly nabbed. Protest is a democratic right of everyone. We would have welcomed if police had shown such promptness to probe the beheading incident,” Marandi said. The JMM launched a counter-attack again. Party spokesperson and general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee claimed on Wednesday that those who attacked the chief minister’s pilot car and injured a policeman were linked to the BJP and had criminal antecedents. “Some of the suspects who were caught on CCTV are seen to be taking pictures with senior BJP leaders on that day. This establishes BJP’s connection in the whole episode,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad reels under power cuts as DVC supply is disrupted||The problems faced by Dhanbad residents reeling under the impact of electricity crisis due to power cuts being carried out by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) since December 23  has further increased from Wednesday. The Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited has started to further regulate the power supply from the 220 KV Kandra grid substation of Dhanbad. The Maithon- Dumka Circuit of the Kandra Grid substation, used for drawing 60 megawatts of power from Dumka Grid, has undergone shutdown from Wednesday till January 14, restricting the power supply to 30 megawatts only. A letter in this regard has already been issued by the manager of the Kandra Grid Substation to assistant engineers of the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited at Govindpur, Barwaddah and Hirapur, informing them about the shut down and consequent lesser supply of power to their respective divisions from the Kandra Grid. Confirming the reduction of power supply, Executive Engineer of the Dhanbad Electric Supply area of the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam, Ajit Kumar said, “We have launched the power scheduling in view of shutdown of the Maithon Dumka Circuit.” Power regulation is being carried out during the day hours,from 7 am to 4 pm, while it is normal during the evening and night hours, from 4 pm to 7 am, Kumar added. The Kandra Grid Substation, installed and commissioned in 2019, has helped a lot in decreasing the dependence of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam on DVC for power supply in Dhanbad. Out of 172 MW, around 60 MW is drawn from Kandra Grid station in Dhanbad. Dhanbad, Govindpur and Barwaddah are the main beneficiaries under the new system  and thus even during the power cuts carried out by DVC the supply in these subdivisions remain largely unaffected. The shutdown carried out from Wednesday to January 14 for maintenance work however affected the power supply in Dhanbad, Barawaddah and Govindpur areas as well. Talking to The Telegraph Online, patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, said, “The town area of Dhanbad largely remained unaffected due to  the load shedding launched by the DVC since December 23 but the problem started  from Wednesday. We can’t understand the timing of maintenance as it is coinciding with the DVC power cut.” Sanjay Kumar, a Cyber café operator of Dhanbad said “Our entire business is dependent on regular electricity. Long hours of power cuts will adversely affect our business as we will have to incur extra cost on operating generators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand spared severe cold wave this season ||Frequent western disturbances across the northern parts of the country, coupled with changing wind patterns, have ensured that Jharkhand did not have to endure a cold wave this winter. “Frequent western disturbances in December and in January has, so far, resulted in adverse conditions for a cold wave (when at least three Met observatories record minimum readings five notches below normal). Usually, western disturbances result in a rise in night temperatures. It blocks the flow of crisp north-westerly winds from north India to the plains,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, on Wednesday. The cold wave usually sends shivers down Jharkhand’s spine from December last week to mid-January. Met statistics revealed that the cold wave conditions will probably not continue this winter. According to the statistics, 2018 witnessed the longest spell of the cold wave for nine days at a stretch in December. Met records suggest that in 2017, cold wave conditions eluded the state in December. According to Met data, in 2016, cold wave conditions prevailed at several places in Jharkhand including Ranchi, Daltonganj and a few other districts from December 22 to 25. Similarly, in 2015, cold wave conditions prevailed in Ranchi and its adjoining districts only on December 21. Met department said a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed in the northern parts of the country on Thursday, which will again stop the flow of northwesterly winds. The long-range forecast suggests that Jharkhand will witness the minimum temperature from January 12. On Wednesday, both Jamshedpur and Ranchi have recorded 13 degrees Celsius, while Daltonganj recorded 15 degrees Celsius at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP attacks Hemant government over increasing crime||Launching a scathing attack on the state government over increasing incidents of crime including rape and murder of a girl in Khunti, district unit of the BJP has organised a massive protest at Randhir Verma Chowk on Wednesday. The protestors led by district MP PN Singh and MLA Raj Sinha raised a slogan against the state government. Singh said, “The BJP has organised the protest against the deteriorating law and order situation in the entire state including the increasing incidents of rape, murder, kidnapping and robbery.” “The incidents of crime have increased ever since the new government under the leadership of Heman Soren came to power,” said Singh. “Going through the newspapers daily, I come across various news on abduction, threatening, extortion, etc. This indicates the growing criminal activities in the state,” Singh said. “Common people are afraid because of the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. They are living under constant fear,” said Singh, adding that maintaining law and order in the state should be the top priority of the government. District MLA Raj Sinha, who also participated in the protest, said: “The law and order situation is worsening in the state. If BJP workers are raising the issue, they are being sent to jail.” “This will not be tolerated at any cost. We will intensify the protest against the worsening situation,” said Sinha. Raising the issue of extortion demand from some computer traders and other coal excavators, Sinha said, “The criminals are now sending videos to traders and people’s representatives demanding money from them and threatening with dire consequences.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro airport expansion work to be completed by March||Construction of the Bokaro airport boundary wall, which was delayed due to trespassing, has been speeded up from Wednesday following the intervention of the district administration. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has aimed to complete the airport expansion work by March 2021 to start the operation of commercial flights soon. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said the construction work of the airport should now be done on war-footing. They are ensuring better coordination between the authorities of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), AAI, forest department, police and administration.  Construction of the boundary wall is being done without any hindrance. The AAI has asked for the district administration’s support so that they can complete the construction work in Sector-12 area by March 2021. Sources said almost 90 per cent of the work has been completed. The AAI is also facing huge trouble to complete the work as hundreds of people residing in the slum, which is adjacent to the airport, enter the premises to relieve themselves. Sometimes they also leave their cattle inside it. Because of this reason, it has become really difficult for the workers to continue the work. Moreover, the trees in the nearby areas are also a cause of concern. Singh said the airport is owned by the BSL. Therefore, it should deploy more security to facilitate construction work. The guards will stop the people from entering the premises. On Wednesday, deputy superintendent of police Gyan Ranjan visited the spot. He ordered the local police station to intensify patrolling and prevent any unauthorised entry into the airport premises. The DC had also instructed AAI officer of Bokaro airport Priyanka Singh to accelerate the work. He also asked the forest department officers to cut down trees near the airport. The trees with a diameter of more than 7 inches will be removed, while those with less than 7 inches of diameter will have to be replanted, he said. “BSL officers and district-level officials should coordinate with each other to complete the construction work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||New approach road to Dhanbad railway junction soon||The construction work for the 600m new approach road to the south side of the extension complex of Dhanbad railway junction is almost over, said Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway, on Wednesday. The project, worth Rs 2 crore, was started from October 2018. The passengers coming from Jharia, Patherdih, Digwadih, Sindri, Joraphatak etc will now enjoy a smooth ride to the railway station. He said the upcoming approach road also has a subway which will help the passengers to skip the railway crossing. The construction work will be completed by March 31. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Pandey said, “The construction work for the 600m new approach road to the south side of the extension complex of Dhanbad railway junction is almost over and it will be opened to the public soon.” He said, “March 31 is the deadline to finish the construction work of the subway.” Inspector of works of Dhanbad division of railway PK Singh, who is supervising the construction work, said, “We have joined almost 24 casting pieces to complete the work. We are now trying our best to finish it as soon as possible.” President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab said, “The approach road is situated near the market. So, being the community stakeholder, we regularly visit the spot to supervise the work.” “The new approach road will greatly reduce the difficulties of the passengers, who struggle daily to reach the station through severely congested Bank More bridge,” said Sohrab. He said the unauthorised parking of the heavy vehicles at the entry point of the approach road may cause traffic congestion. The south side extension the complex will have a slew of new facilities including waiting hall, shopping outlets, a circulating area for vehicles, pay-and-use toilets, among others, very soon. In 2014, Dhanbad division had developed a large parking area at the cost of Rs 4.5 crore to make it easier for the passengers to reach the main station complex situated in the north side. It receives an average footfall of more than 20,000 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases decrease after almost a month, remains below 50||New infections of Covid-19 cases in Ranchi remained below 50-mark for the first time after at least a month as the state capital registered 47 confirmed patients in the last 24 hours, health department's bulletin issued on Tuesday night has suggested. As many as 151 got recovered while one death also came fore in Ranchi during this period. Statewide, a total of 155 new cases got registered, 255 recovered and two deaths surface. Besides Ranchi, one death was reported from Hazaribag taking the total fatalities in the state to 1038. Jharkhand cumulative caseload now stands at 1,15,840 of which 1,13,380 patients have recovered so far while 1,422 are active cases. Other districts with double-digit single day growth came from four places namely Dhanbad (17), Palamau (16), Bokaro (14), and East Singhbhum (12). Sixteen districts reported single-digit cases while Chatra, Godda, Pakur and Sahibganj remained free of new infections in the last one day. State's recovery rate with 97.87 percent remains higher than the national average of 96.30 percent. The mortality rate is 0.89 per cent vis-a-vis 1.40 nationally. State's seven day growth rate is 0.12 percent, lower than the national average of 0.16 per cent whereas seven days doubling rate 578.81 days in comparison to 445.30 days in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren's convoy attacked, DGP sniffs plot||Jharkhand DGP M.V. Rao has sniffed a conspiracy behind the attack on chief minister’s convoy by a mob at the Kishoreganj Chowk area at Harmu in Ranchi on Monday evening. Speaking to the media at a programme in Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), Rao hinted at tough action against the perpetrators of violence. “The CCTV footage seems to indicate that it was a conspiracy to attack the CM’s convoy by a section of the protesters who were bent on taking law into their own hands. We will not tolerate such goonda gardi on roads of Jharkhand. We know to give a befitting reply to the conspirators of violence and teach them a lesson which will not make them even think of committing such acts in future,” said Rao. Significantly, Hemant Soren’s convoy going from secretariat to his residence was attacked by a mob protesting against the murder of a woman whose beheaded body was recovered from near Ormanjhi earlier on Sunday suddenly turned violence when a police vehicle of the chief minister’s carcade was trying to clear the road for his movement on Monday evening. A section of the crowd, allegedly led by right wing organisations under patronage of the opposition party, started pelting stones at the CM carcade causing injury to several police personnel, including Gonda thana in-charge Naval Kishore. Later, the CM’s convoy was diverted through another route to his Kanke residence. The DGP further claimed that they were waiting for a medical report of the body of the woman. “We are yet to establish if the woman was raped before being murdered. The identity of the woman is also not yet established. We assume that she might have been murdered somewhere else and body thrown at Ormanjhi to hide evidence. We are investigating it and would soon get to the truth,” said the DGP. Meanwhile, Ranchi SSP Surendra Jha said that they have detained over a dozen persons for interrogation in the Kishoreganj violence. “Based on evidence we have rounded up over 12 persons and if their involvement is proved then they will be sent to jail. The holding of agitation in a place like Kishoreganj which falls in the route of the CM’s carcade and the mob suddenly growing in number during evening turning violent seeing the carcade seems to point that there seems to be a conspiracy. However, we are not in a position to say anything conclusively at the moment,” the SSP said. The SSP also said that the woman’s identity is yet to be established and the medical report of the body will be arriving soon to ascertain if she was sexually assaulted or not. However, he ruled out that the woman belonged to localities near Ranchi. The perpetrators of the violence are being identified jointly by police teams from Kotwali and Sukhdeonagar thana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
