07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Statewide dry run for Covid vaccination on Friday||Jharkhand is set to conduct its second round of dry run of Covid-19 vaccination protocols on Friday with state health minister Banna Gupta assuring Union health minister Harsh Vardhan that infrastructure and personnel arrangements were in order for the roll out of the immunisation campaign in the state. “We have identified about 1.25 lakh priority beneficiaries for the first phase of vaccination in the state. An equal number of syringes have been readied and health workers will get the doses in the first phase. For smooth execution, over 7,000 volunteers have been empanelled across the state and as many as 1,672 vaccination centres have already been identified and prepared. We are only waiting for a formal go ahead from the government and vaccine stocks, Gupta told Vardhan at a video conference on Thursday. Gupta said Jharkhand had performed well with the state recording high recoveries and low mortality compared to national rates. Later in the day, chief minister Hemant Soren took stock of the health department’s preparedness for Friday’s dry run, which health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said would be held in all 24 districts at 188 health centres. The first dry run in Jharkhand on January 2 was conducted in six districts, namely, Ranchi, Pakur, Simdega, Palamau, East Singbhum and Chatra involving 325 health workers. For Friday’s drill over 1,500 people would be involved. “We will cover all aspects of the vaccination covering transport and logistics to vaccine administration, crowd control and supervision,” said an official in the vaccination task force. He said special attention would be given to handling of the Co-Win app devised for the Covid-19 immunisation programme since it is to be operated on real time basis. “The Co-Win app will be the central platform for tracking the entire vaccination drive right from Centre to states and district levels. Hence, its usage will be key for ensuring a transparent vaccination programme. Equally important will be uninterrupted power and internet back-up to run the application for which all districts have been asked to keep alternative sources ready in case of glitches,” he added. Kulkarni said 99.89 lakh people had been identified so far in Jharkhand and put on various priority lists for administering the vaccine. “In the first phase about 1.25 lakh health workers will be given the vaccine, followed by about 2 lakh frontline workers comprising police, home guard jawans, civic body officials, disaster management officials, among others. Thereafter, 33.43 lakh people in the 50-plus age group with comorbidities will be given the vaccine followed by 62.97 lakh people in the 50-plus age group (without comorbidities),” he said. All beneficiaries would be provided digitised vaccination certificates. On cold storage facilities, Kulkarni said that 275 storage points had been earmarked in the state. “Besides one state and two regional warehouses, storage facilities have been set up in every district and at 248 community health centres across the state,” he said. In Ranchi, deputy commission Chhavi Ranjan also held a meeting with health officials and representatives of private hospitals in the morning. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad said the purpose of calling representatives of private hospitals and nursing homes was to keep them in the loop and apprise them of standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine programme. “In future, we will also require support from the private health sector when the vaccination programme is carried out among the masses,” he said. Prasad said Friday’s dry run would be held across the state. “Sadar hospital and all community and primary health centres in Ranchi will hold dry runs tomorrow (Friday),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasaba condemns attack on chief minister’s convoy||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasaba (JJM), a conglomeration of rights body, on Thursday condemned the attack on chief minister’s convoy on Monday evening and also appealed to the government to curb the rising incidents of sexual violence in the state. JMM said the violent attack on the CM’s convoy also showed the failure of police administration at large. Demanding the state government to take action in the alleged rape and murder case of a young girl in Ormajhi, whose body was recovered on Sunday, JMM has suggested to prepare a comprehensive strategy after a public discussion to curb sexual violence in the state. “The strategy can include improvements in law and order situation, training on gender equality and justice in educational institutions and government agencies and so on,” it said. “Violence against women continues unabated in Jharkhand. The recent incident of rape and beheading of a woman in Ormajhi has exposed this once again. Even after three days, the police are yet to identify the culprits. This incident also raises serious questions on the law and order situation in the state. It is worrying that despite the formation of a Jharkhandi government, violence against women has not yet reduced. Five rape cases per day (on average) have been reported in 2020 as compared to an average of four cases per day in 2019,” it added in a statement. The BJP Yuva Morcha had protested across the state on January 4 against the Ormanjhi incident, and in the same evening, the chief minister's convoy was stopped, stoned and vandalized by a mob at Kishoreganj chowk. “Many senior BJP leaders justified this attack as “violence by an angry public”. In a democracy, political opposition and protests demanding action from the state have their importance. But, the mob attack on the CM’s convoy in Ranchi and consequent justification by BJP leaders raises many serious questions,” it noted. The right’s body claimed that Manuwadi ideology is against the rights of women. “It is not surprising that right-wing forces which belief in Manuwad are raising the issue of violence on women in a violent, masculine and patriarchal manner,” it said, adding that such violence also increased widely in Jharkhand during the BJP’s double engine government at the Center and the state. “Lynching of Adivasis, Dalits and Muslims by mobs while chanting religious slogan is a glaring example. Today, the same mob opposed a tribal CM with religious slogans and hooliganism. The attack on the CM's convoy indicates the dissatisfaction of right-wing forces against Jharkhandi government based on the principles of Adivasi identity,” said JMM in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor girl rescued within four days of abduction by Facebook friend||Four days since the abduction of a 14-year-old girl by her Facebook friend from Dhanbad railway station, district police rescued her and arrested the accused, DSP headquarters Prakash Soy said on Thursday. Soy said the accused, identified as Bhuvanesh Tomar, 19, was arrested from his residence in Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday. He said the victim will be handed over to her family after a medical examination. The police said both Tomar and the victim have shared their numbers while chatting on Facebook. On Sunday, Tomar called her at Dhanbad railway station. When she came, he forcibly took her to Bulandshahar by train. The victim is a resident of Ramgarh district. Later, on the same day, the victim’s father had lodged an FIR with Gola police station. A case under section 363 and 366(A) IPC have been lodged against Tomar. A police team led by the DSP went to Bulandshahar to rescue the girl. Soy said, “The victim’s father had lodged an FIR with Gola police station on January 3. After getting the order from SP Ramgarh Prabhat Kumar, a police team went to Bulandshahar and rescued the girl.” He said, “We have sent the accused to Ramgarh Jail for trial.” Ramgarh police have arrested a member of an inter-state bike lifters gang and recovered a stolen motorcycle. The accused has been identified as Chandan Kumar, who is a resident of Gaya. Gola police inspector Santosh Kumar Gupta said they have stopped the bike during a routine check on Ranchi-Bokaro road. When Chandan failed to produce any papers, they have arrested him and seized the bike. Gupta said they have also recovered marijuana from his possession. During the interrogation, Chandan said he was about to sell the bike in Dhanbad. Gupta said they have filed a case against him under section 379/414 IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu: Birsa zoo collects samples for precautionary tests ||The state animal husbandry department collected swab samples of at least 30 birds of different species from the Birsa Munda Zoological Park in Ranchi on Thursday to test for avian influenza at the largest animal park in Jharkhand. “We are taking all necessary precautions to prevent the entry of bird flu in the zoo. Swab samples of birds from every cage were collected today (Thursday) for tests,” said zoo director Y.K. Das. “All bird cages are being cleaned regularly and entry of staff other than bird keepers has been restricted. We are also providing immunity-boosting medicines to the birds,” he added. The authorities at the Ranchi zoo have also started providing immunity boosters to more than 200 birds in the zoo in response to Tuesday’s state government  alert over H5N1 virus in all 24 districts after cases of bird flu were reported in parts of India. The zoo in Ranchi also houses large birds like ostriches and emus that need special care, said Das. The zoo administration, he explained, had to not only check the entry of bird flu in the zoo but also the transmission of the virus from birds to the staff working in the zoo. However, the fear of transmission of the virus from birds to visitors was minimum as the zoo has remained closed for visitors in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Das said. While no cases of bird flu have surfaced in Jharkhand so far, the animal husbandry department has sent samples of nearly 2,000 birds from different districts for tests to Calcutta, animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay said on Thursday. Carcasses of a few crows were found in Jamshedpur on Wednesday, and their samples had also been sent for tests. “The test results are awaited,” said Sahay. “We have sent samples of 1,977 birds for tests so far, and random testing in all the districts will continue in the days to come,” she added. Jharkhand had reported cases of bird flu in the past two years, but the virus only infected wild birds and not the poultry sector. While poultry birds are also being tested this time, the government has not imposed any restrictions on the sale of poultry products. The animal husbandry department has also asked commoners and poultry staff to maintain distance from birds that die suddenly and spot symptoms of the virus among birds in poultry farms and shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||DGMS pledges to work towards betterment of nation||Directorate General of Mines Safety chief Prabhat Kumar on Thursday said that the organisation will work towards the development of the nation by utilising the Centre’s modernisation plan, as he addressed the 120th Foundation Day of the firm. Directorate General (officiating) of Mines Regulator was speaking at a formal event, which was attended by Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research director P.K Singh, as well as other DGMS officials including Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director (Central Zone); MK Malviya, Deputy Director (Electrical) and Snehlata Sethi, Deputy Director (Statistics). Talking to the media later on the sidelines of the event that highlighted the achievements of the organisation, Kumar said, “We will put our best effort to achieve the target fixed for us by the government.” “We will also try to come up to the expectations of the mining industry towards us,” he added. Kumar said they are highly indebted to their predecessors of the organisation, who have passed on a great legacy. “We assure the  people associated with the mining industry that we will continue to work hard to maintain the reputation of the organisation,” the DG said. He thanked the industries and other organisations that are associated with mining for helping in the strengthening of DGMS by providing them exposure. CIMFR director P.K Singh said that he “salutes” the hard work of the founders as well as other officers, employees and leaders of the organisation, who have served here at different points of time over 120 years. “It is due to the hard work of the employees, officers and leadership that the mining industry of the country is in secure hands,” Singh said, adding that the DGMS’ contribution in the sector is huge. “There is no doubt that the organisation is working continuously for the incessant development of the nation and we are thankful to them for not only maintaining but also contributing to the further flourishing of the rich legacy of the country,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||56-member squad chosen for national junior meet||A 56-member squad of boys and girls will represent Jharkhand in the 36th National Junior Athletics Championship to be held in Guwahati, Assam, between February 6 and February 10. The state squad also includes Lucky Kumari, the Seraikela girl who emerged as the fastest sprinter (under-18 age group) at the east zone junior athletics meet held in Guwahati last month. “I am looking forward to repeating my performance in the junior meet. I am confident and working hard,” Lucky (16), a trainee of Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre in Jamshedpur, said Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) has tried to give representation to almost all districts, keeping in mind that athletes were forced to sit idle for the most part of the year because of the pandemic. Their training schedule was also discontinued. Track and field athletes from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Deogarh, Sahebganj, Gumla, Koderma, Giridih and Lohardaga have found place in the state squad. Cadets of Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS) have also been selected. The state association has planned a camp in Ranchi later this month. “A training camp is essential for keeping our athletes in good shape  in the lead up to the Guwahati championship. A good number of our athletes have claimed medals in national-level competitions and we want them to achieve more success. We will announce the dates of the camp in due course of time,” a JAA official said. “We are optimistic about a good show from our athletes who helped Jharkhand finish runners-up in the zonal junior meet. The athletes are fit and keen to display their prowess in Guwahati, an official said. According to him, the selected athletes will have to take along their RTPCR test reports with them in Guwahati. The athletes will also have to carry their date of birth certificates and address proof documents. “The original copy of RTPCR test report will be verified at the competition venue. All Covid-related precautions are being taken,” said JAA secretary CD Singh. Sanjay Ghosh and Shailesh Verma will accompany the boys and girls to Guwahati as coach and manager, respectively. The team will be assembled in Ranchi before leaving for Guwahati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Man wanted for attack on CM’s convoy surrenders||Bhariav Singh, a prime accused in the case concerning the attack on the pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren’s convoy at Kishoreganj chowk on Monday evening surrendered in Ranchi civil court on Thursday noon after which he was sent to 14-day judicial custody. Singh was among the 72 named in the FIR in the case. Ranchi police have been conducting raids since the last two days to nab culprits named in the case of rioting on the basis of CCTV footage. On Thursday, however, Singh appeared before the court of justice Abhishek Prasad and surrendered. On Monday evening, massive anti-government protests erupted at Kishoreganj on VIP Road in Harmu for deteriorating law and order after the headless body of a young girl was recovered in Ormanjhi the day before. During the protest, some turned rogue and resorted to vandalism. A police constable was also injured as a result. Talking to reporters at court premises after the surrender, Singh said, “No one intended to attack the CM’s convoy. In fact, I, along with others, participated in the protest to fight for justice for a young girl who was abused and killed in a brutal manner in Ormanjhi.” Singh, according to police sources, is associated with a rightwing outfit. But they would not confirm speculation that Singh was linked to the Bajrang Dal in Ranchi. Police said close to 30 people had been arrested since Tuesday in connection with the attack on the CM’s entourage. On Wednesday, DGP M.V. Rao also suspended officer in-charges of Sukhdevnagar and Kotwali police stations after criticism that the violence exposed poor security arrangements in the Jharkhand capital at a time when the Opposition BJP has been criticising the government for “growing lawlessness” across the state. Police are yet to make a breakthrough in the murder case. They have failed to establish the identity of the girl even after announcing a reward of Rs 50,000 for any information that may help crack the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||DVC outages prompt hard coke factory owners to petition Centre||More than 75 hard coke factory owners of the coal belt have written to the Centre against DVC, accusing the power utility of arm-twisting industrial consumers by resorting to prolonged power cuts in the name of recovering dues. On Thursday, their representative outfit, the Industries and Commerce Association, wrote to the Union Minister of State (independent charge) of Power, New and Renewable Energy, Raj Kumar Singh, pointing out that the regular power outage being resorted to by DVC was affecting industrial production and leading to massive financial losses. The chief of the association B.N. Singh equated the power cuts carried out by DVC to the behavior of a traditional money lender who uses threats to recover money. “This is highly unbecoming of a corporation which is supposed to be a model organisation,” said Singh in his letter. He added that resorting to power cuts puts all kinds of hardships on residents of Jharkhand who were also a part and parcel of the country, enjoying the same rights as that of people in other states. “The same applies to industrial units and corporations in the state for whom long hours of  power cuts cause massive disruption in the production process which ultimately affects economic development and growth of India,” said Singh. Objecting over the techniques being used by DVC against Jharkhand, where majority of its units are situated, Singh said, “Damodar Valley Corporation runs with coal from Jharkhand in a big way and its production unit is also based here. It is highly illogical that if a state government is not able to pay the dues of another government-owned company, the people of the state are made to suffer on this pretext.” “It seems as if Damodar Valley Corporation  is an entity that is independent of any control and can do anything it wants,” Singh said in his letter, adding that there are more civilised ways of recovering dues from a state, rather than resorting to arm twisting and threats that are usually done by unlawful elements. “The association seeks your intervention at the earliest at to take up the matter with Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) as well as the state government and sort out the problems amicably by arbitrating under the ambit of law rather than threatening a duly elected state government and punishing the people of the state who are caught in the crossfire,” Singh said in his letter. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Singh added, “At a time when hard coke factories are already passing through a difficult phase due to recession caused by the pandemic and lack of sufficient supply of quality coal by Coal India, long hours of power cuts will further affect our future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases keep rising as fresh infections outnumber recoveries||More than half of the people found infected by Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday were residents of Ranchi – a district that alone reported over 100 cases of infection on the day. As per government data, at least 104 of the state’s 194 fresh cases of infection were reported from Ranchi. The district also reported one of the two Covid deaths in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the Covid-19 toll in Ranchi up at 221 and that in Jharkhand to 1040, revealed a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Ranchi was the only district in Jharkhand to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. Meanwhile, Dhanbad reported one more Covid-19 casualty on the day, taking the toll there to 106. While at least five districts did not report even a single case of infection, as many as 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. As per government data, East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported 15 cases each, while 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries on the day, taking the number of active cases up at 1449, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Only 165 patients recovered on the day against the 194 fresh cases. The number of active cases shot up in Ranchi too as the district reported 104 fresh cases against 82 recoveries, the NHM bulletin further stated. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 17144 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 48.99 lakh people and tested 48.85 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state, as per government data, was 116034. However, more than 97 per cent of the patients have recovered from the infection so far. As per government data, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.85 per cent against the national average of 96.40 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.44 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the NHM bulletin, it would take at least 608 days for the Covid-19 cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 462.86 days. The cases of infection grew at the rate of 0.11 per cent in Jharkhand in the past one week. The growth rate in India was 0.15 per cent during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||No ambulance, body towed on stretcher||Policemen had to tow the body of a road accident victim on a stretcher for over 1.5km from a health centre to the police station in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district in the early hours of Wednesday. According to report, a Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) employee, Rameshwar Ram, was returning home from duty around midnight along National Highway 33 when a truck hit him while he was trying to cross a roundabout near Government Middle School in Mandu, killing him on the spot. After the mishap, Mandu police took his body to the Community Health Centre in Mandu where the doctors declared him brought dead. However, the health centre could not provide an ambulance for taking the body to the police station for completing the formalities and then taking it for post-mortem to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital, around 20km from where the incident took place. The area is around 70km north of state capital Ranchi. After waiting for several minutes, the police personnel took the stretcher on which the body was laid and tied it to their vehicle (an SUV) and towed it to the police station, over 1.5km from the health centre, during the night to the surprise of all locals. The body was shifted to the Sadar Hospital in Ramgarh on Wednesday morning in an ambulance for post-mortem. Ramgarh superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said he had learned about the incident. “I have come to know about the issue and ordered a probe to be carried out by Ramgarh subdivisional police officer Anuj Oraon on the factors which led to such an inhumane incident,” he said. Police officers, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that they had no alternative but to use a stretcher to tow the body which was in a very bad shape. “The body was in a very bad shape after the mishap and we requested for an ambulance several times but the doctor on duty expressed helplessness. We could have carried the body in our jeep had it been in a better condition. We had no alternative but to tow it on the stretcher to our police station,” said a policeman. Several attempts to contact Ramgarh civil surgeon Dr Neelam Choudhary on her phone went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
