08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Promising archer awaits compound bow from state government||Promising archer Anil Lohar’s wait for a sophisticated compound bow seems to get longer even though Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda has made a recommendation to the state government to grant the equipment to Lohar. Lohar is forced to continue his practice with a conservative bow made of bamboo, shattering his plans to switch over to a compound division of archery. “I am very disappointed that the state sports department is yet to grant a compound bow to Lohar. He (Lohar) cannot just start shooting with a compound bow all of a sudden. He needs a proper idea of how to use the compound bow. It takes time to get adjusted to the new gear. The government should immediately grant him the bow,” said Sumanta Kumar Mohanty, secretary of Serikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA). Mohanty, also joint secretary of Archery Association of  India (AAI), said Lohar cannot afford to buy a compound bow on his own. So it is the responsibility of the government to fulfil the needs of promising archers like Lohar. Munda, president of the AAI, had made a recommendation to the state art, sports and youth affairs department to provide a compound bow to Lohar in June 2020. In his letter to the sports secretary, Munda had said that Lohar is a state and national level medallist. He is a talented and hardworking archer. He recommended the state to provide Lohar with the equipment due to his poor economic condition. Lohar, a resident of Pinderabera village in Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district, had met Munda, a former chief minister, and requested for a compound bow. “Don’t know why the government is keeping things pending. I need the compound bow since the state and national championships are around the corner. I feel very disillusioned and don’t think I’ll ever get a bow from the government,” the 23-year-old Lohar added. A compound bow costs around Rs 2.5 lakh. The promising archer had received a cash award of Rs 75,000 from the state government in September 2020 for bagging the gold medal in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in 2019. However, he has almost exhausted that money. “I had to clear debts and also invested some money in my poultry business. Anyhow, I could not have purchased a bow with the money I received from the government,” Lohar said. The archer, who lives with his wife, infant son and elderly father, is digging a well in his courtyard in Pinderabera, a village facing an acute water crisis. “I am continuing with my poultry business since I have no other way of income,” Lohar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu scare grips Dhanbad, no confirmed cases yet||As authorities take measures to control the spread of bird flu, egg and poultry consumption has gone down drastically in the district where the outbreak of the virus has not been reported. The traders said although there is no effect on the farm, their sales have dropped over the past few days. The scare has even prompted them to stop buying poultry from West Bengal, where no such cases have been reported yet. However, because of the sudden price drop, few customers couldn’t stop themselves from buying poultry products. While speaking to media on Friday, Monu Kumar,  a chicken trader of Hirapur Hatia in Dhanbad, said: “Yes, the footfall of customers has dropped, but we do not have any information about such cases in Jharkhand.” “As a precautionary measure, we have stopped bringing consignments from Bengal,” said Kumar. “We appeal to the people to stay away from rumours and enjoy having chicken and eggs which are being sold at cheaper rates,” said Kumar. Nasim Ahmad, another retailer at Police Line in Dhanbad, said: “The poultry traders are passing through a difficult phase since more than a year. As first we were badly hit by the Covid crisis. But before we could recover from this difficult phase, the bird flu scare has affected the entire business.” “We would like to assure the customers that we are taking all precautionary measures and have completely stopped bringing the consignments from other states,” said Ahmad. Shekhar Sinha, an income tax consultant of Hirapur, said: “Safety of our family is most important for us. So we are taking all kinds of precautions and avoiding chicken and eggs.” Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das said, “The state has not reported any bird flu cases till now. Neither we have received any information from the neighbouring states. However, we are fully prepared for any emergency. We would advise people to stay away from poultry products for a few days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nights get warmer, but only for the next two-three days||Most parts of Jharkhand felt the effect of a western disturbance with overcast skies in several places, including Ranchi and Jamshedpur, robbing the winter of its bite. But by the middle of next week, winter I expected to be back in right earnest. Weathermen said that the western disturbance _ an extra-tropical storm that upon arrival causes showers, fog and snow-- passing through higher latitudes impacted the weather in many northern states as well as Jharkhand since Thursday. Its effect is expected to last for the next two days. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said the western disturbance had resulted in two cyclonic circulations. "The cyclonic circulations, extending up to 1.5 km above sea level, and the easterly winds are bringing moisture from the Bay of Bengal. The twin systems will prevail over the state for the next 48 hours resulting in a rise in night readings," he said. Around mid-week after that, the mercury was expected to witness an abrupt drop, he added. As per the forecast, shallow fog would continue to prevail for the next two days, which would reduce surface visibility in the morning. The wind pattern over Jharkhand had also changed owing to the twin systems. South-easterly winds have been dominating most parts of the state since Friday. This has resulted in an abrupt rise in minimum temperatures. Minimum readings in Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) and in districts like Simdega, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum had jumped six to seven notches above normal. While in Ranchi, Daltonganj and several other northern districts the night readings recorded were around eight notches above normal. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur on Friday recorded a minimum of 17.4°C, seven degrees above normal. Capital Ranchi on Friday recorded a night temperature of 17.2°C, eight points above normal. The observatory in Daltonganj read 16.4°C, 7.5 notches above the average normal. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh and several other districts on Friday recorded minimum reading if over 16°C. Most residents have felt the change in weather conditions. "The weather is giving a summer like feel since Thursday. The nip in the air is missing," said Anjani Sharma, a homemaker and regular morning walker at Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau kids to take part in district’s first kite festival||Palamau is set to witness its first kite flying festival on January 14 as the Palamau Chamber of Commerce and Industries will conduct ‘Patang Utsav 2021’ in Daltonganj on Makar Sankranti. The popular festival has never been celebrated in the district in 120 years, sources said. The organisers have roped in a team of six kite specialists of reputed kite flying clubs in Ahmedabad and Mumbai who are going to reach Daltonganj on January 13, Palamau Chamber of Commerce and Industries general secretary Inderjeet Singh Dimple said. “This kite flying ceremony will have only 100 participants, who are children in the age group of 6 to 15,” Dimple said. “Gender will not be any bar. We will love it if more girls in this age group come for flying the kites,” he added. Dimple elaborated that the registration fee per person is Rs 250, and it is on till January 10. The six-member team will train the registered children for kite flying on January 13 in the Pdt Deendayal Upadhaya Smriti Bhavan. It will also present kits for kite flying, each costing Rs 300. Each will have a kite, spool braids and other necessary equipment. The festival has already created a buzz among the children of Daltonganj, and holds a special place after the ruckus 2020 created, when the district lost 20 of its citizens to Covid-19. “I am asking my parents to allow me to take part in this celebration. My father Dhirender Chandravanshi is ready but my mom has some reservations about the crowd that will swell on this occasion in this Coronavirus time,” said nine-year-old Monu. Parents, too, are excited for the upcoming festival. Priyanka Devi, a resident of Nawa Toli Mohalla in Daltonganj and a mother of 3 children, said, “I am happy because my 10-year-old son Chintu will not be glued to the cell phone for hours on that day at least. I know he will be out watching kites for hours on the river bed of the Koyal.” She said more of such games should be conducted to replace dependence on mobile phones. Noted environmentalist D.S. Srivastava said, “I wish people found some time for bird watching too, which comes handy everyday.” Giving more details, Dimple said on the eve of Makar Sankranti, there will be an LED fitted kites flying show conducted by the kite-flying experts of Ahmedabad and Mumbai. The organisers are also arranging provisions for food on the occasion of ‘dahi choora’ of Makar Sankranti on January 14, where people will be able to buy food at the venue near river Koyal. Dimple said animated characters too will be on the prowl in the eco-friendly gathering to amuse and bring laughter to the gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hyacinth, algae re-appear in Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers much earlier||Water hyacinth and algae have once again started mushrooming in the Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers much earlier this year. Both the rivers are lifeline of Singhbhum region. Environmentalists say it is happening because of the prevailing weather conditions. “Usually, water hyacinths and algae start growing in both the rivers around March-April when the maximum and minimum temperatures rise equally. However, this year they have grown much earlier. Stagnant water is one of the reasons,” said PD Sen, an environmental activist and a weather expert. The menace of water hyacinths, a  free-floating aquatic plant and algae is also an indication of rising pollution in the river water. Regional officer of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) Suresh Paswan said the algae and hyacinths are multiplying fast on the surface because the flow of the rivers has weakened. “Rainfall in the last monsoon was not up to the mark. It has weakened the flow of both rivers. The situation is going to aggravate in the coming months,” he said. In 2018 and 2020, the hyacinth had smothered the flow of both the rivers. Hyacinth usually prevents penetration of sun rays into the water which is harmful to fish and other aquatic animals. They also result in vector breeding. Regular streaming of domestic and agricultural waste into the river is the root of the problem. “Stagnation caused by such waste is largely responsible for the growth of water hyacinth. If not cleared now, the existence of rivers will be at stake,” said Raja Ghosh, a city-based environmentalist. He went on to say that as hyacinth and algae are spreading at an alarming rate, water from the Chandil reservoir and the check dam at Mango should be released into the Subernarekha at regular intervals to prevent stagnation. “If the water is released, it will check the growth of hyacinth,” he said. Both, water hyacinths and algal blooming is found at Domuhani in Sonari and Mango. Apart from downstream Mango bridge, water hyacinth and algae have also started mushrooming in at Domuhani in Sonari. Both water hyacinth and algae have affected almost 3 km stretch Kharkai river, between Kadma and Sonari, and around 2 km stretch of Subernarekha river, between Sonari and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||State re-activates existing panchayats till local polls are held||The state government has notified new working committees in panchayats to facilitate smooth execution of local projects under the 15th finance commission using its power under Section 107 of the Panchayati Raj Act owing to delay in conducting fresh elections in Jharkhand. Late on Thursday night, the state rural development department named heads of these working committees from elected local body representatives and gave them financial powers. It also introduced representatives from the government to maintain equilibrium and transparency till fresh elections are held. Terms of over 4,000 panchayat bodies lapsed after January 4, 2021. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that since no fresh elections would be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had two options to keep panchayat bodies functional and ensure utilisation of central funds. “There were two options — one was administrative takeover of panchayat bodies with the block development officer (BDO) given powers or set up samitis using local representatives. We chose the latter considering it to be the best possible option,” said Alam, The minister said the state government was evaluating the Covid-19 situation to decide on elections soon. State panchayati raj director Aditya Ranjan said that former mukhiyas would had been made part of the new working committees as heads but they would have to work with the other members, including those nominated by the government. As per the notification in non-scheduled areas, a working committee in a gram panchayat would have the former mukhiya as its president, while other former office-bearers of the panchayat would be members. “Two government representatives and a retired class-III government employee would also be part of the working committee. “For every decision, a formal consent of every member is required,” he said. Likewise, committees have been set up in scheduled areas too. In panchayat samitis, the former head of the samiti had been named president while former officer-bearers and three government representatives would be the other members. A similar system would work in zila parishads. Panchayat leaders welcomed the government’s move. Head of Koderma zila parishad Shalini Gupta said, “We have been demanding extension of existing panchayat bodies and its members till fresh elections are conducted. We are happy with the arrangement made by the government.” President of Jharkhand State Mukhiya Sangh’s Vikas Mahto said the government adopted the Madhya Pradesh model. “We are happy with the arrangements as the move has in a sense provided extension to the existing elected members of panchayat bodies,” he opined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi launches cleanliness drive across city||Ranchi Municipal Corporation has rolled out a week long special cleanliness drive across all 53 wards from Friday seeking public participation to help the civic body in maintaining hygiene across the city. The move, officials said is, has been initiated as groundworks for the nationwide cleanliness survey — Swachcha Survekshan 2021. Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar said that the special drive will be conducted across RMC limits till January 15. “While RMC undertakes daily cleanliness activities in the city, there are chances of litter, garbage lying unattended in a locality. Hence, we have set up a one-stop number seeking information so that teams can be sent immediately to get it cleared,” he said. Kumar added that different teams have been set up and nodal supervisors have been appointed in every ward to execute works on the field. Another official said that in order to create awareness among the public about the special drive, they are also conducting promotional activities through RMC’s social media handles by uploading daily activities. “We have also provisioned surveillance of day to day activities on the field through drone cameras,” he said. The civic body has initiated several activities since the last few weeks to beautify the city and its water bodies and keep roads encroachment free, the official further said. For example, in late 2020, RMC commissioned artists to paint walls around the Ranchi Lake to provide aesthetic beauty in and around the area. Recently, it has conducted a survey in Upper Bazar, a busy wholesale hub, to unclog it for which it has asked traders in the area to list their priorities so that it can plan accordingly. RMC is also planning to soon roll out radio-frequency identification (RFID)-based garbage collection system in the capital for which it has roped in two specialised agencies, on the occasion of completion of one year of the incumbent state government on December 29. For primary collection of waste from households, M/s CDC Pvt Limited has been hired and for disposal of waste, it has picked up M/s Zonta Pvt Limited. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Shankar Yadav said that soon CDC will install RFID tags across bins in two lakh households which will help them track the situation of daily waste collection on real time basis from the control centre, which is being set up at RMC. “The entire work is likely to take a couple of months time to formally begin,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi again reports triple digit spike in Covid cases||Ranchi reported more than 100 cases of Covid-19 infection, accounting for over 50 per cent of total fresh cases in Jharkhand during the past 24 hours, for the second consecutive day on Thursday, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least 102 of the 195 people found infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand on the day were residents of Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per government data, Ranchi also accounts for nearly half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. At least 1448 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Thursday, and as many as 692 of them were residents of Ranchi, the NHM bulletin revealed. While the number of patients increased in Ranchi on Thursday, Jharkhand reported as many recoveries as fresh cases on the day. One patient, a resident of Gumla, died on the day, bringing the count of active cases down at 1448 from 1449. As many as 88 patients recovered in Ranchi against the 102 fresh cases on Thursday. At least four of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. While Dhanbad reported 22 cases against 15 recoveries, East Singhbhum reported 16 cases against 25 recoveries. At least 10 people were found infected in Palamu and 11 patients recovered there. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of as many as 14,621 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.12 lakh people and tested around 49 lakh of them. As per government data, at least 1,16,229 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 97.85 per cent of them have recovered. The state has also reported 1041 Covid casualties. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 568.36 days against the national average of 459.70 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Municipal commissioner’s residence attacked in Hazaribagh||The official residence of IAS officer Madhavi Mishra in Hazaribagh town was attacked around 8 PM on Wednesday. The 2015 batch officer is presently serving as the municipal commissioner of Hazaribagh. Stones were hurled at her house, near the BSNL office opposite Upkar Hotel on NH-33, damaging a glass window and a door. Mishra has been working towards strictly making the workings of the Hazaribagh Municipal Corporation transparent. Mishra was present at her house with other members when the attack happened and informed higher officials. She later filed a complaint with Lohsigna police. “This act will not dissuade me from pursuing the path of truth. On the contrary, it has made me stronger and more determined,” she remarked. “Minutes before the incident, I was standing in front of the window that was damaged. I met the superintendent of police Karthik S who assured me of increased patrolling in the area. I also met deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and detailed him on the incident. Both have assured me of security, and nabbing those responsible,” Mishra informed. SP Karthik S said Lohsigna police have been asked to investigate the matter and arrest culprits as soon as possible. Following his instruction, police officials reached Mishra’s to investigate. Nearby areas were searched and footage from CCTV cameras scanned. A few months ag, the Municipal Corporation’s conference hall was gutted in a suspected incident of arson. Investigation till date has been inconcusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu alert in Jharkhand||The recovery of carcasses of four crows at Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur has put the Jharkhand animal husbandry department on high alert for a possible outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu). A high-level team of the animal husbandry department, comprising senior veterinarians Dr S.K. Sinha and Dr S. Kumar and deputy director of Tata Zoological Park, Dr M. Palit, collected the tracheal and cloacal swabs from the dead crows on Thursday morning. “We got information about the recovery of the carcasses of the four crows from our East Singhbhum district animal husbandry officer yesterday (Wednesday) evening. On Thursday morning, our team collected the samples which will be tested at the livestock research centre lab (at Kanke in Ranchi). “The samples would again be sent for confirmation at the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Belgachia (Calcutta). If the reports are positive for avian influenza, the samples would be sent for final confirmation to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases laboratory in Bhopal to identify the strain of the virus,” said Nancy Sahay, director, animal husbandry department. The director, however, tried to downplay the incident. “It might be a stray incident as apart from Jubilee Park there have not been any deaths reported in the same district or other parts of Jharkhand. We should not panic but should not be callous too. Following the Union government directive, we would be going for a massive awareness drive on bird flu by issuing advertisements and hoardings throughout the state. “The district animal husbandry officers have already been directed to be on alert in this regard and constantly be in touch with poultry owners and sellers,” said Sahay. The awareness drive would inform about symptoms of avian influenza in poultry and means to stop the spread of the disease. On Thursday evening (5pm), the state government appointed a dedicated nodal officer for bird flu (Dr Alok Kumar Singh) and issued a 24x7 number (9835152390) for any emergencies on bird flu. The Centre had on Wednesday confirmed about the bird flu outbreak reported at 12 epicentres across four states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh — and issued advisories to contain further spread of the infection. Of the 12 epicentres, bird flu has been reported in crows in Baran, Kota and Jhalawar region of Rajasthan as well as Mandsaur, Indore and Malwa areas of Madhya Pradesh. In Himachal Pradesh, the infection was found in migratory birds in Kangra region and in poultry ducks in Kottayam and Alappuzha (four epicentres) in Kerala. Presence of the H5N8 virus (a variant of avian influenza) was found in the carcasses of crows in Mandsaur and Agar Malwa districts. The Union ministry of fisheries and animal husbandry has asked other states to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. On Monday, the Jharkhand animal husbandry department had directed the respective district officials to keep ready PPE kits, required chemicals and JCB and provide monthly reports on bird flu and immediately collect samples of bird carcasses in any part of their region. Meanwhile, a large number of migratory birds flocking to the state from across the globe during winter has also kept the authorities on their toes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dumka medical students agitate ||The students of the newly formed Phulo Jhano Murmu Medical College and Hospital in Dumka have resorted to agitation, demanding basic facilities needed for their medical education. “Let alone learning anatomy, we are yet to see a cadaver and have also no clinical exposure of any kind till now,” said a student, requesting anonymity as “we may face problems for speaking to the press”. They are the first batch of students of this newly formed college who took admission in 2019, informed a faculty member, adding they actually need basic facilities for studying medicine. “How can they study physiology and biochemistry if they don’t have access to a cadaver and a laboratory?" wondered the faculty member, adding these are bare minimum requirements for medical students.  Three new medical colleges were set up in the state under a Central government scheme and the first batch of students were admitted in 2019. But the National Medical Council (NMC) stopped admission process for the second batch of students in 2020, citing lack of faculty and infrastructure. chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to the NMC chairman and also to the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting them to allow admission to 300 seats in those three medical colleges. But nothing happened till now. “It’s really a sad state of affair and we have almost lost 300 medical seats in the state,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint secretary of the Ranchi branch of Indian Medical Association (IMC) who is also the former president of the Junior Doctors’ Association of Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. “The issue will be taken up for discussion when the executive committee of the state IMA meets on Sunday,” he told The Telegraph, adding they would decide their next course of action at that meeting. Both the state and the Union government have to do their bits to make these colleges functional, Dr Kumar further said, adding they would approach the appropriate authorities for making that happen. “It’s true the pandemic halted construction work but the state government must expedite completion of infrastructure now,” he said, adding the Centre should also allow the admission process so that the students are benefited. They have plans to meet the governor and the chief minister for requesting them to expedite completion of infrastructure and filling up vacancies of teaching staff, he further informed when what they planned and added they would also approach the Union government through MPs elected from the state. “The state has 14 MPs and we will approach them though our IMA branches in the districts so that they take up the issue with the Union government,” Dr Kumar further said, adding the elected representatives from the state must take some initiatives so that aspiring and deserving students can pursue medical studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
