09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cases continue to rise in Ranchi; two more die in state||The number of active cases of Covid-19 cases further jumped up in Ranchi on Saturday. The figures compiled by the health department revealed that the district reported 125 fresh cases against only 98 recoveries in the past 24 hours. According to the bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounted for over 50 per cent of the 236 Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day. Another Covid-19 patient died in the district, thereby, taking the Covid toll to 223. Jharkhand reported two Covid fatalities on the day. The second death occurred in Dumka, taking the total number of Covid casualties in the state to 1045, highlighted the bulletin. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a triple-digit-spike in coronavirus cases on the day. East Singhbhum reported 30 cases against 32 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 21 cases against 20 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh case of Covid-19 infection. As per government data, at least seven districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection. The NHM bulletin put the number of active cases in Ranchi at 733 and that in East Singhbhum to 163. As many as 1494 people were battling the infection across Jharkhand by the end of Saturday, the bulletin highlighted. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of 13790 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.43 lakh people and tested 49.31 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state was 492.84 days against the national doubling rate of 466.71 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.82 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 96.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC celebrates Amarjit Singh Kiyam’s 20th birthday||In a bid to ease the on-field pressure, Jamshedpur FC players opting to celebrate off-field birthdays to bond better. On Thursday, the team celebrated Amarjit Singh Kiyam’s 20th birthday at the team hotel in Goa. They had a cake cutting ceremony for the player. Tata Steel-owned club has been celebrating birthdays of players and support staff in Goa, the venue of edition 7 of cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL). “The players wished Amarjit and even smeared cake on his face. They displayed sheer togetherness. In fact, camaraderie was very much evident at the hotel,” said a team management member. According to him, the players and support staff behave like friends and show great commitment towards team cause. Head coach Owen Coyle anchored the birthday ceremony as he always does. Before the cake cutting ceremony, a group of players who lost a fun training drill earlier in the day, were made to sing a song on stage. They even dedicated Mohammad Rafi’s `Bar Bar Yeh Din Aaye, to Amarjit. The cake was smashed by Amarjit’s teammates and long time friends Narender Gahlot and Jitendra Singh. The three have been together since they played for India during the under-17 World Cup. A joyful Amarjit, while sharing the cake with the support staff and teammates, said, “I love my teammates and JFC.”. Coyle said, “Such celebrations build team spirit and keep the team together.” He added, “It also drives in positivity among players and support staff who have fun. Birthday celebrations are important as we stay away from our homes. The players are in bio-bubble and such events become very important.” Scotland-born Coyle is very particular about team spirit. At present ISL is key to Jamshedpur’s prospects and the form of players is a key element. Save a few injuries, the team is fit to take on the challenges ahead. JFC takes on Kerala Blasters FC on Sunday. Coyle said the team’s moral was high and they were confident of living up to their standard. “We are aware about the strengths of Kerala Blasters and respect our opposition. But we will play to our strength and try to win the encounter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor raped in Chas, accused arrested||Timely action taken by the deputy commissioner of Chas, on being informed about the rape by the villagers, made the police arrest Jiten Majhi, a 45-year-old man on charges of violating a two-year-old girl. The accused is in judicial custody. According to the sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, on the direction of DC, police nabbed the accused. However, he mentioned that prior to his arrest; Manjhi had also been thrashed by the villagers. A police officer maintained that both the survivor and the accused were residents of the same area. The accused was known to the victim’s family. On Friday afternoon Manjhi, while visiting the minor’s house took her to an isolated place and raped her. Her family members initially thought that Majhi could be playing with the child. Alerted by her cries, they rushed to the spot to find her bleeding, while Majhi has fled from the spot. The family members rushed her to the Sadar Hospital, where the doctors administered her treatment. However, according to sources the doctors who administered treatment to the girl chose not to inform her parents and the police about the rape, which they are needed to, do in such a case. Local residents on sensing something suspicious informed the DC and requested him to help them. Following which the DC sprung into action. “The accused has been arrested by the police. When inquired it was found that doctor have given their account to the local police, late in the evening,” said the SDO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Thefts, burglaries, snatchings on the rise in Jamshedpur||Unknown criminals broke into a photo studio in Baridih market, in the wee hours of Saturday, to decamp with cameras and cash worth over Rs 2 lakh. Dibakar Kumar, the owner of the studio, which falls under the Sidhgora thana area, maintained that he had locked the shop properly while shutting it down. However, he opened it in the morning, he discovered that the asbestos of the shop had been torn apart. On inspection, he found out that three cameras, including two video cameras, were missing along with Rs 12,000, which he had kept aside in a cash box. OC, Sidhgora thana Manoj Thakur confirmed the news. “The criminals did not touch the locks of the studio but dismantled the asbestos roof of the shop to break in. We are trying to look for clues to nab the criminals,” said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday. The OC said that they would be utilizing the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the marketplace to nab the thieves. In the past week, incidents of theft, burglary, and snatching have been on the rise in the steel city. On Friday night at about 9 pm, three bike-borne criminals snatched a smartphone from a 40-year-old man at Bistupur. Fortunately, the victim's scream alerted locals, who caught the thieves to recover the phone. The victim identified as Santanu Mukherjee was talking on the smartphone while walking down a lonely stretch on M-Road in the night. His screams made the residents chase the bike-borne thieves, who were intercepted near St Mary’s English High School. Following which a police party arrived at the scene on being informed about the theft, to have the locals hand over the three to them. The arrested persons have been identified as Ajay Mukhi, Arvind Mukhi, and Pramod Mukhi. They were sent to jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate on Saturday. Earlier on Thursday, unidentified criminals decamped with Rs 2.24 lakh from a general store on Dimna Road in Mango area. Here they broke open the shop’s lock. The shop owner, Vishnu Agrawal, had kept the cash inside the cashbox before locking it. However, on reaching the shop on Thursday morning, he found the shop’s shutter open and the cashbox missing. A similar incident took place on Wednesday when unknown criminals decamped with Rs 11 lakh from the cashbox from a food-grain shop at Krishi Bazar Samiti in Parsudih. Here the thieves had sawed off the locks of the shop’s shutter. Its owner, Bhimsen Sharma, in an FIR lodged with the Parsudih thana, mentioned that he was unable to deposit the sale proceeds of two days with the bank as he was busy with his business and had planned to deposit it on Thursday. But before he could do the needful, the criminals had decamped with the entire cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel’s youth conclave ‘Dhwani’ to go online on January 11, 12||The Tata Steel Foundation will be organising its youth conclave “Dhwani” on January 11 and 12 on virtual platforms, coinciding with the National Youth Day. Revolving around the United Nations’ theme for International Youth Day, Dhwani aspires to provide a platform for youngsters to network and voice their aims. More than 1,000 young minds from across Jharkhand and Odisha will come together to absorb multifaceted perspectives from eminent thinkers, change-makers , subject-matter experts and also share ideas and action plans for social change. Dhwani, in alignment with the UN theme, will be exploring ‘Youth Engagement for Global Action’. Managing director and CEO of Tata Steel T.V. Narendran  will address children on the inaugural day. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel will share his perspective on ‘Representation in Key Decision Making Processes’. The sessions will discuss and bring to light some of the most outstanding examples of youth engagement in the areas of education, climate action, economic development and youth representation. The conclave aims to explore opportunities for youth participation and meaningful engagement in the decision making process, while echoing the voice of youngsters from remote areas and their drive to make a difference. “Tata Steel Foundation through its programmes across Jharkhand and Odisha has the privilege of meeting and working with youngsters whose perspectives and stories must receive a broader platform as we are convinced that they are going to lead the charge towards the India of tomorrow,” said  Sourav Roy, chief, Corporate Social Responsibility ( CSR) of Tata Steel. “Dhwani aspires to be that platform and brings together these youngsters  with a hope that their passion for social change and stories of personal determination will reach the larger narrative in policy and practice,” he added So far, the conclave has witnessed participation from more than 1,500 youngsters from across Jharkhand and Odisha and experts on youth issues, youth icons, academicians, development practitioners, spiritual teachers and humanitarians from across India. Pravin Nikam, founder of ROSHNI Foundation & National Youth Awardee 2016, and Chakravarti Singh Rathore,  District Magistrate, Jajpur (Odisha) will also interact with participants during the two-day online event, among other distinguished speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Head clerk accused of manipulating list of beneficiaries recommended for termination||Accusing Prahlad Mehta, a clerk cum computer operator of Garhwa’s Rural Development Department, of cheating, the Deputy Commissioner of the district Rajesh Kumar Pathak has sought his termination. Pathak has even written a letter to the Secretary of the Rural Development Department recommending his termination after Mehta was reinstated on contract at the District Rural Development Agency, who had been accused of discrepancies in the selection of beneficiaries under a solar pump scheme of the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency. Under this scheme, a 90 per cent subsidy was provided to farmers who do not have wells for irrigation, to buy solar pumps. In this regard, District Agriculture Officer cum Nodal Officer of this scheme Laxman Oraon is also under the scanner. DC has accused him of not doing his duty properly and has asked him for an explanation. Oraon, who was in charge of the scheme, had later discovered that the list of beneficiaries sent by the Department of Agriculture to the Deputy Development Commissioner had been manipulated by Mehta. The inquiry team formed by Pathak found out that seven out of the 41 selected beneficiaries had not even applied scheme, while 20 applicants did not meet the criteria. Pathak has recommended stern action to be taken against those who have been found guilty during the investigation. Under the said scheme, the government had agreed to give a 90 per cent subsidy to 400 farmers to buy the pumps, provided they do not have irrigation facilities. A large number of applications were submitted, surpassing the target, to enjoy the benefits of the scheme, as the solar pumps cost Rs.3 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu scare rocks Palamau Tiger Reserve||As Avian Influenza or bird flu continues to spread across India, its scare has started to grip the Palamau Tiger Reserve following the discovery of two dead yellow footed pigeons last year under mysterious circumstances, the cause of which still remains unknown. The deaths had occurred in a span of just two days, but no one was alarmed then as bird flu cases had not been reported at the time. However, Deputy Director of the north division of the tiger reserve, Ashish Kumar said that the pigeon episode was not repeated anymore. Deputy Director of the south division Mukhesh Kumar said that more than the 169 species of birds listed in the tiger reserve, the migratory birds who come here during winters are more vulnerable to the disease. He said, “The south division of the tiger reserve does not have as many wetlands where migratory birds can descend and the water bodies here are not suitable for them.” However, the situation is different in the north division where a huge lake called the Kamaladah Jheel serves as the second home of large numbers of migratory birds. Ashish Kumar said, “Migratory birds like bar headed goose, lesser whistling duck, common pochard, gadwall and black headed ibis, the Tibetan lark and others descend the Kamaldah Jheel. We are concerned for these birds and wish they retreat in the same number with which they have come here.” Mukhesh Kumar said larks come to the Palamau Tiger Reserve in large numbers. “I am told people here net themfor consumption and sale.” He said that the ground staff of the tiger reserve are out to foil such attempts. Regarding the bird flu scare, environmentalist DS Srivastava said there are many poultry farms in villages of Garu Mahuadanr and Barwadih blocks, which are in the contiguity of the tiger reserve, and hence note of caution must be given to the poultry farmers. Srivastava added that tribals are fond of keeping lots of chicken in the houses where safety measures are necessary to check any eruption of the bird flu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police hike reward for clues on girl beheading to Rs 5 lakh ||Facing heavy backlash for shoddy investigation, Jharkhand police increased the quantum of their reward to Rs 5 lakh for information on the murder of a young girl in Ranchi, whose headless body was found from a forest in Ormanjhi on Sunday. Ranchi police, which had earlier announced a reward of Rs 50,000,  have so far failed to make any headway in the case. They haven't been able to establish the identity of the deceased too. Soon after the body was recovered, police had announced Rs 25,000 as a reward for any information on the crime. This was later raised to Rs 50,000. Talking to reporters here after visiting the crime spot in the evening, senior SP S.K. Jha said that they were trying their best to crack the case. “The special investigation team is working 24/7 but unfortunately we haven’t made headway. Hence, we decided to raise the reward to Rs 5 lakh,” he said. Both ruling and Opposition camps are at loggerheads over the law and order issue in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state ever since the girl was found murdered. Terming it as a bigger incident than Delhi’s Nirbhaya case, Opposition BJP has been staging protests and dharnas almost daily against alleged lawlessness in the state. Various rights groups have also staged protests in Ranchi. Once such protest at Kishoreganj Chowk on Monday turned violent and a pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren was attacked and a policeman injured. While the ruling JMM and Congress dubbed the attack as the handiwork of the BJP, the latter accused the state government and police of trying to silence dissent to hide its failures and thwart growing public anger against the ruling regime over deteriorating law and order. Ranchi police are conducting a separate probe into the attack on th CM’s convoy. They have filed FIRs against 72 named and several unnamed individuals. Close to 30 people have been arrested while Bhairav Singh, considered to be the mastermind of the attack, surrendered in Ranchi civil court on Thursday. BJP leader of the legislative party Babulal Marandi had said that they would have welcomed it if police investigated the girl's murder and beheading with similar alacrity, criticising the state government for its misplaced priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 207 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped above 700 in Ranchi on Friday as at least 102 people were found infected by the virus in the district during the past 24 hours, while 87 patients recovered here during the same period, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. After Friday's test results, Ranchi alone accounted for close to 50 per cent of the 1465 active cases in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Jharkhand reported 207 cases of infection on the day and Ranchi was the only district to register a triple-digit-spike. The capital also reported one of the two Covid fatalities in the state on the day, taking the Covid toll in Ranchi up at 222 and that in Jharkhand to 1043. The other death occured in Dhanbad, which has reported 107 Covid fatalities so far. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. At least 165 patients were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. At least five of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. However, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Palamu registered a double-digit-spike in cases of infection. At least 29 people were found infected in Dhanbad, 17 in East Singhbhum and 12 in Bokaro. As many as 10 cases surfaced in Palamu. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries in Jharkhand on the day, as the state reported only 188 recoveries, government data stated. As per government data, the Covid tally in the state reached 116436 on the day and about 97.84 per cent of these patients had recovered. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 13,870 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.27 lakh people and tested 49.16 lakh of them, highlights the NHM bulletin. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 538.71 days while that across India was 467.37 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Woman gangraped and mutilated in Hunterganj||Three young men raped a 50-year-old widow at Kobna village in Huntergunj block of Chatra and mutilated her genitalia. Huntergunj police have arrested one of the culprits. Officials said the three caught her unaware when she went to relieve herself on Thursday night around 10PM. She said the trio gagged her and raped one-after-another. Before leaving the spot, they threatened her not to file a complaint with the police. Seeing that the woman didn't return home, her sister-in-law went searching and found her in a pool of blood. With the help of a villager, she took her home and on Friday morning informed others. Villagers informed the police after which superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha, DSP Avinash Kumar and Huntergunj officer-in-charge Sachin Kumar Das reached the spot to investigate. The woman was taken to Huntergunj community health centre where her condition was termed critical. Later doctors decided to refer her to Magadh Medical College in neighbouring Gaya after performing an emergency surgical procedure. Two of the rapists have been identified as Bablu Paswan and Biltu Paswan. The identity of the third is yet to be confirmed. The incident has sparked anger in the area. Villagers have demanded death penalty for the rapists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Journalists stage protest, appeal to chief minister for their safety||Over 50 journalists from print, electronic and vernacular web-portals staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka chowk on Friday wearing black badges and holding banners against the growing instances of attack on them and their family members in the state.

They have appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren for their freedom and safety. They also demanded DGP MV Rao to step up policing to curb the incidents of crime. The demonstration was jointly held by Ranchi Press Club and Ranchi chapter of Jharkhand Union of Journalists to protest against the gruesome murder of a 28-year-old Sanket Mishra, son of a Khunti-based vernacular journalist Anil Mishra. On Thursday evening, Sanket’s charred body was recovered from a secluded place under Karra police station. His throat had been slit.

Rajat Gupta, an editor of a vernacular daily in Ranchi and president of National Union of Journalists, said journalists or their family are continuously facing attack since the last couple of years.

“It’s time, the state government should work towards bringing a law for the safety of journalists and their family, who are often facing threat,” he said, demanding compensation for the Khunti victim’s family and a government job.

On the other hand, Khunti police are yet to crack the murder case. Police sources said the deceased had left for Khunti from his in-laws’ place in Ranchi on Tuesday on a bike. He was later found murdered.

Hundreds of members of the JUJ Pradesh Committee and the Ranchi Press Club, along with the metropolitan unit of Jharkhand Union of Journalists have participated in the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||5,000 people participate in Covid-19 vaccination dry run in Jharkhand||The second dry run for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive across 188 health centres in Jharkhand went off smoothly on Friday except for a few minor glitches in the handling of Co-WIN application, a special software devised for the vaccination programme, officials of the state health department have said.

Nodal officer of the state vaccination programme Dr Ajit Prasad in Ranchi said the entire operation involved around 5,000 people including those posing as beneficiaries at vaccine points. “The drive started from 9 am and it continued for over two hours,” he said.

“The second run too was equally successful, except some very minor operational issues with Co-WIN application in a few centres, but things were sorted out immediately,” he said but didn’t specify the glitch-pockets citing a proper review of the statewide exercise.

In Ranchi, it was conducted at Sadar hospital and a dozen of community and primary health centres. Civil surgeon V B Prasad said that representatives of private hospitals too visited some of the centres to check the exercise as part of an exposure trip. “We didn’t face any problem at any centre. Everything was smooth,” he said.

In East Singbhum, 300 volunteers were appointed for the mega drill held at 12 spots at the privately-run Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital. At each site, 25 volunteers were made to undergo the vaccination mock-drill, officials said.

East Singhbhum district civil surgeon RN Jha said the dry-run was carried out following the guidelines of Union Health Ministry to remain battle-ready for the vaccination programme against Coronavirus. “The dry-run was held at nine community health centres,” he said, adding that the idea behind the drill is to rehearse with every aspect of the vaccination work right from logistic handling to using Co-WIN application. Earlier on January 2, the dry-run was carried out at two health hubs in East Singhbhum district where 50 volunteers were engaged.

In coal capital, the drill was held across nine centres, Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das said, adding that the drive started at 9 am under the supervision of respective heads of the health centres and medical officers-in-charge in Nirsa, Tundi, Topchanchi, Baghmara, Baliapur, Dhanbad, Govindpur and Jharia.

Das said, “We have created all the necessary set up for vaccination at all the centres including the registration room, waiting hall, vaccination room as well as observation room. The vaccine will be administered intramuscularly. After giving the dose, all beneficiaries will be kept in the observation room for half-an-hour to monitor their condition.” Medical officer-in-charge of Sadar hospital Dr Rajkumar Singh said, “We have all the facility ready to tackle any emergency which may arise during the vaccination.”

Jharkhand has so far identified 99.89 lakh people and classified them in different priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination. In the first phase, soon after the actual rollout of the vaccine, about 1.25 lakh medical officials/staffs will be given the dose followed by others in the next priority line. In terms of logistics and manpower, the state has so far set up 275 vaccine storage points, readied 9 walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, over 700 deep freezers, 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers.

State health minister Banna Gupta said the state government is fully prepared to undertake the vaccination programme to make Jharkhand free of Covid-19 in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
