10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Trafficked girls flee from captors in Rajrappa||Two teenage girls, brought to Rajrappa from Patna in a Scorpio by suspected flesh traders, managed to escape from their clutches, the police said on Sunday. According to the police, both the girls are residents of Patna’s Pirbahore area. They were held hostage by a couple in a hotel room. With the help of Giridhi MP Chandraprakash Choudhary, the victims were handed over to Rajrappa police. Later, a team from the District Child Welfare Committee and Child Help Line took them away. Akash Sharma, a member of the child welfare committee, and DSP Prakash Soy reached the hotel at Kesari Kunj on Sunday to investigate the matter. While interrogating the hotel staff, Soy came to know that the hotel manager had provided a room to the culprits without taking their ID proofs. The police said that the victims went through a medical examination at Sadar hospital in Ramgarh. At present, both of them are being interrogated by the police. The victims maintained that they had been abducted on the pretext of helping them get jobs. They also said that the abductors were even planning to send them to Kolkata. The police are now suspecting a gang which is active in Patna, Ranchi, Kolkata and Mumbai. Girls said the women, whose name is Priyanka, had forced them to establish physical relations with a man. The girls were even beaten up when they had refused to follow her orders. On Saturday evening, they somehow managed to escape from the hotel and reached a nearby shop. When the girls were asking about the transport facility to Patna, a man, who was standing nearby, took them to Giridhi MP’s residence. Soy said, “We are interrogating the victims to get more information about the gang. We will soon resolve the case. An FIR will be lodged at Mahila police station.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Samadhan conducts two-day workshop on film-making with Bollywood editor Dilip Deo||A two-day training programme by Samadhan, a Jharia-based youth organisation was organised in association with renowned Bollywood editor Dilip Deo to upgrade the skills of the youth in different aspects of film making, including editing, scriptwriting and acting. The event was held at Maithon Lake on January 9 and 10. On the first day of the workshop, the theoretical aspects of film making were explained to altogether 20 trainees. On the second day, various aspects of scriptwriting, direction, acting, camera production, editing of feature films, short films, documentary, music video and web series were explained. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, KK Sharma (68), a retired scientist of Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) and the senior-most trainee in the programme said, “The training was extremely fruitful as the minor details of film making were taught in greater detail to us during the session on Sunday.” “Though the majority of the 20-youths who participated in the workshop took interest in acting but I focused on editing and scriptwriting during which, Dilip Deo explained the scene heading and subheading writing, transition introduction, character introduction, action writing, dialogue writing and parenthetical writing, etc.” said Sharma. During the training of film editing, the team led by Deo explained the different aspects like cut, continuity editing, continuity error, cross-cutting, cutaway, establishment shot, eyeline match, fade, jump cut, montage, roll cut, sweetening wipe, etc. were explained in great detail,” further said Sharma. “I expect that the training would prove quite beneficial for the youths who will be able to make movies, short films, and web series on local issues. This will help create awareness among the people about the local issues and at the same time provide a new source of livelihood to the youths,” added Sharma. Divulging more details, Samadhan Founder, Chandan Singh said that the two-day workshop was organised to appraise the vocal for local mission and to appraise the youth about a career in other fields other than preparing for competitive exams for jobs, etc. Harshvardhan (13), the youngest participant in the training programme who also took a keen interest in editing said, “The training organised on Sunday was quite elaborate and various aspects of editing like the basics of formal language, intro, types of montage and parallel action about which we were not aware were explained by one of the best editors, Dilip Deo who has the experience of editing more than 25 movies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Anti-encroachment drive near CIMFR-Digwadih campus||As many as four houses were demolished near CIMFR-Digwadih campus during an anti-encroachment drive conducted by the district administration on Sunday. However, the drive which started in the morning under the supervision of Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar had stopped midway following the intervention of Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, who reached the site and asked for some time on behalf of the 65 families living against whom the notices have been issued by the district administration much earlier. A meeting was held between the CIMFR administration and the residents led by Singh under the supervision of district administration. Sub-divisional officer Surendra Prasad was present at the meeting where the administration had agreed to provide 15 days for shifting. Sandhya Oraon, a resident, said: “In 1946, the then administration had provided the space to our forefathers. But after more than 74 years, we are suddenly being asked to evacuate the place. Now we do not have any other options.” Singh said the CIMFR and district administration should have resolved the issue through talks rather than resorting to anti-encroachment drive. She said they could make temporary arrangements for those families whose houses were demolished on Sunday. CIMFR director PK Singh said, “Notices have been issued to the families several times since the last two years. As many as 30 families have already shifted from the area and we will also provide transport facility to those who are willing to shift.” “We have identified 12 financially weak families. Arrangements have been made to engage them as contractual workers with the agencies working for CIMFR,” said Singh, adding that the drive is being carried out as part of the expansion plan of the institute. Prasad said, “The residents have been given 15 days to make their arrangements. But ultimately they will have to shift from here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hotels take measures to make guests feel safe||At a time when India’s count of UK mutant virus cases rises, the hotels in coal town have taken up health and hygiene measures to make sure the guests feel safe during their stay. Hotel Cocoon, which has been ranked as the most hygienic hotel by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the Cleanliness Survey and also bestowed with Tripadvisor Travellers’ Choice 2020 Awards, has taken a slew of measures to make the guests feel at home. Talking to The Telegraph Online, the hotel’s managing director Sushant Singh said, “The frequency of deep cleaning and housekeeping has been increased everywhere including in lobby, restaurant, bar, kitchen and offices. We are using world-class disinfectants.” “To make the visitors feel safe, we are checking everyone's temperature using non-invasive thermometers. Apart from that, hand sanitisers are available everywhere in the building,” said Singh, adding that they are accepting contactless payments to ensure their clients feel more secure as they eat, wait, and pay. We are probably the only hotel in the state which have made live kitchen display arrangement through CCTV camera for customers’ satisfaction. Distance in the seating arrangement at the restaurant has been further increased to ensure safety,” said Singh. Providing more details about the world-class equipment installed at the hotel, Kaushik Dey, general manager, said the door frame metal camera with temperature scanning, mask scanning and recording facility ensures full proof safety and security from the entrance gate. Cold fogging in the entire hotel is being done with Typhoon ULV Cold Fogger. Besides, the guest luggage disinfector has also been installed at the entrance. “We have also made an arrangement for UVC disinfection system in all departments to disinfect items like fruits, vegetables, cards, keys, wallet, packed foods, mobile phones, laptops, small handbags, etc,” said Dey, adding that a hood dishwasher is being used to wash plates and utensils in warm water. Meanwhile, other hotels too have taken up similar measures including the oldest three-star hotel, Hotely Skylark, where the thermal history of each guest is being shared with the nearest police station. “We have made such an arrangement so that our staff do not have to enter the room. We deliver the orders in trolleys. We leave them outside the rooms and inform the guests,” said general manager of Skylark Hotel Anutosh Bagchi. Sonotel Hotel, the only four-star hotel in Dhanbad, has the facility of automated laundry and contactless menu at the restaurant. “Laundry is the most important part of a hotel from a safety point of view. So we have fully automated laundry for washing all the clothes including bedsheets etc. The food menus can also be scanned through mobile phones,” said general manager of Sonotel Hotel Arka Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Asian Waterbird Census to kick-off on January 15||Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) is all set to kick-off in Jharkhand from January 15 amid the ongoing bird flu scare. In this voluntary census, AWC experts will be surveying migratory and local birds as part of their exercise. According to AWC state co-ordinator Satya Prakash, the survey will be conducted across 10 water bodies including Ranchi, Ramgarh, Koderma, Dhanbad, Dumka, Hazaribag, East Singhbhum, Giridih and Sahebganj. “We have earmarked these districts and would try to cover all the bodies. Census will start on January 15 and would conclude by the month-end,” Satya Prakash informed over the phone from Hazaribag. Migratory birds usually start arriving with the onset of winter from mid-November and stay there till February. “We are working out the logistics to successfully conduct the census from January 15. Usually, it is done between December and January, but it got delayed this year owing to the pandemic,” Prakash added. He said they have a list of 5-6 volunteers and more would be added before its beginning. “We will survey around 10 water bodies including Topchanchi (Dhanbad), Massanjore (Dumka), Udhwa bird sanctuary in Sahebganj, Khandoli (Giridih), Charwa and Gonda (both in Hazaribag) and other prominent water tanks,” the AWC state co-ordinator said. Prakash said besides the Covid-19 pandemic, bird flu outbreak in the country may have affected the habits of migratory birds. In 2016-17, the survey was held for the first time in coordination with the state forest department. As many as 71,833 birds were observed, of which 42,223 were migratory. In terms of species, there were a total of 71 of which nine were endangered, 21 resident migrants, 25 migratory and so on. Another round of census, two years later, witnessed a decline in population as 51,669 birds were observed of which  20,072 were migratory. It included a total of 73 species comprising 12 endangered, 21 resident migrants and 24 migratory. Endangered birds sighted during these censuses included white-necked stork, lesser adjutant stork, oriental white ibis, fulvous whistling duck, ferruginous pochard, western marsh harrier, osprey, river tern, red-headed goose and river lapwing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Babulal Marandi demands CBI inquiry into Ormanjhi incident||Former chief minister and BJP leader Babulal Marandi has demanded CBI probe into the Ormanjhi incident blaming the state police for being ineffective in identifying the victim’s body. Last Sunday, the police have recovered the beheaded body of a young girl aged between 18 and 24 from Ormanjhi forest. Initially, while the deceased was believed to have been raped and beheaded, medical report later ruled out sexual abuse. According to information, the police are still looking for the chopped-off head to identify the victim. Addressing the daylong demonstration organised by the BJP outside Raj Bhavan, which entered the third day on Sunday, Marandi said, “The police are still unable to find the victim’s chopped-off head. The entire government machinery and police join hands to identify and arrest the protestors at Kishoreganj just because chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade had to change its route on Monday. They should have shown this seriousness in solving the Ormanjhi case. Transfer the case to the CBI if you can’t find ant solution.” Marandi said the crime rate in the state has seen a consistent rise after the Hemant Soren government came to power. “The situation would have been different today if you (Hemant Soren) have ordered to arrest the culprits and ensured speedy trial in rape and murder cases,” he said. The incident led to a massive uproar in Ranchi with hundreds of protestors taking to streets since then. One such protest at Kishoreganj on Monday turned violent when demonstrators attacked CM’s pilot car, injured a cop, and forced CM carcade to change its route. Since then, the police have arrested over 30 people and filed FIR against a group of unidentified persons. The police said Bhairav Singh, who is said to be the mastermind of Kishoreganj protest and violence earlier this week, has surrendered at Ranchi civil court. Crime against women is on the rise in state. A couple of days ago, a 50-year-old woman was gang-raped by three youths in Chatra. On Saturday, another 27-year-old married woman was gang-raped in Hazaribag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls ban on poultry products from other states||The Jharkhand government might ban the entry of poultry products after cases of bird flu were reported from at least seven states across the country, an official from the animal husbandry department said on Sunday. “We are planning to ban the entry of poultry products from other states and also holding discussions regarding the same issue with higher officials and the state government. A decision will be taken depending on the situation in the neighbouring states,” said state animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay. H5N1 infection, also known as avian influenza, is a viral infection that can also infect humans and other animals. So far, such cases have been confirmed in Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. However, none of the states that share their borders with Jharkhand, have reported bird flu cases yet, officials said. Jharkhand shares its borders with West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Uttar Pradesh, which is nearest to the Jharkhand border, has only reported bird flu cases. Officials from the animal husbandry department said Jharkhand has so far sent samples of more than 3,000 birds for tests. However, no such cases have been reported in the state till now. According to information, mysterious deaths of some crows in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad have triggered panic among locals, but officials said the virus has not yet made an entry in the state. “Till now, we do not have any confirmed case. In recent years, Jharkhand had reported bird flu cases, but the virus only infected the wild birds and not the poultry sector,” said Sahay. The department sources said if all the neighbouring state governments support the ban on entry of poultry products from other states, it would particularly impose a ban on entry of poultry products from those states from where the confirmed cases have been reported. Last week, the animal husbandry department had issued an alert over bird flu in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. The department has also issued guidelines to prevent its spread. It also advised people not to go close to carcasses of birds and inform the district officials about the matter. The department has asked poultry farm and chicken shop owners to keep an eye on birds and report if they show symptoms like runny nose, dysentery, breathing problems, weakness and change in colour of claws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
