11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Suicide prevention centre to hold webinar on Jan 16||Jeevan, a Steel City-based suicide prevention centre, will organise a webinar on January 16 to help school students relieve stress. With the government and private schools re-opening (for standard X and XII) after the lockdown, students are finding themselves on the receiving end and not being able to cope with the pandemic-related restrictions being imposed at schools. Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain said they would also include teachers in the seminar and try to help students overcome their anxiety and stress. “We are organising the webinar on January 16 in which the students from X and XII would participate,” he informed. According to him, the students might face difficulty to adjust to the restrictions imposed at schools. “Students never came across such situations in their life. They like mingling and talking to their friends. This was not possible during the lockdown and they don’t want it anymore. This builds stress on them. We would talk to the students and try to help them overcome stress. If possible, we will also include a psychologist in the webinar,” Jain said. “As many as 24 people have committed suicide (mostly by hanging) in November last year. Social pressure, unemployment, loss of business and study pressure are some of the reasons. The stress level has not fully subsided,” Jain added. According to him, Jeevan has stopped receiving daily distress phone calls since most people are not aware of its telephone numbers. “We have fixed two banners in Kadma and Sonari to spread the information,” Jain said. Meanwhile, Jeevan has reopened its office in Bistupur. Two volunteers are working from 2 pm to 6 pm. Offline counselling is still on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||R-Day celebration sans procession in Ranchi||This year the official Republic Day celebration in Ranchi will be sans any prabhat pheri (procession) and cultural programmes because of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced this news on Monday after chairing a meeting in this regard. He maintained that the official celebration would have a small ritualistic parade and jhakis (tableaus) put up by different government departments. The entry of the general public would also be limited. During the event, Covid-safety guidelines will be strictly followed. Every year, Ranchi’s Morabadi ground hosts both Independence and Republic Day celebrations. As per practice, the chief minister hoists the tricolor during Independence Day in Ranchi while the governor does so in the state’s second capital – Dumka, while on Republic Day, it the reverse. This afternoon, DC, senior SP SK Jha and other officials of Ranchi district administration and Municipal Corporation held a two-hour-long meeting at the collectorate building to chalk out the modalities for the upcoming R-Day celebration. Ranjan said, “The Republic Day function will be held amid heightened precaution as Covid cases in Ranchi are still higher compared to other districts. We have decided to do away with the cultural programmes and prahbat pheri but will allow parade and tableaus.” The district administration is yet to finalise the number of visitors that will be attending the programme. However, he added that the seating arrangements and other drills in the run-up to January 26 celebrations will be done in a way that is more or less similar to those done for the Independence Day celebration. “Covid safety norms like social distancing at the venue, mandatory use of masks, etc will be followed in toto,” he said, adding that respective departments have been assigned specific jobs to ready the venue on time. For example, Ranchi Municipal Corporation has been asked to ensure the installation of mobile toilets and washbasins at the venue while the fire department has been directed to review fire safety requirements for the same. Senior SP Jha said, “Soon we will review security requirements and traffic plan for a smooth passage to and fro from the venue. We shall notify traffic regulations after finalizing the route maps, parking arenas among others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||18,000 streetlights lying defunct in Dhanbad||As many as 18,000 streetlights installed across the town under the 14th Finance Commission tenure are lying defunct due to poor maintenance including the non-payment to contractors. The streetlights installed on Polytechnic road near the Bekar Bandh pond are in the worst condition. Those on Joraphatak road are posing threat to commuters as a majority of them are rusted. Madhurendra Singh, a social worker of Dhanbad who is also the former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, said: “At several places, the wires in switch boxes are lying open.” “We have raised the issue with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar three days ago and also demanded immediate repair of all the non-functional street lights through various agencies including EESL and Surya. As per the agreement, they must maintain the street lights for seven and five years respectively,” said Singh. Anand Chaurasia, a resident of Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad, said, “The number of streetlights had been increased when Dhanbad roads were being renovated. However, the streets become risky for commuters as most of them are non-functional.” Gulshan Bhatia, a resident of Gandhi road who owns a shop at Shakti Mandir at Joraphatak has expressed concerns about the tilting lamp posts claiming that it to be a hazard for motorists and pedestrians. Assistant engineer (electrical) of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Jay Kumar said, “Though the condition of street lights in some areas like polytechnic road is bad, we are working hard to restore their operation. Things are improving gradually. It got delayed due to delay in payments to the contractors.” “We are trying our best to restore all the street lights as soon as possible,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||30 women felicitated for keeping fit by doing Zumba during lockdown||As many as 30 women in Jharia, who kept themselves fit by doing Zumba at home during the lockdown with the help of Jharia-based youth organization, Samadhan, were felicitated by Manisha Minz, wife of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz on Monday. The successful trainees have received shields from Minz after finishing their three-month-long training programme organised as part of Easy Step Dance and Fitness Classes. The event was organized at Shahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala at Jharia. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Sangeet Drolia (60) said, “It is a full-body workout which helps to maintain the flexibility and at the age of 60. I never faced any difficulty in carrying out the regular Zumba practice at my home.” “The practice helps to improve cardiovascular endurance,” said Drolia, who along with her teammate, Soni Sinha, secure the second place during the third and last round of the Zumba dance competition organized as a part of the training. Sushma Keshri (30), another housemaker of Jharia, who won the first prize in the final round of the event along with her teammate Sneha Chaudhary, said: “Ahe dance session helped us to remove stress, which has increased in almost every family across the world during the lockdown period.” “The training also helped to reduce fatigue, improve concentration and trigger positive feelings throughout the day,” said Keshri. Samadhan founder Chandan Singh said, “We have started the online training more than three months ago to provide some relief to the women who are the worst sufferers during the lockdown. Initially, more than 350 women joined our programme. Later, 50 of them were selected in the other rounds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jawaharlal Nehru’s statue found damaged near Telaiya Dam||The statue of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was found damaged near Telaiya Dam in Koderma district, officials said on Monday. The guards, who first noticed on Sunday, reported the matter to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) officials. Apart from that, the guard wall and a building there were also found damaged. A team led by chief engineer Ajeet Kumar Sharma have visited the spot on Monday for investigation. Meanwhile, Sharma has requested the residents and tourists to help them to preserve the historic structures. Old statues and buildings are always considered as a rich heritage, he said. Telaiya is the first multipurpose dam of the country which was inaugurated by Nehru in 1953. His statue was installed at Chachero Park. Sharma is suspecting the picnickers who have caused the damage. However, he said an inquiry is being conducted into the unfortunate incident. He said, “It is our responsibility to protect the rich heritage. We should also have some respect for the great leaders of our country.” Congress leaders Abdul Mannan Warsi, Nizamuddin Ansari, Tokhan Ravidas and Sikandar Rana condemned the incident and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. Telaiya dam is one of the famous tourist spots of Jharkhand which records maximum footfalls every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches books on Shibu Soren's 77th birthday||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren cut a 77-pound cake to celebrate his 77th birthday in the presence of the who's who of Jharkhand on Monday in Ranchi. Chief Minister Hemant Soren commemorated the day by launching three books, two in Hindi and one in English, that depict the life struggles of Soren Senior, popularly known as Guruji in the state he helped form. Authored by Anuj Kumar Sinha, and published by Prabhat Prakashan, the books – Dishom Guru: Shibu Soren, Tribal Hero: Shibu Soren and Suno Baccho, Adivasi Sangharsh Ke Nayak Shibu Soren in Gaatha – highlight the rise of Shibu Soren and how he fought against the Mahajani system and united the tribal community to fight against oppressive forces, officials said. “Today, the whole world wants to know the story of Shibu Soren. With his will power, farsightedness and years of struggle, he has become a personality people want to read about,” said Hemant. Soren, one of the stalwarts of Jharkhand politics and a veteran of the Jharkhand Movement, is a two-time chief minister and a name synonymous with JMM, the single largest party in the Jharkhand Assembly. Addressing guests at the ceremony at Aryabhatta Auditorium in the state capital, Senior Soren said that a small step is all it takes to achieve the greatest of targets. “No matter how difficult your target is, your first step is the beginning of success. There is no shortcut to success and no substitute for sincerity and hard work,” Soren said. Soren’s 77th birthday was a special occasion for all his supporters and family as he defeated a Covid-19 infection last year despite dealing with several other age-related ailments. He underwent treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram and returned healthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Migratory birds leave coal town as temperature rises ||With the sudden rise in temperature since the first week of  January, the number of migratory birds has started dwindling in Coal Town. Red Crested Pochard, a large diving duck whose favourite habitat is lowland marshes, can be seen here in large numbers. But this year, more than 90% of them have left town. Similarly, Ruddy Shelduck, a distinctive waterfowl, are also decreasing in number. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, AK Sahay (62), a retired banker who also heads the Coal Town bird lovers association, Dhanbad Birders, said: “More than 90% of Red Crested Pochard have already left Dhanbad since the last week. While a large number of Ruddy Shelduck has also returned to their respective places.” When asked whether the birds will return or not as the temperature is expected to further plummet within a couple of days, he said chances are rare as once they leave their temporary habit in a season, they hardly return. They shift to some other place. Dr Manish Vishwakarma, a renowned radiologist of Dhanbad who is also the president of Dhanbad Birders, said, “We have noticed that the number of Red Crested Pochard is significantly low and if the weather condition doesn’t improve as per speculation after January 15, almost all the birds will return from here.” “Usually the migratory birds leave from Dhanbad during the last week of February or first week of March. But this year, it has started more than two months earlier due to sudden change in the climate and increase in temperature,” said Vishwakarma. “We have plans to visit some other prominent places in the nearby areas like Tilaiya dam and also the favourite destinations of migratory birds in Bengal to carry out a study,” said Vishwakarma. Established on September 14, Dhanbad Birders through an extensive survey has identified six places within the town which are hotspots of bird watching and has the presence of at least 20 species of birds. The spots identified during the survey are Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch) and Bhelatand Village. While seven other sites identified in the suburbs are Dhokra near Domerpur (17 km from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 km from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), Foothills of Dhangi Pahar in Pradhan Khanta (14 km from Dhanbad).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Conveyor belt order to NTPC by NGT||The eastern zone bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Delhi has directed state-run power giant NTPC to install a conveyor belt at Barkagaon in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand for transfer of coal within three months. The order was passed on Thursday and its copies were received on Friday evening. The NGT has also asked the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) and the state government to ensure that the order is implemented in time and also ensure that fugitive coal dust generated is not dispersed indiscriminately. The verdict was given during hearing of a petition filed by Hazaribagh-based social worker Tripurari Singh aggrieved at the illegal transportation of coal and its dumping by the NTPC in the villages of Katkamdag, Baanadag, Banka, Sultana, Sadampur, Hathaemedi and Mayatu in Hazaribagh district in violation of pollution norms. The petitioner said such activities had affected the river and ponds in the area. He said about 8.5 acres of forestland had been encroached by the railways and the NTPC for construction of a railway dockyard and used for dumping of coal and transportation and because of such activities the health of the inhabitants had been adversely affected and they had fallen victim to breathing problems. Advocate Satya Prakash, who appeared for the petitioner, said: “The NGT had constituted a committee of five members in July 2020 in the matter of Tripurari Singh versus ministry of railways and others. The NGT said in its order that the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board and government of Jharkhand shall monitor the work and transportation of the coal in these areas. The NGT has said its order shall be strictly followed by the parties. The five-member committee has also recommended a 20-feet boundary wall should be constructed and chemical dusting of coal should be dumped at the dedicated pond which shall be constructed by the NTPC and mining companies apart from construction of a conveyer belt within three months.” In September last year, the team, comprising two NGT members, Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand, petitioner Tripurari Singh and Ashok Kumar Yadav from the state pollution board, visited the spot. Local farmers told the team members that the railway siding is surrounded by fields and their farm land is being adversely affected by coal dust and also the residue left behind by coal. The locals also alleged that this has resulted in lung problem and breathing issues in many residents. They said that even the well water has become black and not fit for drinking due to the railway siding where coal is being off-loaded. The petitioner’s counsel further said the land that the NTPC and the mining company used for transporting coal has been acquired for the Shivpur-Tori railway line. Hence, the NTPC now uses this land for coal dumping and transporting, he added. The NTPC has been mining coal from Pakri-Barwadih and using the railway siding at Katkamdag for loading coal racks. Transportation of coal to the railway siding is carried out through dumpers. Nearly 150 acres of cultivable land has been allegedly polluted due to the transportation and dumping of coal. As a result of coal spill from the dumpers, the land is no longer suitable for cultivation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 145 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday in Jharkhand, causing a fall in the number of patients, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Jharkhand reported a spike in active cases for three consecutive days until Sunday. On Sunday, as many as 145 people were found infected by the lethal virus while 169 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down at 1468, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, which reported a triple-digit-spike in cases for the past three days, registered 86 cases against 87 recoveries on Sunday. However, the number of active cases here remained above 700, which is around 50 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 infection across Jharkhand. As per the NHM bulletin, at least eight of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. East Singhbhum reported 23 cases, while Dhanbad and Bokaro reported seven cases each. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike spike in cases on the day. Meanwhile, two Covid patients, one each from Dhanbad and Palamu, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1047, government data stated. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 355 of the over 1000 Covid fatalities in the state, while Ranchi has witnessed 223 Covid casualties. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 12,316 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 49.59 lakh people and tested 49.46 lakh of them. Around 12,000 samples were pending for tests. As per government data, the Covid tally in Jharkhand was 1,16,187 and nearly 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. As many as 1,14,302 patients have defeated Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far. The growth rate of the virus was 0.14 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.15 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. As per the bulletin, it would take 500 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 458.34 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
