12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Education minister’s brother and six others get life imprisonment for killing tutor||The Bermo Sub-Divisional Court on Tuesday awarded life imprisonment to seven people including Baijnath Mahto, younger brother of state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, for murdering a teacher Santosh Pandey in 2014. Pandey was thrashed by the accused before a Kangaroo Court for having eloped with one of his female student. “Additional district and session judge-1 Rajeev Ranjan awarded life imprisonment to the accused (Baijnath Mahto, Ganesh Bharti, Nemi Puri, Kailash Puri, Jitendra Puri, Neeraj Puri and Kewal Mahato) under sector 302/120B (Murder/Criminal conspiracy). The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of the culprits,” said Sanjay Singh, additional public prosecutor of Bermo court. Originally, in the FIR lodged by Pandey’s elder brother Anant Lal Pandey with Nawadih police station on March 20, 2014, 11 individuals including Jagarnath Mahto had been accused of the crime. However, later, Jagarnath Mahto’s name was removed by the police since ‘no evidence’ was found against him. For the same reason, names of three others accused in the case ‑ Satyendra Giri, Mehlal Puri and Suraj Puri were also dropped. The minister had undergone a lung transfer following a coronavirus infection that kept him bedridden for nearly two months. At present, he is fit and leading a normal life again. Pandey, a resident of Alargo village, was only 25-year-old when fell in love with the girl. When they decided to spend the entire life together, they eloped to Chennai only to be brought back by the girl’s relatives. Following which he was trashed by the accused before the Kangaroo Court. He was admitted to Chandrapura Hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Angry mobs protested after his death and even gheraoed Jagarnath Mahto’s residence for several hours. They even pelted stones at the girl’s residence. However, before his death, Pandey in his statement said Baidyanath and six others, barring Jagarnath Mahto, had thrashed him. The police sent the video recording for a forensic test and which was later produced before the court along with its report. The court convicted seven people in the case on January 4. Earlier, the deposition of 34 witnesses was also recorded. During the lockdown, the trial was done through video conferencing. Baidyanath was jailed at that time, while the remaining six were awarded imprisonment on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police find severed head from farm belonging to prime accused||Ranchi police have recovered a severed head from the farm of Sheikh Bilal, the man suspected to have murdered a girl whose headless body was recovered from Ormanjhi nine days ago, but are awaiting test results to confirm that it’s the victim’s. Senior SP S.K. Jha told reporters on Tuesday that they were using medical and forensic teams to confirm the connection. “We suspect the head to be of that of the deceased but unless it is clinically and scientifically proven, nothing can be said for sure,” he said. Police deployed a dog squad at Bilal’s village in Chandwe Basti under Pithoria police station area since morning. The breakthrough came in the afternoon when the head, wrapped in a jute bag stuffed with salt, was recovered. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said investigations took a turn after a woman from Chanho approached police, saying she feared the deceased was her daughter because of certain circumstantial evidence. She identified the deceased on the basis of a burn mark on her leg, the result of childhood mishap while working in the kitchen. The woman also told police that her daughter got married to her lover, identified as Khalid, who was from a neighbouring village, 10 months ago. However, the two separated two months back after she learnt that Khalid was already married to someone else. Later, she fell in love with Sheikh Bilal and started living with her. The woman’s statements led police to suspect Sheikh after which they decided to release his pictures in the media as a prime suspect. “Efforts are on to nab Bilal,” said Alam. The murder triggered an outrage in Ranchi with both ruling and Opposition camps criticising each other over growing “lawlessness” in the state. Several protests and demonstrations were held across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||MLAs suggest rehabilitation for 1.04 lakh families||Dhanbad MLAs led by MP PN Singh on Tuesday suggested comprehensive rehabilitation for 1.04 lakh families of 595 fire-affected sites of Jharia. They have also demanded job creation, compensation and all basic amenities to be provided to these families in the proposed smart city, which will be developed on Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) land. A comprehensive meeting regarding Jharia rehabilitation was organised under the chairmanship of Dhanbad’s deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Also, present in the meet where chairman and managing director of BCCL Gopal Singh, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta. Elaborating on the discussion that took place, the DC said, “We are taking the opinion of public representatives, which in turn will help in policy-making for the rehabilitation.” He further assured the MLAs that the rehabilitation would be carried out by developing smart city on the BCCL lands. MP PN Singh said, “People from the underground fire-affected areas should be rehabilitated in the nearby non-coal bearing areas to avoid discomfort”. He also stressed on the need to provide employment to the rehabilitated people. “Any rehabilitation can’t be complete without ensuring the source of livelihood,” he said. On the other hand, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh has suggested the 4C formula for rehabilitation including implementation of 2004 cut-off date for settlement in fire-affected areas, timely compensation, movement from fire-affected areas in clusters and provision of all basic facilities in the countryside where people would be rehabilitated. “It is really difficult to win the confidence of the people by just promising them that they will get all the facilities before carrying out the rehabilitation work,” said Singh. Meanwhile, Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto suggested the development of smart villages along with the smart city. BCCL CMD said, “The smart city will be equipped with all the facilities”. He further added that they will solve all the difficulties of people living in underground fire-affected areas. Since the rehabilitation work started on March 25, 2010, only 4,500 families out of 1.04 lakh living in the 595 underground fire-affected areas have been rehabilitated to the newly developed quarters at Belgarhia area of Baliapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand|| National Youth Day: cycle rally, blood donation camps||Dhanbad celebrated the National Youth Day on Tuesday to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda through a host of events, including unveiling a statue of him, a blood donation camp and a cycle rally. The day began with the unveiling of a renovated statue of Swami Vivekananda by a host of dignitaries including ADM (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar; Deputy Development Officer, Dasrath Chandra Das; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh and former mayor, Chandrashekhar Agarwal at Vivekand Chowk in Hirapur. The Vivekanada Chowk, which has been renovated, was also inaugurated by them in the presence of office bearers of Bengali Welfare Society, a social organisation that carried out the renovation work. Speaking on the occasion, Chandan Kumar said, “The youth of the nation should learn from the life and work of Swami Vivekananda, who taught us how to become a better person.” Talking to The Telegraph Online, Gopal Bhattacharya, General secretary of the Bengali Welfare Society said, “We completed the renovation of the chowk about a week ago, while the statue was renovated more than a month ago after a two-month exercise.” Meanwhile, the Dhanbad District Olympic Association organised a blood donation camp at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College, Dhanbad. A total of 46 units of blood were donated by the members of the association. General Secretary of the association, Ranjit Keshri said, “We organised the camp this year on the occasion of the youth day and will continue to hold the camp year from next year in order to encourage people to give back to the society and extend unconditional love to the society” A cycle rally was also taken out jointly by the Jharkhand Cycling Association, Youth Hostel Association of India, Dhanbad District Cycling Association and Aryan Sports from Digwadih. It passed through Ganesh Puja Maidan and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and returned to Digwadih. Founder of Digwadih Sports Club, Rahul Anand who flagged of the rally said, “Swami Vivekananda life stressed on physical fitness and sports and the youth should follow his ideals.” MK Thakur, another founder member of Digwadih Sports Club, while speaking during the flagging off of the cycle rally said, “Swami Vivekananda was an ardent advocate of masculinity and sports.” General Secretary of the association, Ranjit Keshri said, “We organised the camp this year on the occasion of the youth day and will continue to hold the camp year from next year in order to encourage people to give back to the society and extend unconditional love to the society” A cycle rally was also taken out jointly by the Jharkhand Cycling Association, Youth Hostel Association of India, Dhanbad District Cycling Association and Aryan Sports from Digwadih. It passed through Ganesh Puja Maidan and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and returned to Digwadih. Founder of Digwadih Sports Club, Rahul Anand who flagged of the rally said, “Swami Vivekananda life stressed on physical fitness and sports and the youth should follow his ideals.” MK Thakur, another founder member of Digwadih Sports Club, while speaking during the flagging off of the cycle rally said, “Swami Vivekananda was an ardent advocate of masculinity and sports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two arrested, liquor worth Rs 1.5 lakh seized in steel city||Acting on a tip-off, officials of state excise department seized Indian-made foreign liquor worth over Rs 1.5 lakh from a car at Pardih Chowk on NH-33 under Mango police station area in Jamshedpur, the police said on Tuesday morning. The police said the consignment was being smuggled to Jamshedpur from Arunachal Pradesh by two city-based youths, who have also been arrested. The accused were identified as Santosh Singh alias Bablu and Pawan Kumar Srivastava. Both are the residents of Bagbera locality. The consignment consists of 25 cartons of a particular liquor brand. Assistant commissioner, Jharkhand excise, Arun Kumar Mishra said they got information about a gang who were smuggling high-end liquor from Arunachal Pradesh. While talking to The Telegraph Online, Mishra said, “After getting the information, we have deployed a team at Pardih Chowk on the NH-33 at 1 am on Tuesday. We have even intercepted each and every vehicle that was passing through the same route. At around 2 am, we have stopped a car in which Bablu and Srivastava were travelling. During a check, we have recovered the liquor cartons.” According to the assistant commissioner, they have recovered as many as five cartons in which there were 225 liquor bottles. He informed that there is a label on each bottle which says, “To be sold in Arunachal Pradesh only”. Mishra said both the accused were sent to jail after producing them before the judicial magistrate by 10 am. The police are now interrogating the accused to get more information about their gang which is active in Arunachal Pradesh. “We will continue the interrogation to find out the actual source from where they get the consignments and those who are also purchasing them," said Mishra. Excise department sources said Singh is a liquor mafia who also owned a liquor shop. But since a couple of years, he had been running this illegal business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||400 women allege cheating by Ranchi-based trader||Around 400 women of Hazaribagh lodged a complaint against a Ranchi trader for cheating and taking Rs 12 lakhs from them. Hazaribagh SP Karthik S said an investigation has been launched in this regard. The women said Dileep Kumar Gupta, owner of Gupta Traders in Ranchi, had  promised to install a spice and papad factory in their area, Ichak, and taken Rs 2,000 from each of them. Giving details, the complainants said that Gupta had visited their area in September, attended every panchayat meeting, and claimed to install the factory in the Ichak block of Hazaribagh. He made a number of women self-help groups promising to give them work but asked all 400 members to contribute Rs. 2,000 for the purpose, for which the women had to take loans. The women accused Gupta, a resident of Bariatu in Ranchi, of not picking up the phone after he went away. Karthik assured them of justice and asked the Ichak Police to probe the case. In other news, the police busted a mini gun factory and recovered arms and ammunition at Barkagaon, while arresting two, Karthik informed. He said the police acted on the basis of a tip-off and found out the gun factory was being run in the house of Mohan Rana, in Mahugaikala village of Barkagaon block. The tipoff informed that on Monday afternoon two men carrying arms would be going Badam of Barkagaon via Phatha and Motra Ghati of Katkamdag. This prompted the SP to immediately constitute a team, which arrested the two -- Ravi Ganjhu and Ishak Ekka. The raid was conducted at rana’s house after the duo passed on the information. Rana has also been nabbed, Karthik said, adding that they had recovered two country made rifles, one live bullet, eight pipes used in rifle making among other things. The SP said they were investigating to find out if the accused had any links with extremist groups and also find out who purchased the equipment from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Winter conditions back, nights to get colder||Cloud cover in most parts of Jharkhand cleared on Tuesday, signalling the likelihood of an abrupt fall in night temperatures coupled with morning fog and mist in some pockets of the state. IMD officials said that favourable winter conditions had returned after about a week or so. "The western disturbance which resulted in clouds and unfavourable wind patterns during the past few days, have cleared. The weather will be dry with clear skies for the next few days,” " said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorlogical Centre. He said night readings would now plummet and there would be moderate to heavy fog in several districts, especially those in southern Jharkhand. He ruled out any adverse weather conditions at least in the next five days. "A clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the entire state. This will result in abrupt fall in minimum temperature by three to five degree Celsius in most places," he said adding that with the moisture getting reduced in the atmosphere north-westerly winds would continue to dominate in most parts of the state. Tuesday’s Met statistics indicated at fall in minimum readings. The temperature dropped to 12.8 degree Celsius in Ranchi and its adjoining areas. The capital had recorded a minimum of 16.3 degree Celsius on Monday. Met department forecasts at least another three degree fall in minimum readings in Ranchi in the next 48-hours. Similarly, the minimum readings dropped to 16.2 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur on Tuesday against Monday’s 18 degree Celsius.  In Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, and its adjoining districts, the minimum temperature dropped to around 14 degree Celsius against Monday's 15. Met department forecasts three degree fall in minimum readings in both the places- Jamshedpur and Daltonganj in next 48 hours. Weathermen at Ranchi warned of dense morning fog at a few isolated pockets of the state in the next two days. Fog is expected to reduce surface visibility to below 1,000 metre. The north wind, which had stopped due to the western disturbance, had resumed which would lead to colder nights. Depending on the intensity of the north-westerly wind, minimum readings could take a further plunge, hinted a weather analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||129 centres, 4 with webcasting facilities, ready for Covid shots  ||Two out of the 129 centres that have been set up in the state for administering the Covid-19 vaccine on Day One of its nationwide rollout on January 16 will have webcasting facilities for both central and state authorities to monitor. Sources in the state health department said the two centres with live screening facilities were set up following Union health ministry directives asking officials to be in a state of readiness for the Prime Minister who may wish to speak to a beneficiary. State nodal officer of the immunisation programme Dr Ajit Prasad said vaccination centres at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital and MGM hospital in Jamshedpur would have live streaming facilities. “This is for officials of the state and centre to monitor,” he said. “Vaccine shots will be administered in all the 24 districts on January 16. Health workers will be the first to get the shots,” said state director of National Health Mission (NHM), Ravi Shankar Shukla. Besides, according to Ranchi district administration sources, webcasting facilities were also being set up in four other vaccine centres in the district for better surveillance and monitoring. The Centre has authorised two vaccines – Bharat Biotec’s Covaxin and Oxford-Astra Zeneca & Serum Institute of India’s Covishield – for emergency use in India. While many states have begun receiving consignments from Tuesday, the state health department said Jharkhand was expecting stocks of Covishield on Wednesday. The vaccine, health officials said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body two weeks after the second dose. NHM further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the vaccine shots. The health department had earlier stated that a photo identity proof would be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. Voter ID cards, school certificates, MGNREGA job cards, PAN cards and passports are some of the identity proofs that can be used to register for the vaccination. Also, the person getting vaccinated has to produce his photo identity proof at the vaccination centre, failing which he/she will not be administered the vaccine shot. On Day One of the vaccine drive, approximately 12,900 people would be immunised across the state. “For January 16, 129 centres have been set up and at each centre, 100 people will be vaccinated. Slowly, the number of centre’s will be increased,” said Prasad. As for security, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said magistrates would be deployed cluster-wise across the district. “Armed guards and a magistrate will be deployed at every vaccination centre. Directives have been issued to the city police to ensure proper deployment. Above them, at every block, one magistrate will be appointed for overall supervision of five to six centres,” he said. About 1.25 lakh people—mostly frontline medical workers—have been identified for immunisation in the first phase. For the entire vaccination programme, the state government has prepared a list of 99.89 lakh people based on a priority list. In terms of logistics and manpower, 275 vaccine storage points have been set up, nine walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, 700 deep freezers, and 5,505 cold boxes have been readied, besides training 41,979 vaccine carriers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Student’s body found floating in Patratu Dam||The body of a 20-year-old college student was found floating in Patratu Dam in ​​Ramgarh district in Tuesday, the police said. Patratu SDPO Prakash Chandra said they have identified the victim, who was a first-year student of Hazaribagh Medical College and a resident of Lohia Nagar in Godda. Chandra said the girl’s body in jeans and jacket was tied with a rope when it was found floating near Uchringa area. Her body was first spotted by local residents who immediately informed the matter to the police. DIG Hazaribagh range Amol Venukant Homkar and Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar went to the spot with a team to investigate the matter. During the inspection, the police have recovered her bag which was lying in the bushes. According to information, she was missing since Monday evening. Chandra said, “After identifying the body, we have informed the matter to her family members. We are suspecting that the student was killed somewhere else and later her body was left in the dam. We will send her body for post-mortem at Sadar hospital.” Tension prevailed in the entire area after the incident was reported. Chandra said they have recovered food items, a water bottle and a belt from her bag. He said, “We are carrying out further investigation into the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia Congress leader receives life threat, lodges complaint with police||Senior Congress leader and All India Congress Committee member Santosh Singh on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Jharia Police against an unidentified person, who had given him death threats on Monday at around 8 pm. Singh in his complaint letter to PK Singh, the inspector cum officer-in charge-of Jharia Police Station, demanded security in the wake of the latest threat to him as well as previous attacks he faced in 2004 and 2009. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday noon, Singh said, “I received the threat both on message and a call made from the same mobile number on Monday night and lodged the complaint accordingly.” “I had skipped the message that threatened to take my life if I continued to be in politics. However, I immediately received a call from the same number, saying the same thing,” the 51-year-old leader said. Singh said he had told the caller that he was not afraid of such threats, as he gets plenty of them. “I ask the police to take proper steps in this regard and conduct a detailed probe. In 2004, too,  bombs were hurled and people opened fire on us at Bartand in Dhanbad when I was travelling along with the former treasurer of the district unit of Congress, late Suresh Singh, in his car,” he said. The AICC member added that he had also faced an attack at the Jharia Bazar area in 2009. “I have also received a threat call from UP based gangster Munna Bajrangi in 2011 and thus asking the police to ensure security for me,” said Singh. On January 8, Kailash Pandey, the general manager of a private coal excavator, Hilltop Highrise Private Limited, working on behalf of the BCCL, had filed an FIR in Saraidhela police station against unidentified people. He said that he received a message several times on his mobile number, demanding Rs 50 lakh as one time amount and Rs 7 lakh per month as extortion, otherwise he and his family members would be killed. On January 4, a video went viral where a gun toting person, claiming to be a member of the Sujit Sinha gang, threatened Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto and some private coal excavators. Mahto had held a press conference following the incident and demanded a probe into the incident. “The extortion-demand issue has been going on since a month and police have acted on the issue. We have arrested a person in this regard about  two weeks ago,” Dhanbad SSP Assem Vikrant Minz said. “We are acting against the criminals and simultaneously also trying to increase the security of those who are receiving the threat or extortion calls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Jharkhand||At least 229 Covid recoveries against 144 fresh cases brought the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection below 1400 in Jharkhand on Monday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Despite reporting the highest number of cases among all the districts in Jharkhand on Monday, Ranchi reported a fall in the count of active cases on the day. At least 71 people were found infected in Ranchi during the past 24 hours, while 124 patients recovered here, bringing the number of patients down to 678, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The NHM on Monday released weekly trends on Covid-19, which revealed that Ranchi reported 50.2 per cent of the total Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand from December 14 to January 10. Dhanbad accounted for 10 per cent of cases during this period, while East Singhbhum reported 9.9 per cent of cases, the NHM stated in its report. Bokaro reported 5.9 per cent of cases during these four weeks, while Palamu reported 4.9 per cent of cases. As per government data, as many as 1382 people were battling the viral infection across Jharkhand by the end of Monday, and close to 50 per cent of them were residents of Ranchi. At least 157 people were infected in East Singhbhum, while all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases by Monday evening. At least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, Palamu, Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Ranchi reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 24 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 14 cases against 19 recoveries. At least 12 people were found infected in Bokaro and 10 in Palamu in 24 hours. A Covid patient from Bokaro died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1048, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 13058 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.70 lakh people and tested 49.62 lakh of them. As many as 116961 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, and 97.92 per cent of them have recovered, states government data. As per government figures, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. It would take 503 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand and 459.86 days for the cases to double across India, the NHM stated in its bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||High minimum temperature in Ranchi||The Jharkhand capital recorded its highest minimum temperature — 17.6 degrees Celsius — on Sunday. The minimum temperature recorded in Ranchi on the intervening night of January 9 and 10, was almost eight notches or 7.9 degrees to be specific, above normal. “It was the highest minimum temperature recorded in Ranchi so far,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the earlier highest minimum temperature recorded was 17.2 degrees Celsius on January 3, 2015, and January 8 this year. This has prompted the meteorologists to believe that the impact of climate change was being felt more in recent years. “The minimum temperature of Ranchi always remained below 10 degrees Celsius during the first week of January in 2018 and 2019. But it crossed that mark thrice in 2020 and five times in 2021,” Anand said. The rise of temperature was due to a Western Disturbance that impacted the weather coupled with negligible speed of the wind, he added. The minimum temperature of Ranchi never crossed 15 degrees Celsius in the first week of January in the two decades since 1980, while it crossed that mark 14 times during the next two decade till 2020, Anand said. “The impact of Western Disturbances was not significantly seen during the two decades since 1980 but it became more frequent and visible during the next two decades,” he further said, adding that the impact of such climate change was felt in the entire state. The minimum temperature is, however, likely to slide down from Tuesday night because the impact of the prevailing Western Disturbance would be over by then and the wind is also likely to pick up some speed, he said. The night temperature will start sliding and is expected to touch 8 degrees Celsius in Ranchi by January 15, the Met office forecast. It said the minimum temperature was expected to be the same (8 degrees Celsius) in some other districts such as Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Godda, Pakur, Sahibganj, Koderma, Chatra, Lohardaga, Palamau and Hazaribagh. The four other districts, however, are likely to be colder. While a minimum temperature of 7 degrees Celsius is expected in Simsega on January 15, in Jamtara, Ramgarh and Khunti, it is expected to slide down another notch to 6 degrees Celsius by then, the Met office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dead crows raise bird flu alert in Jharkhand ||Alarm bells are ringing among Jharkhand government officials after the recovery of carcasses of crows and Indian myna at Pokharia village in Shikaripara block of Dumka district, around 310 km north east of capital Ranchi. Bird flu has been confirmed in 10 states so far. As the carcasses were recovered at a field in Pokharia village at around 8am on Monday, the Dumka animal husbandry officer, Dr Awadesh Kumar Singh, immediately sent a message to the animal husbandry unit in Ranchi and following directive arranged for PPE kits and other accessories to collected tracheal and cloacal swab from the carcasses. “The samples of one crow and seven mynas have been collected and sent for test at the livestock research centre lab (at Kanke in Ranchi) and would again be sent for confirmation at the regional diseases diagnostic laboratory in Belgachia (Calcutta) and if the reports are positive for Avian influenza the samples would be sent for final confirmation at the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal to identify the strain of the virus,” said Dr Singh. The district animal husbandry officer further said that no bird deaths have been reported anywhere else in any other village or block of the district. “There are no external symptoms of death due to bird flu but we are not taking any chances and sent the samples for confirmatory tests. No death of any avian species has been reported anywhere else in the district. Even in the Pokharia village no deaths have been reported anywhere else. We assume that it might be due to some local development. But everything would be clear after the lab report,” said Dr Singh. Meanwhile, acting on the directive of the Dumka deputy commissioner B. Rajeshwari, poultry products coming from other districts and neighbouring Bengal are being strictly monitored. “We are regularly holding meeting with wholesale poultry suppliers to inform immediately about any symptoms of bird flu from poultry products brought from other district or other states like Bengal so that sample can be arranged to be sent for test,” added Dr Singh. The samples from four crows found near Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur is yet to arrive with the animal husbandry department. “It takes nearly a fortnight for reports to come from the laboratory and we are yet to get any reports so far about the samples from crow carcasses. No other death of bird species has been reported from anywhere else in the district or even in neighbouring districts,” said Jamshedpur animal husbandry officer Dr Rajesh Kumar Singh. The state animal husbandry unit director Nancy Sahay said that they are prepared to handle any situation. “So far there have not been any deaths of birds in any of our neighbouring states but we are taking all precautions as safety measures. We are prepared to handle any situation and have stock of animal vaccines in our stores. “All the standard operation procedures have been communicated to the district animal husbandry officers across all the districts. We have appointed a nodal officer for bird flu and a contact number to address any such issues 24x7,” said Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police release pictures of Ormanjhi case prime suspect||A week after recovering the headless body of a young girl from Ormanjhi, Ranchi police got a breakthrough in this blind case. On Monday, it released four different pictures of one Sheikh Bilal, seeking information about his whereabouts, after announcing him as the prime accused in the case. The lead came after a lady from Chatwal village, which falls under Chanho police station in Ranchi, contacted the police, suspecting that the recovered body was that of her daughter. On Monday morning, the police have initiated a DNA test for the headless body, following which they released a communiqué bearing Bilal’s pictures. The accused is a resident of Chandwe basti, which falls under Pithoria police station of Ranchi. The communiqué read, “Sheikh Bilal is wanted in connection with the murder of a girl, whose headless body was found in a naked condition in Ormanjhi. He is currently absconding. Anyone giving information about his whereabouts will be rewarded. His identity will be kept confidential. On the other hand, if anyone tries to help him, he/she will be tried under relevant sections of IPC.” Sources in Ranchi police said that the lady who claimed that the deceased is her daughter had identified her on the basis of a burn mark (on one of her legs), which the deceased suffered during her childhood while working in the kitchen. The lady also told police that her daughter had married her lover, from the neighbouring village 10 months back. However, the two went their separate ways two months back after her daughter learned that he was already married. After returning to her maternal house, her daughter fell in love with Sheikh Bilal. However, she was living with her. “We are waiting for the DNA report, but considering the circumstantial evidence provided by the deceased’s mother, we are of the view that the deceased is her daughter. Once we catch hold of Bilal, anything further can be said,” remarked a senior cop, unwilling to be identified. Notably, the murder incident triggered massive outrage in Ranchi.  The ruling and the opposition camps fired salvos at each other over the growing ‘lawlessness’ in the state. Many protests and demonstrations were staged across the district since then by different social groups and also BJP. One such protest organized at Kishoreganj chowk last Monday turned violent after agitators attacked chief minister Hemant Soren’s pilot car, thereby raising a question mark over police’s intelligence gathering mechanism. While the ruling JMM and Congress accused BJP of orchestrating attacks on CM, the saffron camp blamed the state government for trying to silence dissent. On Sunday, BJP also demanded a CBI probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
