13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren invited to inaugurate Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela||In a bid to add relevance to the two-decade-old Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela, which has undergone a massive upside-down, members of Dubiya Kharn Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela Committee, headed by Manika Congress MLA Ramchander Singh Chero met chief minister Hemant Soren at his Ranchi residence on Tuesday and invited him to inaugurate the fair, which is annually on February 11 and 12. The Adivasi Maha Kumbh is hosted every year at Dubiya Kharn, on a government empty land, which is about 10 kilometres off Daltonganj at the bifurcation of the NH 75 highway. The Chero leaders during the meeting apprised the chief minister of the hardships faced by the tribal forest dwellers. They categorically highlighted that the tribals were facing trouble in van patta. Singh said, “Van patta has become an elusive concept now for the Adivasi.” He added, “We invited the chief minister with a simple belief – his presence at the event would galvanize the tribals, who sadly feel overlooked due to the apathy of the administration.” On being asked about Soren’s response he said, “Chief Minister didn’t decline nor did he confirm. But being a tribal CM, he should try to present at this event to witness where the tribal have slipped down to and how their income-generating avenues are getting narrowed with every passing day.” Over the years the Dubiya Kharn Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela has lost its Adivasi tone and identity. The stalls which once helped the Adivasis earn money have now been replaced with junk food and liquor stalls. Cultural shows have been done away with and songs, dance, and merry-making have made an entry. According to sources, gambling has also got itself associated with this fair. The MLA said, “We are trying to preserve and conserve our identity but crass commercialism and modernity are invading us.” According to him, the tribals of the area are dreading displacement once the Madal dam becomes operational.  Singh said that the tribals dread displacement the most but it has become their destiny. He claimed that over half a dozen villages would get submerged and about ninety-eight per cent of the tribal population need to move on to other places if the Mandal dam becomes functional. He said, “We will be raising this issue before our CM if he chooses to inaugurate the mela.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters on high alert as Dalma elephants head home||Five separate herds of elephants are on their way to the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary and could return home anytime, thus alerting foresters, who have taken a host of measures to ensure their safety along with that of the locals. The elephants have been returning home earlier for some time now. A herd of 35 elephants had moved into the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in December last year. The Dalma range office is keeping touch with Ghatsila counterparts about the position and movement of the jumbos, including calves. “We need to be on maximum alert for the imminent arrival of elephants from Bengal. Most of the jumbos have left the Bengal jungles. We have reports of the five herds anchored near Dhalbhumgarh but more should be on their way to Dalma,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. The herds, which migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal last year, are presently scattered at a forest near Dhalbhumgarh in East Singhbhum. Besides coming home early, the elephants had also migrated to Bengal about a month earlier, in July. “The jumbos generally catch the corridor to Dalma after harvesting season ends in Bengal,” the forester said. Trackers have been asked to closely monitor the elephants’ movements and remain alerted, and inform the range office when the herd nears the sanctuary. The villagers have already been handed over firecrackers and ‘mashals’ (torches) to keep elephants at bay. They have also been told not to unnecessarily venture out of their home in the night. Elephants often barge into farms to damage standing crops which results in man-animal conflict. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the herd, which arrived home last month, is presently in Suklara inside the sprawling 192 square kilometre sanctuary. “Rest of the elephants should be home anytime,” he added. A Dalma forest guard said the herds are stationed in Dhalbhumgarh forest to quench thirst. “The elephants are expected to stay there for some more days. Though jumbos are moving animals but usually  stay at a particular place -- where food and water is not an issue -- for some time. The movement  depends on their mood,” he said. “But we are on alert,” the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two dead bodies found in Dhanbad in one day||Dhanbad on Wednesday reported the recovery of two dead bodies in separate incidents. The corpse of Nandlal Chauhan, a 45-year-old security guard of a private organisation SIS, was found on Wednesday morning, in a pool of blood, from a bushy area of the Bypass Road of Bhuli, about six kilometers from the district headquarters. A team of Bhuli Police, led by officer-in-charge Sandip Baghwar reached at the site to find the dead body, after they were informed by the locals and the family members of the deceased. The body, bearing injury marks on the head and neck, was sent for post mortem to the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Police also recovered the bicycle of the deceased about 10 meters away from the site. Talking to the media, Baghwar said that the police was suspecting a case of murder due to personal enmity. “We are trying to find out the reasons for the death but prima facie it seems to be a case of personal enmity. We are further questioning the family members of the deceased and also waiting for the post mortem report to find out the causes of the death. It seems that he was also attacked with some boulders by the culprits,” he said. Devanti Devi, Chauhan’s wife, informed police about the verbal duel which took place on Tuesday morning between him and the neighbourhood milkman over Rs 500 on account of milk supply. Family members of Chauhan claimed that he had left for work on Tuesday morning on his bicycle at around 9 am but did not return until late night. An unidentified elderly person was found dead, lying at the Tetulmari Coal Mines of Beldaria locality of Tetulmari Police station on Wednesday morning, about 15 km away from the district headquarters. Officer-in-charge of Tetulmari Police Station Manish Kumar said, “We are trying to identify the person with the help of local residents. The body will be sent for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College after that.” “As the body bears no injury marks we can’t predict anything about the reasons of the death and only post mortem report can clarify it,” Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||The winter chill is back, night readings plummet across state ||Strong north westerly winds made a comeback on Wednesday with most parts of the state experiencing plummeting temperatures, likely to continue for the next three days. The minimum reading in the state capital, five to six notches above normal for the past few days, dropped to 9.2°C, one degree below normal. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi recorded 9.4°C. In Jamshedpur, the minimum reading fell to 15.8°C from Tuesday’s 17°C. Several places across the state including Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas witnessed early morning fog which resulted in poor visibility. The night readings plummeted to 9.6°C from 14°C at Bokaro in the last 24 hours. Wednesday’s minimum reading in Bokaro was two notches below normal. Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2°C, a three degree fall in the past 24 hours. Similarly, minimum readings in other districts, including Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum, witnessed a downward trend. Wednesday afternoon’s forecast, issued by Ranchi Meteorological Centre, predicted another three to four degree fall in minimum readings due to the free flow of the north wind. "The north-westerly wind is dominating over Jharkhand and this is resulting in a sharp drop in minimum temperatures," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. On Wednesday, most districts of Jharkhand sported a clear sky with low humidity conducive to lower minimum temperatures. The meteorological department has predicted same weather across the state for the next three days, with mist and fog in the morning and the evening. The drop in the minimum readings prompted residents across cities to take extra cover. "The chill is back. We can feel the cold north wind blowing. I had to use a jacket and woollen cap while going for a morning walk," said Avinash Kumar, a resident of Kadma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress demands rollback of farm laws||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision to halt the implementation of the three farm laws but called for a repeal of all the contentious legislations. Oraon, who is state Congress chief, told reporters on the sidelines of a get-together organised for the media at Rock Garden at Kanke Road, said, “It’s a victory of farmers. But the fight is still not over. We stand with farmers and their demands. Farmers want complete repeal of the laws, which are against their interests and the Union government now must take it back.” Last week, the Congress, which is a part of the ruling JMM-led alliance in Jharkhand, had spoken of holding another round of agitations across the state against the laws on January 15. Oraon said that even after the SC’s decision, they would continue to go ahead with their agitational programme to force the Centre to reconsider its decision. “All preparations have been done for the January 15 stir, which will be even bigger than the earlier agitations,” he said. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey dubbed the apex court’s verdict as a slap on the face of the Union government. “Despite over seven rounds of negotiations with farmers, nothing has come out so far because the government is not ready to shed its ego. “The laws were passed illegally without proper consultation with states. The apex court’s directive is a kind of a slap on the face of the Union government. It is high time, the government learns to listen to its people,” Dubey said. JMM has also spoken out against the new farm laws with chief minister Hemant Soren criticising the Union government as “anti-farmer” and “pro-capitalists”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||MGM readies webcast facility for vaccine rollout||Work is on to set up a two-way communication facility at MGM Medical College for a possible interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday when the nationwide Covid vaccination drive will be launched, vaccines for which reached the steel city on Wednesday afternoon. In all, 8,700 vials of Covishield vaccine were delivered here in a refrigerated van from Ranchi. The first lot of the vaccines was stored at the district cold storage at Sakchi at 4 pm. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that each vial of Covishield will cater to 10 doses. Hence, in all 87,000 people would be administered the vaccine beginning Saturday, January 16. "The vaccines that arrived from Ranchi have been kept in the district cold storage at Sakchi.  In the first place, doctors, nurses and health workers will start getting vaccinated. Others above the age of 50 will get the vaccine when the next lot is made available," he said. Jha said district health officials would keep a watch on the cold storage so as to ensure that the necessary temperature was maintained till the last vial of the vaccine is used. As for the communication facility, Jha said it was being installed to facilitate a  conversation with the Prime Minister should he choose to speak to a beneficiary or a health worker on the day of the rollout.  "As per a directive from the state health department, the two-way communication facility was to be set up in each district. Hence, we got it installed at MGM Medical College in Dimna with the help of the National Informatics Centre. It should be up by Thursday evening," said the civil surgeon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) Gymkhana office-bearers' tenure extended||The students’ association of the IIT(ISM), Student’s Gymkhana, has decided to extend the tenure of its executive body, due to the closure of the campus and a resultant non-election of the organisation. A communication in this regard has been made through mail by Bobby Antony, the Associate Dean (Student Activities) of the institute. The Gymkhana’s executive council comprises six members, presided over by Preetam Jaiswal. The Paraka Sai Ratna Teja of Integrated M Tech Applied Geology as its Chairperson; Dau Dayal Sharma of M Sc Tech Applied Geology as finance convenor; Sikandar Kumar, PhD (Mining Engineering) as General Secretary (SNT); Sonal Sinha of Integrated M Tech, Mathematics and Computing as General Secretary (MNC); and Avinash Gautam, B Tech Petroleum Engineering as General Secretary (GNS). In a message to the students, Jaiswal, a B Tech Petroleum Engineering student, has said, “Since my job is already secured, I have no pressure of a career at present. I will dedicate my next term like the previous term for the development of the institute as well as welfare of fellow students by taking up their issues with the institute administration as well as other platforms.” Jaiswal has secured a job at PayTm through campus selection. “My first priority will be to reopen the campus with all safety measures in place so that all classroom academic activities can come on track,” he said. The students’ association chief also thanked the former president of the Student Gymkhana and other seniors. He promised to work as per their mentorship and complete some of the unfinished work of his last tenure. He also asked  students to feel free to contact him for resolution of any of their issues. The executive committee of the Gymkhana has worked well with the students in solving their problems and organising students’ activities and cultural programmes. The old student organisation of IIT-ISM, ISM Students Society, had been replaced with Students Gymkhana in 2019, the senators and members of which are appointed through elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Girl gangraped in forest while returning home on scooter||Police launched a manhunt on Wednesday for two youths who allegedly gang raped a 21-year-old tribal girl in a forest 5km from here in adjoining Seraikela Kharsawan district late on Tuesday evening. The victim, a resident of Pather Salem village in Kandra, was returning home on a scooter at 8pm when the two accosted her and then dragged her inside Pandrabera forest. There, the two youths took turns to rape her, said police sources. According to her family members, the duo fled, leaving her battered and bruised in the forest. By the time the girl managed to return home it was past midnight. The family reported the incident to Kandra police soon after. Seraikela sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said the girl was returning home from a Pragya Kendra when she was apprehended. "As per her statement, the youths were following her on a bike and intercepted her overtaking her scooter. Subsequently the two forced her to sit on their bike, and took her in the forest,” he said. Ranjan said the bike used by the youths had no registration number. Police, he added, believe the two are local residents who know the area well. "We are taking statements from local residents. We are also talking to those with a dubious background in Pindrabera," the SDPO said. Police sources said there are no CCTV cameras on the road from Kandra to the Salem Pather village, a 2km stretch. But they said police were looking at CCTV footage at Kandra town as they believe the two youths must have followed her from there. This is the second incident of rape in the Seraikela sub-divisional area in the past six months. In June last year, a teenager was gang-raped at Majhitola in Adityapur. The girl was returning home from a relative's house in the afternoon when she was picked up by criminals and raped at an abandoned school. She managed to flee her tormentors but jumped in the Kharkai river out of fear and drowned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri traders get street lights, but worry about damaged roads||Traders in Sindri, including the shopkeepers of the Saharpura market of the fertiliser town, are happy over the installation of street lights by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the market complex. The traders were, till now, compelled to do business in the dark after sunset due to the lack of light. However, they are still concerned about the dangerous conditions of the roads, particularly the main road from Mayur Gate to Rodha Bandh in Sindri. The stretch from Mayur Gate to Sindri Police Station has developed a number of potholes, leading to chances of accidents there. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sindri Chamber of Commerce secretary Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “We had a meeting with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on January 8 during his visit to Sindri, during which we raised the issue of darkness in the market. We are happy at the quick response as the installation work of streetlights began in the market from Tuesday itself.” “We are happy that the entire Saharpura market, which used to plunge into darkness, will now glow with the floodlights,” he said. The streetlights that were installed by the Chamber of Commerce years ago had become non-functional, he said. Dipu, who is also the president of the citizens’ organisation Sindri Bachao Morcha, said they expect that Sindri will glow with the streetlights as the commissioner had assured of their installation in the entire town. He said that previously, the streetlights were put up in haphazard areas and at non-strategic points. Regarding the conditions of the roads, the general secretary said, “The dangerous state of the main road has compelled several people to take a detour from Rodhaband to Sindri station, to avoid it.” “I have tweeted to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and Chief Minister Hemant Soren over the issue earlier. I plan to raise it again with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation,” Dipu said. “The poor quality of the materials used to construct the road had led to its damage in the initial period itself. It got further damaged as heavy vehicles carrying materials of about 40 to 60 tonnes passed continuously through the internal roads of Sindri,” he complained. The official said that they had raised a host of other problems with the Commissioner, including waterlogging in the Saharpura Bazar area, the lack of enough toilets and the higher rent of shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||National Energy Conservation Award for Tata Motors||Photo caption: Members of Sindri Chamber of Commerce at Sindri, Dhanbad on Wednesday. Manob Chowdhary  Head: Sindri traders get street lights installed, express concerns over damaged roads Alt head: Sindri traders concerned over damaged roads  Strap: Officials raise host of issues, including waterlogging in the area, with DMC commissioner  Dhanbad Praduman Choubey  Traders in Sindri, including the shopkeepers of the Saharpura market of the fertiliser town, are happy over the installation of street lights by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the market complex. The traders were, till now, compelled to do business in the dark after sunset due to the lack of light. However, they are still concerned about the dangerous conditions of the roads, particularly the main road from Mayur Gate to Rodha Bandh in Sindri. The stretch from Mayur Gate to Sindri Police Station has developed a number of potholes, leading to chances of accidents there. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sindri Chamber of Commerce secretary Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “We had a meeting with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on January 8 during his visit to Sindri, during which we raised the issue of darkness in the market. We are happy at the quick response as the installation work of streetlights began in the market from Tuesday itself.” “We are happy that the entire Saharpura market, which used to plunge into darkness, will now glow with the floodlights,” he said. The streetlights that were installed by the Chamber of Commerce years ago had become non-functional, he said. Dipu, who is also the president of the citizens’ organisation Sindri Bachao Morcha, said they expect that Sindri will glow with the streetlights as the commissioner had assured of their installation in the entire town. He said that previously, the streetlights were put up in haphazard areas and at non-strategic points. Regarding the conditions of the roads, the general secretary said, “The dangerous state of the main road has compelled several people to take a detour from Rodhaband to Sindri station, to avoid it.” “I have tweeted to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and Chief Minister Hemant Soren over the issue earlier. I plan to raise it again with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation,” Dipu said. “The poor quality of the materials used to construct the road had led to its damage in the initial period itself. It got further damaged as heavy vehicles carrying materials of about 40 to 60 tonnes passed continuously through the internal roads of Sindri,” he complained. The official said that they had raised a host of other problems with the Commissioner, including waterlogging in the Saharpura Bazar area, the lack of enough toilets and the higher rent of shops.  The Jamshedpur plant of Tata Motors has bagged the prestigious National Energy Conservation Award (NECA) 2020, instituted by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), securing the first prize in the Automotive (Manufacturing) Sector category. Additionally, second prize and a Merit Award was bagged by the automobile major's Lucknow and Pantnagar plants respectively. The award ceremony was held virtually on Wednesday in the presence of Raj Kumar Singh, Union  minister of state (power, new and renewable energy) and minister of state (skill development and entrepreneurship). Ajoy Lall, Tata Motors vice-president – Operations (Commercial Vehicle Business Unit) said, “We are extremely delighted to have received this award from the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. We have consciously engrained sustainability in every aspect of our business by stretching ourselves to adopt more meaningful ways to reduce our impact on the planet, while still delivering exciting products and sustainable solutions to our customers. We have always been conscious of the need to conserve energy in our manufacturing plants - which leads to – increased energy efficiency and reduced carbon emissions, which are further supported by utilization of higher levels renewable energy. These awards reflects the ongoing efforts of all Tata Motors employees to make our facilities greener and more energy efficient.” Head of Jamshedpur plant Vishal Badshah said, “At Tata Motors Jamshedpur, we have seamlessly integrated energy conservation and sustainability into our work culture that has enabled our employees to achieve greater levels of energy efficiency. We have achieved significant improvement in our energy performance by maintaining focus on adoption of eco-friendly technologies, improvement in operational efficiency, benchmarking and daily work management. Projects such as rooftop solar PV, installation of energy efficient devices and low cost automation has enabled us to improve our specific electrical and thermal energy performances significantly over the past three years, leading to reduction in our specific carbon footprint too. ” Recently, Tata Motors also received national awards for excellence in energy management at the CII’s Energy Efficiency Conference and Exposition in August  last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1 lakh Covishield shots ready and waiting in Jharkhand||As many as 1,62,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine reached Jharkhand on Wednesday in 16,200 vials to kick-start the first phase of the vaccination programme against the coronavirus in the state on January 16, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per details shared by the NHM, each vial contains 5 ml of vaccine and can provide shots of 0.5 ml to as many as 10 individuals. The vaccine will be distributed to the various vaccination centres across the 24 districts by Thursday, January 14, health officials said. State health minister Banna Gupta requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide the vaccine free of cost to all Jharkhand residents. “The BJP had promised free vaccination to residents of Bihar before the elections there. I would request the Prime Minister to provide free vaccination to all residents of our state as Jharkhand is a poor, backward and tribal dominated state,” Gupta said. The minister said that the vaccine was free for all the frontline workers in Jharkhand, but there was a need to make it free for all the 3.29 crore residents of the state. The state, he said, was expecting to get the second lot of vaccine doses within the next 15 to 20 days in a bid to ensure that the second shot of the vaccine is provided to residents in the stipulated gap of 28 days. Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, the largest vaccination centre in the state capital, received at least 1,897 vials of Covishield. Hospital authorities said that necessary arrangements had been made to ensure uninterrupted power supply in order to keep the vaccine in the desired temperature of 2 to 8 degree Celsius. Power generators have been installed in the hospital to maintain optimum temperature for the vaccine in case of a power failure. Kareena Hembrom, a nurse at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, said she was proud of being a frontline worker throughout the Covid-19-induced crisis period and was happy to get the vaccine shots in the first phase. “All of us have battled the virus together and the vaccine comes as a huge relief,” she said. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed an additional 30 to enhance the storage capacity in the state, officials from NHM said. As per health department sources Jharkhand has five walk-in coolers and four more are being procured. The state also has three walk-in freezers and two more will be procured soon. Besides, there are 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers available. On Day One of the vaccination, Covishield shots will be administered to health workers at 129 centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand, health officials said. The vaccine, health officials said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body in two weeks after the second dose. NHM further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the vaccine shots. The health department had earlier stated that a photo identity proof will be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. Voter ID cards, school certificates, MGNREGA job cards, PAN cards and passports are some of the documents that can be used to register for the vaccination. Also, the person getting vaccinated has to produce his photo identity proof at the vaccination centre, failing which he will not be administered the vaccine shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Some State Games events may be held in Jamshedpur in March||Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA) has agreed to allot a few events of the State Games to Jamshedpur, which would end almost a year-long dry spell of sports competitions in the steel city. M.K. Pathak, general secretary of the association, said, “We have decided to allot some of the events to Jamshedpur. The steel city has the required infrastructure to efficiently host the events.” But, most of the events would be held in Ranchi, he added. The JOA general secretary said they would seek permission from the state government before going ahead with the State Games, tentatively scheduled between March 17 to 21.“We need to stick to Covid-related protocols. The permission of the state government would also be needed. We would also need the infrastructure and accommodation from the state government to conduct the Games in a hassle-free manner. We want to organise the Games in partnership with the state government,” Pathak said. Though he did not mention the disciplines to be allotted to Jamshedpur, sources within the JOA revealed that archery and boxing were on the list. “State archery and boxing associations are headquartered in Jamshedpur and both these events can easily be conducted there. Some more events might also be added to the list for Jamshedpur,” one of the sources said. The maiden State Games were held in Ranchi in 2019 with an objective to build a sports atmosphere and provide a platform to athletes from different districts to showcase their talent. It could not be held the following year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We give a platform to state associations of various disciplines to field their athletes in the form of the State Games. We have our limitations and it is the responsibility of state outfits to try and provide facilities to their athletes and players, despite financial issues. The state government and corporate firms can chip in with support. But that’s easier said than done,” a JOA official, who did not wish to be named, said. Athletics, badminton, basketball, archery, boxing, volleyball, gymnastics, football, cycling, wrestling, chess and table tennis are among the events that are part of the Games. The Jharkhand Olympic Association, the apex sports body of Jharkhand, has plans to make State Games an annual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 127 fresh Covid cases, no casualties in a day||At least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, while at least 10 districts reported less than five fresh cases in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 52, 18 and 23 cases respectively, jointly accounting for more than 73 per cent of the 127 fresh Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As many as 153 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday, bringing the number of active cases down at 1356. As per the NHM bulletin, the number of patients dropped down to 665 in Ranchi as at least 65 patients recovered from the infection here, outnumbering fresh cases in the past 24 hours. However, the number of active cases increased in East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, which reported 16 and 21 Covid recoveries respectively.  As per government data, at least 159 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum, while 82 were infected in Dhanbad. As many as four Jharkhand districts – Giridih, Godda, Jamtara and Pakur – had less than 10 active cases of Covid-19 infection by the end of Tuesday, government data stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two districts with more than 100 active cases. Jharkhand did not report any Covid casualties on Tuesday, the NHM stated in its bulletin. So far, the virus has claimed 1048 lives in Jharkhand. At least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum and 223 from Ranchi. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 11492 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Of the 49.75 lakh people tested for Covid-19 so far in Jharkhand, 117088 were found infected. Almost 98 per cent of the Covid patients have recovered in Jharkhand, states government data. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.14 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand was 536.57 days against the national average of 484.46 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal letter on assault by CRPF in June  ||Tribal residents of a remote village in rebel-hit Khuntpani block of West Singhbhum district have accused the police of trying to shield CRPF responsible for assaulting them on June 15 last year. The letter dated January 10, 2021 by the victims of the alleged assault by CRPF jawans in the Chiriabera village under in Khuntpani block and under Goilkera police station in West Singhbhum is in reaction to the November 27, 2020 response filed by the state government in the Jharkhand High Court which makes the following main claims — the testimony of the victim in the FIR did not mention role of CRPF in the violence and that police went to the victims village during the investigation and recorded statements of many victims under Section 161 and none of them mentioned that CRPF unleased the violence. Significantly, the villagers claim that CRPF personnel brutally beat up about 20 villagers out of which 11 were severely beaten and three sustained grievous injuries. Even though the victims clearly told the police at the hospital that they were beaten by the CRPF personnel, the FIR filed by the police obscures many facts of the incident and makes no mention of the role of the CRPF in the violence. The victims filed a writ petition in the Jharkhand High Court on September 10, 2020. In the writ, the victims clearly explained the violence unleashed by the CRPF and about the incorrect testimony recorded in the FIR. The victims have demanded that a correct FIR be filed, all responsible CRPF personnel be acted against and compensation be paid to the victims. In response to the court’s directive the state government had filed a response on November 27, 2020. “After knowing about the state’s response we decided to write to the Goilkera police in-charge, West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda, the public prosecutor and the sub-judicial magistrate. In the letter, the victims have again given details of the CRPF violence. They have said that the police had never visited their village or met the victims, after the incident. The police have not recorded the testimony of any victim. They have also reiterated that the police did not record the testimony correctly in the FIR. The victims have appealed that testimonies of victims be recorded under Section 164 in front of the judicial magistrate immediately. The letter further informs that. CRPF personnel had brutally beaten the victims with sticks, batons, rifle butts and boots. They were also beaten when they were unable to respond in Hindi. One of the victims, Guna Gope, suffered a fracture in his leg due to the beating. Ram Surin’s house was completely ransacked by the personnel. His family’s documents such as khatiyan (land document), malguzari raseed (land tax receipt) and Aadhaar of family members were burnt and money stolen from the house. The police also tried to influence the victims in the hospital not to press charges against the CRPF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||NSUI protest on National Youth Day in Ranchi||A group of students polished shoes in Ranchi on Tuesday when the country was observing the National Youth Day, celebrated on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda every year. Over 50 students owing allegiance to the Congress affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) assembled near the Jharkhand University of Technology in the Namkum area of Ranchi and some of them invited passers-by for getting their shoes polished. Their protest drew attention as it was organised on the National Youth Day that is known for celebrating the energy of the youth on the birth anniversary of Swamiji who saw hope for the future of every child and believed they, with their “muscles of iron” and “nerves of steel”, could bring about social change. “This was our unique way of lodging protest against the Union government’s lackadaisical attitude towards growing unemployment among the youths,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president of NSUI state unit, adding the unemployment rate was growing with every passing day. “The youths study hard to bag degrees but have to roam around aimlessly as they don’t get employment,” he said. “Before the general election of 2014, Modiji had announced two crore jobs for the youth and Rs 15 lakh to accounts of every citizens,” said Aarushi Vandana, NUSI national coordinator who was also present during the protest, adding both turned out to be jumla (platitude/gimmick). Such protests were also being organised elsewhere in the country, she further said, demanding the government must address the unemployment issue without further delay. The protesting youths also carried placards with such slogans as Jumla nehi, jawab do/yuva ko rojgar do (provide employment to youth, not just platitude or gimmick) and Modi tere raj me, joota aa gaya haath me (we got shoes in our hands during your regime, Modi) written on those.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Goa, Jharkhand showcase culture and cuisine on National Youth Day||Jharkhand’s humble dhuska, litti chokha, murga sarso, ghoogni, along with the elaborate Goan cuisine made it to menu the National Youth Day Programme, organised by the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition, in Goa on Tuesday. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, invited as the chief guest to mark the 158th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, witnessed the unique cuisine and culture of Goa and Jharkhand under the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat initiative. He even paid a floral tribute to a portrait of Swamiji. The event was also attended by minister of protocol, Goa, Mauvin Godinho, director-general of the Union Ministry of Tourism Meenakshi Sharma, economic advisor of the ministry of tourism Gyan Bhushan and chairman of the Institute of Hotel Management Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition J. Ashok Kumar. The programme aimed to bring Jharkhand and Goa together despite their diversity, aiming to enhance the bond between the two. Thereby, they put the contrasting Goan and Jharkhand culture to complement each other. Right from presenting the Se Cathedral de Santa Catarina and Bundu’s Sun temple; football and field hockey; Palolem beach and Parasnath Hills; Grand parade of Goa carnival and Baha dance during Baha festival; Christmas’s midnight mass and the early morning arghya during Chhath; bebinca cake and malpua, the organizers displayed it all as part of the cultural exchange initiative of the Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat programme. Speaking at the event, Naidu has praised the initiative (Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat) for showcasing the cultural connection between Goa and Jharkhand. He said these innovative measures would enhance the bonding and strengthen the unity and integrity of our country. “We are trying our best to rebuild the tourism and hospitality industry. We shall contribute to showcasing India’s rich heritage and culture in a better way. As part of the Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat programme, students from Goa have learnt a lot about Jharkhand and vice versa,” said Donna D’Souza, principal of Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition, Goa. Apart from the cuisine, there was a vibrant display of Goan and Jharkhand’s art. The exhibition also showcased artefacts like Chhau masks from Jharkhand. Several online events on photography and essay were conducted on this day, because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||200 hawkers evicted from Sakchi Market||Over 200 hawkers encroaching the footpaths of the congested Sakchi Market area were evicted during an hour-long crackdown on Tuesday morning. Acting on the directives of Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Nitish Kumar Singh, a team of Quick Response Team (QRT) and Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) officials launched a crackdown on the hawkers who had resumed business in the area by defying the administrative order of making Sakchi market encroachment free. The crackdown began around 11 am and continued till noon. “We were informed that the hawkers were putting up shops on the footpaths. Today, being Tuesday, they turned up in large numbers to do business. Hence, we launched a fresh drive and evicted them. QRT will be deployed at the market to prevent the return of the vendors,” said Ravi Bharti, a JNAC official. Significantly, the district administration has earmarked Aambagan ground in Sakchi for the footpath hawkers to operate but they are refusing to shift to the new venue. The move to relocate the hawkers came as a move by the district administration to clear traffic bottlenecks at Sakchi. With the shopkeepers regularly complaining against the encroaching vendors, and also to implement Covid-19 safety protocol, the police had recently evicted over 100 makeshift kiosks from Sakchi market. After the eviction, the aggrieved footpath hawkers came to Sakchi police station and demanded an alternative place to run their business. At the same time, they also complained against the permanent shopkeepers, who have been allotted shops by Tata Steel for having encroached upon a considerable area by illegally extending their shops beyond the permissible limit. They alleged that this had made the passage narrow. “We are aware of the problems being faced by the hawkers, who eke out a living by selling their wares. But, we cannot compromise on safety. Moreover, people also find it inconvenient to move around freely in the market area with the passages getting choked by them setting up their shops on the footpath,” pointed out a cop who took part in today’s crackdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
