14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two-lane rail overbridge to ease Gomoh traffic pain||East Central Railway has completed construction of a 2km-long railway overbridge, which according to officials on Thursday, is the longest in Dhanbad. The overbridge, which connects the Gomoh market and the railway station, will be inaugurated virtually by railway minister Piyush Goyal on January 18. After its inauguration, Dhanbad will get major relief from daily traffic congestion. SS Ahmad, project manager of MG Contractors Pvt Ltd, said: “The two-lane overbridge also has pavements on both sides. Each lane is 10.5-metre wide.” “We have installed over 200 solar lights on the bridge. It will now be easier for patients to reach hospital quickly,” said Ahmad. Gomoh resident RTI activist Sanky Gupta, who had earlier raised the issue of delay in construction work and even tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting its significance, said: “Nowhere in the country, three railway crossings are situated within a 100-metre radius. It affects the movement of vehicles.” “Besides patients, school students were among the major sufferers of heavy traffic congestion at railway crossings. They will now get a big relief,” said Gupta. “Doctors from outside the town have always refused to visit because of the traffic jam. From now on, they will not face this problem,” said Gupta. The bridge will also help the residents to reach the national highway swiftly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rituals, holy dip and more: state celebrates Makar Sankranti||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu: Eateries, restaurants record dip in sale of chicken items||After the coronavirus pandemic, hotels and restaurants of Bokaro are seeing a steep fall in demand for chicken dishes, the ongoing bird flu scare dealing another blow to the hospitality industry that had only recently been allowed to resume services amid strict Covid safety protocols. Local residents, who had just about begun visiting eateries, have stopped now.  And those who are going to the restaurants, are showing a keen preference for vegetarian items even though no instance of bird flu has been detected in the district, according to the state animal husbandry department. The poultry industry has incurred huge losses due to the sharp decline in demand. Fear looms large as several dead birds have been recovered during the last four or five days, but bird flu is yet to be confirmed. Roadside food vendors who only serve non-vegetarian dishes have been badly hit. Kaka, a vendor at Sector-3, who was doing roaring business, has witnessed a 50 per cent drop in sales. He said, “I only sell chicken biryani. Customers from outside the district come to my roadside stall. But because of bird flu scare, my business got badly affected.” Vikram Shanan, the owner of the prominent Zaika Resort and restaurant chain of Bokaro, said: “Due to bird flu, the demand for poultry products has dropped to 50 per cent. People have switched over to vegetarian menus. There is also a drop in demand for mutton products.” Amit Johar, the owner of West Inn Hotel, also noted that customers now preferred vegetarian dishes. “Since the last two days, the sale of poultry products has dropped by 20-25 per cent. Residents are scared of ordering chicken dishes,”  he said, adding that restaurants known for serving non-vegetarian food, had added more vegetarian dishes in their menu. Those directly associated with the poultry trade are also worried. Dhanesh Kumar, a trader, said, “The bird flu scare has badly affected our business. I have now started selling other products like vegetables and fruits for survival.” District animal husbandry officer Manoj Mani said, “We are alert. Till now, no such case has been detected in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa airport to resume daytime flights from Saturday ||Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will resume regular flight services from Saturday after keeping day flights suspended for two months due to maintenance of the airstrip, airport authorities said on Thursday. However, the largest airport in Jharkhand is yet to achieve the volume of pre-lockdown air traffic, which reduced drastically in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, officials added. Flights remained suspended from 10.30am to 5.30pm here from November 16 to keep the runway free for carpeting. The suspension of flights during this time led to rescheduling of several flights and left travellers with no option but to either take early morning flights or flights post-sunset, officials said. “Despite the suspension of flights during the daytime, we managed to ply 17 flights daily during the past two months,” said Deputy General Manager (Air Traffic Management) at Birsa Munda Airport, Wilfred Kerketta. Kerketta said the number of flights flying to and from Ranchi will be increased to 20 every day from January 16. “We had at least 30 flights before the lockdown was enforced. The number had increased gradually, but we are still 10 flights short of our pre-lockdown traffic,” Kerketta added. Ranchi started new direct flights to Chennai last month and the response has been positive, airport authorities said. “We are in talks with the state government to increase the number of flights from Ranchi as travel restrictions have been eased now,” Kerketta said. Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated in December 2020. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in June when travel restrictions were relaxed after a strict lockdown since March. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November 2020 when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated. The airport has expansion plans in the pipeline. It is likely to extend its runway, increase the length of basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the Cabinet gives its nod to the plans. At present, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, will be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Archery coach inducted as east zone talent scout||Steel city’s veteran archery coach Harendra Singh has been nominated as a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee for East Zone (archery) for the Khelo India identification programme, an initiative of the ministry of youth affairs and sports. An international coach, Singh is in the archery circuit for over a decade now and has played an active role in the development of the game. His role as a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee will include identification of grassroots talent by using the appropriate method in non-competitive events, to ensure the database is updated and create a ranking of athletes and any other responsibilities related to the game. The states covered under East Zone include Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Expressing happiness, Singh said he was looking forward to the job and would try to do his best. “It’s a responsibility and I am looking forward to the new role. I would work hard and try to identify talents and help them come to the fore,” Singh said. An experienced mentor, Singh has been the coach of Indian archery team in international competitions and has also trained the state outfit, is a hard worker who can be at various competitions held across the state. “I don’t think there is any dearth of talent in the East Zone. Adequate guidance and training infrastructure would go a long way in unearthing talents across the zone,” Singh, who guides budding archers at a city-based school, added. He said the new role would require travelling to the designated state which comes under East Zone. Good wishes have poured in from across the state since the news broke. Jharkhand Archery Association secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahato, East Singh District Archery Association president Dinesh Kumar, archery coaches B Sriniwas  Rao, SAIL archery cradle chief coach Rajendra Guinya and Tata Archery Academy head coach and Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary have congratulated Singh for his nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Extremist with Rs 15 lakh reward on head surrenders before Chatra Police||A dreaded extremist of the state and second in rank of Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee(TSPC), Mukesh Ganjhu surrendered himself in front of the Chatra Police on Thursday morning, sources said. Ganghu was carrying a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head at the time of his surrender and was being sought after by central agencies like the National Investigation Agency for a terror funding case. Wanted in several states including Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Chattisgarh, the extremist leader was behind the killing of a Chatra scribe, among many other crimes. He was accused in dozens of cases including murder, rape, extortion, abduction and gunbattle with police, an officer said on condition of annonimity. The incident comes four days after superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha had released the list containing the names on whom the state government had announced reward, with Ganghu being featured on it. Jha had warned all the extremists in the list to surrender or get ready for police action. Sources said his surrender was seen as an outcome of increased police pressure. The police officer said that Ganjhu’s surrender is being seen as a big achievement for the police, while it is a major blow to the Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee. Ganjhu was responsible for looking after all affairs of the outfit, and was the second man after its supremo Brajesh Ganjhu. Both of them had together constituted the outfit in 2004. ASP (operations) Nigam Prasad and sub-divisional officer Avinash Kumar are leading the interrogation of the leader at the Mayurhand Police Station at the moment to get vital information about the group, its members and regarding the arms they possess. While officers, including Jha, refused to speak on the issue, the police are likely to announce Ganjhu’s surrender officially on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Number of active Covid cases drop in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad||The count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped on Wednesday in three of the worst affected districts in Jharkhand – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad. However, the number of patients remained the same in Jharkhand as the state reported as many recoveries as fresh cases on the day, government data revealed. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 152 people were found infected in the state on Wednesday and the same number of patients recovered. Ranchi reported 77 cases against 82 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 18 recoveries. As many as nine people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 18 patients recovered there. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. More than 3000 people were tested for the viral infection in these seven districts, NHM data stated. Barring Ranchi, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh case on the day. As per government data, at least 660 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 156 were infected in East Singhbhum. The remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. No casualties were reported on the day in Jharkhand, keeping the Covid toll at 1048, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Of the 1048 Covid deaths in Jharkhand so far, East Singhbhum has reported 355 casualties and Ranchi has reported 223 deaths. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 11,771 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of over 50 lakh people and tested 49.89 lakh of them. As many as 117240 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 114836 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.14 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 560.23 days against the national average of 507.45 days. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.94 per cent, which is better than the national average of 96.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader Furkan Ansari airs grouse||Former MP and veteran Congress leader Furkan Ansari has expressed his displeasure over the functioning of party’s Jharkhand in-charge R.P.N. Singh to national general secretary K.C. Venugopal. A visibly irritated Furkan, who returned to Ranchi on Wednesday after meeting Venugopal in Delhi on Tuesday evening, said that he had no option but to express his displeasure. “I had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi ji and Rahul ji in December apprising them about the party situation at the ground level. Though we are in the ruling alliance in Jharhand, it does not mean that situation is good at the ground level. However, no action has been taken, not to my knowledge. Hence I decided to go and personally meet Venugopal ji and apprised him of the situation,” said Ansari. The septuagenarian leader, who represented Godda in the 14th Lok Sabha and is a five-term MLA from Jamtara (1980 to 2004), and is one of the executive vice-president of the party, told in no uncertain terms that the Congress base is gradually weakening in Jharkhand. His son Irfan Ansari is the current MLA from Jamtara. “What can one say about the health of a party which has not held its state executive election for the last four years. The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress is being run on the whims and fancies of R.P.N. Singh (a former MP from Uttar Pradesh). It is either that Singh, who has done most of his politics in Uttar Pradesh is not aware of the ground situation in the party or does not want the party to perform well in future,” said Ansari. The senior leader also alleged that the current state unit president Rameshwar Oraon, who also holds the finance portfolio in the Jharkhand government, does not have much of a say in the party’s functioning. “Everything is being dictated by Singh. It is not good for democratic functioning of a party. The party leaders at the district level are feeling disheartened. I have done my duty as a party loyalist and it is for the party high command to take a decision,” added Ansari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||PLFI poster in Lohardaga town triggers panic||Rebel outfit - People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI) pasted a poster at the heart of Lohardaga town on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, warning police informers and businessmen of dire consequences if they pass on information about the outlawed group to the cops or refuse to oblige the demands of PLFI insurgents, the police said, on Wednesday. Locals found the poster put up at the densely-populated Gudri Bazar locality of the town, about 70 kilometeres west of Ranchi, on Wednesday morning. Subsequently, they informed the police. The district police acted promptly and took down the poster within minutes. However, no one had been arrested, in connection with the case, by the time this report was filed. The poster had slogans praising PLFI and against capitalist forces. It also urged the poor labour class to unite against the oppressive forces. It also threatened industrialists to face the PLFI’s wrath if they continued to exploit the poor class. Through the poster, PLFI also asked police not to conduct fake encounters and refrain from targeting innocent villagers. PLFI has been posted in the densely populated area of the city by the regional Naxalite organization. Hence the area has been put under surveillance. CCTV cameras worth lakhs have been installed in the area. Investigating officer, Mantu Kumar said that the police were scanning the CCTV footage of the area to identify the perpetrators. “The area falls under CCTV surveillance and the perpetrators will be identified and nabbed soon,” he said. According to figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand including Lohardaga are Left-wing extremism (LWE)-affected. Apart from the main CPI (Maoist), there are at least 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal hinterland. PLFI, one of these splinter outfits, was formed by Dinesh Gope, a former army man, in 2003. According to the police, most of the splinter outfits are involved in extorting money from businessmen, trafficking children, and killing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
