15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covishield for 200 health workers in steel city on first day||As many as 200 healthcare workers, including doctors, will be vaccinated in the steel city at MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital on Saturday, the first day of the immunisation programme being launched nationwide. "We have already installed a two-way communication facility at MGM Medical College. In all, 100 health workers, mostly doctors, will be vaccinated at the medical college. An equal number of health workers will be administered the vaccine at Tata Main Hospital," said East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N. Jha From Sunday, vaccinations will be conducted at 11 other places, including Sadar hospital in Khasmahal, Birsanagar urban community health centre and  other health centres in the remaining blocks. The civil surgeon said logistics pertaining to the vaccination drive were in place, and a dozen committees had been set up to ensure there is no hitch. The district health department has already carried out two dry runs for the Covid vaccination drive _--_ on January 2 and January 8 -- at 13 health hubs across East Singhbhum district, including the private-run Tata Main Hospital. On Wednesday, the first lot of 8,700 vials of the vaccine, Covishield, reached the steel city. It has been kept at the district cold storage. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said the first lot vaccines was only for health workers. “The first recipients will be health workers, which include doctors and nurses, and the frontline workers. Others will get the vaccine after the next lot reaches us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Loyola School launches platinum jubilee bash||Loyola School, Jamshedpur kicked off its platinum jubilee celebrations on its premises in Beldih on Friday by conducting a small event, involving teachers, Jesuits, and members of the school’s alumni association. Although the school has a lot of plans for its platinum jubilee year, the celebrations will entirely depend on the Covid-19 situation. The entire function of about 20 minutes was graced by the Jesuits, primarily to announce the commencement of the celebrations. The programme on Friday included a welcome speech, release of balloons and pigeons as a mark of the platinum jubilee and vote of thanks. Father Jerome Cutinha, the Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Society declared the opening of the platinum jubilee celebrations. The school has ambitious plans for marking the year in a special way. The celebrations will culminate in the grand closing ceremony, which is scheduled to be held in December with the get-together of alumni members. “Loyola for its students is an emotion and a way of life, more than just a school. We hope to have a spectacular platinum jubilee. All are hopeful that the situation will become normal so that the celebrations may take place as planned. We would want to take one step at a time seeing the Covid situation,” said Rajiv Talwar, the senior vice president of Loyola Alumni Association and chairman for the Platinum Jubilee Organising Committee. His words assumed significance as former students of the school and members of the Loyola Alumni Association had a golden walk down memory lane as they reminisced about their growing years in the portals of the institution. Loyola School was founded in 1947 and is managed by the Jesuits of the Society of Jesus. The day school with about 3200 students from KG to Std. XII offers Arts, Science and Commerce at the higher secondary school level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Shifting process of RSP College expedited||The ongoing shifting process of RSP College from its existing place at Belgaria to Nunudih in Jharia has gained momentum after state coordinator of Rashtriya Uchchtar Shikhas Abhiyan Shambhu Dayal Singh, in a letter, asked the Jharkhand State Building Construction Limited (JSBCL) to appoint an architect for the construction and renovation of new and old buildings respectively. Under the initiative of Rashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), a holistic scheme of development for higher education in India initiated in 2013 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, an amount of Rs 2 crore has been approved for the renovation and construction work. Singh said, “The architect will visit the site at Nunudih where Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) has issued NOC for the construction of the new building on 13.5 acres of land and prepare the detailed project report for both the buildings.” “The project report will be submitted before the board of governors of the college after which the funds will be sanctioned to JSBCL,” said Singh. “An amount of Rs 2 crore was approved for the college development in 2015-16 and the institution had also received a part of it. However, the remaining amount could not be provided as the college had planned to shift in 2017 because of the underground fire threat,” Singh said. The college is operating in a two-storey building of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority at Belgaria. Jai Naryan Singh, principal of RSP College, said, “We have already launched the counselling centre or the regional office of RSP College at the BCCL building in Nunudih on  November 25 last year. Students can get their college leaving certificates and admission  forms from the office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One, 4,800 to get vaccine across state||Around 4,800 people across 48 centres in Jharkhand will be immunised on Saturday, the inaugural day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive which will be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10.30 am from Delhi. In Ranchi, chief minister Hemant Soren will be present at the Sadar hospital vaccine centre to oversee the proceedings and interact with a few beneficiaries, said deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, The drive will take place at 48 centres against the earlier plan of 129 centres, and at each centre 100 beneficiaries would be immunised. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the number of centres had been trimmed following directives from the Union government. “We had readied 129 centres for the vaccination drive with a plan to inoculate 100 at each centre. However, the Union government has asked us to limit the number of centres so that drive can be managed rationally. Hence, every district will conduct a vaccination drive at two centres to begin with,” he said. Jharkhand has received 1,62,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. One vial contains 5ml which will serve 10 doses. Each beneficiary will have to be given 0.5ml. An official of the state chapter of the National Health Mission said, “Each vial contains doses for 10 people. Since each vial has to be exhausted in four hours of its opening, we have to be very careful that it doesn’t get wasted. Although the government has conducted awareness camps for selected beneficiaries as a part of confidence building measures, there are chances that many may have second thoughts for fear of side-effects. Hence, we need to be cautious.” He said districts were, however, free to conduct a vaccination drive at two centres everyday if required. “Every registered beneficiary will get an sms in advance about the time and place of the inoculation,” the official said. In Ranchi, the vaccine will be administered at Sadar hospital and the health centre at Namkum. On Friday, deputy commissioner Ranjan and his team took stock of preparations. “We are ready. At each vaccine centre, five persons—four vaccine officers and a vaccinator _ will be deployed. This apart, a sufficient number of security guards and volunteers will be present to ensure proper social distancing,” he said. Ranchi’s Sadar hospital and Jamshedpur’s MGM hospital have been equipped with webcasting facilities for the authorities, both in Ranchi and Delhi, can monitor proceedings. District administration sources maintained that the Prime Minister may also choose to interact with beneficiaries. As many as 10,000 beneficiaries have been identified for vaccination in the first phase in Ranchi. The state government has identified 99.89 lakh for receiving the vaccine of which about 1.25 lakh, mostly health workers, will be vaccinated in the first phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||100 sanitation workers to get vaccine first in Dhanbad||The Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin in Dhanbad from Saturday at the community health centres in Tundi and Topchanchi where 100 cleanliness workers will be vaccinated on the first day. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has confirmed it at the district collectorate on Friday and said that as many as 16,000 health workers have been registered for vaccination in the first phase. “The vaccination will begin at 10:30 am on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch it virtually from New Delhi. Around 100 cleanliness workers at each of the two centres will be vaccinated,” said Singh. “In the second phase, frontline workers, district administration officials, police officials and many others will be vaccinated,” he said, adding that the people will get information about the vaccination through SMSes and calls. “People will be vaccinated after their physical examination,” said Singh. He also instructed the district control room officials, police and block-level officials to act firmly against rumour-mongers. “The vaccination will be carried out with extra precaution and care. According to the standard operating procedure, three clean and sanitized rooms, uninterrupted electricity supply, high-speed internet access, proper arrangement of cleanliness and sanitation, drinking water, sanitiser and webcasting facility will be available at both the centres,” Singh said. “All the arrangements have been made to deal with any emergency at Sadar Hospital and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College,” said Singh. Meanwhile, a dry run was also conducted at both the centres on Friday. On January 8, the dry run was carried out at nine centres of the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Olympic association, Tata Steel to join hands to groom Olympics probables||Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA) is keen to work in tandem with Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur to prepare athletes for the 2028 and 2032 Olympic Games. Both the parties have also planned to sign Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to give a direction to their initiative. “The talks are in the initial stage, but the Tatas have given positive indications. We are keen to support Tata Steel in channelising the talents and prepare them for big-ticket competitions. It’s a long-term plan, but talks with Tatas have been positive,” a JOA official said on condition of anonymity. Earlier this week, JOA general secretary MK Pathak also spoke to Tata sports officials in this connection. When contacted, Pathak said he held a meeting with Tata Steel sports wing chief Farzan Heerjee and other officials. “The discussion revolved around how to bring talents to the fore. We are keen to help out the Tatas in this direction. I have also suggested to revive the Tata Athletics Academy and set up a boxing cradle. Things are moving in a positive direction,” he said. “The Tata athletics cradle is lying defunct for over a decade now. We will prepare a draft (of the MOU) and send it to Tata Steel sports wing. Officials will study it before seeking approval from the company management. It’s a long process, but things should take a positive shape in future,” Pathak, who is also a treasurer of Athletics Federation of India, said. Pathak said they want to join hands with Tatas keeping in mind the 2028 and 2032 Olympic Games. “Athletics and boxing can bring us medals in the Olympics. I have also suggested Tatas to create facilities for shooters, who can also win medals,” he said. Pathak, who is also the president of Jharkhand Athletics Association, said JOA would provide all necessary support to Tata Steel sports wing. “We can help to bring in foreign coaches by approaching the Indian Olympics Association and AFI. The selection process of athletes would be handled by the Tatas. Being the apex sports body of the state, we want to extend supports so that athletes can be prepared in a structured and professional manner,” Pathak said. He said, “Tatas have all required facilities and infrastructure to prepare athletes for the Olympics. They have a rich history in sports, and JOA is very keen to extend its support. We are expecting positive results as more meetings will be held in this connection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Recoveries outpace fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases for the second consecutive day in Jharkhand on Thursday, bringing the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection closer to 1300, figures compiled by the heath department highlighted. As many as 144 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, while 173 patients suffering from the infection recovered during the same period, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, the district with highest number of Covid cases, accounted for more than half of the cases that surfaced across Jharkhand on the day. The district reported 77 cases against 84 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases here down to 653, the NHM bulletin revealed. Apart from Ranchi, only East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. The number of active cases shot up at 166 on Thursday as the district reported 27 fresh cases against 17 recoveries. Dhanbad reported nine cases, while Bokaro reported six cases on the day. At least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. After Thursday's test results, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum had more than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 12133 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.16 lakh people and tested 50.06 lakh of them, highlights data with the health department. As per government data, as many as 117384 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far in Jharkhand and 97.97 per cent of them have recovered. However, at least 1048 people could not survive the viral infection in the state. No Covid-19 casualties were reported in Jharkhand on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus was 598.36 days in Jharkhand against the national average of 513.91 days, highlights the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP meets health minister on new colleges||Ranchi’s BJP MP Sanjay Seth requested Union health minister and National Medical Council (NMC) chairman to allow admission to the three new medical colleges of Jharkhand that has been kept on hold after chief minister Hemant Soren did so earlier. “I met Union health minister Harshvardhanji yesterday (Wednesday) and NMC chairman Dr Sharma today,” Seth informed The Telegraph over the phone from New Delhi on Thursday, adding he had requested both of them to reconsider their decision of stopping admission process in those colleges and allow it to go on now. “I also request the state government to remove the shortcomings so that the bottleneck is removed at the earliest,” the MP further said. “I appeal the new batch (of students) be allowed to take admission and time be given to the local authorities to rectify the shortcomings in a time bound and monitored manner,” Seth said in a letter he handed over personally to the health minister. “.... in this competitive world any such last minute deprivation of large number of seats came as a jolt to students and (their) parents,” he further said in the letter, requesting reconsideration as “lot of government decisions in all sectors have been relaxed because of the mammoth task of managing the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic”. Those three colleges were set up under a Centrally sponsored scheme at Daltonjanj, Hazaribagh and Dumka and the first batch of students were admitted in 2019. But the NMC stopped the admission process of 300 students, 100 in each of those three, in 2020, citing lack of faculty and infrastructure. Following this, chief minister Soren had written to NMC chairman in November 2020 and also to the Union health minister the next month, requesting them to reconsider the decision and allow admission process. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms. However, certain finishing work in building infrastructure and installation of equipment and furniture etc could not be completed due to the lockdown imposed in March (2020),” Soren had informed the NMC chairman and assured those would be done shortly. The vacant position of staff and faculty was also being addressed, he had further assured, adding they were also in the process of making certain amendments in the recruitment policy so that vacant positions of senior faculty could also be filled up. But the efforts of the chief minister did not yield any positive results. The Ranchi branch of Indian Medical Association then decided to request the MPs elected from the state to take up the issue with the Union government so that the deserving students were not deprived. Accordingly, they approached Ranchi MP Seth and the latter met both the Union health minister and NMC chairman and requested them personally to reconsider the NMC decision of holding back the admission process in those three colleges. “We all are for admission of those students but they will actually be benefitted only if the basic infrastructure is improved,” said a faculty member at one of those colleges, adding the state government must appoint adequate faculty members and complete infrastructure without further delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Prime suspect held for girl's murder at Ormanhji ||Ranchi police on Thursday arrested the main accused in the murder of a woman whose body with head severed was recovered from a forest at Ormanjhi on the outskirts of the Jharkhand capital on January 3. A police team arrested history-sheeter Sheikh Bilal early on Thursday morning from a friend’s house at Pancha village under Ormanjhi police station where he was hiding. Ranchi rural superintendent of police Naushad Alam Ansari confirmed the arrest. “We have arrested Sheikh Bilal, who has been to jail for cases of murder, under the Arms Act and other such cases in the past. We are questioning him at the moment. We are also trying to apprehend other accomplices involved in the crime as it is not possible for a single man to commit the crime in the manner in which it was done,” said Ansari, who led the police team which arrested Bilal. A source said that the accused was keeping a tab on the activities of the police through newspaper and TV. “We found several vernacular newspapers at the house where he was hiding since the day of the crime. There was also a TV in his room. He had cleverly switched off his mobile soon after committing the crime to ensure he could not be traced. However, we got a tip-off and searched the house early in the morning,” the source added. On January 12, the police finally managed to recover the woman’s head from the field of Bilal. “The head was kept in a mound of salt so that it does not emit foul smell and get decomposed soon. It was identified by the parents of the woman as that of Shufia Perveen, first wife of the prime suspect Sheikh Bilal. There had been frequent quarrels between the two of late,” added Ansari. Protests had broken out in the state following the “gruesome” incident. The BJP had termed the incident as “more gruesome than the Nirbhaya case” and claimed the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand had “failed miserably” to provide protection to women in the state. During one such protest at Kishoreganj Chowk in Ranchi on January 4 evening, the convoy of chief minister Soren was attacked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
