16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau conducts successful vaccination drive on Day One||With India kicking off its Covid-19 vaccination programme across the country, slow server at the community health centre in Palamau’s Chainpur caused some minor hiccups in its smooth execution. Due to a technical glitch the server behaved erratically, thereby making the matching of beneficiaries’ names and identity proofs take over five minutes each. Civil Surgeon Palamau, John F. Kennedy said the medical-in-charge of the community health centre Chainpur had informed him it about the issue, but he maintained that the glitch didn’t halt the vaccination drive there. It took more than five minutes to match the initials of each beneficiary, sources said. Back at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj, it was 52-year-old, fourth grade staff, Nageshwar Dubey, who took the first shot. “I am all fit and fine,” Dubey said after coming out of the vaccination room sporting a big smile. Palamu has been administered 4,160 doses in the first phase of the programme for a total of 711 health workers and officers in Daltonganj. District Reproductive Child Health Officer Anil Kr Singh said the consignment is worth two shots of Covishield vaccines for 1,800 people. Singh said those who got vaccinated in the first phase will have to come to the same session site after 28 days of being administered the first shot to get the second shot. He said no vaccinated beneficiary can change the session site. A sense of relief and joy was common among all beneficiaries who received the jabs. No nervousness or anxiety was detected. Immediately after being vaccinated, the health workers rushed to their duties like any other day. DC Palamau Shahi Ranjan appreciated the arrangements made for the vaccination at Daltonganj and Chainpur community health centre, where green carpets were rolled out for the beneficiaries. “I wish I should have taken the shot but today it was just for the health workers and officers,” said Ranjan, who supervised the vaccination drive for over 30 minutes at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ashish Kothari addresses XLRI  Verghese Kurien lecture||Eminent environmental activist Ashish Kothari on Saturday spoke on the importance of being respectful towards nature and recognising that other species and earth as a whole also have inherent rights not just because they are useful for human beings. Speaking at an online oration organised by the Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and Sustainability (FACES) of XLRI, Kothari said, “The principles of Swaraj have never been fully realised. Yet, they continue to resonate through Indian civic culture to this day in the country's grassroots environmental movement. Recognising that living harmoniously with nature is central to Swaraj. Eco-Swaraj is not a movement in itself, but it describes patterns. Juxtaposing Eco-Swaraj with Covid-19 alongwith other ongoing global crises such as climate, biodiversity, and inequality will provide us an opportunity to rethink what development should really mean.” The programme was organised in memory of Verghese Kurien, the founder of Amul, popularly known as the Milkman of India. Kothari was speaking on the topic ‘Eco-Swaraj: Recovery towards Justice and Sustainability’. In his address XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said, “Verghese Kurien was an ingenious thinker, a revolutionary, and a social entrepreneur who ideated the world's biggest agricultural development program. His remarkable life and achievements are an embodiment of his faith in the common man’s ability to exercise control over his destiny. His life and work exemplify the model for a responsible management leader, combining business skills with the larger good of the society and nation-building.” The annual oration aims to provide a platform to listen to and learn from thought leaders, social entrepreneurs, development sector professionals and policymakers who have made a significant contribution to the idea of an empowered, prosperous, and sustainable society. Prof. Raghuram Tata, convenor of the Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and  Sustainability (FACES) also delivered an address during the event. “FACES at XLRI was established with the mission to promote practices, policies, and dialogue that have an impact on holistic and sustainable development of society and enterprises. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration on Sustainable Development is our humble initiative to pay tribute to the great visionary,” he said. Welcoming Kothari, the B-school director said, “His vast work on environmental issues like the environment interface, biodiversity policy, and alternatives would help our students understand the current global environmental issues and inspire them to work for the greater good.” Ashish Kothari is an Indian environmentalist working on environmental and development issues. He is one of the founders of Kalpavriksh, an Indian environmental NGO. He has been associated with peoples’ movements like Narmada Bachao Andolan and Beej Bachao Andolan. Kothari has also been a teacher of the environment at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi. He has also been a guest faculty at several universities and institutes and Mellon Fellow at Bowdoin College, USA. Kothari has also worked as members of quite a few Government of India committees, including Environmental Appraisal Committee on River Valley Projects of the ministry of environment and forests, the committee to Assess Implementation of the Forest Rights Act, and committees to draft design the National Wildlife Action Plan and India's Biological Diversity Act. He coordinated the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan process in India commissioned by the Government of India. Kothari is currently coordinating the Vikalp Sangam (Alternatives Confluence) a process that provides a forum for organisations and individuals working on development alternatives across India to come together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One, 3,200 get first shot of Covishield in state||Around 3,200 of the 4,800 health and sanitation workers registered for Covishield shots on Day 1 of the vaccination programme in Jharkhand turned up at various centres across the state on Saturday and were administered 0.5ml injections – the first of the two shots required for developing optimal levels of antibodies against the coronavirus over a period of 42 days. “More than 3,200 were administered vaccine shots in Jharkhand today (Saturday). All the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines were strictly followed at all vaccination centres,” state health minister Banna Gupta said during a meeting over video conferencing with officials from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare soon after vaccination for Day 1 concluded. A senior official from the National Health Mission (NHM) said the response to the vaccination programme was positive in Jharkhand despite rumours over social media over possible side effects. Chief Minister Hemant Soren inaugurated the vaccination programme at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and hoped that the vaccine proves to be a boon for the people of the country. “I personally saw the first shot being administered to a sanitation worker here. It is important to keep the beneficiary under observation for at least 30 minutes after the vaccine shot is administered,” said Hemant, adding that all necessary arrangements were made at vaccination centres of the state for safe immunization. The vaccination programme began at around 11.30 am, but shots will be administered at the various centres 10am onwards from Sunday, health officials said. The vaccine shots, officials said, will be administered from 10am to 5pm at all the centres. Mariam Guriya of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi was the first sanitation worker to get the Covishield shot in the city on Saturday. The second shot was administered to Dr Vijay Mishra, a senior doctor working at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi. Dr Mishra said that he was not feeling any immediate side effects of the vaccination and encouraged people to take the shots without any sense of apprehension. “I was under observation for about 30 minutes after the shot, and my blood pressure, pulse and heart rate were monitored. The vaccine is safe and people must not reject it as all rumours have been put to rest,” said the doctor, who treated State Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto at Medica Hospital before he was sent to Chennai. The vaccination programme was run at 48 centres across Jharkhand on the day, and about 100 beneficiaries were registered to get the shots at each centre, the government had stated earlier. However, the list of beneficiaries at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi carried only 72 names on Saturday. Health Minister Gupta also requested the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to grant permission to the state for setting up 139 vaccination booths across Jharkhand. He urged the ministry officials to include journalists and frontline workers in the list of beneficiaries for the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Private schools announce dates for nursery and KG admissions||Around 60 private schools affiliated with CBSE and CISCE boards in Jamshedpur declared admission dates for nursery and KG students on Saturday. Almost all the schools have declared their entry-level admission results through online and offline modes for the convenience of parents. Since a few years, private schools, under the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act, have been organising lotteries to randomly select students to fill up the entry-level seats instead of interviewing them. As per the RTE Act, 25% of the total nursery or KG seats are reserved for the downtrodden, SC, or ST. While the schools conduct lotteries for the rest. “Most of the schools have online and offline modes of declaring admission results. The admission formalities will be done next week between January 18 and 22,” said Swarna Mishra, principal of Dayanand Public School in Sakchi. Loyola School, Sacred Heart Convent School, Carmel Junior College and DAV Public School have uploaded their results on their respective websites, while the other schools have also put up a list on their notice boards for the convenience of parents. The schools have decided to hold their annual examinations from February 8. They are now waiting for the state government’s directive to begin the new session. However, the online classes will begin from March 21 if they do not get any instruction from the government. “My daughter has been selected by two schools. Online learning cannot replace the school classroom. I hope the students will be able to visit schools this year, meet with friends, and get special attention of teachers,” said Simran Singh, a happy parent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Medica director, Sadar hospital worker get first jabs in Ranchi||When Mariam Guriya, a cleanliness worker at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital, walked out of the vaccination centre about an hour after becoming the first recipient of Covishield in the state on Saturday, all she had to say was: “It felt like a small pinch in my arm. Nothing unusual.” The 30-year-old frontline worker said she was proud to be among the first people to get the vaccine and appealed to others to not refrain from doing so. “Since the outbreak of the virus, the pandemic threatened human existence, but now we can fight the deadly disease. I appeal to others to also take the vaccine as it is like any other normal vaccine dose,” she said. Guriya said she remained in the observation room for half an hour but did not feel anything unusual. “I did not feel any sense of dizziness, nausea or any other abnormality at all. I am good to go on my day’s job,” she said flashing a victory sign. At 11.30 am, an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination programme in the country, chief minister Hemant Soren kicked off the state campaign from Sadar hospital and stayed in the vaccination room to oversee the administration of Covishield among the first few beneficiaries. Dr Vijay Mishra, critical care head and director of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspeciality Hospital, who was vaccinated after Mariam, said he chose to volunteer for the dose in the first phase to build confidence among others. “Being a doctor and the director of a hospital I thought it is my job to also be the first to take the vaccine so that others can get motivated. I am here to allay fears about the vaccine among a few people. I felt totally safe,” he said. The vaccination centre set up at the Sadar hospital wore a festive look with balloons put up all round. There was a sense of joy among beneficiaries and the health department staff ahead of the launch of vaccine. As the chief minister arrived at around 10.30am, tribal artists welcomed him by playing the mandar and traditional drums. After launching the drive, Hemant said he hoped the vaccine turned out to be a boon for its people. “Today, we are at a decisive stage in our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last one year, the entire world has been through many phases of trauma, despair and hope. From here, we hope that we shall be able to overcome the virus,” he said, adding that even after taking the vaccine, people must continue with the prescribed precautionary steps to prevent any infection. On Day One, the vaccination drive was rolled out at 48 centres across all 24 districts with a target of covering 4,800 people at the rate of 100 people per centre. A total of 1,62,000 Covishield doses have been allocated to Jharkhand in the first phase. Hemant said that focus should be on the quality of administration rather than covering the maximum number of people at one go. “Yes, we are starting off with a small number of centres but we must remember that the key should be on safe vaccination. We will gradually increase centres to cover more people. If you recall, when Covid-19 broke in March last year, we didn’t have any testing centre. Today, facilities exist in every block and our testing ratio is among the top three states in the country. Similarly, we shall catch up with vaccination too,” he said. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said all members his department and other stakeholders had to first work day and night to curb the spread of the virus, and later ran against time to prepare for the vaccination programme. “We held a series of workshops, training sessions and counselling sessions in the run-up to the vaccine drive. A couple of successful dry runs also helped build confidence,” he reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela archery secretary finds place in Khelo India programme||Searikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA) secretary SC Mohanty on Saturday has been nominated as a member of  Talent Identification Zonal Committee for East Zone (archery) for the Khelo India identification programme. The programme was organised under the initiative of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Mohanty, who lives in the erstwhile princely state of Kharsawan, has identified and promoted several talents in the district. He actively oversees the functioning of an archery cradle in Kharsawan which is patronised by Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda. According to Mohanty, his role includes identification of grassroots talent by using an appropriate method in non-competitive events, to update the database and create a ranking of athletes and many other responsibilities. The states covered under the East Zone include Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. He said it is a new responsibility for him and he is confident enough to do a good job. “I have been active in spotting talents in the Seraikela hinterland and would like to use my experience in other earmarked states which come under the Khelo India programme,” he added. Mohanty also visits the government-run archery cradle in Dugni (near Seraikela) to encourage talents. An experienced archery administrator, Mohanty, who is also the joint secretary of Archery Association of India, said he was also looking forward to working in other states. “The opportunity would add to my experience in spotting talents and bringing them into a structured training apparatus. It’s a very good initiative on part of Khelo India,” he added. Archery Association of India and state archery outfit’s president Arjun Munda, SKDAA chief Meera Munda, Jharkhand Archery Association secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahato, archery Olympian and Dronacharya award winner Sanjeev Singh, as well as other coaches, have congratulated Mohanty for his nomination as a member of talent identification programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Railways alert passengers about fraudulent agents||South Eastern Railway has issued an alert about unscrupulous ticket agents operating in its zones, citing the instance of some passengers who discovered their tickets had been cancelled without their knowledge after boarding their train. On Saturday, Garden Reach, the SER's Calcutta-based headquarters, revealed the plight of a group of 10 passengers travelling between Howrah and Barbil in the first week of this month. They were travelling in the second class chair car of Howrah–Barbil Janshatabdi Special (Dn). They were told their tickets had been cancelled. Hey had to pay a fine as per provisions of Railway Act to avoid legal action though they were carrying tickets for the journey. On enquiry, it was found that their ticket was cancelled by the agent who had booked the ticket. The passengers didn’t get to know as the agent used his mobile number to book the tickets instead of the passengers. Each second class chair car ticket between the two destinations cost Rs 190. On cancellation 50 per cent refund is given by the railways. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said: "Of late, a couple of such cases of unscrupulous agents have come to our notice. They cheated passengers taking advantage of missing mobile numbers. The group in question booked tickets from an unknown self-claimed agent in their locality without providing their mobile numbers.” Ghosh added that it was this incident that prompted them to issue an alert to passengers. He asked passengers to furnish their own mobile number while booking tickets either through a railway counter or online. "If passengers’ mobile numbers are not furnished, railways will not be able to communicate with passengers in the event of any changes in schedule timings, route of the train and others. Information will only be sent to the mobile number which is given at the time of booking," he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||MGM principal, sweeper get first jabs in Steel city  ||B.K. Barla was the first doctor and sweeper Alice Biswas Banra the first health worker to get a shot of Covishield in Jamshedpur on Saturday at their place of work, the MGM Medical College at Dimna. In all, 49 doctors and 51 other health workers, including nurses, para-medics and sweepers, were administered the vaccine and allowed to disperse from an observation room where they had to wait for about 30 minutes after receiving their jabs. "I was waiting for a Covid-19 vaccine and finally I got it today. I am absolutely OK, feeling fine,” said Alice (50), a mother of two, who got the job at MGM on compensatory grounds after her husband died in 2007. Principal Barla was upbeat, saying no one should have any misgivings about the vaccine. "I was always optimistic about Covishield and none in the medical fraternity has any suspicion or fear about it," he told The Telegraph Online an hour after he received his shot. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha, who was monitoring the vaccination drive at both MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, said 70 people were vaccinated at MGM and 50 people at TMH by 4pm. He expressed the hope that by 7pm, all 200 registered beneficiaries would have got their jabs. "Those vaccinated on Saturday will have to be vaccinated after 28 days.  Immunity against the Covid-19 will kick in two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine is administered," said Jha. The civil surgeon pointed out that half of the 8,000-plus vials of Covishield had been kept in reserve for use after 28 days. This way, only 4,000 vials would be used in the first phase of vaccination. "As of now the vaccination drive will continue at MG and TMH till fresh stocks reach the district. Vaccination will be conducted four days a week, starting from Monday and 200 health workers -- 100 at MGM and 100 at TMH -- will be vaccinated each day from now on," he said. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar also monitored Saturday’s exercise closely at MGM. He interacted with the health workers as well as doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren launches vaccination drive across 48 centres||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Delhi-bound farmers to halt at Ranchi for the night||Around 1000 farmers from different neighbouring states of Jharkhand heading to Delhi to take part in tractor rally on January 26 will camp for a night in Ranchi on January 16 en route to their destination. Capital’s Sikh community and the state unit of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has prepared elaborate groundworks to host them in the city by providing food and other logistic support in their fight against the three new farm laws implemented by the union government. Jharkhand State Kisan Sabha (JSKS), an affiliate of AIKS said that farmers in transit will make a night halt in Ranchi’s Kamre area on January 16. Dayamani Barla, one of the officials of the outfit informed, “Farmers bound to Delhi will be staying in Guru Gobind Singh Public School in Kamre along Ring Road in Ratu on January 16 night. Ranchi’s gurudwara Samiti has been kind enough to take care of their lodging and langars (fooding) to all the visiting farmers. On January 17, the farmers will be meeting state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and others in Morabadi before heading forward.” Barla added that the farmers from Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand are heading to Delhi for the mega rally on Republic Day called by national farm bodies against the new farm laws. For close to two months now, hundreds of farmers continue to protest along Delhi borders against the new laws. “Farmers from across 26 different states are heading to Delhi for the mega rally. From Bhubneshwar, the delegation of farmers will begin their journey via road and rail on January 15. Similarly, farmers from other neighbouring states too will be heading to Delhi. Many will be crossing via road from Jharkhand for whom we are making necessary arrangements as part of our efforts to help them,” she said, adding that the new farm laws are anti-farmers and should be repealed. Early this week, the Supreme Court stayed implementation of the farm laws by announcing to form a committee to evaluate it amid the unending protests along Delhi borders in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. JMM and Congress, ruling alliance partners in Jharkhand had welcomed the move but demanded that the protests be continued till the laws are completely rolled back. Again on Friday i.e. January 15, state Congress is holding a slew of protests across the state in favour of scrapping of the new legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand falls as 96 test positive for the virus||As many as 96 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Friday, one of the lowest single-digit-spike reported in the state this month, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. Friday's findings also caused a drop in the number of active cases as at least 133 Covid patients recovered in 24 hours, bringing the total number of patients in the state down to 1289, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While nine of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection, as many as 33 people were found infected in Ranchi, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. At least 55 Covid recoveries in Ranchi on the day brought the count of active cases here to 631, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 17 cases against 18 recoveries and Dhanbad reported seven cases against 13 recoveries. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Palamu, all the remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh cases on the day. Besides reporting the highest number of fresh cases on the day in Jharkhand, Ranchi also reported a Covid-19 casualty, taking the Covid toll in the district up at 224 and that in Jharkhand up at 1049, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin on Friday night. The government tested swab samples of 14431 people on the day and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 50.35 lakh people and tested 50.22 lakh of them, reveals government data. As per figures with the health department, as many as 117480 people have been found infected by the virus so far in the state and 115142 of them have recovered, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate of 98 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate was over 700 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of over 500 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress observes Kisan Divas ||The state unit of the Congress observed Kisan Adhikar Divas in Ranchi on Friday to express its solidarity with the farmers who had been agitating for withdrawal of the three new farm laws. Over 5,000 party workers from across the state gathered at Morabadi grounds where they held a meeting before marching towards Raj Bhavan, about 2 km away. Before the meeting began, they also observed two minutes silence in memory of those farmers who died during their agitation. “The Union government must take back these three farm laws as those will break the backbone of the farmers,” R.P.N. Singh, in-charge of the party’s state unit, said while addressing the meeting, adding the Congress took pro-farmers stand whenever it was in power at the Centre. “The UPA government had waived farmers’ loans worth Rs 70,000 crore,” he claimed, adding it also increased the minimum support prices of their crops from time to time. “Repealing the farm laws is the only solution for the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” opined Jharkhand finance minister and state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, explaining that the agitating farmers had become uncertain about the outcome of the Supreme Court appointed four-member committee and did not know what would happen next if the committee supported the farm laws. “The central government must withdraw those laws as so many rounds of talks during the past 51 days of the farmers’ agitation were not fruitful,” said Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam who also addressed the meeting. “In contrast, the ruling JMM-Congress- RJD combine in Jharkhand has already shown its pro-farmers attitude as it waived farmers’ loans worth Rs 2,000 crore in the very first year,” said state agriculture minister Badal Patrakekh, adding people could judge political parties by their actions. “This was for the first time in 73 years since the country won Independence that the farmers resorted to such an agitation to express their anger over an action taken by the central government,” said health minister Banna Gupta, adding the country would not tolerate such things. The meeting was also attended by Congress MLAs such as Pradeep Yadav, Bandhu Tirkey, Deepika Pandey Singh, Purnima Neeraj Singh, Rajesh Kachchap, Irfan Ansari and Naman Vixel Kongari, besides former chief minister Madhu Koda and his wife Geeta Koda who is also an MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
