17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Armed Maoists kill young man in Chatra||The jam-packed weekly bazaar of Piri village became a witness to the killing of a youth on Sunday evening when armed Maoists shot a youth from point blank range after branding him a police informer. The incident took place around 5PM in the evening, a time frame when the weekly haath witnesses the maximum footfall. The slain youth has been identified as Parmeshwar Sahu. According to eyewitnesses around five to six men in black uniform entered the market along NH-100 in Piri and shot Parmeshwar from point blank range and escaped in the neigbouring forest area. According them, a few maoist squads were seen in the market area giving cover to their members who killed the youth. Before escaping, the rebels chanted a couple of Maoist slogan – “Mukhbir hosh mei aao, police murdabad and Maowadi zindabad”. The sudden firing in the market area created chaos, with those present running helter skelter. As the news of the killing spread, jawans from Sheela picket reached the spot. The victim’s family also rushed to the market but only to find him lying dead in a pool of blood. Parmeshwar was shot on his head from point blank range. His murder has drilled a sense of fear among the villagers of his hamlet. A villager on condition of anonymity said, “Parmeshwar owned a tractor and also ran a brick klin.” According to the villagers Maoist commander Deeak Yadav alias Karu Yadav is behind the murder. However, the police officers maintained the youth wasn’t a police informer and that they had initiated an inquiry to nab the culprits at the earliest. Within a short span of time, this is the fourth killing in Chatra by Maoists amid police claiming of regular police operations against the outfit. On Oct.19, one Nageshwari Devi was gunned down in Lalkimati village which falls under Pathalgadda police station. This was followed by a second killing, in which a youth Nageshwar Yadav was killed on the border of Hazaribagh and Chatra on Oct.20. Third killing was that of a coal trader Mukesh Giri in Tapsa village of Simaria when he was arghya with his family during Chhath festival on Nov.21. Chatra police tastes success Despite the Naxalites troubling Chatra police on a regular basis, the law enforcement officers were successful in busting a gang which had been terrorising people on name of extremist groups. According to the police this very gang was behind the gutting of five vehicles in Tetariakhad colliery, which falls under Balumath police station of Latehar district on December18. They had also injured four individuals. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha confirmed this arrest and said that they had recovered three country made pistol from them apart from live bullets, 7-mobile phones, one bike and cash worth Rs.11,150. The four individuals arrested are residents of Bali village, which falls under Tandwa block of the district. Jha said, “All were demanding levy in areas of Tandwa and neighbouring Latehar and had been nabbed from their village only.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police, traders to form coordination committee to check crime||With an aim to check criminal activities, the police administration organised a meeting with traders at district police office on Sunday where they have decided to form a coordination committee at each of 56 police stations. The meeting was organised after the traders have complained of receiving extortion calls for the last 45 days. During the two-hour meeting under the chairmanship of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, senior police officers and traders including city SP R Ramkumar, DSP (headquarters) Sarita Murmu, office bearers of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI), patron Rajesh Gupta, president Chetan Goenka,  vice president Ajay Narayan Lal and treasurer Shyam Narayan Gupta discussed several issues like strengthening police bike patrolling (also known tiger mobile) in market areas. Speaking to The Telegraph Online,  FDZCCI patron Rajesh Gupta said, “The meeting was held in quite a cordial atmosphere. The SSP informed us about the recent arrest of five criminals in connection with the extortion calls.” “The SSP also asked us to inform the police immediately if we further receive any such calls,” said Gupta. “We have also demanded bike patrolling in different localities,” said Gupta, adding that they requested the SSP to ensure bike patrolling in the residential and commercial areas to prevent crime. “We have requested to deploy police personnel at market places where several incidents of theft and snatching are reported,” said FDZCCI president Chetan Goenka. He said they drew police attention towards a series of burglaries which took place in eight shops of Hirapur on January 3. Similar incidents also took place at Bhuli on January 4. “It is a serious issue. The small-time traders, who keep less than Rs 50,000 in their shops, are mainly targeted. We have requested the SSP to do the needful,” vice president of FDZCCI Ajay Naryan Lal said. According to information, a series of extortion calls were made to different traders, private coal company executives and politicians in the last 45 days. The calls were made in name of Sujit Sinha and Aman Singh’s gang. The police have also arrested five people on January 15 in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand witnesses drop in night temperature||The winter chill has intensified in Jharkhand with several of its districts including Bokaro, Dumka, Pakur, and neighbouring West Singhbhum on Sunday recording the season’s lowest minimum temperature reading, with the strong north-westerly winds making a comeback. Sunday’s meteorological department data has suggested that almost all 24 districts witnessed sub-10 chill, with moderate cold wave gripping several isolated pockets. Bokaro recorded the season’s lowest minimum reading on Sunday with the mercury plummeting six notches below the normal temperature to 6.2 °C. Several other districts in central Jharkhand including Ramgarh recorded similar temperature readings on Sunday, thereby, making it the coldest day of the season. Dumka and Pakur also experienced the coldest day on Sunday with the local IMD observatories in both places recording around 8 °C. Meanwhile, Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum too recorded its lowest night reading with the mercury dropping to 8.8 °C on Sunday. While Jamshedpur witnessed a two-degree fall in minimum reading during the last 24 hours, the local IMD observatory in steel city on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 °C. In Ranchi, the temperature fell to 7.4°C, which was three points below the average normal, while Kanke, located in the outskirts of the state capital experienced a bone-numbing cold at 6.6°C. Daltonganj and several other districts in north-western Jharkhand on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature reading of 7.5 °C. “The dominating north-westerly wind is causing the night temperature to plummet. A sub-10 chill was prevailing in all the districts of Jharkhand,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. However, he maintained that there wouldn’t be much fluctuation in the minimum temperature reading in the next 48 hours. With the dip in temperature, the early morning fog was also witnessed at several places across Jharkhand on Sunday, including Jamshedpur. Both IMD Ranchi and Patna Meteorological Centre have issued an alert on Sunday, regarding several districts experiencing shallow to moderate fog and mist in the morning for the next two days. According to their forecast, dry weather conditions will prevail over Jharkhand for the next five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens demand for OPD facility in Sindri||The closure of the Sindri Fertilizer factory in 2002 eventually resulted in the closure of the 200-bedded FCI hospital. The absence of any healthcare facility has forced the senior citizens of the are put forth a demand for an outpatient department (OPD) facility, at the additional primary health centre (PHC) which has been lying almost defunct due to lack of regular staff and other infrastructural facilities. Raising the issue with The Telegraph Online, former public relation officer of FCI Sindri, Sindri Sewa Singh (73) said “The entire population of over 50000 of the Sindri township is facing problems but the worst affected are the senior citizens, as they are unable to traverse 30 kilometers to Dhanbad for a checkup or simply to consult a General Physicians.” Singh is the president of All India FCI VSS Employees Association and has been quite vocal in raising issues of the general public. “The suspension of Dhanbad Sindri town passenger train ever since the lockdown has aggravated the problem for us. We can’t sustain the arduous journey in auto rickshaw. The bumpy ride is not only uncomfortable but also expensive,” said Singh. “We have heard about Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh instructing a committee led by the in-charge of Jharia Community Health Centre to start an OPD facility at Sindri. An additional model PHC was also to be developed, there had been a discussion on the same during a meeting held at the district collectorate, a month back. But nothing constructive has happened till now. The additional PHC is still deprived of any regular doctor and also lacks an OPD facility” said a former employee of Sindri Fertilizer factory, DN Sindri who is also the vice president of All India FCI VSS employees association. “A delegation of former employees under banner of All India FCI VSS employees association will also meet Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on January 20 during which we will request him to take immediate steps to launch the 24X7 OPD facility in the hospital as both Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited and ACC Sindri are ready to extend their support for the infrastructure development of the Sindri Additional PHC” said Singh. “Ours was one of the best medical facilities available in the entire district when the 200 bedded FCI hospital was operational till 2002. But the situation is gradually deteriorating after the closure of the factory and hospital. The situation is such that we are now entirely dependent on the hospitals of Dhanbad,” said Singh. Uma Shankar Singh (69) another former employee of FCI Sindri, maintained that they would be demanding for the restoration of the Sindri Dhanbad passenger train. He said, “We will also raise the demand for the restoration of Sindri Dhanbad passenger train during our meeting with the DC on January 20. We have already met additional divisional railway manager, Ashish Kumar Jha of Dhanbad on December 16 regarding the same. He had also assured to forward our demand to the Railway Board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Blue beat Red by 56 runs in Dhanbad T20||Dhanbad Cricket Association (DCA) on Sunday organised women’s T20 Challenger Trophy at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Stadium where the first match was played between Dhanbad Blue and Dhanbad Red teams. In the opening match, Dhanbad Blue defeated Dhanbad Red by 56 runs. Durga Kumari of the blue team scored a century with two sixes and 15 boundaries. On other hand, Ruma Kumar of Dhanbad Red also displayed her batting skills by hitting 13 boundaries. Urmila Kumari of Dhanbad Blue was the most successful bowler who picked two wickets in four overs by giving just 16 runs, while Apurva Kumari from the same team also got two wickets in four overs by giving 27 runs. Batting first, Dhanbad Blue scored 169 in 20 overs by losing two wickets. Priya Kumari of Dhanbad Blue, who scored 23 runs with four boundaries, also showed some good batting skills. Sunita Murmu of Dhanbad Red took one wicket, while Pushpa Kumari Mahto from the same team lost her wicket in 23 runs. Chasing the target, Dhanbad Red scored 113 runs by losing seven wickets. As a chief guest, chairman and managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) Gopal Singh inaugurated the tournament and assured that the BCCL will extend all necessary support for the talented players in rural areas. DCA president Manoj Kumar has informed Singh that Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium is in a bad shape and it needs renovation. In reply, Singh has assured Kumar and other DCA officials that the stadium will be renovated as soon as possible. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Durga Kumari, daughter of daily wager Lukku Murmu, who was awarded Man of the Match trophy, said: “We are excited as we got an opportunity to play after 10 months.” Ruma Kumari, daughter of an autorickshaw driver, who scored 72 runs for the Dhanbad Red, said: “It was a great experience. We all have enjoyed the match.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||At MGM hospital, one dose of vaccine was left over||The two vaccination centres of the steel city recorded a turnout of 160 recipients of Covishield on Saturday, but health department sources admitted to one anomaly on Sunday: one dose of the vaccine was left unused in a vial at MGM Medical College. "Yes, one dose was left unused in a vial even though 10 recipients were administered vaccines,” said East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar who was supervising matters on the day. “I have asked the concerned health department official to keep the remnants of the vaccine in the freezer," he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Each vial contains 10ml of the vaccine making up for 10 doses of .5ml. Deputy commissioner Kumar could not offer a definite explanation on how a dose could be left unused. But and district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said that vials often contain additional fluid to make up for wastage during the administration of the vaccine. "There is always some additional fluid in a vial.  Certain amount of fluid is wasted in preparing the syringe and removing air bubbles from it. Vaccine makers often keep additional fluid,” Pal said. Captain (Dr) N.N. Jha, a paediatrician who had worked at Tata Main Hospital, agreed that vaccine makers tend to keep additional fluid in a vial as there was always a chance of wastage. "But, even if no loss of fluid takes place during the preparation of syringes, the leftover amount of fluid in the vial should not be equal to a dose of 0.5 ml. Maybe 0.2 ml or a little more leftover is acceptable. But if it’s more, there is a chance that others may have received less than the prescribed dose,” Jha said. Health workers who were present at MGM agreed the matter should be looked into. "How could this happen?  We should look into the matter seriously," said a senior doctor in the health department. As for the number of vaccine recipients, neither of the two centres, MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, met the target of vaccinating 100 people at each centre. While 90 people were administered Covishield at MGM, the number of recipients at Tata Main was 70. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that those who could not be administered the vaccine on Saturday due to the time crunch would be given the vaccine at the same venues on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Residential schools of the state set to reopen Monday||Close to 300 residential schools in Jharkhand will reopen for higher classes from Monday after being shut for the last 10 months because of the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While day boarding schools were allowed to hold on-campus lessons for classes 10 and 12 for from the third week of December last year in view of the upcoming board examinations, residential schools like Kasturba vidyalayas and the one in Netarhat continued to remain close as a precautionary measure. But state school education and literacy department secretary Rahul Sharma said that the government had allowed residential schools to reopen from Monday amid strict adherence to Covid safety parameters. On January 12, he had issued a letter to all districts detailing dos and don’ts so that classes could begin from Monday. According to the letter, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Online, all residential schools would allow students of class 10 and 12 with consent letters from parents. Along with offline classes, online mode of teaching would also continue uninterrupted for those who did not wish to attend school. Teachers of such schools were directed to report three days in advance, while schools were asked to sanitise classrooms and hostel premises. On campus, everyone was asked to wear masks and observe social distancing norms. All schools have been asked to conducted regular health check-ups of students either through an in-house doctor/health team or by tying up with the nearest health centre. “Thermal scanning will be a must before allowing anyone to enter the school premises,” the order said. To ensure safe distancing within the hostels, school management are directed to use only up to 50 per cent capacity of any room to lodge students and entry of symptomatic people will be banned. Schools are also mandated to arrange to isolate students/staff members in case of illness. Also, schools were asked to put up posters and distribute pamphlets within the premises to sensitise students about the pandemic and various safety measures. An official of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidhyalaya in Khunti said they were ready, but the number of students ready to return to campus was not encouraging. “There are over 200 students in higher classes. But barely 10 per cent have so far expressed willingness to come. Hopefully, things will improve gradually,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand reports 119 new cases of Covid-19||At least 10 out of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report any fresh cases of Covid-19, while the state recorded 119 new infections on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department revealed. Recoveries outnumbered cases in most of the districts on the day, bringing the number of active cases down at 1,249, while Ranchi remained the worst-affected district, accounting for 65 per cent of the total number of fresh cases. The district also accounted for half of the 158 Covid recoveries on Saturday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi reported as many as 71 cases against 78 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 16 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 10 cases against five recoveries. While the number of patients reduced on the day, East Singhbhum reported a Covid-19 casualty, taking the death toll in Jharkhand up at 1,050, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum accounts for 356 of the total Covid fatalities in the state– the highest among all the districts. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of as many as 13,761 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 50.48 lakh people and tested 50.35 lakh of them. Of the 1,17,599 people infected so far by the virus, at least 1,153,00, around 98 per cent, have recovered. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. At this pace, it would take more than 700 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, revealed government data. The doubling rate in India was 551 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
