18-01-2021||Jharkhand||CSIR director general lays foundation stone of Jharkhand building of Vijnana Bharti||Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s director general Shekhar C Mande, on the second day of his visit to Dhanbad laid the foundation stone of Jharkhand building of Vijnana Bharti at Bhelatand on Monday. The day also marked the signing of various licensing agreements for Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) in presence of Mande including the licensing agreement for commercialization of digital mine using the Internet of Things (IoT) signed with M/s Optimized Solutions Ahmedabad and agreement for use of Gramin eBazar Software with M/s Edgeforce Solutions Pvt Ltd. A memorandum of understanding was also signed in his presence between CIMFR and Department of Geology of Ranchi University. Mande also inaugurated a renovated HRD hostel beside the CIMFR director office at Barwa Road. Mande graced the foundation stone laying function as the chief guest. A host of dignitaries including the national organizational secretary of Vijnana Bharti Jayant Sahasrabudhe, the president of Vijnana Bharti Ashok Singh and Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research director PK Singh were also present. While speaking at the function Mande said, “It is only a beginning with the foundation stone being laid and Vijnana Bharti, Jharkhand will work to establish the relationship between science and society.” “The new building will provide strength to the Vijnana Bharti members who are working selflessly for the society and the common people,” said Mande. Director of CIMFR, Dhanbad PK Singh expressed hope that the new building of Vijnana Bharti would be ready by Vijayadashmi festival. During the day one of Mande’s visit he also inspected four different facilities of CIMFR of Dhanbad including the state-of-the-art coal washing plant of 400-tonne per hour capacity consisting of coal handling plant with different types of crushers working under the principle of compression, shear and attrition. He also inspected a hot stamping facility of CIMFR besides a 1.5 tonne per day capacity Oxy Blown Pressurized Fluidized Bed Gasification pilot plant for conversion of coal to syngas and a coal petrographic and coal characterization study facility at CIMFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host leadership talk with Kiran Bedi on January 21||The PGDM(GM) placement committee at XLRI in its ‘XLRI Talk Series-2021’ is organising a leadership talk session with Kiran Bedi, the lieutenant governor of Puducherry on ‘Creative Leadership - Collaborative Governance’ on Thursday, January 21. The event will be organised on a virtual platform from 6 pm, said a B-school official here on Monday evening. XLRI Talk Series is designed to appreciate and learn from leaders' experiences from all walks of life. The talk series which kicked off in 2017 is an initiative driven by the placement committee of Post Graduate Diploma in Management – PGDM(GM) course to develop different perspectives while addressing challenges in this highly dynamic environment. “The audience would be an eclectic mix of MBA students across various fields viz. IT, manufacturing, banking, marketing, engineering, aviation, shipping, oil & gas, education, etc.," said a member of the placement committee. The placement committee of the B-school is the corporate interface. The members of the placement committee are equipped with a considerable amount of knowledge repository through the interface/research for the potential recruiters. Kiran Bedi is a politician, retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, social activist and former tennis player, who as of May 29, 2016, is the incumbent lieutenant governor of Puducherry. She was the first female IPS officer and started her service in the year 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||‘MLA’ defends cyber criminals in viral video||A video clip purportedly showing BJP MLA Randhir Singh defending cyber criminals in Jamtara and blaming their victims for not being smart enough to deal with phishing calls has gone viral on social media, raising eyebrows within the political fraternity. In the video, which is claimed to have been shot on January 15, a man resembling the Sarath legislator is heard saying that police should not unnecessarily harass the people of his constituency over matters of cyber crime, and instead make the victims of cyber fraud smarter. “Nobody has ever been able to dupe any resident of my constituency. If illiterate people of our region are so smart that they can dupe people of other states then whose fault is it?” the man is shown asking while addressing a gathering. “Why do the literate people of other states provide their personal details to callers over phone? If police harass our people, then I will have no option but to gherao police stations,” he added. However, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo questioned the authenticity of the video and said that demeaning the MLA was not right until the authenticity of the video was established. “The video is not clear, and there is no way to match the audio of the clip with the lip movement of the former minister. In this era of doctored videos and editing techniques, I think the video clip needs to be examined before jumping to conclusions,” he said. Jamtara, which has gained the infamy of being the cyber crime capital of the country, is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several rich and educated people living in metros, say police. Around 200km north of Ranchi, Jamtara is said to be the Indian equivalent of the Romanian town of Râmnicu Vâlcea, dubbed Scamville, which is the global capital for cyber criminals. Last year, Netflix released a web series on the cyber criminals of Jamtara and named it ‘Jamtara – Sabka Number Ayega’. According to police, cyber criminals in Jamtara are most depended on phishing, a procedure in which cyber frauds pose as trustworthy entities from banks and finance companies over phone calls and ask for personal details of their target. The BJP MLA’s remarks come at a time when governments at the Centre and state are running extensive awareness campaigns against cyber crime through various platforms. Sarath, from where Singh is two-time MLA, falls in Deoghar district and shares its borders with Jamtara. In the video, the man resembling the MLA is seen to be joking and saying that there was no harm if money from other states and countries came to Jharkhand through cyber fraud. MLA Randhir Singh did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Monday. An SMS and a WhatsApp text, asking for his comments on the viral video has been sent to Singh. This report will be update once his response is in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Adityapur faces drinking water scarcity much before summer hits||Even though summer is about three months away, the underground water table has considerably depleted at Adityapur township in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, causing a majority of the bore-wells in the area to get defunct. As a result of the bore-wells turning useless due to the exhaustion of the underground water, a serious drinking water crisis has emerged in the tiny township which has a population of over three lakhs. Concerned with the untimely drinking water crisis in Adityapur, a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM) has urged the regional office, Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) Adityapur to provide a minimum of five water tankers under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme in the residential areas of the township. Om Prakash, president, JKM, has in a letter addressed to the secretary of JIADA (Adityapur) to provide water tanks to the households in Adityapur because it is due to the sprawling industrial estate adjoining the residential area that underground water table has depleted, causing the majority of the bore-wells getting defunct. "Large numbers of residential colonies have mushroomed in the recent past in Adityapur, increasing the consumption of resources of underground water through bore-wells. But the bulk of the underground water is being utilised by over 1,500 industrial units.  Hence as these industries have been set up under the command of JIADA (Adityapur), the latter has to bear the responsibility for doing something toward the redressal of the drinking water crisis," said Om Prakash while talking to The Telegraph Online. The JKM president stated that the Adityapur Municipal Corporation has started supplying drinking water through tankers, but given the population's volume in Adityapur, the civic body will not be able to meet the demand of all the households. "The JIADA (Adityapur) must, therefore, arrange at least five water-tankers having a capacity of 12,000 litres and start the drinking water supply in the parched area as early as possible," said the president. Of over 50,000 households in Adityapur, only 8,000 get the facility of tap water whereas the remaining 42,000 households have to depend largely on bore-wells. Though a mega drinking water project is going on, but that project is not likely to be completed before mid-2022. Meanwhile, mayor of Adityapur Municipal Corporation, Vinod Srivastava confirmed about the beginning of drinking water-crisis in Adityapur. "Drinking water crisis has started hitting Adityapur township even before the advent of summer. We are yet to ascertain the reason behind this phenomenon but we have to cope up the situation effectively," said Srivastava while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant govt failed to fulfill people's aspirations: Marandi||Former chief minister Babulal Marandi accused the Hemant Soren-led government of having failed the people of the state on development and law and order . Talking to the media at the house of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh here on Monday during his two-day visit to the district, Marandi said, “Hemant made tall promises to the electorate during the election and also reiterated the same on the floor of the Assembly after the election. But, during the last one year no development work has taken place in the state.” “He blocked the release of payments in all departments for the entire tenure,” charged Marandi and added that though it was a fact that there were constraints and lack of liquidity in the market, he blocked payments in areas where payments could have been made easily. “Majority of the districts are rich in minerals like coal, iron and mica, etc. In such districts the funds of the Mineral Foundation Trust Fund are not being utilized which is affecting the developmental work there,” said Marandi adding that the developmental work has got totally derailed in the state. “The government has miserably failed on the law and order front as well. Incidents like theft, loot, burglary, dacoity, murder, abduction and ransom demand, extortion demand, threat calls have witnessed a sharp increase,” stated Marandi. To prove the deterioration of law in the state, Marandi said citing the example of Ranchi that the situation has returned to the era of undivided Bihar when markets used to be closed before 8 pm due to the fear of crimes. “During the undivided era, the incidents of extortion demand, threat calls and murder, etc. were quite usual in the state capital and almost similar situation of lawlessness has returned in the state during this Hemant Soren government,” claimed Marandi. “The situation is more or less similar in other parts of the state. In Dhanbad, extortion demands are being made by sending videos through social media and threat calls are being made to traders as well as coal company officers, private miners and even people’s representatives like MLAs,” charged Marandi. “In the prevailing situation, people have also lost faith in the police and they are desisting from lodging complaint. FIRs are being lodged in case of several incidents and only being lodged after some political or bureaucratic pressure,” said Marandi. “The maoist influence in the state has also started increasing ever since the Hemant Soren government came into power and some of the maoist leaders who left the state due to police pressure are now returning back,” charged Marnadi and added the situation is such that even the MLA of the ruling party is meeting with Naxal elements without any security. “Worst is the situation of tribal and oppressed people and particularly the tribal women as the incidents of rape, murder, etc. have increased against them,” claimed Marandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor explosion at Tata Steel plant, two hurt||Two employees were hurt after a minor explosion at Tata Steel's Jamshedpur plant here on Monday afternoon. The blast occurred at 12.30 pm during slag pooling operations at the company's hot metal pooling pit near the Slag Road gate. Initial investigations by the company revealed that the blast occurred as hot slag was poured on to moisture on the ground. "There was spattering of fire in the vicinity of the blast which was immediately controlled as per established fire control and safety procedures," said Kulvin Suri, the company spokesperson. Unfortunately, an attending foreman and an employee on contract sustained burn injuries. Necessary first aid was administered to both the employees and they got back to work. "There has been no damage to any operating plant or equipment and normal operations have commenced. The incident will be further investigated to ensure such incidents do not recur," Suri said adding that the company was committed to the safety and security of its steel plant. This was the second mishap that took place inside the company's Jamshedpur plant within four months. A 27-year-old senior manager (operations) Sheeraz Zama Khan, posted at the cold rolling mill (CRM), had died in a mishap that took place inside the plant on September 22, last year. The senior manager was trapped in the galvanising line, probably while attending to a fault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur set to host Fifa U-17 Women's World Cup camp ||The steel city is all set to host the women’s national preparatory camp for the Fifa under-17 Women’s World Cup to be held next year. Sources claimed that the state sports department has once again initiated talks with the All India Football Federation (AIFF) and Sports Authority of India (Eastern Centre) regarding the camp in Jamshedpur. It is being said that chief minister Hemant Soren is keen to host the camp in Jharkhand, the expenses for which will be borne by the state government while AIFF and Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) will be lending the technical support. Ghulam Rabbani, secretary of JFA, confirmed Jamshedpur as the venue for the camp. “Jamshedpur is an apt venue for efficiently conducting the camp. The grounds in Jamshedpur are in good shape unlike Ranchi where the greens are not in the right condition,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Giridih, Rabbani said the AIFF was keen to organise the camp in the steel city and that only a formal acceptance was awaited. “There should not be any confusion about Jamshedpur hosting the camp. A formal green signal from the AIFF will be taken very shortly,” he added. Asken when the camp would be held, Rabbani said it would be conducted later this month or in February. Sources in the state football association said the camp will be conducted at JRD Tata Sports Complex, Flatlet ground (in Kadma) and the greens at Tata Football Academy. “Besides the under-17 national preparatory camp, plans are also afoot to host the under-20 women’s national camp in the steel city,” a source in the state sports department said on the condition of anonymity. A recce team led by the then state sports director Anil Kumar Singh had inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur last year. The team also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing. Besides going to the JRD Tata Sports Complex and the checking the ground at Flatlets in Kadma, the team also visited some hotels. The preparatory camp was scheduled in Jamshedpur in October last year. However, it had to be cancelled because of the pandemic. With the sports activities now opening up, the AIFF wants the camp to be conducted in the steel city without wasting further time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tourist flow to Jharkhand grew 60 times since 2000 ||The number of foreigners visiting Jharkhand has increased almost 60 times in the past two decades, according to the Union tourism ministry which said that while only 3,111 foreign travelers visited the state in 2000 their numbers were 1.76 lakh in 2019. Officials of the tourism department said that the number of foreign tourists coming to Jharkhand had increased gradually every year since 2000. As per the latest Indian Tourism Statistics released by the ministry, as many as 1,70,987 foreign travelers visited Jharkhand in 2017 and the number increased to 1,75,801 in year 2018. In 2019, as many as 1,76,043 foreign tourists visited Jharkhand. “The number of foreign tourists visiting Jharkhand has certainly increased, but we want the number to grow further,” said tourism director A Dodde. “If we look at the tourism map of India, then we can see that most of the popular tourist destinations attract a lot of foreign tourists. Foreign tourists also help popularise a spot,” he added. Dodde said that foreigners coming to Jharkhand visited locations across the state, and there was no one particular spot which was preferred over others. The government in Jharkhand has taken several initiatives in the recent past to boost tourism. Many tourist spots were developed and the state also opened its doors to the film industry during the former NDA-led government. Patratu valley in Ranchi, Netarhat in Latehar and many dams and waterfalls across Jharkhand were selected as sites for shooting of Bollywood films in the past years, which contributed to their popularity, said a highly placed source in the tourism department. Recently, the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand announced a flat subsidy of either 30 per cent or Rs 10 crore -- whichever was less -- on capital investment for developing tourism facilities such as hotels, parks and resorts. The subsidy, as per the new tourism policy, will be 35 per cent for investments in tribal districts. The government is also working on a single-window-system for tourism, where tourists can find all information related to Jharkhand on one platform. In 2000, when Jharkhand came into being, only 4.53 lakh tourists visited the state and 3,111 of them were foreigners. In 2018-19, over 3.55 crore tourists visited the state and 1.76 lakh of them were foreigners. However, the tourism director admitted that the inflow of foreign tourists to Jharkhand reduced drastically in the year 2020 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant meets Rahul in Delhi with Congress minder||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren met former All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Monday, triggering speculation that vacancies in the state cabinet and government-run boards and corporations were discussed. The meeting assumes importance as it took place in the backdrop of coming elections in Bengal where Hemant’s party, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), is planning to contest. JMM’s primary ally in Jharkhand, the Congress, has tied up with the Left in Bengal. Both Congress and JMM leaders, however, called the meeting a courtesy visit. Hemant, along with Congress party’s Jharkhand affairs in-charge R.P.N. Singh, flew to Delhi on Sunday night. Hemant, who is expected to meet Sonia Gandhi too, is likely to return to Ranchi on Tuesday. A JMM leader said, “The meeting was long overdue. Now that things are slowly improving (Covid-19), our leader wished to meet with the top brass of our alliance partner. Regular interactions and meetings help in maintaining better coordination. One shouldn’t read much into it.” A Congress source, however, said the idea of the meeting was to discuss various issues as the state government had completed a year in office.  “Two days back, R.P.N. Singh, during his visit to Ranchi, held a meeting with all Congress MLAs, district heads and other key members on vacant posts in boards and corporations in Jharkhand. This apart, the party has for long been staking claim to one more ministerial berth, considering the number of MLAs we have,” claimed the Congress leader. As of now, there are two vacancies in the 12-member cabinet. But speaking with reporters in Ranchi on Sunday, R.P.N. Singh maintained that their party wasn’t focusing immediately on filling vacant berths in the state cabinet. Instead, he said, the focus would now shift towards a by-election in Jharkhand necessitated after the Madhupur seat fell vacant last year following the death of JMM MLA and minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari. “Let us focus on the bypoll first. The rest will be discussed with our coalition partners later,” Singh had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Missing girl found dead, body recovered from pond||The body of a minor girl, missing since Tuesday, was recovered from a pond in Chatra on Sunday. A villager spotted the body in a pond near to the victim’s Gangpur village under Giddhore police station on Sunday late evening and informed the police after which it was fished out. About the missing of the girl named Supriya Kumari a.k.a Dolly, her father Ranjeet Gupta had lodged an FIR in this regard at Giddhore police station. According to this complaint, she went missing from the village on January 12. Chatra superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha also reached Gangpur village and investigated the matter. Ranjeet has accused one Rahul Yadav for abducting his daughter. Police had left Rahul after interrogating him. On Sunday evening, when a dead body of a young girl was spotted in Dantuwa pond near to Gangpur, officer-in-charge of Giddhore police station, Sanjay Kumar Singh reached there. The body was fished out and Ranjeet Gupta was informed. Ranjeet identified the body as his 14-year-old missing daughter Supriya. Singh said the dead body has been sent for post-mortem to Chatra Sadar Hospital. “We will wait for the report to know the actual reason behind her death. However, police have started the investigation and working on a various angle to know as what actually happened with Supriya,” he added. Meanwhile, Supriya’s relatives charged police for negligence in this case. They said Rahul was allowed to go from the police station even when he was harassing Supriya. With the recovery of the dead body, BJP’s Giddhore block president Kapil Kumar said it was a shocking incident and whoever was behind this should not be spared. “I demand immediate cracking of this case and arrest of the culprits,” added he. Simaria MLA Kishun Kumar Das also warned to sit on indefinite hunger strike if this case was not solved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi records almost 70 per cent of the total fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||While at least 15 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, Ranchi accounted for almost 70 per cent of the less than 100 people who were found infected on the day, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. As many as 60 of the 87 people found infected by the deadly virus on the day were residents of Ranchi, while a dozen of them were from East Singhbhum, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The figures highlight that over 72 per cent of total Covid cases in the state were reported in Ranchi and East Singhbhum. At least 111 Covid patients also recovered from the infection on Sunday, bringing the number of active cases in the state down at 1225, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per the bulletin, 98.06 per cent of the 1,17,686 people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered. Jharkhand administered Covishield vaccine shots to around 3200 beneficiaries on Saturday – Day 1 of what has been touted as the world's largest vaccination programme. However, no vaccine shots were administered in the state on Sunday. NHM officials said that the vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries in Jharkhand four days a week – Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 10,390 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 50.54 lakh people and tested 50.46 lakh of them. The intensity of Covid testing in Jharkhand, however, has reduced lately. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts either reported a single-digit-spike in cases on Sunday or did not report fresh cases. Bokaro reported five cases against six recoveries, while Hazaribag reported two cases and the same number of recoveries. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.09 per cent against the national average of 0.12 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 785 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 558.82 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. No Covid casualties occurred in Jharkhand on Sunday, keeping the toll at 1050. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Late night fire at Sakchi market, many bangle shops burnt||About half-a-dozen bangle shops at the Masala Patti Line at Sakchi were gutted in a fire which is suspected to be caused by short-circuit late on Sunday night. It took three fire tenders of Jharkhand Fire Service and Tata Steel over three hours to bring the blaze under control. The fire started around 11 pm. According to Sakchi market sources, the fire was first spotted by a security guard who raised an alarm. Later, a local shopkeeper called the Golmuri-based fire station informing about the fire. However, prompt action by the fire department minimised damages to a great extent given the fact that a large number of shops are packed next to each other in the congested Masala Patti Line, where the inferno took place. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 11.15 pm, and the fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes. “Two fire tenders of our department along with another one from Tata Steel battled the flames which were finally brought under control around 2 am,” said Ravinder Thakur, the Golmuri-based fire station officer. The loss caused by the fire could not be immediately estimated. An affected bangle shop owner Md. Shamim said, “The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. Things are being probed.” Chaos prevailed at the market soon after the fire was detected. Most of the shopkeepers had left for their homes after closing their shops at 9 pm. But, some of them rushed to the spot after being informed. This was the second such fire that broke out at Sakchi which is a leading commercial hub. On December 19 a similar fire caused by a bonfire gutted around a dozen shops at the Jalebi Line close to the fish market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: health officials expect better turnout from Monday ||Health officials of Jharkhand expect a better turnout at vaccine centres from Monday when the inoculation drive is set to resume since there has been no case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) unlike a few that have been reported in states like Delhi and Maharashtra. Covid vaccine will henceforth be administered four days a week except on Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. While Sunday is a holiday, the health department is usually busy with other scheduled vaccination drives every Thursday and Saturday. Jharkhand launched the inoculation drive from 48 centres across 24 districts with a target of 4,800 on Day One on Saturday. Two centres were set up in each district with a target of administering the vaccine to 100 people at each. However, as per health department records, by the end of Day One, 1,600 out of 4,800 registered beneficiaries did not show up to take the shots. Many pulled out in the last moment due to apprehensions about the efficacy and possible side effects of the vaccine. Others failed to get an auto generated SMS on their registered phones, sources said. “But fears will gradually subside with no AEFI cases in the state. And whatever minor glitches were reported on the ground will get streamlined. The health department is satisfied with the turnout on Day One,” remarked a senior official at the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday. State health minister Banna Gupta sounded satisfied. “I have not received reports of AEFI or any other problems in anyone who has received the vaccine shots. From Monday, we expect a better turnout as the department is also working out on plans to counsel beneficiaries,” he said, adding that the number of vaccination centres would remain unchanged as of now. Initially, Jharkhand had planned to launch the vaccination drive at 129 centres. But days before the launch, it was trimmed to 48 following directives from the Centre for better mobilisation of resources and utilization of the vaccine. Mariam Guriya, a cleanliness worker at Sadar hospital, who got the first shot on Saturday, said that she was doing fine and maintained that she would motivate others to take the vaccine. “I didn’t face any problem yesterday (Saturday) after taking the vaccine. I am fine today (Sunday) too. I will encourage others to get the vaccine citing my example,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand objects to third rail track within Palamau Tiger Reserve ||The wildlife issues related to a proposal for laying a third railway track through a part of Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR) is unlikely to be resolved at a meeting scheduled to be held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The matter is listed for discussion at the meeting of the project monitoring group of the department of promotion of industries and internal trade under the Union ministry of commerce and industry that day. The railway took up construction of a 291-long third railway line between Patratu and Sonnagar 12km of which is to pass through PTR but the Jharkhand government objected to the construction, apprehending it would disturb the wildlife. A double-line railway track already exists in that stretch under control of Dhanbad division of South Central Railway but the railway authorities wants to construct a third line as they consider it essential for the operational point of view to facilitate faster transport of coal and also to act as a feeder route. But Jharkhand objected to the proposal of construction of the additional rail track through PTR and referred the matter to the National Tiger Conservation Authority that in turn formed a committee. The committee called for data related to elephant and tiger population in the reserve, location of elephant crossing zones/tracks, wildlife accidents etc for preparing a draft wildlife management issues and mitigation measures. Meanwhile, PTR authorities suggested that the proposed 12-km rail track within the tiger reserve be shifted to a new location, about 2km away, that the railway authorities considered not feasible. “Shifting the proposed 12-km track between Chhipadohar and Hehegara stations to about 2km away to another location just outside the PTR limits should help them move trains faster,” PTR deputy director Kumar Ashish argued when contacted by The Telegraph. “It being within a tiger reserve, the trains have to move with a speed of only 25 km per hour along that stretch now that can go up if the track is shifted to a location just 2 km away and will actually help faster movement of trains,” he explained, adding there were many fatal accidents when wildlife wanted to cross the existing rail tracks and came under moving trains. “I understand they thought the proposal of shifting track was not feasible as it would run alongside a river,” Ashish said when asked about the railway’s reluctance to accept their shifting proposal, adding many longer stretches of the same 291-km line runs beside some river or the other. Clearances for construction of a rail track within a tiger reserve have to be obtained from both the state and national wildlife boards and also others like a high powered committee, he further informed, indicating the construction proposal was unlikely to be passed in the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
