19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Absentee beneficiaries dampen vaccine drive||Low turnout continued to mar the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the third consecutive day on Tuesday in the state owing to concerns over safety of the vaccine and apprehensions of side effects among beneficiaries. As per figures received from officials of the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) at 8.00pm, 2,735 people took the vaccine in 48 centres across the state on Tuesday against a target of 4,800. “The number may go up slightly as updates are still underway,” remarked an official in the know of things. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla admitted there was no trend to indicate that more people were turning up at vaccine centres, but that he was hopeful of a better turnout in the coming days. “Absenteeism was there today (Tuesday) and the turnout can be estimated to be anything between 60 per cent to 65 per cent of the overall target,” he said. On Saturday, 3,200 out of 4,800 registered beneficiaries took the jab. The number fell by about 200 on Monday. Tuesday’s drop was more. The only encouraging sign was that there were no major cases of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) as yet. An official of Sadar hospital said that there was a need for a fresh impetus to build confidence. “I am surprised to witness that even some doctors are pulling out at the last moment. If they tend to do this, how can we encourage others to get vaccinated,” he said, adding that after tackling the pandemic through 2020, it’s time for people to come forward and take the vaccine. The Jharkhand government is administering Covishield doses to over 1.25 lakh identified beneficiaries in the first phase, a majority of who comprise health and cleanliness workers. Across the state, as many as 99.89 lakh people have been selected under different priority categories for administration of the vaccine. Vaccination is being conducted four days a week —Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday—at earmarked vaccination centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad businessmen protest civic body tax squeeze||Traders in Dhanbad are raising their voices against the ways in which the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is realising their holding taxes. While businessmen in the coal town circle are protesting over the integrating of holding tax with the trade license renewal, those in Jharia are agitating over dual-realisation of holding tax by both DMC as well as Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, president of Bank More Chamber Commerce, Prabhat Surolia said, “The traders are soft targets of the reverence mopping exercise by tax realisation measure of the DMC. We are being squeezed with all kinds of taxes.” “The DMC has made holding tax payment receipt submission mandatory for renewal of trade license, which is totally illogical. A shop  operating from a rented accommodation can’t get its trade license renewed,” explained Surolia. Mohammed Sohrab, president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “It is totally unjustified to demand holding tax receipt as prerequisite for getting trade license renewal. A large number of shopkeepers, operating from rented accommodations, are finding it difficult to get the license due to non-submission of holding tax by their landlords.” “If the rented shop operators pay the holding tax and get their own holding numbers, they will be caught in  a legal dispute with the landlords. This may result in a sour relation with the landlords as after paying holding tax in their name they can stake ownership claim over the land” explained Sohrab. He said that the situation was not like this in other places like Ranchi. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce Amit Sahu said, “We are the worst-affected by this policy of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation as we are already paying the holding tax to the JMADA. We are waiting for the renewal of the trade license as we don’t have the receipt of the DMC for holding tax payment, which is a prerequisite for renewal of trade license under the new rule.” “We are fighting the issue of holding tax demand by the DMC for several years now as we are already paying it to the JMADA. Nowhere in the country the same tax is realised by two different bodies,” said Sahu. He added that in the time of pandemic, where business activity has been affected for an entire year, imposition of such taxes is totally unjustified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Wild tuskers kill domesticated elephant in Betla National Park||A 25-year-old domesticated elephant of the Betla National Park named Kaal Bhairav was killed by two wild tuskers of the same park late Monday night, Deputy Director of the North division of Palamau Tiger Reserve Kumar Ashish said. The fight, which broke out at 9:30 pm on Monday, was fierce and lasted for half an hour where the wild elephants used their tusks to puncture holes on Kaal Bhairav’s stomach. The severity of the attack resulted in the domesticated elephant’s intestines falling out, and he succumbed to the injuries and profuse bleeding. The domesticated elephant was in chains at the elephants’ shed in the Palamu Quila. Asked if any human help could reach Kaal Bhairav, Ashish said there were eight people of the elephant contingent readying their food in the two watch towers close to the Palamu Quila. He said that these men as well as the elephant’s mahout Lal Bihari Singh also cried for his help. The men also exploded crackers to chase the wild elephants away but that had no impact, and after killing Kaal Bhairav, they went on their way. The tusks of the elephants are intact, Ashish said. They have been removed from the corpse and preserved in the Nature Interpretation Centre, Betla. Sources said internecine war among the wild life is common but said such a fight between elephants had never taken place in the national park in forty years. Betla national park has five captive elephants. Kaal Bhairav was one of them, brought in from Karnataka for patrol. Government veterinary surgeon Chandon De conducted his post mortem on Tuesday and viscera has been preserved for forensic examination. The elephant was bui=ried where he died, as per the standard procedure. Sources said had Kaal Bhairav not been in the chains then he too would have fought to save himself. Ashish said the elephant was fit and healthy but the attack was sudden and fierce, which resulted in his death. D.S Srivastava, an expert, said they fought to establish supremacy. “Had there been a trench along the elephant shed these marauders would not have reached Bhairav,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Signature campaign for animal shelter in steel city ||A steel city group dedicated to the wellbeing of animals, particularly strays, has launched a signature campaign for establishing a shelter for animals. Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation has set a target to collect 1,000 signatures to bolster its campaign. So far, over 800 animal lovers, including some from abroad, have supported the campaign launched a couple of days back. Once the target of 1,000 signatures is achieved, the foundation will send them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, animal rights activist and environmentalist Maneka Gandhi and former Tata Sons chairman Ratan Tata. Aniz Patel, founder of the foundation, said “We will send a request letter to these personalities once our target is achieved. We’ll send the signatures to the personalities for soliciting their support.” The signature campaign has been launched on facebook, twitter, instagram  and WhatsApp. According to Patel, they want to establish a shelter for animals who cannot be adopted due to medical conditions or age. “We are dedicated to animal welfare and preventing cruelty to strays, abandoned or abused dogs, cats and cows. A shelter would be of huge help for such animals,” he added. He said there is no such shelter in Jamshedpur and hence many animals are being abused on a daily basis. “We also find it hard to provide them with proper treatment,” Patel said. Patel said they need a 15,000sq ft X  20,000 sq ft space, preferably with a boundary wall and a vet ambulance for the shelter. “We are hopeful. We are optimistic of achieving our signature target in a day or two,” he added. According to a foundation member, they will be providing water, food and necessary medical care and rehabilitation of animals in need once the shelter is in place. “Medical care will be taken up by local veterinarians. The medical care will not be limited to sterilisation, vaccination and disease test,” he said. The Red Paws foundation is active in Jamshedpur for over years. It has conducted drives, including vaccination, feeding and adoption camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Story of women: rapes, deaths and missing girls||Crimes against women are on the rise in Jharkhand as over the past few days, two rape FIRs were lodged against relatives of victims in Koderma and Chatra, a dead body of a girl was found in Chatra and another went missing in the same district. An 18-year-old girl of Sayal village in Meral panchayat lodged a complaint on Monday with the Pathalgadda police station against her maternal uncle maternal uncle Sukhram Munda for raping her. She said he had first raped her  when she took her cattle for grazing to a forest area on July 18, 2020, threatening her of dire consequences if she opened her mouth. “He kept raping me on assurance of marriage,” the girl said, adding that he even forced her to have an abortion nursing home in Nawabgunj locality of the neighbouring Hazaribagh district on January 11. Upon her return, the girl told about the incident to her parents and lodged the FIR. However, the accused is absconding. Officer-in-charge of Pathalgadda police station Avinash Kumar said they had registered an FIR-4/21 against Munda and searches are on to nab him. In Koderma, another FIR was lodged by the mother of a seven-year-old girl against her neighbour Ramvilas Paswan (30). She said that Paswan took the minor to her house where he raped her, after which the girl came back to her home crying and revealing about the incident. Koderma police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram said an FIR was lodged and the girl was sent for medical tests. “We will arrest Paswan soon,” he added. On Sunday evening, Giddhore police in Chatra found the dead body of 14-year-old Supriya Kumari a.k.a. Dolly from a pond. Her uncle Sonu Gupta said Dolly was supposed to appear in the matriculation exam this year. He alleged that the suspect Rahul Yadav was released by the police, who did not take her case seriously when she went missing. Superintendent of Police Rishav Kumar Jha said they will solve this case in the next two days. In another incident, Basanti Devi of Bakchuma village under Kanhachatti block registered an FIR at the Rajpur police station requesting officials to find her 22-year-old daughter Mamta Kumari. She said her daughter went out of the house on January 2 but did not come back since then. Officer-in-charge of the police station Anil Kumar a search operation was launched to find Mamta. A family hailing from Bihar’s Aurangabad had a narrow escape on Tuesday when their car suddenly caught fire on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-33) in Massipiddi under Muffasil police station of Hazaribagh. The driver of the car made a wise decision of stopping the car as soon as he spotted smoke coming from the engine. However, it completely got gutted before firefighters could reach the location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Doctored video a plot against me, says BJP MLA, warns of legal action||BJP MLA Randhir Singh claimed on Tuesday that the video clip in which a man purported to be him is seen defending cyber criminals was doctored and released online by his political opponents wanting to defame him. “My opponents have released that doctored video to tarnish my image as a part of a conspiracy against me. I have spoken to my lawyers and decided to take strict legal action against the people behind this conspiracy,” Singh said, adding that the video clip too should be thoroughly examined by concerned agencies. A video clip, in which a man purported to be Singh is seen defending cyber criminals and threatening to gherao police stations if the people of Jamtara (in his constituency) are harassed unnecessarily, went viral on social media platforms recently. In the video, the man purported to be Singh is addressing a public gathering and openly lauding the people of his constituency for being smart enough to dupe educated people of other states through cyber fraud. “Nobody has ever been able to dupe any resident of my constituency. If illiterate people of our region are so smart that they can dupe people of other states then whose fault is it?” the man in the video asks. “Why do the literate people of other states provide their personal details to callers over phone? If police harass our people, then I will have no option but to gherao police stations,” he adds. Singh is a two-time MLA from Sarath, a constituency that shares its borders with Jamtara that has gained infamy for being the cyber crime capital of the country. It is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several people living in the metros, say police. On Tuesday, a visibly infuriated Singh said he would not stop at taking legal actions against the people who have allegedly doctored the video to tarnish his image, but also sue the new channels that have run the video clip without establishing its authenticity. BJP has stood by the party MLA during the controversy. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that the video was shot from an angle which makes it impossible to match the lip movement of the person with the words he speaks. “The video is not clear, and there is no way to match the audio of the clip with the lip movement of the man in it. In this era of doctored videos and editing techniques, I think the video clip needs to be examined before jumping to conclusions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad starts using sprinklers to curb air pollution||The coal capital of India, one of the most polluted towns of the country, has finally started using truck mounted sprinklers that sends out atomized (tiny droplets) water up to a height of 50 meter to create an artificial mist which sticks with pollutants that ultimately settles to the ground. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) bought these vehicles at a total cost of Rs 50 lakh after the town was included in the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme under which pollution is to be curbed by 50 per cent in three years in 100 cities and towns of the country. Assistant engineer cum transport department in-charge of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Uday Kachhap said on Tuesday, “We received the two sprinklers on January 15 and started using them from the next day after training drivers. The vehicles are being used in the town on a pilot basis,” he said, adding that their services would be extended to other towns under DMC, including Jharia, Katras, Sindri and Chhatatand. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 10 crore in 2019 for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to buy mechanical dust sweepers, water sprinklers and other gear. Of this, Rs 3 was provided to DMC in January last year. DMC sanitary inspector Arjun Ram said, “We are operating sprinkler vehicles during morning hours when there is less rush of vehicles and commuters. Additionally, we are also operating all five mechanized dust sweepers purchased by DMC in 2019 on a regular basis.” JSPCB member Rajiv Sharma, however, termed the DMC’s anti-pollution measures inadequate. He suggested the corporation adopt more proactive steps to control air pollution so that more funds could be provided by JSPCB for buying more equipment. “Until and unless the utilisation certificate for Rs 3 core provided by JSPCB during the last year is not submitted by DMC more funds cannot be released,” said Sharma, who is also general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: marginal fall in number of recipients on Day Two ||The number of people taking the vaccine fell by about 200 on the second day of the immunisation exercise on Monday, figures from the state chapter of National Health Mission indicated. Health department officials, however, did not sound concerned about the marginal fall in turnout stating the numbers would improve gradually with the passage of time and a sustained status quo of no adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). As per the figures released at 8 pm on Monday, close to 3,000 took Covishield shots against a target of 4800 across 48 vaccination centres. On the inaugural day of the vaccination drive on Saturday, 3,200 people took the jabs. No immunisation exercise was carried out on Sunday. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the intention was to increase the vaccine administration rate to about 90 per cent. But he agreed that would happen gradually. “We witnessed a marginal fall in turnout compared to Day One. Against 3,200 on the first day, only close to 3000 came for vaccination. There could be many reasons as people may not still be very confident about taking it, preferring to wait and watch for some more time. We will step up counselling but zero AEFI cases will be the key for a better turnout,” he said. Shukla said they would conduct a review of the situation soon and then plan corrective steps. Like on the first day, there were no reports of adverse events on Monday in Jharkhand. In Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, a 46-year-old health worker died a day after receiving the vaccine on Monday, PTI reported but clarified that it wasn’t vaccine-related. The Jharkhand government is administering Covishield doses to over 1.25 lakh identified beneficiaries in the first phase. Most of these comprise health and cleanliness workers. Across the state, as many as 99.89 lakh people have been selected under different priority categories for the administration of the vaccine. From now, the vaccination drive will be held on four days a week, namely, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Jharkhand||As many as four Covid-19 patients, including two from Bokaro, died during treatment on Monday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1054, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each, taking the Covid toll in Ranchi to 225 and that in Dhanbad to 110, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. With 356 deaths, East Singhbhum has reported the most number of Covid fatalities among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, bringing the count of active cases below 1200. The state reported 100 cases against 131 recoveries on the day, which brought the number of Covid-19 patients in the state down to 1090, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi accounted for 44 of the 100 fresh cases on the day, but the number of active cases here dropped to 608 as at least 56 patients recovered here in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 17 cases and the same number of recoveries, while Dhanbad reported eight cases against four recoveries. Only two people were found infected in Bokaro and eight patients recovered there. After Monday's findings, less than 10 people were battling the infection in at least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 10,484 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 50.65 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 50.57 lakh of them. As per government data, as many as 1,17,786 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.09 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 816 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 550.60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Five-year integrated MBA programme at IIM Ranchi ||The Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, will offer a five-year integrated programme in management (IPM) from this year. The IPM programme will be a full-time blended course of business studies for undergraduate to postgraduate level or an integrated BBA-MBA programme and the students will be offered an MBA degree on successful completion of the course, the institute said. Asked about the eligibility criteria of students, institute director Shailendra Singh said: “Admission to the programme will be based on the SAT (Scholastic Aptitude Test) exam scores.” Besides, a written ability test would also be taken and personal interviews conducted after considering overall academic performances of the students at the secondary and higher secondary levels, he added. Students admitted to the integrated programme will get a larger duration of training at the institute to develop practical leadership and managerial skills, IIM Ranchi said in a release issued on Monday afternoon. “The curriculum has been deliberately prepared to balance cognitive development with cultural growth by engaging the students both in and outside the classroom,” it added. The programme will comprehensively cover subjects from management, marketing, accounting, finance, economics, information system, data sciences and strategic management, aimed at holistic development of the students, the release said. The course fee will be Rs 14 lakh for the first three years of the programme, while for the last two years, the selected students will have to pay the same fee as would be payable by the MBA students at that time, the institute’s website said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
