20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Mission India: 25-year-old aims cycle record||On a mission to make a world record to visit every Indian capital, 25-year-old mountaineer Uma Singh had started his journey on November 30 from Lucknow, and is currently in Jharkhand to achieve his goal. Talking to The Telegraph Online in Hazaribagh, Singh said he had so far covered 9,000 kilometers in these 55 days. He has covered several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and the southern states. “From there I entered Chhattisgarh and reached Hazaribagh via Ranchi,” he said. “No one has ever taken up a journey like this before. I want to make a record,” Singh said. The M.Com degree-holder said he starts his journey every morning with a target to cover 150 kilometers per day. Other than making the record, Singh is trying to give out a message of clean and green India, he said. Singh has completed his rock climbing course from Swami Vivekanand Mountaineering Institute in Mount Abu. “I had climbed Pir Panjal range in Himachal Pradesh and now aiming for Mount Everest,” he said. In Hazaribagh, Singh was welcomed by enthusiasts Rohit Raz and Keshav Verma. “I am so happy to meet people from different states and to see the rich culture of the country,” he added. Before leaving for Patna, he said his journey will end in Arunachal Pradesh’s capital Itanagar. “I will end my journey in 75 days,” Singh said, before leaving with his cycle on the Ranchi-Patna Highway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test for 200 R-Day participants in steel city||The participants of this year's Republic Day celebration underwent Covid-19 test (rapid antigen test) conducted by district health department at Gopal Maidan in Bistupur on Wednesday. Health department officials who were present at the venue said around 200 participants underwent rapid antigen test on Wednesday. “The rest of them would undergo the test tomorrow,” said the official. Those who underwent the Covid-19 test participated in rehearsals of the parade on the first day. Wednesday was the first day of rehearsals for the Republic Day function slated to be organised at Gopal Maidan on Tuesday, January 26. The participants who underwent rapid antigen test included NCC cadets, Scouts & Guides, Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), home guards and jawans of paramilitary forces. District public relations officer Rohit Kumar said the rehearsals would continue till January 24. Full dress rehearsal will be conducted on January 24. The district administration has made it mandatory for everyone to wear a face mask while entering Gopal Maidan. Moreover, schools and other organisations have been banned to take out procession or tableau as part of the celebrations. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar recently held a meeting taking stock of the Republic Day preparations. During the meeting, he had said that everyone should adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. Instructions were issued that those attending the ceremony will inevitably use masks and ensure compliance with social distancing. The deputy commissioner directed the concerned officers to make sanitisers available at the main gate of the Gopal Maidan and to keep sanitisers at various places in the ground as well. All the contingents participating in the parade were instructed by the senior SP - Tamil Vanan to attend and rehearse for the parade complying with the necessary Covid-19 protocols. Various sub-committees have been formed which will take the stock of preparations for the Republic Day celebration in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||DGP scanner on opium trade, LWE menace, rumour-mongering||Director General of Police (DGP) MV Rao on Wednesday directed police personnel across Jharkhand to tighten the noose around opium cultivators, identify drug peddlers and bust rackets involved in selling illegal narcotics and liquor in the state. Chairing a closed- door meeting with police officers from all the 24 districts via video conferencing, Rao also asked them to intensify anti-Maoist operations across the state. Rao’s focus on busting rackets of drug peddlers and opium traders assumes significance as several investigations in the past have revealed the involvement of Left Wing Extremist (LWE) groups in cultivation and supply of opium in the far flung villages of Jharkhand, officials present in the meeting said. “All opium plantations across the state should be destroyed. People involved in selling illegal narcotics should be identified and put behind the bars,” said Rao. Besides directing his men to intensify operations against drug traffickers and LWE rebels, the DGP asked them to identify and nab criminals who were roaming free despite arrest warrants issued against them, sources who attended the meeting said, claiming that Rao wanted to launch an all round campaign against offenders in cities as well as villages in order to put a check on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. A press communiqué released by the police headquarters later in the day stated that Rao spoke to the police personnel about the challenges in implementation of weekly off days for policemen deployed in various police stations. The DGP had earlier said that the weekly off for policemen deployed at police stations will be implemented from January 1, 2021. The same provisions could be extended to other police offices later, he added. During the meeting on Wednesday, Rao asked cops to maintain a strict vigil on social media activities and nab people involved in spreading rumours on various social media platforms. Even people unknowingly spreading misinformation on social media should be dealt with sternly, he told the cops. While incidents of crime against women have hogged the attention of the Opposition in Jharkhand lately, no concrete directives related to prevention of crime against women were given during the meeting, sources said. In the past one month, several incidents of LWE rebels killing innocent villagers have been reported in Jharkhand. Security forces had last month neutralized two dreaded Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) rebels, and the combing operations were ongoing, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nights to get colder as temperatures set to plummet||Nights are going to get colder in the next three days with the weather office warning of plummeting night readings with most parts of the state recording sub-10 temperatures. On Wednesday, IMD's Ranchi Meteoroligical Centre said it expected minimum readings to fall by 3-5 degree Celsius during the next 72 hours. The weather office predicted fog and mist in most parts of the state. "The sub-10 chill will come back in most districts of Jharkhand due to restoration of north-westerly winds. For the last two days, easterly winds were prevailing over Jharkhand resulting in a rise in minimum readings in most parts of the state," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre, adding that dry weather and mainly clear sky will result in a drop in night readings. Due to dominating easterly winds the minimum reading in Ranchi was 14.6 degree Celsius, five notches above normal, on Wednesday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 15 degree Celsius, four notches above normal. Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 14 degree Celsius, five points above normal. Bokaro, which had recorded the season's lowest of 6 degree Celsius a couple of days ago, notched 13.1 degrees _ two notches above normal _ on Wednesday. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Pakur, Dumka and several other districts recorded over 13 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Met data revealed that minimum readings in Giridih, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Deoghar, Koderma, Simdega, Jamtara also witnessed an abrupt rise during the past 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP FIR against ‘Tandav’ makers in Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP’s youth wing lodged an FIR at Ranchi's Argora police station against the makers of Tandav, a newly released web-series on Amazon Prime, accusing them of hurting Hindu sentiments, Wednesday’s move following similar complaints by right wing activists in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. BJP youth wing president Surya Prabhat, in his formal complaint to police, named director Ali Abbas Zafar, the producer, the writer and cast members, including Saif Ali Khan and Md Zeeshan Ayub, seeking action against them under various sections of IPC. Prabhat said they would stage protests across the state to demand a ban on the web-series if action wasn’t taken against its makers. “There is a scene where Hindu gods are depicted in an inappropriate manner and dialogues attributed to them hurt everybody’s sentiments. If that is called creativity and artistic liberty then it has to be stopped,” Prabhat said. “It is high time we draw a line to define ‘artistic liberty’. There is already a widespread anger among Hindus against this episode. We demand a ban on this series till the makers mend their ways as it is aimed at testing one’s religious tolerance,” he added. Tandav, is a political drama in nine parts about the power struggle after the death of a Prime Minister. The scene being cited by many Hindu outfits is the one in the 17th minute of the first episode where the actor is playing Lord Shiva dressed in western attire during a play. The narrator tells Shiva that his popularity on social media is on wane vis-à-vis that of Lord Ram's. Then, Shiva asks if he needs to change his profile picture. In the same scene, Narad Muni advises him to do something sensational to get more followers. Even though Tandav director has apologised and agreed to change a few scenes, the controversy refuses to end. Many BJP leaders are still demanding action against the makers of the web-series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Agriculture University scientist cultivates oranges worth Rs 5 lakh in district||Palamau district has now joined the orange cultivator group of India as this season, it sold Rs 5 lakh worth of the citrus fruit, at Rs 30 per kilogram. The credit for this goes to horticulture scientist of Chianki-based zonal research station of the Birsa Agricultural University -- Abdul Majid Ansari and his team, in Palamau. Ansari said that the oranges grown in the research centre alone were sold at the amount, that too not commercially, adding that efforts are on to increase the yield further on the 10-acre land where these oranges were cultivated. Palamau’s soil and climate are favourable for orange cultivation but farmers show apprehensions in cultivating them as it takes almost five years for an orange tree to yield full-sized fruits, Ansari explained. He said that they have to be made aware of the market value of oranges. However, orange cultivation is prominent in Paton, Satbarwa, and Chainpur blocks of Palamau, the scientist added. Chianki zonal research centre was famous for orange cultivation till the early nineties but began to dwindle by 2004-2005. The rejuvenation drive of the cultivation in this centre was back in 2007, sources said. As many as 160 orange trees can be grown on one acre of land, with a five metre distance between each. A healthy tree can yield up to 30 to 100 kgs of the fruit, Ansari said. As Palamau has upland it can be used for the orange cultivation here, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents form panel to coordinate road digging||A committee was formed on Wednesday to ensure a coordinated approach to work on a new water supply scheme for Dhanbad, laying of pipes for which is damaging roads and leading to periodic disruptions in supply in Sindri. The committee, constituted as per instructions of Sindri DSP Ajit Kumar, includes representatives of Fertilizer Corporation of India, L&T Infra and FCI VSS Employees Association. Tlaks were held on Wednesday with the acting MD of Fertilizer Corporation of India U.C. Garg, L&T Infra site engineer Amit Singh and a delegation of senior citizens led by Sewa Singh, who is president of All India  FCI VSS Employees Association. Notably, the FCI township has an old pipeline laid more than 50 years ago through which water is supplied to around 4,000 quarters while L&T Infra is laying a new pipeline for a water supply scheme for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Sewa Singh said, “Due to unplanned digging carried out by L&T in Sindri for laying pipelines for the new water supply scheme, the existing pipeline laid by FCI more than 50 years ago is being damaged. Hence, water supply gets disrupted. “The digging work being carried out by earth movers also damages roads, and the soil excavated from underneath is also not properly leveled causing traffic disruptions. Singh said water supply in Sindri was disrupted on Tuesday too. “We raised the issue with the Sindri DSP and complained about the frequent disruption of water supply in Sindri after which a meeting of all stakeholders was called by the DSP at his office.” FCI general manager U.C. Garg also objected to the “reckless” digging being carried out by L&T without the use of proper maps of the existing network of pipes. Later, the DSP constituted the committee comprising of representatives of FCI, L&T, FCI VSS Employee’s Association. It was agreed that digging work would be carried out under the supervision of the FCI engineer in order to avoid any damage to the existing pipelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 101 fresh Covid cases, three casualties in a day||At least three more Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the number of Covid casualties reported in the past 48 hours to seven in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi, Ramgarh and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1057 and that in Ranchi to 226, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, causing a drop in the number of active cases of infection. As many as 141 recoveries against 101 fresh cases brought the number of active cases in the state down to 1147 in the past 24 hours, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi once again reported more than half of the Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday, but recoveries outnumbered fresh cases here as well. As many as 53 people were found infected in Ranchi, while 85 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the number of active cases in the district down to 575. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 15 cases against three recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported only five cases against 19 recoveries. As many as nine people were found infected in Bokaro and five patients recovered there. As per figures with the NHM, at least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 13,886 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.96 lakh people and tested 50.72 lakh of them. As per the NHM, as many as 1,17,887 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.12 per cent. At current pace, it would take more than 881 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 588.91 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police officer turns maths teacher  ||A young police officer in Jharkhand has been keeping aside time from his hectic duty to teach mathematics to students of a girls’ school in Dhanbad district. Pankaj Verma, 27, who is the officer-in-charge of Jogta police station in Baghmara under Sijua colliery region of Dhanbad, teaches mathematics to around 40 Class X students at the government-run Modidih Girls High School for two hours in the morning. The area is known for crime and mafia related activities, which were depicted in the film Gangs of Wasseypur. “I requested the principal (Satish Singh) if I can teach the students mathematics after the in-person classes resumed in the middle of December. The principal readily agreed. Since then I have been teaching the students every single days (except on holidays). I do not go by the syllabus but make the students grasp the basics of mathematics and do not leave till I have completed my job. The students seem excited and come up with queries not only in the school but at times at the police station too. I am more than happy to solve their queries,” said Verma, a 2018 batch Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission officer. The youngest in a farmer family of three brothers and one sister in Koderma district, Verma had to struggle with poverty to complete post-graduation in mathematics from Vinobha Bhave University, Hazaribagh. The teaching style of the police officer is also proving to be a learning experience for the school staff. “We are impressed with the teaching style of the police officer as it is not bookish and more concept-oriented. It makes even difficult topics look easier to understand for the students. In fact, we have come to know that before joining the police he used to run a coaching institute of his own with focus on physics, chemistry and mathematics. In a short span of a few weeks, the girls have become so fond of his teaching style that some do not even hesitate to go to the police station to sort out their queries. It is a welcome change in the perception of girls and women towards police. It will prove to be a milestone in changing police–public relations in Dhanbad,” said principal Satish Singh. The school has two full-time mathematics teachers. Priya Kumari, a Class X student, whose father is a labourer in the Sijua colliery, now dreams of becoming a police officer. “Sir has made us confident that despite odds and struggle one can achieve success in life through hard work. I was very weak in equations and solving complicated calculations. But this has changed after I took lessons from Sir. One day I also want to be a police officer,” said the 15-year-old Priya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
