21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rally to protest against the three farm laws in Jamshedpur||Around 1000 people from different cross-sections of the society came together under the banner of Kisan Andolan Ekta Manch took out a rally from Sakchi’s Ambagan ground to protest against the Centre's farm bills. The rally was led by Bhagwan Singh, the president of the Mango Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee. It had protesters holding banners and flags condemning the controversial laws. Supported by the All India Sikh Students Federation ( AISSF) and various Opposition parties like - Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Congress, and the Left, the rally later transformed into a sit-in demonstration near the Sakchi roundabout. JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi and former Ichagarg MLA Arvind Singh also participated in the dharna. Singh while addressing the gathering, said that even after the farmers protesting against the farm laws for over about two months at the Delhi border, the deadlock continues. Both Singh and the Jugsalai MLA demanded the complete rollback of the farm laws by the central government. Meanwhile, Bhagwan Singh mentioned that the rally was a way to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have hit the street in a bid to compel the government to roll back - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, that were passed by both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, last year. The huge turnout at the rally resulted in the disruption of traffic on the busy Kalimati Road for about two hours in the morning. Commuters traveling in cars were the worst affected as they got stuck in traffic congestion caused by the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wager, out to attend nature’s call, drowns in mine pit||A daily wage earner from Sinidih in Katras died when he drowned into an abandoned coal mine pit. His body was recovered on Thursday at around 1 pm, 24 hours after the accident on Wednesday. A group of trained divers of Moonidih Area engaged by BCCL and local administration recovered the body of Budhan Bhuian (25), who had gone near the pit on Wednesday to attend his nature’s call. Bhuian, son of a retired BCCL employee, slipped inside the pit during that time. A group of local women bathing near the area saw the incident and shouted for help, after which a group of villagers tried to rescue him. But they failed as by that time, Bhuian was deep inside the pit. A team of Madhuban Police led by officer-in-charge Sonu Kumar who reached the site also called some local divers but they failed to rescue him. After a brief pause, the operation was resumed on Thursday morning with the help of the experts when the body was recovered and sent for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Bhuian’s mother Kalki Devi said that his son was a patient of epilepsy. “He must have slipped into the mine pit during one such attack,” she added. Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto consoled the family members on Thursday and asked BCCL officers to ensure proper safety measures near the mine pit. Project officer of Maheshpur Colliery of BCCL, under whose jurisdiction the mine pit falls, assured financial help to the family members. “The barricading of the entire mine pit has been carried out by BCCL with the barbed wires. We have also put the boards indicating the dangerous site and water level in the mine pit. But some local residents still use the mine pit for bathing, dishwashing, cloth washing and other purposes” Sonu Kumar said “The body will be handed over to family members of the deceased after the arrival of the postmortem report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Appeal to open stadiums for sports training  ||Jharkhand Olympic Association has urged all district administrations to allow sportsmen and women to access stadiums to facilitate regular training and practice. On Thursday, JOA wrote to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, requesting them to direct respective sports officers to act in this regard and cited ‘unlock’ orders issued by the state government in December last year following the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. JOA secretary Madhukant Pathak, who issued the letter, underscored the need for proper access to facilities, citing the “immense pool of sporting talent” in Jharkhand. He said many sportspersons failed to perform due to the lack of facilities and resources. He said despite formal orders from the state government to allow players to use stadiums sans spectators, things had not improved on the ground. “We recently met with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh with our plea. He later issued orders to the sports department, but the latter isn’t enforcing it. Hence, citing the state government’s order of December 17, 2020, we thought of writing to all DCs from our end,” Pathak said. Notably, it was on June 25, 2020, that the state government had first allowed opening of all stadiums for sporting activities to be held without spectators. It also prescribed a host of dos and don’ts. Since then, several sporting activities in India and the world have gradually resumed. In Jharkhand, the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) organised a T20 league during September-October last year. In February 2021, Jharkhand Athletics Association is scheduled to hold an international walk race championship in Ranchi, which is an Olympic qualification event. Pathak said, “The whole of 2020 went in vain due to the Covid-19 pandemic. For any player, every day is important to keep in shape if he/she aspires to qualify for national and international events. The other problem in our state is that many players hail from poor backgrounds and face financial strain to even meet proper dietary requirements. It’s high time players get access to stadiums for practice and training,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra youth loses leg in landmine blast in Chatra||A 25-year-old man lost his leg in a landmine blast on Wednesday when he went to graze his cattle at the Dumaria forest in Kolhaiya panchayat in Chatra. Gobardhan Singh Bhokta went to feed his cattle to the forest like other days but on Wednesday evening, he accidentally stepped on a landmine, planted by Maoists to target police personnel on patrol, resulting in the blast. The blast was so powerful that besides losing his leg, Bhotka suffered injuries on his chest, chin and other parts of the body. It happened at around 6 pm but the youth remained at the site for more than three hours, screaming for help, until villagers searching for him came to his rescue at around 9 pm. On recovering Bhotka in a pool of blood, the villagers informed the Rajpur police, whose team arrived along with CRPF officials. Bhotka was then sent to the Chatra Sadar Hospital, but his critical condition prompted doctors to shift him to RIMS, Ranchi. Sub-divisional police officer Avinash Kumar, who went to Chatra Sadar Hospital, sent a police official to Ranchi with Bhokta. He assured his family of help and even aided them financially for treatment. Kumar said he is following this case and if needed, will help Bhokta again. This is the second time in less than 10 days that such an incident has happened in the area. On January 13, 45-year-old Sohrai Bhuiyan also sustained severe injuries in his leg in a similar incident at the Bandarchunwa forest in Huntergunj block. The Chatra Police said that they were conducting regular operations to nab the Maoists and have alerted the patrolling teams as well as villagers about the landmines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Now, 2 vaccine centres in coal town||The ongoing Covid vaccination drive, so far confined to two rural health centres in Dhanbad, will be extended to the town at Sadar Hospital from Friday and at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College from next week. The Dhanbad civil surgeon, Dr Gopal Das, said, “We have a target of 100 vaccinations per day at each of the two centres and a list of beneficiaries has already been finalised from the state government. The beneficiaries are receiving messages on their mobiles about the time and place of the vaccination.” The district reproductive and child health officer, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana, said the vaccination drive at Sadar Hospital will begin from Friday while the vaccination drive at Nirmal Mahto hospital will begin from next week. The Sadar Hospital in-charge, Dr Rajkumar Singh, said vaccinations would begin at 10am for selected beneficiaries. “All infrastructure, including manpower, have been in place at our centre from January 8 when a dry run was conducted at our hospital along with community health centres at Baghmara, Tundi, Topchanchi, Nirsa, Jharia, Baliapur and Govindpur,” he said. Since the rollout of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16, shots of Civishield have been administered to beneficiaries in Dhanbad at community health centres of Tundi and Topchanchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city gets AIFF nod to host Women's World Cup camps||The state sports department has received the green signal from All India Football Federation (AIFF) for hosting the national preparatory camp for the Fifa under-17 Women’s World Cup in Jamshedpur. The women’s department of the national football federation has also given its nod for the under-20 women’s preparatory camp to be held in the steel city. Both the camps will stretch for three months and are supposed to start from next month. Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) secretary Ghulam Rabbani informed that the AIFF has sent him the approval letter.  “The camps will be finally held in Jamshedpur,” he said over the phone from Giridih. The under-17 camp is scheduled to kick-off from February 4 and will be followed by the one for the under-20 eves. “Though the schedule of the camps is yet to be decided, the exercise for the under-17 age group will probably be conducted from February 4 onwards. An annunciation will be made shortly,” an official of JFA said. The camps will be conducted at JRD Tata Sports Complex, Flatlet ground (in Kadma) and the greens at Tata Football Academy. Around 70 women footballers would take part in both the preparatory camps. The greens at JRD Tata Sports Complex and the Flatlet are used for training sessions of Jamshedpur Football Club. Both the grounds can be utilised for the camps since JFC is busy competing in the Indian Super League, which is underway in Goa. The state sports department had recently initiated talks with the AIFF and Sports Authority of India (Eastern Centre) regarding the camp in Jamshedpur. It is being said that chief minister Hemant Soren was keen to host the camp in Jharkhand. Expenses related to the camps will be borne by the state government while AIFF and JFA will be lending the technical support. The preparatory camp was scheduled in Jamshedpur in October last year. However, it had to be cancelled because of the pandemic. A recce team led by the then state sports director Anil Kumar Singh had inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur last year. The team also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing. Besides going to the JRD Tata Sports Complex and the checking the ground at Flatlets in Kadma, the team also visited some hotels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sakchi site cleared for new vending zone||Civic authorities used a bulldozer to clear encroachments on Thursday from an area near the Sakchi gate of Jubilee park where a new vending zone is coming up. Jamshedpur Notified Area  Committee (JNAC) said the vending zone will be spread over 1,000 sq ft. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar, who supervised the eviction drive and cleanliness operation, said, "This will be the city's first dedicated vending zone. The vending zone was planned to end traffic snarls caused by push-cart vendors near Jubilee Park." He said the new area will be used to rehabilitate over 50 vendors who currently run their businesses from makeshift shops and push carts on both sides of the road that connects The Bengal Club with Jubilee Park. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti who was also present at the site said, "Apart from traffic congestion, vendors also used to litter the road. This made the place unhygienic. Daily garbage has to be cleaned by staff deployed by Jusco," he said. According to the JNAC official, the vending zone will become fully operational within a week. There will be a parking zone where people can park vehicles and enjoy the delicacies and buy necessities. “Bins will be placed for proper segregation of dry and wet waste,” said Bharti. Notably, the civic body also has plans to set up a similar dedicated vending zone at Kadma and Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to hold international film festival from February 20||A group of young filmmakers of Dhanbad, aiming to organise the first Coal Capital International Film Festival Olympiad, have started to select entries for the festival, set to kick off on February 20. The film festival has been divided into three categories -- short film, documentary and music video -- while the entries will be screened from February 20 to March 1. The screenings of the top 10 films from each category will be carried out on March 6 at the Tetullah ground in coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Nehal Ahmad (38), one of the organisers of the event, said, “The entries can be uploaded on the website, www.cciffo.com or sent on the email id office@cciffo.com  from January 19 to February 20.” Ahmad is a Dhanbad-based filmmaker who is organising the first-of-its-kind event in the town under the banner of AKS Trust. “Short films and documentaries of less than 30 minutes duration will be accepted, while the music videos should be of standard length of around two and a half to three minutes,” he said. He elaborated that the entries can be of any language, including local ones like Nagpuri, Khortha,Mundari, Bhojpuri and Magahi. “We have already received a Bhojpuri entry from Mauritius. The Bhojpuri dialect of Mauritius is slightly different from that of Bihar,” Ahmad, a postgraduate diploma-holder in TV Production and Direction from Sri Aurobindo Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi, said. Giving out more details, he said that the first round of selection of entries would be done after the arrival of all entries upto February 20. “The indoor screening of entries would be carried out  for more than 10 days from February 20 before a  panel of experts from Ranchi, Calcutta and Dhanbad. After that, the entries will undergo the second round of indoor screening from March 1 to March 5. Thereafter, the open-screening of top 10 ten entries will be carried out on March 6,” he added. Ahmad’s short film Chappal, which highlights the problems of Naxalism in the state was selected as the best film during the short film festival Super Shorts-12, in 2012. Amit Chandra, the founder-director of the Coal Capital International Film Festival Olympiad said it will be a challenge for them to conduct the open-screening on March 6 as the Tetullah ground belongs to the department of Railways. “We will seek permission from the district administration and Dhanbad Division authorities of Indian Railway,” he said. “The basic aim behind organising the film festivals is to aware common people about a variety of films based on various social, human and environmental issues and to attract youths to filmmaking,” said  Chandra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||With new lungs, Mahto is fit to leave Chennai hospital||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto thanked doctors, his colleagues in the Cabinet and family members for supporting him during his fight against Covid-induced lung fibrosis on Thursday via video conferencing – his first public interaction since he was hospitalised in October 2020. “I thank everyone who stood by my side during my treatment and did not lose hope,” said Mahto. While the minister appeared on the screen for media persons, he did not speak at length about his battle against Covid-19 and subsequent health complications. However, doctors from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai, where he underwent lung transplant surgery, said that Mahto would be able to return home soon and lead a normal life. Dr Suresh Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Chennai, said that Mahto was fit to return home, but he has decided to stay in the hospital for a couple of weeks and then leave for Jharkhand. “Medically, he is fit to go home. However, the minister has decided to stay in the hospital for a few weeks and then go home when he feels that he is ready to return to normal life,” Rao said. Speaking about the procedure of Mahto’s lung transplant Dr K. R. Balakrishnan of MGM Healthcare said, “It was a challenging case as not many transplants have been done for Covid-destroyed lungs. However, given the condition of the minister we made some quick decisions to ensure patient safety and expected patient outcome.” “We weighed in all the options available before us and decided to go ahead with the transplant. The patient responded well to the procedure and his lungs are now working well,” Balakrishnan added. Mahto was weaned off the mechanical ventilation on December 8 last year. Finally, his tracheostomy was removed on January 1 and currently he is making good progress and his vital parameters are stable and monitored continuously, doctors said during a press conference in Chennai on Thursday. “Lung transplant may well be the answer to many COVID survivors whose lungs suffered severe fibrosis, thereby making them chronic respiratory patients. In such patients when all other clinical and mechanical interventions fail, lung transplantation is an option,” added Dr Apar Jindal, Clinical Director and Consultant, Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology & Chest Medicine at MGM Healthcare. Doctors from MGM said that Tamil Nadu’s policy for organ donation made the process of finding a lung donor easier for the minister and the surgery was performed as soon as a donor was found. The doctors also thanked Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Agriculture Minister Badal Patralekh for trusting the medical experts at MGM and backing them in their decisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over a lakh vaccine doses reach state in second tranche  ||Jharkhand received a second instalment of the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday with state health department officials confirming they had got about 1.65 lakh doses which would allow them to go ahead with plans to immunize 1.25 lakh people in the first phase. Jharkhand had received 1,62,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine on January 14, two days before the start of the nationwide vaccination drive. One vial contains 5ml of the vaccine which works out to 10 doses. Each beneficiary is to get two doses of 0.5ml each. The state nodal officer for the immunization programme, Dr Ajit Prasad, told reporters they now had enough stocks to successfully vaccinate all registered beneficiaries in the first phase. In the four days of vaccination in the state, 11,714 people got their shots against a target of 19,200, which works out to about 61 per cent. Wednesday’s count was less than 3,000 with only 2,779 people taking the vaccine, according to health department figures at 8pm. On Day One, 3,200 people took the vaccine, but the second day saw 3,000 people turning up for the vaccine. On Tuesday, around 2,735 turned up. The vaccination drive is underway across 48 centres in the state with a target of 4,800 per day. No major adverse reactions have been reported so far, as per the health department. “The low vaccination turnout is a nationwide trend. Since health workers are getting inoculated in the first phase, they should be more confident and forthcoming. The situation will gradually improve in the coming days as we now have sufficient stocks… we will step up counselling sessions and other motivational activities,” said Prasad. The nodal officer said that now vaccines would be sent to all districts. “We don’t have a storage problem at all,” he stressed. There are 275 vaccine storage points, nine walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, 700 deep freezers, and 5,505 cold boxes for storing vials. Currently, the vaccination drive is underway four days a week—Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. Thursdays and Saturdays have been set aside for other immunisation work. Sunday is a holiday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 125 fresh Covid cases, zero casualties in a day||Jharkhand achieved close to 56 per cent of its vaccination target on Wednesday by administering Covishield shots to as many as 2779 of the 4970 beneficiaries registered for vaccination on the day, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The vaccination programme was held at 48 centres across the state on Wednesday, and most numbers of people were vaccinated in Ranchi, which achieved 63 per cent of its vaccination target. At least 230 of the 367 registered beneficiaries were administered the shots at three vaccination centres in the district. As many as nine beneficiaries complained of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) in Dhanbad, where 133 people were administered the Covishield shots, revealed figures with the NHM. Jamtara, where 72 people were vaccinated, reported one case of AEFI. However, doctors said that none of the adverse effects following Immunization were severe. Meanwhile, as many as 125 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, while at least 170 patients recovered in the state, the NHM stated in a separate bulletin released on Wednesday night. Ranchi reported 65 cases against 102 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases in the districts down to 527. As per the NHM, as many as 1102 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 12524 people and about 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.93 lakh people and tested 50.84 lakh of them. As per government data, more than 98 per cent of the 118012 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in the state was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 909 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in the country was 612.49 days. After reported seven deaths in 48 hours, the state did not report any Covid casualty on Wednesday. As many as 1057 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Church delegation meets Modi on Stan Swamy||Narendra Modi has refused to “interfere” in securing the release of Father Stan Swamy, the elderly and ailing rights activist who has been in prison for over 100 days, a Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) delegation that met the Prime Minister on Tuesday has said. Modi is learnt to have told Cardinals Oswald Gracias, George Alencherry and Baselios Cleemis in Delhi that the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has the custody of the Jesuit priest, is an “independent” organisation and that he will be unable to intervene. “With regards to the release of Fr Stan Swamy, the Prime Minister said he was aware of the situation and was sympathetic. But this is taken care of by an independent agency (NIA) and the government does not want to interfere in the matter,” Cardinal Gracias, the Archbishop of Bombay and president of the CBCI, said on Wednesday. “The solution in Stan Swamy’s case can only come from the investigating agencies, the Prime Minister said. He added that the case had to go through normal channels,” Cardinal Gracias added. Swamy, 83, was arrested on October 8, 2020, from his residence at Bagaicha near Ranchi. Swamy is one of 16 rights activists, lawyers, writers and academics arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and charged with Maoist links. He is lodged in a Mumbai jail. Swamy maintains that he had not attended the Elgar Parishad event at Bhima Koregaon on December 31, 2017. Caste violence had erupted the next day, resulting in the death of one person. Swamy has been charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sent to judicial custody by a special NIA court. On January 15 this year, Swamy completed 100 days in Taloja prison. Swamy, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, had been for long denied a sipper and straw, which he needs as he cannot have liquid in a glass without spilling the contents. He had to move court and was finally granted the items on December 4 last year. The others in jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case include activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha, Delhi University professor Hany Babu, poet Varavara Rao, lawyers Surendra Gadling, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale, Shoma Sen and Mahesh Raut and academic Anand Teltumbde. They have been in jail for over two years. During Tuesday’s meeting, the cardinals asked Prime Minister Modi about the proposal to invite Pope Francis to India. “The Prime Minister is positive about this and has shared his eagerness to get the Holy Father to India and that this was always on the mind of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has to find an appropriate time when the Holy Father can be invited. The present health and safety conditions in India do not warrant a visit of the Holy Father,” Cardinal Gracias said. The Pope had expressed eagerness to visit India in 2017, four years after his election to the papacy, but the Modi government had not invited him then. The Pope had then visited Myanmar and Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Auto-irrigation and app-based soil monitoring system for farmers||A smart auto-irrigation and app-based soil monitoring system primarily focused on motivating and engaging underprivileged families of migrants who own fields but lack resources for agriculture and are forced to move out for livelihood has not only earned funding from the US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers but also started helping such people at four sites in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. A faculty of IIT-Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, along with a group of students and a horticulture officer have developed the project. The project was set up and devices were installed in the fields at four places in Dhanbad — Baliapur Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sardar Patel Nagar, Koylanagar and Rajendra Sarobar near the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “The project is part of the US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’ Humanitarian Activities Committee (IEEE-HAC) and SIGHT’s (special interest group on humanitarian technology) response to the current Covid-19 situation. Under the project, one institute from selected developing countries was chosen to improve the pandemic situation in their society by means of technology,” said Rajeev Kumar Ranjan, a faculty in the electronics engineering department of IIT-ISM, who is leading the project. The project was the only one selected from India by IEEE, the world’s largest technical professional organisation dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. A grant of $3,700 was provided to start the project. “We received the grant in June last year. Earlier this month, we completed installation in four sites and developed the AgroPro app. The new system comes with automatic irrigation, control through multi-language app, farmer-less irrigation support, 24x7 monitoring, smart adjustment according to environmental conditions powered by artificial intelligence and modular design with support for multiple sprinklers/pumps. We also aspire to further develop the project into an effective food security system that can predict various crop failure scenarios beforehand and become sustainable with the adding of solar panels for supplying electricity,” added Ranjan. The older irrigation technology led to a lot of water wastage and it discourages people to take up farming, particularly in a parched area like Dhanbad, despite owning lands and forces them to migrate to other cities for employment. The project will help those with less farming skill in coming out with a more proficient way of irrigation with the sprinkler system. Temperature, moisture and humidity readings are continuously monitored using sensors and is managed by the AgroPro app, which is available for download on Google Play Store. “The automatic soil monitoring and irrigation system will help farmers tackle water management issues and enhance the crop yield thereby generating means for their livelihood. We had conducted a survey last September and got to know about the problems faced by farmers. This helped us in developing the project to address their issues,” said Ranjan. The basic setup costs around Rs 10,000 for 21,000sqfeet of land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
