22-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Experts meet JRDA officials for Jharia smart city||A team of experts from coal town on Friday briefed the Managing Director of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority Uma Shankar Singh regarding the similarities and differences between the Polavaram Rehabilitation project and Jharia Master plan. The eight-member team recently returned from West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh after carrying out an on site inspection and study of Polavaram Dam rehabilitation project. The team comprising five members of the implementing agency of Jharia master plan, Jharia Rehabilitation and  Development Authority (JRDA) and three members of  Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) also made a presentation before Singh, highlighting the USPs of the Polavaram project. Singh, who is also the Deputy Commissioner of Dhanbad, will also conduct a meeting with Smart City Ranchi project officials on Saturday. On January 27, he will meet top officials of the Centre looking after the Jharia Rehabilitation plan. Talking to the media after Friday’s meeting, Singh said, “We discussed all sorts of issues to prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation plan which is acceptable to all.” An open session of DC Uma Shankar Singh and BCCL chairman, Gopal Singh was held with the residents of 595 underground fire affected sites on January 16 at the new hall during which their suggestions, apprehension and concerns were enlisted. On January 12 he also had a meeting with people’s representatives including Dhanbad MP, PN Singh, Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh; Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha; Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto; Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and Nirsa MLA, Aparna Sengupta. There, they elicited their views to prepare a comprehensive policy for rehabilitation. “We also discussed the ways of initiating the rehabilitation work at the earliest and steps required to accelerate the land and fund transfer process for expediting rehabilitation from 595 underground fire affected areas,” he added. A new livelihood plan with  provisions of all basic facilities at the new place will be linked. Divulging more details, Resettlement in Charge of JRDA, Guljar Anjum, who was present at the meeting said, “The district team during the study of Polavaram Dam found various similarities between the Jharia master plan and Polavaram Dam rehabilitation plan. Both the places the displaced people are being provided houses built on land. The major difference was that while all beneficiaries of the Polavaram dam project are rural and dependent on agrarian income, here 90 per cent of people depend on coal production-related work.” “The package presently being offered by us is also somewhat similar to the package being offered to affected people of Polavaram project,” said Anjum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Lalu has pneumonia, daughter Misa in Ranchi||RJD chief Lalu Prasad has been diagnosed with pneumonia but is currently stable, doctors at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here said on Friday. The health condition of the jailed former Bihar chief minister deteriorated suddenly on Thursday night when he complained of breathlessness, sending hospital authorities into tizzy. Soon, state health minister Banna Gupta, RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, Lalu’s doctor Umesh Prasad and others rushed to the RIMS Paying Ward to take stock of the situation. The RIMS director told reporters on Friday that they were in touch with experts of  All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “Lalu Prasad has been detected with pneumonia but is stable. His lungs too are infected. We had performed a rapid antigen kit (RAT) Covid test which was negative. However, an RT-PCR test is also being done for confirmation," Dr Prasad said. Lalu, RIMS sources have confirmed, is suffering from multiple age-related ailments such as high blood pressure, hyper-tension, kidney malfunction and heart issues. Concerned over the sudden deterioration in Lalu’s health, daughter Misa Bharati came to Ranchi on Friday afternoon. Till reports last came in, she was awaiting permission of jail authorities to meet him. RJD sources said Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi and their younger son and leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav were also scheduled to reach Ranchi in a chartered flight by Friday night. Scores of RJD workers and supporters had lined up outside RIMS Paying Ward since morning to enquire about their leader's health. As per the jail manual, only three persons are allowed to meet Lalu every Saturday. However, the Opposition BJP has been accusing the Hemant Soren government of blatantly violating the manual ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government was formed in Jharkhand in December 2019. The Jharkhand High Court is also hearing a PIL accusing the RJD chief of violating the jail manual. During Friday’s hearing, the court expressed unhappiness with RIMS for not submitting a reply to its earlier query. The high court will hear the case again on February 5. Ever since his convictions in several cases concerning the Rs 970 crore fodder scam, Lalu has been in custody since January 2018. He has been at RIMS on account of his failing health. He was moved to Kelly’s Bungalow over concerns of infection in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in August 2020. However, on November 26, Ranchi district administration moved him back to the RIMS Paying Ward after an audio of his purported conversations with BJP MLAs, allegedly to lure them to switch sides during a Bihar Assembly floor test last year, went viral. While BJP MLA Lalan Paswan, whom Lalu allegedly phoned, had filed an FIR against the RJD chief in Patna in the last week of November 2020, accusing him of horse-trading, Jharkhand High Court lawyer Rajeev Kumar had also filed a PIL in Ranchi in the first week of December 2020 seeking the court’s intervention over the use of a mobile phone by a prisoner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Senior-most nurse at Sadar Hospital gets first Covishield jab||Dhanbad began its Covid-19 vaccination drive in its urban areas on Friday with the senior-most nurse of the Sadar Hospital taking the first jab at its main building. Archana Chattaraj (57) said neither she nor her family members were nervous about the vaccination, as she took the jab in the presence of a host of senior officials of the district administration and District Health Department, including Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and Civil Surgeon Dr. Gopal Das. “There was no reaction or any uneasy feeling after taking the vaccine. After remaining in the observation room for half an hour I came back to my home and did everything as per my normal routine,” Chattaraj said. “My son-in-law, Ashay Nirgude who had also undergone vaccination in Washington two days back convinced me to take it too,” she added. Chattaraj, a nurse at the Matri Shishu Kalyan Kendra of Sadar Hospital, further said that she will convince her colleagues to take the vaccine. Medical Officer of Sadar Hospital Dhanbad, PP Pandey  became the first doctor and second person who was administered the vaccine at Sadar Hospital. He was followed by another Medical Officer Dr. Masoom Alam and Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das. Two centers of Dhanbad -- Sadar Hospital and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital -- have been selected for vaccination drive in the urban areas by the health department. The process began at Sadar Hospital on Friday, while at SNMMCH it will begin from Monday. The dry run for vaccination was conducted at SNMMCH during the second half of the day, while the training for two teams of vaccinators was done from 11 am to 1 pm at PG block of the hospital. “The vaccination drive was carried out at two rural centres at community health centres in Tundi and Topchanchi since January 16,” Uma Shankar Singh said. “The urban vaccination will prove to be useful as these areas have larger concentrations of health workers,” said Singh. “Only seven or eight beneficiaries had minor reactions,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Baton charge on protesting job-seekers in Ranchi||Birsa Chowk was the centre of a clash between protestors and police on Friday noon when hundreds of job-seekers, who were on way to chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence 12km away to demand extension of services, had to be dispersed with batons At least half a dozen protesters sustained injuries, serious enough for them to be treated at Sadar Hospital. But others managed to continue their protest at HEC Gate, demanding that unless police allowed them to meet the chief minister they would not budge. City SP Saturabh did not take journalists calls for comments. But a DSP ranked officer at Birsa Chowk dubbed the police action mild. “It was a mild lathicharge. We didn’t have orders to allow anyone to lay siege on CM House. We pleaded them to leave… but many turned rogue. Hence, a lathicharge was necessary,” he said. As per a communiqué issued from chief minister’s office in the evening, a high-level meeting under the aegis of chief secretary Sukhdev Singh was held on January 6 to decide on modalities for service contractors under the 15th finance commission. “The chief minister has given his nod to the decision taken at the meeting and rural development department will soon issue detailed guidelines for hiring,” read the communiqué. Since January 1, around 1,600 people employed on contract in various capacities, like a computer operator, junior engineer, etc, at panchayat bodies under the 14th finance commission were on an indefinite stir at Birsa Chowk to protest against their termination. As per plans announced earlier, they began marching towards CM House around 12noon, but police blocked their way by closing the HEC Gate. As many tried to scale the gates, police had to resort to lathicharge, leading to a commotion. Several protesters were injured. Protester Piyush Pandey said at least six persons, including a pregnant woman, sustained severe injuries. “Are we Naxalites or terrorists? We are Jharkhandis seeking jobs. This was the government which promised us during Assembly polls that our contracts would not be terminated and that our services will be extended as per the 15th finance commission too. “Suddenly in December (2019) the government changed track, first by claiming that it had to seek permission from the Centre. Now when the Union government has agreed that the state can continue engaging us on contract basis if required, the state government is talking of fresh recruitments,” he said. Pandey said all 1,600 protesters were working on a meagre salary of Rs 10,000 (computer operator) and Rs 17,000 (junior engineer) per month to help the state government implement its welfare plans at the grassroots level. “Now, the government has abandoned us,” he said. Accusing the state government of apathy, another protestor said, “The state government only talks of giving opportunities and creating jobs to local youths. But here, 1,600 local residents are staring at uncertainty due to the government’s abrupt decision to hire afresh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||JFC sign Manipuri winger on loan from FC Goa  ||Indian international winger Seiminlen Doungel has joined Jamshedpur on loan from FC Goa until the end of the 2020-21 Indian Super League season. Fondly known as Len, the Manipuri winger brings with him trophy-winning expertise, having previously won the I-League in 2015-16 and Federation Cup in 2012 and 2017. He was runner-up in the AFC Cup in 2016 and also played an important role in the FC Goa team that finished top of the league in the 2019-20 ISL season, thereby helping them become the ISL Premiers (Shield winners). Owen Coyle underlined the importance of bringing Len into the squad for the remainder of the season. “Len is the most versatile of wingers in the league. He is highly experienced, hungry to play and has proven his quality for years. We want to keep pushing and qualify for the top 4 and we saw an opportunity with Len, who can help us achieve our aim,” the JFC head coach said. Len arrives at Jamshedpur with a wealth of experience. The 27-year-old has made 148 club appearances in his career so far with various teams, like East Bengal, Bengaluru FC, NorthEast United, Shillong Lajong and FC Goa. He is also one of the four Indian players to have a hat-trick in his name in the ISL. “Jamshedpur is a club that has shown a lot of ambition this season with a coach who has been doing great things for a long time. I am here to do my best for the club and help out the team, so we can achieve good results for the last part of the season and qualify for the play-offs,” Len said. The winger joined the Jamshedpur bio-bubble immediately after completing his loan move and will be wearing jersey number 18 for the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sub-10 chill to subside across state from Sunday||The sub-1Sub-10 chill to subside across state from Sunday0 chill currently prevailing in most parts of Jharkhand is likely to be short-lived as minimum temperatures are set to rise from Sunday in most districts because of a western disturbance, according to IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres. "A western disturbance passing through Jammu and Kashmir would impact weather conditions of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar from Sunday. The current north-westerly wind pattern would change to easterly from Saturday. This would result in moisture incursion and cloud formation," Abhishek Anand, the deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, explained on Friday. The senior Met official did not rule out the possibility of light showers around mid-week due to the impact of the passing western disturbance. Weathermen said the night readings, which were below 10 degree Celsius since Wednesday in most parts of the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj, Pakur, Dumka, Koderma and Deoghar, would witness a two-three degree rise from Sunday. Minimum readings in neighbouring West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and elsewhere would also witness a rising trend from Sunday. Met officials at IMD's Patna centre which also keeps a tab on Jharkhand's weather conditions issued an alert of moderate to heavy fog, especially in  districts located in hilly terrains for the next 72 hours. "Dense fog has been reported from eastern and northeastern parts of the country today (Friday). Several pockets over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and foothills of the Himalayas in West Bengal, witnessed dense fog due to the approaching western disturbance. Jharkhand too would be affected, " said a weather analyst at Patna Met Centre. Met statistics revealed that Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 8.8 degree Celsius while Jamshedpur recorded 9.6 degree Celsius on Friday. Both Daltonganj and Bokaro recorded minimum temperatures of 8.1 degree Celsius, while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district notched 8 degree Celsius. Giridih recorded the lowest temperature in the state with the local IMD observatory putting it at 6.6 degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||At least four people killed during illegal excavation of mica in Koderma mine||At least four illegal miners, on a mission to excavate mica scraps, were buried alive on Thursday in Ghatwa village in Fulwaria, three kilometers away from the Koderma district headquarters. According to sources, villagers from nearby Purnadih and Dumariatand villages including Mahendra Das, Lakhan Das, Chandar Das, Kaushalya Devi, Sanjay Singh Ghatwar, Rajesh Singh Ghatwar, and few a others came in search of mica scrap when the mine suddenly collapsed on them, killing the four. Villagers managed to pull out Rajesh and Sanjay, who were admitted in hospital, But their condition remained critical. On receiving information, Superintendent of Police Ehtesham Waquarib, divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar and sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar reached there and ensured the start of the relief work. However, during the late night operations, they failed to find any trace of the bodies. By 11 am on Friday, relief workers managed to fish out two dead bodies of Lakhan Das and Kaushalya Devi, and are still struggling to find Mahendra Das and Chandar Das. Police officials said that the accident had made them aware of the illegal mining in the area, carried out by one Islam Mian. They said that they had spotted illegal mines and had asked the villagers not to participate, warning them of action if they did. Jharkhand has banned mica mining more than two decades ago, but the high demand of the mineral in several industries has resulted in villagers risking their lives to collect the scrap and hand it over to middlemen. This scrap is then transported to other countries via Calcutta. Koderma and Giridih are rich sources of mica, and thus such accidents take place in the area from time to time. District officials have now hinted of taking action to stop this illegal activity in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India units get minister’s awards||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi presented coal minister’s award to Central Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd (CIL) with its headquarters in Ranchi, at a function in New Delhi on Thursday. The minister also presented the same award, instituted for promoting best and sustainable coal mining in the country, to other CIL subsidiaries. While Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) received the award for outstanding performance in coal production, Western Coalfields Limited (WCL) got it for sustainable mining. “Coal is and will remain the lifeline of our energy aspirations,” Joshi said on the occasion, adding the country aimed to become self-reliant in coal production with due care to safety and sustainability. CCL CMD P.M. Prasad and P.K. Sinha and Manoj Kumar, his counterparts in NCL and WCL respectively, received the awards in presence of Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain and CIL chairman Pramod Agarwal. The coal minister also launched Project Passion — the enterprise resource planning (EPR) for CIL — at the same function. EPR will be implemented in two phases. While it was launched for CIL headquarters, WCL and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited on Thursday, it will be introduced in the rest six subsidiaries in August this year. “Implementation of EPR will help CIL in real-time decision making, improving efficiency and reducing cost,” the minister said, adding it will also empower CIL to achieve one billion tonnes coal production by 2023-24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
