23-01-2021||Jharkhand||So what there's bird flu, says girl after saving pigeon ||Jharkhand has been panicking due to the emergence of bird flu in several states of India, for quite some time now, keeping a safe distance from poultry products. But for young Divya Rashmi, saving an injured pigeon from attacking dogs became the priority on Thursday, while she was heading to the gym. Divya said it was her neighbour who had spotted the bird first in distress, about to grovel on the ground,  with a few stray dogs getting ready to devour it. However, he refused to go near it due to the fear of Avian Influenza. “I was in two minds then. I had to go to the gym. But I thought if I didn’t rescue this pigeon she would be eaten by the dogs,” she told The Telegraph Online. It was then when she picked up the bird, which had injuries on its wings, and carried her all the way to the gym. “A few visitors of the gym saw the bird with squint eyes. Some had disapproval in their eyes,” Divya said. Thereafter, she took the bird to her home, where it was treated by her father B.N. Mishra, who is a doctor, and her mother Veena Mishra, who is a lawyer. They gave it boiled rice and lots of fresh water. She said the pigeon made a spectacular recovery and on Saturday it took a flight from her Belwatiker house to test its flight capability. “Birds deserve our love and care and there is nothing to fear about them even in times of Avian Influenza,” said Divya, who works in the district social welfare office in Daltonganj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||At Dalma sanctuary, watering holes are already full||Elephants and other animals will have ample water at Dalma sanctuary this summer which will not necessitate forays into neighbouring villages to quench their thirst. As many as 25-odd check dams and around a dozen watering holes are nearly full owing to a satisfactory monsoon and a mechanism that doesn’t allow water to run off. Generally water bodies inside the elephant abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, go dry in April and May. But this time it’s different. “There is plenty of water in check dams and watering holes. There would be no shortage of water during summer,” said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Some of the 16 new check dams have come up on natural drains within the sanctuary. This has helped rainwater from flowing down into the Subarnarekha river and Dimna Lake from the Dalma hills. The check dams built near Badka Bandh, Nichla Bandh, Chotka Bandh, Rajdohaand Bijli Ghati have helped to maintain the water level at these watering holes. A forester said elephants were on their way home from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal. Now, they were positioned on the periphery of the sanctuary. "The jumbos may slip in any day. Adequate water at the sanctuary would prevent elephants and other animals from venturing into the 80-odd villages and hamlets dotting the sanctuary. We have worked hard to conserve water inside the sanctuary,” the forester said. Another forester said there was no issue related to food availability. “Food is available in plenty. Bamboo stems (favourite of the jumbos) near watering holes have grown and present a green look to the water sources,” he added. Abundance of water will also help maintain the groundwater level at Pinderbera forest guest house, located around 14km from the main entry gates at Makulakocha. Though the Pinderbera facility is not being let out to tourists currently, the four staff quarters there are being let out. The sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary is presently out of bounds for tourists since March due to the pandemic. However, whenever it opens, a rush of tourists is inevitable. Availability of adequate water at the four plush air-conditioned cottages and non-AC rooms at Makulakocha will ensure tourists don’t complain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara uses books to fight cybercrime ‘capital’ tag||The state government has been opening public libraries in villages of Jamtara district, which has won infamy for being the cybercrime capital of India, in an attempt to motivate the youth to take up studies, district authorities said on Saturday. Young boys and girls of the district, who fell prey to the lure of easy money and turned cyber fraud, will now read the best of books free of cost at the public libraries and help Jamtara drop the tag of being a district that has bred several notorious cyber frauds, officials said. “The government has started public libraries in Lalchandih, Mahtodih and Karmatand blocks of Jamtara. Some of the libraries have been set up at panchayat bhawans in order to provide easy access to books to the youth of the district,” said Jamtara deputy commissioner Faiz Ahmed Mumtaz. Public libraries have started operating in at least 33 of 118 panchayats in the district, and the government aims to build at least one library in each of the 118 panchayats in Jamtara, officials said. The libraries already offer books like the Discovery of India, Indian Economy and India After Gandhi. “By reading books, children will not only enhance their knowledge, but also develop the urge to contribute to society and work for their country,” the deputy commissioner said. Besides preventing youths from joining gangs of cyber criminals, the libraries are also expected to help children prepare for their class 10 and class 12 board exams this year, he added. Jamtara is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several rich and educated people living in metros, say police. Around 200kms north of Ranchi, Jamtara is said to be the Indian equivalent of the Romanian town of Râmnicu Vâlcea, dubbed Scamville, which is the global capital for cyber criminals. Last year, Netflix released a web series on the cyber criminals of Jamtara and named it ‘Jamtara – Sabka Number Ayega’. According to police, cyber criminals in Jamtara are most dependent on phishing, a procedure in which cyber frauds disguised as trustworthy representatives of banks and finance companies over phone calls, extract  personal details of their target. Teenagers in the district often learn phishing and minor cyber frauds from their older counterparts and this trend has gradually led to Jamtara becoming a hotbed of cybercrime, say local sources. Cyber crime gangs have also spread their reach to the neighbouring districts of Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih and Dhanbad, as per records with the state police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coaching centre operators observe fast, stage dharna at Ambagan||Coaching centre owners and operators staged a day-long hunger strike at the Ambagan ground in Sakchi here on Saturday to demand the reopening of coaching institutes shut down ever since the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed in March last year. The gathering, comprising owners, directors and teachers, was held under the  aegis of Jamshedpur Coaching Association. "Coaching institutes should be allowed to reopen given that the state government has allowed schools to start functioning. Even in neighbouring Bihar, private tutorial houses have been allowed to function from January 4, " pointed out Krishna Banerjee, a member of the association and director of a Sakchi-based engineering coaching centre. Banerjee said that during the last 10 months, they have all been abiding by government directives. Another association member, Vinay Singh, said that prolonged closure of coaching institutes was adversely affecting the livelihood of numerous professionals associated with them. "It is also affecting students preparing for engineering and other competitive examinations,” he said, adding that all the coaching institutes were incurring huge losses. Another private tutorial owner said, “It is beyond our understanding why coaching centres not allowed to function when schools can. Allow us to also function with similar conditions. We will abide by every protocol set by the government to curb the spread of the virus.” The association members said that they would not hesitate to launch a state-wide agitation if their appeal were ignored. They also threatened to intensify their agitation. Later, the members of the association handed over a memorandum to state health minister Banna Gupta, who also looks after the disaster management portfolio, asking that their concerns be looked at “sympathetically”. The minister was at the venue to attend a function to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up two more vaccination centres||Two more hospitals will join the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the steel city from Monday, thereby increasing the number of centres to four. The two health hubs where vaccination will start are Tata Motors Hospital in Telco and Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal in Parsudih are the new health facilities where Covishield shots are to be given in addition to MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, where the drive began on January 16. As decided earlier, 100 health workers would be vaccinated at each centre everyday. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said they decided to increase the number of vaccination centres after a fresh lot of Covishield vaccines reached here on Thursday. "We are providing Covid-19 vaccination to health workers, including doctors and nurses.  As more vaccines come, we will increase the number of vaccination facilities," said Jha. The civil surgeon said during the past five days of vaccination at MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, 695 health workers had been given the shots. "While at MGM Medical College, 349 people were vaccinated, the number was 346 at Tata Main Hospital. But our target was to vaccinate 1,000 people," he said, adding that the district has over 9,000 health workers. A senior official at Tata Motors Hospital said they carried out a dry run of the vaccination procedure on Saturday. "We have made all arrangements for starting the vaccination programme at our hospital from Monday. We have also carried out a dry run,” said the senior official while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||CIMFR conducts mushroom cultivation programme for self-employment||The Central Industrial Mining and Fuel Research  (CIMFR) has been conducting training in mushroom cultivation and processing, with an aim to make common people self-reliant through this mode of employment. The free of cost training also intends to put up stalls under the CIMFR banner so that the produce of the beneficiaries can be marketed. As many as 17 people from different parts of the district recently underwent a theory and practical session at  the institute from January 17 to 22. This was conducted under the guidance of the Head of the Cleanliness, Sanitation and Horticulture Department D.B. Singh. “The theory classes are being conducted for all beneficiaries from 11 am to 1 pm while the practical training is being imparted on the CIMFR ground from 2 pm to 4 pm,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. The training was launched on October 23 and the first round was conducted till November 3, he said. “We selected the interested trainees on a first come first serve basis and this is the second batch of our mushroom cultivation training,” he added. The training programme was launched at instruction of CIMFR Director P.K. Singh as per the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to research institutions to contribute to the self-employment drive of the Centre. “During the practical training we are providing all kinds of on-site training for production, sterilisation, spawning, bag-hanging, and plant protection” said Sin In order to ensure that only serious applicants get training, Singh said they would impart the second phase of training only to such beneficiaries who bring the cultivated mushrooms as per the first phase of instructions. “We have already provided the training of biscuit production from mushroom during the first phase and will ensure the utilisation of mushroom in samosa and momos as part of our value addition exercise,” he added. “Though at present it is being imparted free of cost, we will propose to fix some nominal charges to avoid the intake of non-serious trainees for the programme,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ailing Lalu to be shifted to AIIMS in Delhi ||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad will be shifted to AIIMS-Delhi after his health condition deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ranchi, officials said on Saturday. Prasad (72), convicted in fodder scam cases, is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here for multiple ailments. "Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS- Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment," RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI. "He is likely to be shifted to AIIMS today. We have already spoken to the experts at AIIMS," he added. Dr Prasad further said that the authorities and his family are arranging for an air ambulance to shift him to AIIMS-Delhi. An eight-member medical board is examining Prasad's health and he is likely to be shifted to AIIMS as soon as the experts submit their report. To send Prasad to Delhi, the jail authorities will also have to seek approval from the CBI court. On Friday, Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti, sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi reached Ranchi on a special plane after being informed of the veteran leader's deteriorating health. The family met Prasad in the night. After meeting his father, Tejashwi told reporters that his condition was worrisome. Tejashwi also met Chief Minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day to seek cooperation of the state government in arranging to take his father to Delhi. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday heard about the violation of the jail manual by Lalu Prasad while he was admitted at RIMS, pulling up the hospital authorities, the jail administration and the state government. The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Four die in mica mine collapse in Jharkhand||Four persons were buried alive after the roof of an illegal abandoned mica mine collapsed in a forest area in Jharkhand’s Koderma district on Thursday night. The incident occurred at Ghatarwa in Phulwaria village under Koderma police station, around 166km north of state capital Ranchi. A police team, led by Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib and sub-divisional police officer Rajendra Prasad, managed to recover the bodies around 4.30pm on Friday. “We managed to retrieve the body of four villagers who were engaged in illegal mining by certain persons. We have asked the officials of Koderma Wildlife Sanctuary (since the area falls under forest division) to lodge an FIR against unidentified persons responsible for operating such illegal mines deep in the forest area and misleading poor people to extract mica scrap. We have been conducting raids acting on a tip-off against such illegal mines and will again step up action against them,” the SP said. The deceased have been identified as Mahendra Das, 54, Chandan Das, 57, Parvati Devi, 50, and Lakhan Das, 50, all from nearby Purnanagar village under Koderma police station. Villagers managed to rescue two persons, Rajesh Singh Ghatwar and Sanjay Singh Ghatwar. According to Prasad, they got information about the incident at around 5pm on Thursday and soon after arranged local rescuers and excavators for the rescue operation. “The villagers were buried under debris of mica scrap and sand. We heard that locals had managed to rescue two persons and admitted them in a hospital for treatment,” Prasad said. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to big cosmetic manufacturers as it is used to add glitter to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been shut down but people are often engaged in scrap mining at a risk to their lives with the threat of roof or mine wall collapse looming over them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Gomoh to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji ||As the nation gears up to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the coal town of Dhanbad and a railway station in Jharkhand named after him still reminisce their association with the legendary freedom fighter. “They (January 23 and January 18) will remain special days for us in our family. I do not know about the future generations but for us we feel proud that a great son of the soil had stayed in our ancestral house on several occasions. We do not want to exhibit our patriotism to anyone but are happy that our family served one of the greatest fighters for Independence of our country,” said 69-year-old Sheikh Mohammed Hasibullah, a shopkeeper in Loco Bazar area of Gomoh. Hasibullah’s grandfather Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah, an advocate, was associated with Netaji and had hosted the leader at their house in Abdullah Colony, barely 500 metres from the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose railway junction (then Gomoh Junction). Gomoh Junction, which falls under the Dhanbad division of East Central Railways, was the station from where Netaji had boarded the Howrah-Kalka Mail (then known as 63 Up Howrah-Peshawar Express and renamed as Netaji Express a few days ago) for Pathankot in Punjab on January 18, 1941. It was the last time that Netaji was seen in India. Hasibullah further recalled his grandfather’s stories on how Netaji had come to their home dressed as a Kabuliwallah. “He had worn the attire of a Kabuliwallah from Jabalpur to escape the Britishers as there were several British men in Dhanbad at the Eastern Coalfields and also at Gomoh station. He had spent the night at our house,” said Hasibullah, son of Sheikh Mohammed Asadullah. Residents of Dhanbad still recall several visits of the man who founded the Azad Hind Fauj to the city between 1930 and 1941 as the founder president of Tata Colliery Mazdoor Sangathan in 1930. “We have heard from former officials of Bharat Coking Coal Limited about the visit of Netaji. We founded the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Smarak Udyan in 1997 which houses the Sisir Kutir (Netaji’s nephew Sisir Bose’s house whose father Ashok Bose was a chemical engineer at BCCL), a stone epitaph engraved with the history of Netaji, his statue and a stone epitaph with the signature of Netaji and another stone epitaph with the names of the 32 leaders of the Azad Hind Fauj. We want to continue hosting the programme on January 23 and also on January 18 so that the current generation learns about the contribution of Netaji and also his association with Dhanbad,” said Gopal Prasad, 69, founder patron of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Smarak Udyan. The park is located near the now defunct Barari Coke Plant of the BCCL in Dhanbad. Prasad also said that several relatives of Netaji have attended his birth anniversary functions at Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
