24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Farukh Choudhary returns to Jamshedpur FC||Jamshedpur FC completed the signing of Farukh Choudhary in the ongoing transfer window of Indian Super League (ISL). The right-winger, who played for three years at Jamshedpur, makes a return to the club and has been signed for two-and-a-half years until the summer of 2023. The 24-year-old forward comes after a successful season of having won the ‘Player of the Match’ award four times with a goal and four assists to his name and has been a regular feature in the Indian national team recently. “Farukh is a fantastic player with a scope of developing even further. He is already an Indian team player and has the pace and ability to create and score goals and is an outstanding addition to our squad. He will help us immediately to challenge for the coveted play-off positions and long term to build a team that will be challenging for honours on a yearly basis,” said head coach Owen Coyle. Farukh, who made 47 club appearances for Jamshedpur in his three-year stint with the club, was ecstatic about his return. “Jamshedpur is like home to me and I am happy to be back here. I spent three amazing years with the club. The coach’s trust in me was one of the biggest factors to come back to the squad. I hope that I will give my best to help the team qualify for the play-offs,” said Farukh. The signing of Farukh will see Jamshedpur winger Jackichand Singh move the other way to Mumbai City FC. Farukh joined the Jamshedpur FC bio-bubble, wearing jersey number 77 this season. The Tata Steel-owned club, which is desperate to make it to the playoffs after losing three matches on the trot, is making wise moves to draft in players who can help them achieve the target. Last week JFC had signed Manipuri winger Seiminlen Doungel to make their intentions clear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||DCA Blue beats Red by five runs to lift Challengers Trophy||T-20 Challenger Trophy (Women) organized by Dhanbad Cricket Association (DCA) concluded on Sunday at the CCWO ground, Dhanbad with the Blue team defeating the Red by five runs in a closely fought final match. The day began at the ground at around 10.10 am with DCA (Red) winning the toss and electing to field. Batting first DCA (Blue) scored 111 runs in the allotted 20 overs by losing nine wickets. Durga Kumari of DCA Blue who made the first unbeaten knock during the inaugural encounter on January 17 again proved to be the most successful player of her side today by scoring 30 runs on 23 bowls with the help of six boundaries. Pushpa Kumari and Dikshita Kumari scored 13 and 12 runs respectively for DCA Blue in an inning where wickets fell on regular intervals. The other two batsmen who reached the double-digit figure included Urmila (11) and Babli. Ruma Kumari and Sunita Kumari of DCA Red took two wickets each while Supriya Saloni, Ankita Maurya and Nisha took one wicket each. Rest four players were run out. Chasing the victory target, DCA (Red) also gave a tough fight and showed some good batting by scoring 106 runs in 20 overs on three wickets but lost the match due to slow run rate by a narrow margin of five runs. For DCA Red Supriya Saloni showed some good batting also and scored 44 runs on 47 balls and remained unbeaten till the last over of the team inning. Sunita Kumari of DCA Red also showed good all-round performance as she scored 25 runs by playing 50 balls. For the winning team DCA (Blue) Babli Kumari proved to be the most successful bowler as she took two wickets in four overs by giving 30 runs. The third wicket for the DCA (Blue) side was taken by Apurva Kumari who gave 15 runs in three overs. Talking to the media during the prize distribution function, General Secretary of Dhanbad Cricket Association, Binay Singh said, “The tournament which was the first after the prolonged closure of pandemic was held successfully and all players showed good sporting spirit despite being away from the ground for a considerable period of over 10 months.” “Other tournaments as per the DCA cricket schedule including inter-school cricket will also be organized,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Three live bombs seized in Dhanbad, one arrested||The police while conducting a raid at the railway quarter in Purana Station Colony seized three powerful bombs and arrested one person on Sunday morning. A four-member bomb squad disposal team from Ranchi which reached the site on Sunday afternoon diffused the bombs. Dhanbad Police are suspecting the involvement of Aman Singh, a UP-based shooter, involved in Niraj Singh murder case. Aman Singh is accused of making extortion calls to various Dhanbad traders in recent times, from behind the bars. Police have arrested five persons belonging to Aman Singh’s gang including Manjit Singh, a resident of Govindpur; Javed Akhtar, a resident of Gajuatand; Ravi Kumar Thakur, a resident of Tetulmari; Bablu Kumar Mishra, a resident of Putki and Sheikh Mohammad a resident of Luby Circular Road. Police have also seized arms and ammunition and Rs 1 lakh from them. The seizure from the railway quarter which falls under Dhansar Police station, however, was made at around 9 am on Sunday morning when the police team led by officer-in-charge of Dhanbad Police Station, Jaiprakash Rai raided the site and seized three bombs from the railway quarter number 133/H. The police team cordoned off the area to prevent any damage to the residential colony and also temporarily vacated some of the adjoining quarters. The four-member bomb disposal squad of Ranchi reached the site after four hours and diffused the bomb. Talking to the media at the site, Jaiprakash Rai said, “One person accused of making extortion calls to some businessman was arrested from Jharia on Saturday and on his indication the raid was conducted today and three powerful bombs were seized.” “Though a detailed investigation is still ongoing regarding the recovery of the bombs but we suspect the involvement of different gangs in making extortion calls and behind the use of bombs to create a sense of terror among people. The arrested person has accepted his involvement in making extortion calls to different traders of Dhanbad on the instruction of a person presently lodged behind the bars,” stated the Rai indicating the role of Aman Singh’s gang in the stocking of bombs. “The recovery of the bombs, due to the timely action of the police, however, has helped to up the confidence of traders,” added Rai. Notably, a series of extortion calls and threat calls were made to different traders, private coal company executives and politicians in the name of Sujit Sinha gang and Aman Singh gang in the last 45 days, said police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Out attending nature’s call, man trampled to death by elephant||Out to attend nature’s call in the open, a tribal man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Ranchi’s Tamar block past Saturday midnight, triggering outrage among villagers over the alleged lackadaisical approach of forest officials in alerting residents about the presence of wild tuskers. In his forties, Budhram Munda, a resident of Kundala village under Tamar police station around 50 km from the state capital, sustained severe internal and external injuries after an elephant caught hold of him and rammed him on the ground several times. A profusely bleeding Budhram was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead, villagers said. The deceased’s brother, Sanjay Munda, said that Budhram, who was unaware of the presence of elephants in the area, ventured out of his house to defecate at around 1.30am. When Budhram did not return, Sanjay rushed out of the house and found him unconscious in a nearby jungle. The villagers rushed Budhram to a nearby hospital, but it was too late by then, said Sanjay. Tamar block falls under the jurisdiction of the Khunti forest officials. Forest Range Officer of Tamar Amarnath Bhagat said elephants usually moved from Jharkhand to Bengal during this time of the year and often turn aggressive upon encountering humans at night. The incident has also raised questions on the government’s claim of ensuring zero open defecation in Jharkhand. “I am not sure if the deceased had a toilet at home or not, but in many cases, villagers defecate in the open despite having toilets at home,” said Bhagat. The incident occurred in the forest area and the deceased’s family immediately got compensation of Rs 50,000, he said. A remaining amount of Rs.3.5 lakh would be paid to the family after verification. Jharkhand was declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) by the former BJP-led state government in 2018. Villagers in Tamar block claim to live under constant fear of elephants, who have destroyed farmland, ransacked houses and killed many in the past. Tamar falls in the elephant corridor, and villagers claim that forest officials have not developed any mechanism to inform them about the movement of elephants in the area. About 10 months ago a dozen tuskers had damaged standing crops and a few houses at Dimra village close to Kundala village where Budhram died on Sunday. In December last year, one Devashish Sahu lost his life after he was attacked by an elephant at Salgadih village in Tamar. Kundala and surrounding localities are also part of the elephant corridor leading to the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Herbal garden blooms at govt health centre in Palamau||A herbal garden in the campus of a government community health centre at Panki situated over 45 kilometres away from Daltonganj town comes as a happy surprise since a government hospital is often viewed as a place where there is no cleanliness. The herbal garden has both medicinal fruits and vegetables said Dr Mahender Kr Prasad, the medical officer in charge of the community health centre at Panki. Known by his first name more among his patients and medical fraternity, Mahender said, “We have carved out a place in the community health centre where we grow gooseberry, mulberry, banana, papaya, guava, jack fruit, lemon, orange, chiku, ladies' fingers, leafy vegetables, etc.” Last summer the team here made a good sale of ladies' fingers which the locals bought happily, informed Mahender. He also said that the patients and their attendants are not allowed to enter the herbal garden and it is properly fenced with its gate under lock and key. “Each one of us spends time to mend the garden. Weeding out of non-palatable grasses is done regularly. Many watch our garden and enjoy when they find luscious Chiku hanging out from the branches,” he added. There is no fund for it and it is managed by the officials and the staff on campus. Mahender also informed that there is a nearly 90-years-old Peepal tree (sacred fig) right in the campus of the government community health centre. “It is a great pride of all of us as it is our landmark,” he said. A large number of local women come here in the morning for their pujas, which helps us keep our campus free of dirt and filth. This tree is also a rest house for a few hundred white herons that come here and spend their night only to fly away in the morning. Locally herons are called Bogola and these are as white as snow and many patients and attendants claim their sighting is very auspicious and patients recover fast said a civil society activist Mumtaz Ahmad Khan. Mahender said, “This old Peepal tree once became 'sick' and its leaves began to rot and fall in great heaps. We found that this tree would soon become a lifeless stem only.” He sprayed a medical solution on the tree and it got out of the 'malaise'. Mahender said no forest official whom they had approached tried to save the Peepal tree or send any help. As he had an honours degree in Botany before embarking upon medical science courses he used his knowledge of Botany and helped save the Peepal tree. Sources said the doctors and this tree are trusted alike here. Civil surgeon Palamau John F Kennedy said, “Our medical team at this centre here at Panki puts in its best to serve the ailing people here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Protesting slum dwellers block Bistupur Main Road||Over 300 residents of Dhatkidih Medical Bustee on Sunday afternoon blocked the road in front of Bistupur Police Station, demanding the arrest of July Ghosh who was murdered on January 3 in the area. The protesters, mostly women, resorted to a road blockade after senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vanan failed to turn up at the police station, where they had been staging the gherao since 11:30 am on Sunday. This resulted in the disruption of traffic movement through the Bistupur Main Road, but was cleared within half an hour after deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Arvind Kumar stepped in. He assured them that the assailants would be arrested soon. The agitators were demanding the arrest of one Subham Mukhi and three others suspected to be involved in the murder of July Ghosh. Widow of liquor mafia, Kallu Ghosh, July (38) was found murdered on the bed of her residence in the Dhatkidih Medical Bustee in Bistupur on January 3 night. The police have failed to crack the case even after 20 days, harping on one theory of July being killed by someone close to her. “The victim's family members as well as others in the slum have time and again told the police that the murder might have conspired by Subham Mukhi and executed by his three associates, but the police are not paying heed to this,” one of the agitators said. Bistupur Police Station OC Vishnu Raut said they are investigating the case from all possible angles. “We have so far interrogated over a dozen suspects in connection to the July's murder.  We are looking into all angles, including the family as well as the liquor business angles.  Until and unless we do not get strong evidence against anyone, how can we make the arrest,” quipped Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online, dubbing the case as a challenging one. “We have to find out not only the murderer, but also detect the murder weapon that was used in the murder.  As of now it stands to be a blind case as we have not got any strong clue to the murderer,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||State sees change in mood, to double vaccination sites||Jharkhand will double Covid vaccination sites when the drive resumes on Monday in an effort to expand coverage and speed up the process as authorities are optimistic of better turnouts after Friday logged beneficiary attendance at 68 per cent. While the state’s overall vaccine coverage now stands at 61 per cent, Friday’s inoculation drive alone touched 68 per cent, increasing the state’s overall average marginally - one per cent - in the last week since the rollout of the vaccine on January 16. State director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla said while the total number of centres would be finalised by Sunday night, he emphasized that the count would be doubled. “We began with 48 sites. From Monday we are planning to make it 100 so that coverage can be increased,” he said. Friday’s vaccination drive was encouraging. According to the state health department, Ranchi recorded 100 per cent vaccination for the first time. Several other districts touched over 70 per cent. Palamau, one of the remotest districts, tops with 76 per cent overall coverage followed by Bokaro (74 per cent), Giridih (71 per cent). Eight other districts are above the 60 per cent mark. Shukla said it was too early to specify a clear trend among the best and worst-performing districts. But he guessed that the Palamau district administration probably mobilised resources better than others. In terms of numbers, of the 24,091 targeted beneficiaries, 14,794 have taken the jabs since January 16. A total of 42 adverse affect (AFI) cases were also reported across Jharkhand. But the authorities maintained that these were anxiety-driven and lasted for a brief period during pre and post-vaccination, a common feature during any immunisation drive. No AFI case required medication or hospitalisation. Jharkhand is administering the Covishield vaccine four days a week — Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Riding high on aggressive awareness drives, coupled with no major AFI cases, NHM officials foresee that hesitancy and apprehensions about the vaccine would gradually subside in the coming days. Shukla explained that the Union health ministry’s decision to alter SOPs and offer more flexibility to registered beneficiaries was another reason why the state was expecting a better turnout. “Earlier, only those who are slotted to get vaccines on a particular day were entitled to take the shots. However, the health ministry has now made certain modifications in the Co-win app, a real-time software for the vaccination drive, under which a registered beneficiary can walk in at his/her earmarked vaccine centre on any day to get the shot,” he said. Shukla said there was a possibility that a beneficiary may be out of town on the day he/she is supposed to take the vaccine. “Or he/she may have missed the auto-generated SMS due to network congestion, change of phone etc. So, pre-registered beneficiaries can choose to take the vaccine out of turn,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand active Covid cases below 1,000||The number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand dipped below the 1,000-mark on Friday night while the first phase of the vaccination programme continued across the state.  According to the data released by the state government at 9pm on Friday, there were 75 positive cases recorded, 127 recoveries and two casualties, while the number of active cases went down to 978. In Ranchi district that had the maximum active cases, the number went down to 495, below the 500-mark for the first time, though it accounted for 50.61 per cent of the total cases in the state. East Singhbhum was the only other district that had over 100 active cases at 121, accounting for 12.37 per cent of the total cases. All other districts have case counts below 50. The Santhal Pargana region had a particularly favourable Covid situation. While Pakur district does not have a single active case, Sahebganj had just one. Among other districts of the region, only Godda had 16 cases while Jamtara (9), Deoghar (7) and Dumka (6) had below 10 cases. In the remaining part of the state, Dhanbad had 49 cases on Friday, Gumla 41, while Latehar had 38 and Lohardaga 36 cases. While Bokaro had 35 active cases, Hazaribagh had 21. With 116,116 among 118,154 positive patients recovered, the recovery rate in the state was 98.27 per cent, which was better than the national rate of 96.80 per cent.  Similarly, with 1,060 total deaths, the mortality rate of the state was 0.89 per cent, which was less than the national rate of 1.40 per cent. Meanwhile, the first phase of vaccination for Covid-19 covering health workers continued on Friday. A total of 3,153 of the targeted 4,654 people were administered the Covishield vaccine, achieving 68 per cent immunisation on Friday. “The situation in Jharkhand is much better compared to many other states,” said outgoing principal secretary (health), Nitin Madan Kulkarni, who has been transferred as the commissioner of South Chotanagpur division. “As the number of active Covid cases has gone below 1,000 in the state, it’s the right time to move out,” a smiling Kulkarni said, when asked about his transfer order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi lauds Hemant Soren for child rescue||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi wants to see Jharkhand become “India’s first child-friendly state”. After speaking to chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday afternoon over phone when Satyarthi appreciated him for rescuing a six-year-old tribal girl from traffickers, the Nobel Peace Prize winner tweeted: “Let’s work together to make Jharkhand India’s first child friendly state.” “I felt a deep compassion and conviction in your voice when we spoke a little while ago about the rescue of a 6-year old tribal girl from West Singhbhum with your intervention. Admiration!” Satyarthi added. The girl from Kudusai village of Manoharpur area in West Singhbhum district was rescued while she was being taken away by the alleged traffickers. Soren, on learning that the girl was being trafficked, had directed to rescue her. Following this incident, Satyarthi spoke to Soren on Saturday to express his admiration and backed it up with his tweet. “It was a pleasure to interact and share mutual thoughts,” Soren replied in his tweet to Satyarthi, adding that “Jharkhand has faced the curse of child trafficking and we are trying our best to the menace”. He, however,  appealed for help from Satyarthi and everyone else. “But we would need support from you and everyone to provide a safe and bright future for our children,” Soren added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
