25-01-2021||Jharkhand||New voters pledge to exercise franchise on 11th National Voters’ Day||More than two dozen new voters took oaths on Monday to participate in the upcoming election. The occasion was the 11th National Voters’ Day during which Dhanbad deputy commissioner cum district election officer Uma Shankar Singh provided them with voter identity cards along with ‘Proud to be a Voter-Ready to Vote’ badges at the Dhanbad Club. The best performing booth level officers who were also present during the function were felicitated by the deputy commissioner. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Saudamini Sinha (20), a graduation part II student of Banasthali Vidyapeeth said, “The programme held today was quite informative as we were also apprised about the significance of e-voter card which we can download at any place in the country, even if we forget to carry the original.” When asked about the significance of voting, Sinha, daughter of a Life Insurance Corporation of India officer said, “It is not that only soldiers fighting on the border have a responsibility towards the nation. Being a good citizen and exercising our franchise to ensure good people become our representatives is equally responsible.” Echoing similar sentiments, Anchal Priya (18), a plus two student of BSSL Women’s College of Dhanbad said, “I am feeling quite confident and responsible after receiving the card today and will exercise my franchise during the upcoming local body elections.” A similar oath-taking ceremony was also organized at the Dhanbad Court campus during which Dhanbad principal district and session judge Basant Kumar Goswami, along with a host of judicial officers, and the Dhanbad Bar Association General Secretary Devi Sharan Sinha also took oaths to exercise their franchise. Speaking during the occasion, Goswami said that everybody should exercise their democratic right to vote, and if one is prevented from doing so, then one should fight for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City Corporation holds investors' meet in Dhanbad||Over 100 entrepreneurs, members of different trade bodies and industrialists of Dhanbad took part in an investors' meet organized by Ranchi Smart City Corporation on Monday to attract bidders for the proposed auction of two plots. Investors were apprised about the facilities to be offered at the smart city, besides criteria for investing in the project. The meet, organized at New Town Hall from 11.30 am, witnessed the presence of Amit Kumar, IAS, who was present as Director of State Urban Development Authority as well as chief executive officer of Ranchi Smart City Corporation. He explained the technicalities of the process of applying for investing in the project being developed near Ranchi Airport. Kumar said, “Any investor, after booking a plot, will be provided a one-year window period. But, once he makes the final payment he will have to complete his proposed project within five years. The investor may complete his project in a single-phase or more than one phase. But, he will not be allowed more than five years for completing a project.” Kumar said he had received several queries from interested investors. “The process of participating in the ongoing auction of two plots of the Smart City has been made online. Potential investors can take part in the auction from their homes,” said Kumar, adding that the smart city project was being developed as a model satellite township meant for over 1.5 lakh people. He said it would be equipped with world-class facilities. "There are several components of the project, including residential, commercial, institutional, public, semi-public or mixed. These offer a golden opportunity for investment," he said. Hubban Mallick, who is MD of Pay and Clean agency which looks after the operation and maintenance of five mechanized dust sweepers for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, sought special concessions for young entrepreneurs like him. “The Ranchi Smart City, being developed close to the airport, will not only provide opportunities for investors but also provide an opportunity to people who dream of living in an area with world-class facilities," Mallick later told reporters. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta, who was also present, suggested that Ranchi Smart City officials also include a clause with regards to limitation of the period for completion of a project. He feared that some investors, after fulfilling criteria in one phase, may not participate in the next phase. He, however, lauded that project. "The project in Ranchi will create competition among different cities and we would like the government to also plan similar projects for Dhanbad," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fog, clouds push up night readings across state||Fog and clouds, formed due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through the northern parts of the country, have pushed up night readings across Jharkhand. The dense fog resulted in poor visibility just after sunrise at several places on Monday. Surface visibility was reduced to below 700 metre at areas across the Kolhan region, including Jamshedpur. Ranchi, Daltonganj, Dumka, Giridih, Bokaro, Sahebganj and Latehar also experienced poor visibility. "Several districts witnessed partly cloudy sky with moderate to heavy fog on Monday morning. The wind pattern over Jharkhand has changed from north-westerly to easterly due to the impact of the western disturbance. This in turn has resulted in a rise in minimum reading across Jharkhand," said a duty officer at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met centre in its forecast for the next five days also predicted rain and thundershowers in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand on January 28 and 29. On Monday, Ranchi and its adjoining districts recorded a minimum temperature of around 12 degree Celsius while the minimum reading of Jamshedpur shot up to 15 degrees. Daltonganj and Bokaro districts recorded a minimum of around 11 degree Celsius while Dumka, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Pakur and several other places recorded minimum temperatures of around 12 degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Athletics to resume in steel city with cross country race||Athletes, away from the track and field for nearly a year for the Covid pandemic, will be back in action on Wednesday _ at least in East Singhbhum to begin with.  The East Singhbhum District Athletics Association has switched gears to conduct a cross country event for boys and girls from Jaipal ground at Karandih here on Wednesday, January 27.  “Performance of the athletes will be the yardstick for selection of the district squad for the 12th Jharkhand State Cross Country Championship to be held in Deogarh on January 31,” said association secretary Ravinder Murmu  According to him, the competition will be conducted in various categories, namely, senior men and women (10 km), under-20 boys (8 km), under-20 girls (6 km), under-18 boys (6 km), under-18 girls (4 km) under-16 boys (2 km) and under-16 girls (2 km).  “Participants have to report to technical committee chairman Ranjeet Kumar Singh at the venue at 9am before the start of the competition,” Murmu said, adding this is the first athletics event in the district after the pandemic.  He, however, admitted that condition of the ground was not good. “We are helpless since we are not permitted to hold competitions in stadiums in Jamshedpur. The stadiums are still out of bounds for the athletes. We had to resume our activities and Jaipal ground was the only option available,” Murmu said.  The Murmu said shot-putter Pankaj Yadav and long jumper Manpreet Kaur from East Singhbhum are part of the state outfit at the Junior Federation Cup Athletics Championship which started in Bhopal on Monday. “Performance during the Federation Cup will be key for athletes when it comes to finding a spot in the national squad for the Junior World Championship, which is scheduled in Nairobi, Kenya in August,” he said.  According to Murmu, the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is organising a pre level-1 online coaching course. Sports teachers, parents of athletes, and former athletes can register at www.indianathletics.in . The Last date for registration is January 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||RMC starts home visits to collect property tax||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has started collecting holding tax from houses as online payments aren’t possible because its official website remains defunct, officials said on Monday. Sri Enterprises, a third-party agency roped in by RMC for collection of holding tax, has appointed as many as 75 tax collectors to visit houses of city residents on request and collect their holding tax either in cheque or cash, said Vaibhav Kumar, a manager with the agency. “Any person willing to get their holding tax collected from their residence can make a phone call to RMC and make a request. The concerned tax collector of the ward will visit the person’s residence within 24 hours and collect holding tax,” said Kumar. As per records with the RMC, there are as many 53 wards in urban Ranchi and tax collectors have been assigned different wards depending on their population and surface area. “Some wards have three to five tax collectors, while some wards have only one tax collector depending on the population,” Kumar said. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya said the initiative of collecting tax from the residence of city residents was taken in order to avoid crowding at the RMC office and ensure smooth tax payment despite not having the option of online payment. “We are trying our level best to make tax payment hassle-free for the people of Ranchi. We had even asked the state authorities to waive off the penalty for late payment of tax, but they did not agree,” Vijaywargiya said. Soon after the JMM-led alliance government was formed in Jharkhand, it decided to rope in a new third-party agency, Sri Enterprises, for tax collection on behalf of RMC. Sparrow, the agency which was doing the job during the former Raghubar Das-led government, was shown the door. The website, according to RMC officials, has been undergoing a software update since October last year. Sources said the new agency roped in to do the job on behalf of RMC was facing teething issues, which lasted for longer than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, all property owners who had not paid tax yet will have to pay a penalty along with their holding tax irrespective of the reason for the delay in payment, Vijaywargiya said. The decision of not giving relaxations on tax penalty comes at a time when the government has been asking people to stay indoors and use online modes of payment in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Security beefed up in Naxalite areas of Kolhan before R-Day||Police and paramilitary forces across Kolhan comprising the twin districts of Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district have been put on high alert on Monday in view of celebrating an incident-free Republic Day here on Tuesday. In the naxal-infested Ghatsila subdivision, police have started long-range patrolling (LRP) from Monday besides making deployment of paramilitary forces at strategic locations there. In the West Singhbhum district and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district adequate security measures have been taken up to prevent the naxals from coming overground anywhere during Republic Day. Revealing about the preparations on the security front, East Singhbhum district superintendent of police (Rural) Subhash Chandra Jat said the security arrangement in view of Republic Day was made in accordance with the instructions given by the deputy inspector general (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh following a review meeting held at Jamshedpur on Thursday. "Accordingly, we have deployed security personnel at the strategic locations under Ghatsila subdivision and also in the Patamda as well as Bodam thana areas which are considered as naxal-infested areas. We have deployed security forces in certain points in the steel city also," said Jat, who is also City SP, while talking to The Telegraph Online. The SP (Rural) stated that they have also begun LRPs in these areas so as to ensure that no subversive activity can take place during Republic Day. Similarly, the West Singhbhum district superintendent of police, Ajay Linda also informed that more than one LRPs are being conducted in the rebel-infested areas like Sonua, Goelkera, Bandhgaon and also in Saranda. "The government institutions, including schools where Republic Day celebrations are held, have been provided with adequate security forces from Monday. At the same time, we have begun LRPs in the rebel-infested areas across the district," said Linda while talking to this website. He stated that the areas where naxal-sponsored violence and subversive acts like the planting of IEDs had taken place recently are being given special attention. The Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi also spoke about beefing up the security measures in the district. "We are focusing on all the rebel-infested areas, especially areas bordering West Singhbhum for making the Republic Day celebration incident-free. We have also intensified LRPs in the district bordering West Singhbhum district as dreaded rebels like Maharaj Pramanic are active here in Ichagarh, Chowka and Kuchai area," said Arshi while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meanwhile, the state police on Monday have released a list of 17 hardcore rebels on which bounties ranging from Rs 5 lakhs to Rs 1 crore have been declared. Of the 17 rebels, two are from Kolhan – one is Maharaj Pramanik who carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head and the other one is Sachin Mardi. Whereas Pramanik is active at Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Sachin who is active in Patamda and Ghatsila area of East Singhbhum district also carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head. The police have also flashed the photographs of most of the wanted rebels, informing that the identity of those reveals the whereabouts of these naxals will be kept secret.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Samadhan holds R-Day celebrations with fashion show for homemakers||More than two dozen homemakers (housewives) of Dhanbad celebrated Republic Day by participating in a fashion show on Monday, a day ahead of Republic Day. The fashion show was organised by a Jharia-based youth organization Samadhan, in a private banquet hall of Saraidhela. The homemakers walked the ramp donning attires of our national heroes including Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Rani Lakshmi Bai, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Khudiram Bose, etc. The event was organised with the aim of providing an opportunity to housewives who themselves do not get the chance of participating in competitions and cultural programmes as they remain busy preparing their children for Republic Day functions. The participants also delivered patriotic speeches, recited poems, sang nationalist songs and danced to the tune of patriotic songs. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We invited people to join the programme using the social media platform and also spot entry in the event was accepted. People of 18 to 70 years of age were allowed entry during the programme." “We never expected such a tremendous response to our function. Manisha Minz, wife of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, participated as chief guest in the event. More than 30 homemakers also took part in the event,” said Singh and added that the function which was followed by lunch and prize distribution was organized with the personal contribution of more than two dozen Samadhan volunteers in order to provide the opportunity to the homemakers to participate in cultural programmes of Republic Day. Mamta Chaudhary (55), mother of a BA Part II Student of SSLNT Women’s College, Sneha Chaudhary (22), who is also a volunteer of Samadhan and recited a patriotic poem during the show said, “Generally the Republic Day functions are either held at government or private offices, business establishments, school, colleges, etc. and thus the homemakers rarely get the opportunity to participate in cultural programmes. But we got the opportunity to participate in the function today due to the innovative thought of Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh.” Echoing sentiment, Wasseypur resident, Nurjahan Begum (65), mother of another Samadhan Volunteer, Abda Parveen who also took part in the show donning the attire of a traditional Indian housemaker said, “We have five daughters and we as homemakers always remained busy preparing our children in order to let them participate in the cultural programme during their schools days and never got time for ourselves to participate in the Independence Day or Republic Day functions. Today we are very grateful to the organisers who provided us with the opportunity to participate in the function.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Uri martyr's widow to hoist Tricolour at Albert Ekka Chowk||Albert Ekka chowk, the Ranchi landmark named after the 1971 India-Pakistan war hero Paramveer Chakra Lance Naik Albert Ekka will for the first time hold Republic Day celebrations this year by unfurling the Tricolour, courtesy a city social outfit, Rashtriya Yuva Shakti (RYS). Jinghi Dungdung, widow of Jawra Munda, who was martyred in the 2019 terror strike at Uri, will hoist the National Flag accompanied by three of children. Uttam Yadav, president of Rashtriya Yuva Shakti (RYS), said on Monday that the move was to pay respects to those who laid their lives for the cause of the country. “Rather than invite VIPs for flag hoisting, we decided to call a war widow to do the honours as they deserve that much respect,” he said. Yadav added their organisation has started touring the state to reach out to war veterans and help them in any way. A day before Republic Day, the organisation launched a cleanliness drive in and around Albert Ekka Chowk. Members decked up the martyr’s bust with flowers and flags. The outfit also conducted cleanliness drives in other spots and roundabouts of the capital, namely Birsa Munda Samadhi Sthal at Kokar where tribal icon and freedom fighter Birsa Munda was laid to rest, Shaheed Chowk and Bhagat Singh Square in Chutia, among others. Yadav said they planned to decorate the 500km-stretch from Albert Ekka Chowk to Shaheed Chowk, with flowers and Indian flags. The programme would be open for all. “It will be a simple ceremony where the Uri martyr's widow will unfurl the Tricolor at about 11am while others are free to join. Our volunteers will ensure Covid safety protocols,” he said. Jhingi, who lives in remote Topra block in Khunti district, couldn’t be reached for a comment as her phone was switched off. Yadav, however, claimed that the martyred jawan’s family hadn’t received any assistance from the state government so far and was battling financial woes. “Neither did she get a compensatory job after her husband was martyred, nor any financial assistance from the state government. The widow has three minor children who require assistance for their education,” Yadav said. Yadav said they were touring Jharkhand to meet war veterans and families of those who lost their lives in operation. “We will prepare a comprehensive report and submit it to the state government. If it doesn’t act, we will then launch a stir to fight for their cause,” he said. Two Indian soldiers lost their lives in the 2019 terror strike in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir. While Sepoy Jawra Munda was from Jharkhand’s Khunti district, sepoy Naiman Kujur was from Gumla district. The state Republic Day programme would be held as usual at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground with governor Droupadi Murmu hoisting the Tricolour. Chief minister Hemant Soren will be in Dumka to hoist the flag. A full dress rehearsal of the Republic Day function was held on Sunday. As many as 10 platoons of Jharkhand police and paramilitary forces took part. The district administration has already announced that there would not be any cultural programme at the venue in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi accounts for 74 per cent of the fresh Covid cases in the state||More than 74 per cent of the 54 people found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday were residents of Ranchi, a district that reported 70 per cent of state's Covid cases on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department revealed. As many as 40 of the 54 people found infected were from Ranchi, while no other district in Jharkhand reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi also accounted for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. Of the 821 people battling the viral infection in the state, at least 428 were from Ranchi. Two more Covid-19 patients died during treatment in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1063, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi and West Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each in the past 24 hours. The total count of Covid fatalities reached 230 in Ranchi on the day, the second-highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum has reported 356 Covid casualties so far, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). At least 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, the bulletin stated. While East Singhbhum reported six cases against 16 recoveries, Dhanbad reported only one case against 10 recoveries. Three people were found infected in Bokaro, while seven patients recovered there. The government tested swab samples of 12019 people and around 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 51.48 lakh people and tested 51.39 lakh of them. As per government data, of the 1,18,286 people infected by the virus so far, more than 1.16 lakh people have recovered. As per data with the NHM, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 98.40 per cent on Sunday, while the Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate was 96.80 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.06 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 1145.42 days against the national average of 620.71 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand duo eye Bengal polls||At least two regional parties of Jharkhand have started weighing their prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls in neighbouring Bengal. While chief minister Hemant Soren who is also the working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is set to address a public meeting at Jhargram on Thursday, Asju party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto already attended a party workers’ meeting at Baghmundi in Purulia district on Sunday. “Hemant Babu will first address a public meeting at Jhargram on Thursday and we will then sit together for finalising other issues related to the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya informed on Sunday. The JMM enjoys considerable support of the local people in Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Malda and Dinajpur, besides in Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur, he claimed, adding they were yet to finalise about fielding candidates in any particular seats  in those areas. The JMM that claims support in certain pockets in Bengal, Bihar and Odisha had also contested eight Assembly seats, albeit unsuccessfully, in the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. “Sudeshji is attending a meeting of the party workers at Baghmundi in Purulia district today,” Ajsu party’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat informed on Sunday. “We consider Jungle Mahal comprising Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur as a part of greater Jharkhand and demand there should be a Manbhum-Junglemahal Territorial Administration (MJTA) for better development of the region,” he further informed The National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation (NCHRO) presented the Mukundan C Menon award at a virtual ceremony to Father Stan Swamy, who is at present in Mumbai’s Tiloja Central Jail after being picked up by the NIA last year for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon case. The award, instituted in memory of the noted journalist and human rights activist Mukundan C Menon, was presented to the octogenarian Jesuit priest who “had dedicated his life for the rights of Adivasis in Jharkhand” by S Balan, an advocate and president of the Karnataka chapter of the NCHRO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
