26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Army veterans participate in Republic Day run in Dhanbad||Over 50 retired defence service personnel took part in the Veterans India Patriotic run near the Bekar Bandh Park on Tuesday. The event, organised as part of a nationwide programme of the Veteran’s India organisation, began at 10:30 am with hoisting of the national flag. The run took off at 11:30 am, with local children and their families joining it. Dr Pushpal Kumar, in-charge of an ex-Army personnel poly clinic, and his wife Sonal Kumari flagged off the run where some participants ran around the park while the older ones just walked. Vickey Kumar emerged winner, as Aditya Singh and Priyankar Singh bagged the second and third spots respectively. Certificates and sweets were distributed among participants after the event. Talking to The Telegraph Online , Ramesh Prasad, an ex-Indian Air Force personnel, said, “The patriotic run held on Tuesday was quite successful. Around 40 children of the adjoining localities also took part in the contest and we distributed certificates, sweets and chocolates among them.” “Republic Day marks the day when democracy came into existence in our country. So we celebrated the day and apprised the common people and children present during the event about its significance,” former defence personnel RN Mishra. He added that their organisation carries out welfare activities from time to time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Local residents’ policy for jobs soon, says Hemant on R-Day||Chief minister Hemant Soren has said that the state government is committed to ensuring social and economic justice to the people of Jharkhand and is working on a new local resident's policy to reserve 75 per cent jobs for locals. During his address in Dumka after hoisting the Tricolour on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, Hemant said that the state government had declared 2021 as the year of recruitments. “The real purpose of the Constitution will be achieved when everyone has access to social and economic justice. This government is committed to it,” he declared. “We are working towards a new local residents’ policy to reserve 75 per cent government jobs for locals,” said. Notably, the Raghubar Das government had in 2016 come up with a similar policy which was then criticised by JMM and others in the Opposition for being “pro-outsiders”. Stressing on filling vacant positions in the administration, he said, “We have come up with Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examination rules for the first time in many decades so that different recruitment agencies can now conduct round-the-year recruitment tests.” For residents of Dumka, Hemant promised them a state-of-the-art convention centre. “It will serve as an integrated platform for artistes for promotion of local arts,” he said, adding that a 500-bed hospital would also be ready soon. In his 40-minute speech, Hemant said that women’s safety was always a key priority for his government. “We have set up a centralized 181 helpline integrating police, ambulance and other services for women's help,” he said, adding that in every district Sakhi centres for the rescued and rehabilitation c women were currently operational. Chief minister also spoke of how his government had walked the extra mile to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and at the same time fight financial crunch to fulfil many of the poll promises made to voters. “Our covid management has been one of the best in the country,” he said. Hemant also cited the launch of the Marang Gomke Scholarship Scheme to send select students to foreign countries for higher studies and farm loan waivers as some of the key achievements of his government. In Ranchi, governor Droupadi Murmu hoisted the Tricolour at Morabadi ground amid a gathering of 3,000 people. The Republic Day function at Morabadi was without the usual cultural programme and Prabhat Pheri. Only 10 platoons of state police and para military forces took part in a parade. Murmu appealed to the public to take a vow to stand united to safeguard the constitutional values of the nation. “Let’s everyone come together and stay united to fight against social evils and issues of terrorism, crime, etc for a better society and nation,” she said. Later, Hemant called on Murmu at Raj Bhavan as is the custom every Republic Day. But this year, the annual beating retreat at Governor House was also cancelled due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Youth dies on the spot after trailer rams eatery ||A 28-year-old man was killed on spot as a speeding trailer rammed into an eatery, near which he was standing, on Kalimati Road under Sakchi Thana area, on Monday at around 11 pm. Five bikes were also damaged as the driver of the trailer, loaded with iron goods, lost control over his vehicle and rammed into the crowded Pappu Hotel, a popular food joint near the Sakchi Gurudwara. The deceased youth, who is yet to be identified, waiting outside the restaurant for a parcel of food when the accident happened. His body was sent for postmortem by the police to the MGM Medical College Hospital mortuary. “A 28-year-old youth was killed on impact by a speeding trailer that rammed into an eater along the Kalimati Road. The heavy vehicle also damaged five vehicles parked in front of the eatery,” Sakchi Police Station officer-in-charge Kunal Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The driver of the truck immediately tried to flee the spot but the staff of the eatery as well as the customers got hold of him. The agitated crowd beat him up and partially destroyed his vehicle before the police intervened. Kumar said they had subjected him to an alcohol test at the medical college. “We had taken the driver into custody and subjected him to an alcohol test, but it was tested negative at the medical college hospital.  We are now looking into whether there was any mechanical failure in the trailer,” he said. The driver has been arrested and his vehicle has been seized, while the damaged bikes have also been taken to the police station. Social activist Putul Singh, whose son’s bike has been damaged in the accident, blamed the police for it. She demanded that the administration should mend the damaged vehicles themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad splashes R-Day colours of joy||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||72nd Republic Day celebrations across state||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 60 per cent of its vaccination target, 18,422 vaccinated so far||At least 18,422 people have been administered the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand so far, helping the state achieve 60 per cent of its vaccination target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed on Monday. As many as 30,831 people were registered for the vaccination at various centres across the state, but more than 12,000 of them did not turn up at the designated places to get the Covishield shots, NHM stated in a report released on Monday night. At least five districts – Ranchi, Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih and Bokaro have achieved more than 70 per cent of their respective vaccination targets in Jharkhand so far. Palamu led in terms of vaccination by administering Covishield shots to 79 per cent of the 1321 beneficiaries there. Of the 1924 beneficiaries registered for vaccination in Ranchi, 1342 got the shots – the highest among the 24 districts in the state. On Monday, the government vaccinated as many as 3616 of the 6740 people registered for vaccination, thereby achieving 54 per cent of its target on the day, NHM stated in a separate report. Ranchi achieved 91 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by administering the Covishield shots to 362 of 400 registered beneficiaries. While most of the people vaccinated in Jharkhand did not complain of any side effects, as many as 171 beneficiaries complained of minor adverse effects after getting the Covishield shots, NHM highlighted in its figures. At least 127 of the 171 people who complained of adverse effects following immunization were residents of Ranchi, NHM stated. However, doctors said that no major cases of adverse effects following immunization were reported in the state and the ones who complained of side effects gradually attained stability. The vaccination programme began in Jharkhand on January 16 and 3200 people were vaccinated on the day at 48 centres across the tribal state. Meanwhile, as many as 74 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day and 122 patients recovered. As per government data, the number of active cases of infection dropped to 772 on the day. Ranchi accounted for 43 of the 74 cases reported in Jharkhand, while East Singhbhum reported seven cases. No other district reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. However, a patient in Ranchi died during treatment, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1064.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Highway blocked over mishap death in Latehar district||Protesters blocked National Highway 39 in Latehar district of Jharkhand for over two hours on Monday following the death of a five-year-old girl in a road accident on Sunday night. A truck from Bihar carrying potatoes had run over Anjali Kumari, 5, daughter of Manika resident Sanjay Ram, at around 8.30pm on Sunday. The road is usually crowded as it passes near the main market and the Manika block office. The highway links Jharkhand with Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “The girl had died on the spot. When her body was given to the relatives around 12.30pm on Monday after post-mortem at the Latehar Sadar Hospital, protesters sat along NH 39 and refused to budge even after the best of efforts. They were demanding adequate compensation for the parents of the girl. We arranged to pay them Rs 10,000 immediately for the last rites and have assured to pay more as part of the accidental compensation scheme from the owner of the truck,” said Manika block development officer Manoj Tewari. Manika police have managed to apprehend the truck driver, who hails from Bihar, and have also managed to contact vehicle’s owner. “We will arrange to pay the victim’s family more compensation from the owner of the truck,” added Tewari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||CMPDI to use drones to spot coal fires||The Central Mines Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), a subsidiary of Coal India Limited, has started procuring drones that it thinks will help detect spots of underground coal fire more accurately. The CMPDI has already procured a drone that was also test-flown in Ranchi presence of CIL chairman Pramod Agarwal last week and expecting another soon. “Another unit is expected to delivered by mid-March and the total cost involved would be about Rs 4 crore,” informed Shekhar Saran, chairman cum managing director of the CMPDI. “The thermal sensors fitted to the second unit will help detection of spots of underground fire more accurately,” he added. At present, such underground fire spots are detected through remote sensors using satellite images that have less resolution compared to those to be generated through drone, he further informed. “But the drone sensors will help receive thermal data with 1.86-cm pixel resolution that will help more accurate detection of spots where underground fire exists,” he elaborated, adding that would be possible through mapping of thermal anomaly. The high-resolution optical cameras on board the drone will also be used for generating optical images of ortho-photo mosaic of plantation studies, settlement mapping and various other applications, Saran further informed. The drone that was test-flown will help volumetric measurement in case of in-site excavation, overburden dumps, coal stocks etc through its Lider sensors, the CMPDI said, adding that would also be used for estimating height of trees, assessing vegetation and accurate terrain mapping. Lider sensors work on a method for measuring distance by illuminating the target with laser light and measuring the reflection with a sensor. The CMPDI became the second public sector undertaking of the country after Central Warehousing Corporation to receive the Bureau of Indian Standards certification for the anti-bribery management system, the CMD further informed, adding the licence issued will be valid for four years till January 17, 2024 and will be renewed after a detailed review. “We adopted a cashless-faceless-paperless work culture that helped us eliminate any possibility of bribery and earn this prestigious certification,” Saran added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
