27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur MP inaugurates special train to Ernakulam||Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto on Wednesday unveiled the Tatanagar- Ernakulam bi-weekly special train, among a host of other facilities at the A-1 category Tatanagar Railway Station. The train will kick off its first journey from Thursday from Jamshedpur and on January 31 from Ernakulam, benefitting passengers travelling south. "The train will immensely benefit students and patients who travel to the south for availing  treatment for various ailments,” said Mahto, thanking the Railways for introducing the train. The 08189 Tatanagar- Ernakulam Special will leave Tatanagar every Thursday and Sunday at 5.15 am will arrive at Ernakulam at 2.25 am on Saturday and Tuesday respectively. The train with one AC two tier, four AC three-tier, eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will have stoppages at Sini, Chakradharpur, Goelkera, Jaraikela, Rourkela, Rajgangpur and Jharsuguda stations under South Eastern Railway jurisdiction. Mahto, who was accompanied by senior officials of Chakradharpur railway division including the divisional railway manager ( DRM) Vijay Kumar Sahu, also inaugurated other facilities. The MP first inaugurated the renovated car parking area outside the Tatanagar railway station. After renovation the parking area will now  be able to accomodate more number of cars. Moreover, dividers have been constructed within the parking area which will facilitate easy entry and exit of cars. A newly constructed pedestrian walking shed connecting the PRS ( passenger reservation system ) building with the portico area of the  main station building was also inaugurated. The shed will protect passengers during summer and rain. The MP also inaugurated a new loading facility at the station area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary gets ready to welcome its elephants||Authorities at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary are making all arrangements -- right from mending roads to trimming bushes -- to ensure elephants coming back to the forest face no problem. Groups of tuskers, which had left for their annual sojourn in August-September last year, are on their way from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal to Dalma. Some of them had returned home earlier and are presently stationed in Suklara. Around 200 daily wagers remain engaged in various kinds of work throughout the year at the 192 sqkm reserve, 30 km from Jamshedpur, dotted with 80-odd villages and hamlets. Besides getting the forest better, authorities have taken steps to ensure a smooth ride for the forest patrol parties to reduce man-animal conflict. The workers are now in the process of getting the bushes trimmed and would be completed in a  week’s time. A forester said they have mended roads in all the six beats of the reserve, including Bhadodih, Dalma, Mango, Nutandih, Chakulia and Patamda, and trimmed bush as a safety measure for labourers and villagers. “Our patrol parties can swiftly reach spots in case of emergency if the roads are in a proper shape. Overgrown bush too poses hurdles for patrol parties,” he added. Damla range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra they were serious to minimise man-animal conflict in the sanctuary.  “We are also concerned about the  safety of daily wagers and villagers employed by us. These measures were important,” he added. Roads inside the sanctuary had developed craters during monsoon and it was essential to mend them before the return of elephants. The Dalma range office has also distributed crackers among villages spread in the sanctuary. It’s a precautionary measure from the authorities. Trackers have also been alerted. According to foresters, the elephants normally start their journey towards Dalma after the end of the harvest season in Bengal. Elephants  follow two designated elephant corridors — one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih, while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the jumbos cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Row over coal loading at BCCL’s Kusunda area project site||A continuing power struggle among groups of labourers supported by various politicians is affecting coal loading work at the Vishwakarma Project site of Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) in the Kusunda area. A group of project-affected people who were hit by disruption of manual coal loading since January 18, 2016, staged a demonstration at the site demanding resumption of the process on Wednesday. They have the support of former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee. Those opposing the resumption of coal loading work are supported by Guddu Singh, a nephew Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, who is in favour of engaging outsiders. Satyendra Chauhan, a local resident who took part in Wednesday’s demonstration at the project site, said, “We have been working at coal loading sites of the project ever since its establishment in 2008. We were engaged by BCCL as project-affected people on account of land lost. But, we are sitting idle since manual loading was discontinued in 2018.” Chauhan, who is among those who parted with land for the project,  alleged that “muscleman” under the leadership of a local contractor were creating trouble at the site and demanding that outsiders loyal to them be engaged for loading work. He said they have requested BCCL and the district administration to resume manual loading work several times. “Although BCCL announced resumption of coal loading work from January 25, it was rescheduled to January 27. But it could not begin today (Wednesday) due to the lack of security arrangements. We expect to start work from Thursday,” said Chauhan. Suman Hansda, another local resident who took part in Wednesday’s agitation, said, “We had given our land (to the project) hoping for a better future. But now we are caught between the devil and the deep sea… neither are we earning a livelihood now, nor are going to get back our land.” Dharm Kumar Roy, another protester, said they wanted immediate resumption of coal loading work. Efforts to contact the GM of Kusunda area, V.K. Goel, failed as he did not answer his phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Prospective tenants will need local ‘guarantor’ in Ranchi||Anyone looking for a house on rent in Ranchi will have to find a local “guarantor” who vouches for the authenticity of the details provided by him/her before taking possession of the accommodation, police said on Wednesday. Police decided to involve a guarantor in a deal between a tenant and a landlord after coming across several instances of criminals taking refuge in rented accommodations at busy localities in the state capital. Police investigations revealed that gangs of cybercriminals and rebels associated with Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) were staying at rented accommodations here. “We came up with the idea to involve a local guarantor in order to ensure safety of landlords and maintain the law and order in the city. Recently, we busted gangs that were operating out of rented accommodations in Chutia locality,” said Ranchi SP Sourabh. However, Sourabh, who uses his first name, added that getting a guarantor was not mandatory for tenants who do not know anybody in the city. “In exceptional cases, tenants can be given houses without having to find a guarantor. It will be up to the discretion of the property owner,” he said. All police stations in Ranchi have been asked to encourage landlords to seek as much details of tenants as possible in order to prevent the entry of criminals in the garb of students or working professionals in their houses. All tenants will have to submit a copy of their identity proof and address proof such as Aadhaar, PAN card, voter ID card or driving licence, police said. Police said that in case a person has joined a new job in the city and is looking for an accommodation, then he may submit a letter from the organisation certifying his employment and place of work. A source in the police department said the guarantor would  not be liable to pay rent in case the tenant ends up being a defaulter. “The guarantor will only be a third party confirming that the tenant was a genuine person and could be trusted,” said an official from Hindpiri police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation to take over Rs 365cr water project||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) will be taking over the Rs 365cr water supply project that is being run by the state drinking water and sanitation department to ensure better service to residents of the coal town and  neighbouring areas. According to DMC commissioner Satyendra Kumar, “As per instructions of the state government and the state urban development department to improve the water supply system, we have decided to take over the Dhanbad water supply project in phases. We will start with the operation and maintenance of the Sindri water supply scheme, which is a part of the Dhanbad project, but is being looked after by the state drinking water and supply department.” Kumar, who after an inspection of the DMC headquarters at Luby Circular Road on Wednesday announced the setting up of a help desk on the ground floor, also unveiled plans to improve water supply in Dhanbad. “We will increase the number of connections which now stands at around 33,000 only. Besides allotting new connections, we will also encourage regularisation of illegal connections by paying a penalty,” he said. The Dhanbad water supply project was conceptualised under the millennium city project of Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission in 2011. It was scheduled to be completed in 2014 but was delayed by more than six years due to several procedural delays, including lack of NOCs from Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) for setting up overhand tanks in underground fire affected areas and for laying pipes near rail tracks. Initially, the project was to cost Rs 298 crore and executed by the drinking water and sanitation department for DMC with the help of L&T Construction. The project cost was later revised to Rs 365 crore attributed to price escalation. Later, the project was divided into two into parts, one for Sindri and the other for Jamadoba for convenience of execution. The Sindri part of the project required construction of a water treatment plant of 13.5 million litre capacity, besides an intake well of 19 million litre, five overhead tanks and laying of an 84km-long pipeline. The project was finally made operational in 2016 to ensure water supply to several areas of Sindri, Patherdih, Chasnala and adjoining areas. The Jamadoba part of the project entails construction of a water treatment plant of 143 million litre capacity, an intake well of 183 million litre and laying of a 260km-long pipeline, besides installation of over 31 overhead tanks. But this part of the project was held up due to several factors, including delayed NOCs by BCCL and the railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI’s marketing fair Maxi goes online for the first time||XLRI is set to host its marketing event, the 42nd edition of Maxi, for the first time in a virtual mode on January 30 and 31. One of the biggest and most sought after events in the b-school circuit, the marketing fair is organised by Marketing Association of XLRI (MAXI). With a mission to popularise the discipline of marketing at the institution; the event will witness students conducting research in disguise for various firms to study trends in market and consumer behaviour. The 42nd edition of the  fair has events including Dance Mania, a fashion show, innovative games, quiz and more. The virtual fair will see two new events -- Cricket Mania and Photography. On Day-1,  Dance Mania for children will be organised, where no stage fright can stop them from showcasing their talent. There will be a cooking event to show off cooking skills on the same day. The flagship event  will have a fashion show-  Mr and Mrs Jamshedpur. On Day-2, the fair's long-standing vision is to bring together families. The virtual fair will see two new events - Cricket Mania and Photography. Registered participants can also take part in a fun-filled celebrity night with DJs. One can groove and chill from the comfort of home with Aastha Gill in an interactive live concert at 6 pm on the concluding day of the fair on January 31. The Marketing Association of XLRI, or Maxi as it's fondly known, is the oldest committee on campus. A member of the association said, established in 1971, Maxi's mandate has always been simple - to popularise the field of Marketing at the institute and ensure that fun and quirkiness are an integral part of the entire process. "This is achieved through a mix of competitive events, talks, interaction sessions, conferences, and of course, the popular fair. It is often said that marketing is something that needs to be experienced rather than studied, and Maxi uses this as one of its guiding principles," said the member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||WHO stamp on Tata Covid research ||A research paper written by doctors from the more-than-a-century-old Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jharkhand in January has become a part of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) global literature on the coronavirus disease. The Jamshedpur-based over 1,000-bed hospital is managed by Tata Steel. The article, “A prospective study on rapidly declining SARS-Cov-2 immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies one to three months of testing IgG positives. Can it lead to potential reinfections?”, written by Air Marshal Rajan Choudhary, adviser, medical services, Tata Steel, Dr Sanjay Deb Nag (anaesthetist), Dr Minakshi Mishra (pathology), Dr Sudhir Rai (general manager, Tata Main Hospital) and Minakshi Gupta (microbiology), has been published in peer-reviewed indexed international journals. According to a Tata Steel spokesperson, the research work was indexed in PubMed, the database for the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) at the National Institute of Health. “We are already in the global index and now it (the article) has been included in the WHO Covid-19 global literature on coronavirus disease (WHO Covid ID: covidwho-962473). Anybody can log in to the WHO website and read the article,” said Choudhary. The publication focuses on the Covid-19 immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which have been considered to provide protective immunity and its immunoassays have been widely used for sero-surveillance (a tool used by epidemiologist and provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity). “In our sero-surveillance on an industrial workforce of randomly selected 3,296 subjects, Covid-19 IgG antibody positivity was reported in 7.37 per cent (243) subjects. However, when 30 days later, eight of the 243 Covid-19 IgG antibody positive individuals complained of symptoms suggestive of coronavirus infection and were confirmed Covid-19 positive by the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, their Covid-19 IgG antibodies were retested,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson. The spokesperson further said seven of the eight previously IgG positive individuals had lost their protective antibodies. “Subsequently, a prospective clinical trial was planned by repeating the test for IgG antibodies on the remaining earlier positive 235 individuals around 45-65 days after their initial test. Only 201 of the 235 individuals consented and participated in the non-randomised single arm observational trial,” the spokesperson said. The trial results showed that only 28.36 per cent (57 out of 201) retained their IgG antibodies and 70.15 per cent (141) had lost them. Three cases reported equivocal results on retesting. “We concluded that the protective Covid-19 IgG antibodies rapidly decline over one to three months. Further studies are needed with a quantitative assay over a period with neutralising antibodies to establish if its decay can potentially lead to reinfections. “Rapidly decaying protective IgG antibodies would impact herd immunity and vaccine durability. It is critical for the potential vaccines to generate both protective T and B-cell immune responses in a sustained manner,” said one of the members who contributed to the article.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
