28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress tractor rally in Santhal Pargana||Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, announced on Thursday that it will hold a tractor rally in Santhal Parganas on January 31 in a show of solidarity with protesting farmers in Delhi who are demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws. Addressing a press conference at the party office here, senior leader and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said, “The tractor rally on January 31 will begin from Godda district’s Kargil chowk and will end in Rohini in Deoghar district. “We are calling it ‘Hul tractor rally’ as this event will mark the farmers uprising against the Union government’s autocratic way of functioning in favour of its capitalist friends. Hul rebellion in Santhal Parganas has a historic significance in India’s freedom struggle as it marked the tribal uprising against the British regime then.” State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon will flag off the rally which will cover a distance of about 80km. “Farmers across 24 districts will attend the rally, besides all MLAs of the party, and functionaries. This will be a peaceful rally,” he said. Patralekh called for a judicial inquiry into the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally, claiming that it was orchestrated by certain groups to defame the peaceful protest of farmer groups for the last two months. “Farmers have laid down their lives during the agitation in Delhi, facing extreme cold and other vagaries of the weather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. But they never resorted to violence. Even on Republic Day, they took out a peaceful tractor rally, but certain sections resorted to violence as part of a well calculated move to defame the stir,” he said. Also, Patralekh asked, how was it that the Union home ministry did not have any intelligence about the possibility of violence. “How come rogue elements managed to sneak in through the security apparatus to scale Red Fort?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tatanagar-Badampahar electrification work to be completed by July||The electrification work of Jamshedpur-Badampahar is expected to be completed by July this year as the ambitious project of the South Eastern Railway has gained momentum. This work was supposed to begin in February last year, but that could not happen due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It ultimately kicked off in November 2020, a year after the one year-long survey work got completed. The electrification of the route would not only help in introducing MEMU ( Mainline Electric Multiple Unit) trains but would also help in improving train speed. Currently, trains in that section move at an average speed of 40-50 Kmph. The electrification work would help in improving the train speed between 100-120 Kmph. Station director of Tatanagar Railway Station H.K. Balmuchu said  the electrification of the nearly 80 Km route  between Tatanagar and Badampahar is expected to take another six months or so. "The electrification work is going on in a war  footing manner and the project is expected to complete by July. It is an ambitious project. Around Rs 100 crore is being spent in the project,"  he said. Currently, a train- Tata- Badampahar DMU ( Diesel Multiple Unit) Passenger with a diesel locomotive ( engine)   ferry passengers between the two destinations apart from a few goods trains which majorly carry iron-ores. Tata-Badampahar section assumes significance as Gorumahisani, which is famous for iron-ore mines falls in that section. Apart from historical importance the place also has commercial value. " It will help in increasing the prospects of loading. The railways  therefore took a decision to develop that section, " Balmuchu added. Notably, Tata-Badampahar was the only railway section under South Eastern Railway jurisdiction that was left without electrification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Coal labourers clash at Kusunda area, 6 injured||At least six workers were injured when two rival groups of coal loaders clashed at the Vishwakarma Project site of Kusunda area, hurling stones and wielding sticks in the presence of police on Wednesday. Two of those injured at the BCCL project site, Sampurna Devi and Lakshmi Devi, had to be admitted to a private hospital for treatment. The clash lasted half an hour. Finally, the police were able to control the crowds after a lathi-charge. Windscreens of two vehicles, a tipper and a truck, were broken. On the prodding of Dhanbad administration and police, Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) management agreed to suspend coal loading work for the time being. Officials of the PSU said loading operations would be resumed after holding talks with the rival groups to try and find an amicable solution. While one group of coal loaders is being backed by the Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC) and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the other is supported by the BJP. BJP leader Amrendra “Guddu” Singh said, “We are not averse to coal loading by local residents. But only genuine local residents should be given the opportunity. As agreed earlier during a meeting under the chairmanship of Dhanbad SDO Surendra Prasad, labourers should deposit their Aadhar cards to verify their credentials.” Singh blamed the BCCL management, saying its officials had allowed coal loading without following due procedure leading to the tension. Local resident Dharm Kumar Roy blamed Singh and his men for the trouble. “We have been loading coal from the very start of the Vishwakarma Project. But due to the disturbance caused by muscleman backed by Singh manual coal loading operations have been suspended since January 2018 creating a problem of livelihood for us,” he said. Dhansar police station OC Jaiprakash Rai, who was present at the site, denied they had resorted to lathi-charge or firing. “The two labourer factions congregated at the site demanding work. But we managed to remove men and women of both factions. On our suggestion, BCCL has agreed to hold talks with the factions before resuming loading operations,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Stephan Rothlin to speak at XLRI lecture on business ethics||Fr. Stephan Rothlin, director of the Macau Ricci Institute, is set to deliver a lecture on China’s emergence as a superpower, at the 28th annual JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics, organised by XLRI, on February 6. Like many other events of the institute, this lecture will also be held on a virtual platform for the first time, amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Rothlin, also the CEO of CEO of Rothlin International Management Consulting Ltd., will deliver his lecture on the topic “China The Emerging Superpower: The Ethical Underpinnings”. “We are delighted to have Fr. Stephan Rothlin, S.J. to deliver the oration on the 28th year of JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics and inspire our students with his thought-provoking words,” XLRI director Fr. P Christie said. “XLRI has been organising the JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics for our students to listen to their role models and leaders and understand the need and importance of ethics in business. It also inspires them to follow these ethical codes of conduct in their professional and personal lives,” he added. Rothlin is a Jesuit priest from Switzerland, who has been working in China for the last 22 years. His teaching and research interests are focused on international business ethics and responsible entrepreneurship, focusing on China. A sought-after speaker, he provides educational consulting services to encourage corporate social responsibility. Rothlin advocates business communities and society at large with the values of honesty, integrity, respect, transparency, and responsibility as indispensable elements for business excellence. From 2005 –2013, he was secretary-general for the Center for International Business Ethics, Beijing, and chairman of the Association of International Business Ethics in Hong Kong. Christie further talked about XLRI’s role in placing on the forefront the importance of pursuing an ethical code of conduct in the corporate world. “We believe that no management education curriculum is really complete unless and until the students are instilled with a set of abiding values - that are indispensable ingredients for any aspiring business leader in today’s world. XLRI is the first B-school in the country to introduce a core course on Managerial Ethics for its HRM and BM programmes. Each year, the B-school confers a medal to the best student in Managerial Ethics at the institute’s annual convocation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Arjun Tudu to lead 19-member cross country team ||National medalist Arjun Tudu will lead a 19-member East Singhbhum district team in the 12th Jharkhand State Cross Country Championship, the squad announced on Thursday. The event will be held in Deogarh on January 31. Tudu was picked on the basis of performance of athletes during the District Cross Country Championship, which was conducted at Jaipal ground in Karandih locality of Jamshedpur on January 2. Other than Tudu, male athletes including Manish Hansda, Ravi Murmu, Vivek Kumar, Anmol Bhandari, Ajay Yadav and Prince Kumar have been selected in the 10-km event. Chandni Gope is the lone women candidate in the category. The boys’ Under-20 side for eight kilometre run include Chutai Majhi, Mirjai Murmu, Shankar Mardi, Brijmohan Gope, Rahul Kumar,  while boys in the Under-18 age section for 6 km event are Lakhan Soren and Sawan Hansda. Jamuna Soren will run in the six kilometre event for Under-18 girls’, while Sahil Mardi and Santosh Soren will try to prove their mettle in the two kilometre run for Under-16 boys. Nikita Kanduliya will compete in the two kilometre event for Under-16 girls. The distinct outfit will leave for Deogarh by Tata-Danapur special train on January 30, said East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA) secretary Ravinder Murmu. “Despite the lackings (poor condition of the Jaipal ground), we have tried our best to select a good team. We have some talented athletes who are expected to shine in the state meet,” Murmu said. The participants displayed great enthusiasm during the district cross country championship, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covishield: adverse effects minor, but mostly in Ranchi||Over 75 per cent of those who complained of minor adverse effects after receiving the vaccine against coronavirus in Jharkhand are residents of Ranchi, according to data collected by the National Health Mission (NHM). Doctors spearheading the vaccination campaign in Jharkhand, however, could not state any scientific reason behind the higher rate of adverse effects reported in the state capital, barring that more people were vaccinated in Ranchi compared to the remaining 23 districts. “Most of the people who complained of adverse effects after vaccination only suffered from minor pains in the arm. We have not reported any case of severe adverse effects following immunisation in Jharkhand,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the nodal officer for the vaccination programme in the state. As per records with the NHM, as many as 193 people have complained of adverse effects following immunisation in Jharkhand and at least 145 of them were residents of Ranchi.  So far, Covishied shots have been administered to 24,000 residents of Jharkhand. Of them, 1,774 got the shots in Ranchi. None of the remaining 23 districts has administered shots to more than 1,500 people. While figures clearly indicate that more Ranchi residents suffered from adverse effects than those in any other district of Jharkhand, some doctors believe that psychological barriers may also be playing a role in making people feel dizzy or unwell after vaccination. Dr Siddharth Sinha, a senior resident at Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS), said that every vaccination has some or the other mild side effect. However, people suffering from anxiety disorders might exaggerate their symptoms while talking to doctors after vaccination and even feel an aggravation in their symptoms. “When you are already anxious about taking the vaccine shots, your mind might trick you to feel adverse symptoms triggered by anxiety,” said Dr Sinha, adding that the fear of taking the vaccine shots was evident in many sections of society and many were reluctant to get the vaccine shots until they are sure of not having to face any side effects. As per figures compiled by NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 60 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering Covishield shots to 24,000 of 40,245 registered beneficiaries. As per government protocol, every person who is administered the Covishield vaccine is kept under observation for at least 30 minutes. Their blood pressure levels, heart rate and pulse are monitored during the time to check for any abnormality, doctors said. Dr Vijay Mishra, director of Medica hospital here, who got his Covishield shot on Day 1 of the vaccination drive at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, clarified that he did not feel any side effects after the immunisation and was doing well even 12 days later. “I am leading a normal life with no side effects whatsoever,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey queens return from Chile to a warm welcome||Hockey Jharkhand accorded a warm welcome to three Team India members from Simdega district upon their return here late on Wednesday, congratulating the juniors for their emphatic win over Chile in a six-match series that ended in Santiago earlier this week. The Indian women’s junior team went there for a six-match series, held between January 18 and 25, with the Chile senior team. India won five matches while one was a draw. The Jharkhand trio of Beauty Dungung, Sangita Kumar (both forwards) and Sushma Kumari (midfielder) emerged as the key players, scoring between them 10 of the 18 goals that India scored in the series. They reached their home district on Thursday morning where Hockey Simdega also felicitated them. “It was a great outing and learning experience for us to be playing in Chile,” remarked Beauty who scored five goals. “We resumed playing hockey after a long gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The tour has induced fresh confidence in the side ahead of other meets later this year,” she added. Her teammate Sangita contributed 4 goals while Sushma scored one. General secretary of Hockey Simdega Manoj Konbegi said that Team India won whenever Jharkhand players scored goals during the tournament. In the first match, India beat Chile by 5-3 in which Beauty scored three goals and Sangita one. In the second match, India won by 4-3 with Sangita scoring one goal. In the next match too, Sangita scored once in India’s 3-2 win,e while the fourth match was a draw at 2-2 where no player from Jharkhand scored a goal. In the fifth match, Sangita and Sushma both scored a goal each, giving India a 2-0 win,  while in the sixth match Beauty scored 2 goals to win the match 2-1. “It’s a matter of great pride that our players are now emerging as key players in the national squad,” said Konbegi, adding that the girls deserved all the applause as they kept themselves motivated through the pandemic despite battling poverty and lack of resources. “When all training and sporting activities remained halted last year, our girls remained fit by practicing on their own at home. They stayed mentally fit and composed as a result of which they found a place in the Indian side and went on to play crucial roles in the team’s performance at the international stage.” The last time, the Indian team played international matches was against Australia and New Zealand in a three-nation tour in 2019. The team had a fair outing in Australia where they played four matches: two against New Zealand and two against Australia. The juniors won two matches, drew one and lost one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Decomposed body of jumbo recovered in Palamau Tiger Reserve||Forest officials launched a probe when the carcass of a 60-year-old female was recovered from the Ramandag forest range in compartment 3 of the south division of Palamau Tiger Reserve. The decomposed body of the female elephant was found dead deep inside the jungle on Wednesday night, officials said on Thursday. They suspected that her death could have occured a week back, as the body was found during routine patrolling, owing to the foul smell emanating from the area. Confirming the incident, Mukesh Kumar, deputy director of the south division of Palamau tiger Reserve, said that the body didn’t have any external injuries. “The location where her corpse was found is too deep inside the jungles. The forest guards reached only when the odour spread, and then they found about the death,” he said. Old age could be a reason behind the death,” said the official, adding that they are awaiting the postmortem report. This is the second casualty of elephant of the tiger reserve within one week. On January 18 night, two wild tuskers had killed a captive elephant named Kaal Bhairav in Palamau Quila when he was resting. The incident had raised questions over upkeep of captive elephants in the palamau Tiger reserve. DS Srivastava, a wildlife expert based in Daltonganj had accused officials of being callous over wildlife management, while speaking with reporters. He asked why Kaal Bhairav was shifted from its original earmarked shed in Betla to the Quila, making it vulnerable to such threats. He had also asked the authorities why a proposed trench around the places, where captive elephants are lodged, wasn’t in place to prevent such incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Saraikela police nab Naxal leader based on a tip-off||Acting on a tip-off, the Seraikela-Kharsawan police nabbed a Naxal belonging to the outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist in the wee hours of Wednesday. Identified as Nazir Munda (28), the arrested Naxal fell into police net at about 1.30 am on Tuesday night while he was carrying posters in a bike, with the intention of putting them up in Adityapur and Gamharia localities by taking advantage of the unearthly hours. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that they had got an intelligence input that some rebels will pass through the Kuchai-Kharsawan main road in a bike sometime around 1 am on Wednesday. "On getting the information, we set up a team and assigned the sub-divisional police officer, Seraikela, Rakesh Ranjan to carry out an operation.  Rakesh Ranjan set up a checking point at Chandni Chowk on Kharsawan-Kuchai road and started checking each and every vehicle that passed the area.  At about 1.30 am, a bike appeared from the Kuchai end of the road and on checking the vehicle, the team found a bag containing hand-written posters.  Then the police team soon took the man into custody and later interrogated him at Kharsawan thana," said Arshi while addressing newsmen at the police station in Seraikela on Wednesday. The SP said the accused Nazir Munda divulged that he had joined the Naxal outfit one-and-half-years-ago and was working along with dreaded rebel leaders like Maharaj Pramanik and Analda who are active in Seraikela-Kharsawan and also in adjoining West Singhbhum district. "The content in the posters that Nazir was carrying were written against the farm law and those posters were supposed to be fixed along the Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia," said senior police officers. The SP pointed out Nazir Munda had confessed that he had also fixed Naxal posters along the Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia in November last year. They sent the arrested rebel to Seraikela divisional jail after producing him before a judicial magistrate in the evening, The police have also seized over a dozen posters and his bike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 5500 people administered with Covishield shots in a day||Over 5500 people were administered Covishield shots in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the total count of people vaccinated in the state so far to 24,000, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. On Wednesday, the state achieved 59 per cent of its vaccination target as 5587 of the 9414 people registered for vaccination at various centres across Jharkhand turned up at their respective vaccination centres and was administered the shots. Bokaro achieved 90 per cent of its target on the day by vaccinating at least 270 of the 300 beneficiaries registered for vaccination in the district. Ranchi, on the other hand, vaccinated only 432 of the 800 registered beneficiaries here, thereby achieving only 54 per cent of its target for the day, highlighted figures with the NHM. As per figures compiled by NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 60 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering Covishield shots to 24,000 of 40,245 beneficiaries registered for immunization. At least 22 people, including 18 from Ranchi alone, complained of adverse effects following immunization on Wednesday. So far, as many as 193 people have complained of adverse effects following immunization and at least 145 of them were residents of Ranchi. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each in Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1066, the NHM stated in a separate bulletin released on Wednesday night. As per the bulletin, the toll in Ranchi reached 232 on the day, while that in Dhanbad jumped to 112. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day in Jharkhand, causing a fall in the count of active cases. As per government data, as many as 117 Covid patients recovered on Wednesday, while 70 people were found infected. As many as 723 people were battling the infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. Ranchi accounted for more than half of the fresh cases reported in Jharkhand. At least 38 of the 70 people found infected on the day were residents of Ranchi. While 12 districts did not report fresh cases on the day, East Singhbhum reported 11 cases while Dhanbad reported seven. Ranchi reported 68 recoveries, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 16 and five recoveries respectively. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.05 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 11,372 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Of the 118495 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 116706 have recovered, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate of 98.49 per cent against the national average of 96.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Witch-hunt survivor to Padma Shri glory||Once branded a witch and after surviving inhuman atrocities, 62-year-old Chutni Mahato of Jharkhand has come a long way. Since then, she has rescued hundreds of women branded witches and created awareness against witch-hunting across the state for the last two decades. On Tuesday, she was awarded the Padma Shri for her work and her unwavering courage. Chutni, who was in state capital Ranchi on Wednesday, is, however, unflustered about receiving one of the highest civilian awards of the country. “Award or no award, I will continue what I have been doing since the last two decades. I will not only continue to save women from being tortured after being branded witches but also create awareness against this practice of witch-hunting based on superstitious beliefs and the word of quacks,” Chutni told The Telegraph. A resident of Bholadih village in Birbans panchayat under Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Chutni was branded a witch in 1995. Villagers even seized her property and made her drink urine and paraded her semi-naked. “I was married at the age of 12. When my elder brother-in-law’s daughter suffered from illness, a quack claimed that I was a witch and was the reason for her getting ill. My house was attacked, I was insulted, forced to drink urine, was paraded semi-naked around the village. I ran away to my parent’s house. During my stay there, I got in touch with the Association for Social and Human Awareness (ASHA) which had been working against witch hunting.” Bholadih is around 130km from Ranchi. Chutni is now the in-charge of the rehabilitation centre under Birbans panchayat. She has a team of over 90 women from various villages of Seraikela-Kharsawan district who keep a watch on incidents of torture or harassment in the name of witch-hunting. The team informs Chutni, who in turn, reaches the spot to provide justice to the victim with the support of the police and administration. Chutni has three sons, two of whom are married while the younger son is yet to be married. She has already prepared two crusaders from her family against witch-hunting. “My two daughters-in-law are fully behind me and accompany me to the meetings and awareness sessions against witch hunting. I want them to carry on the battle after me. I am happy that my elder daughter-in-law (Sangeeta Mahato) and second daughter in-law (Anjana Mahato) have picked up my skills. When I am busy with other things they go around to the affected villages to create awareness and also help me in rescuing women,” said Chutni. Murder, driven by the belief in black magic, is common in Jharkhand. In 2019, the state reported 27 deaths related to allegations of witchcraft, according to police data. Till September 2020, 19 deaths had taken place over alleged witchcraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two held for killing Nilgai in Jharkhand||Forest officials on Wednesday arrested two villagers and seized the flesh and skin of a nilgai (Indian antelope) and recovered two muzzle-loading guns and two axes from their possession in Jharkhand’s Betla Wildlife Sanctuary. According to deputy director of the north division of Palamau Tiger Reserve, Kumar Ashish, they got a tip-off that a nilgai had meandered to a village under Chhipadohar forest range in the sanctuary from neighbouring Palamau district and had been hunted down by some villagers on Tuesday evening. “There are no nilgais in the Betla sanctuary. We got information that one nilgai from the neighbouring district of Palamau had come to the sanctuary and had been hunted by a few villagers yesterday (Tuesday) evening. I directed the forest ranger Subhendra Kumar to conduct a raid and we succeeded in recovering the skin and the flesh of the nilgai. We also managed to nab the two villagers who had hunted the animal along with the weapon used in the killing. They have been sent to jail,” said Ashish. Nilgai is a protected species under Schedule 3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and hunting it is prohibited. The two accused villagers — Gudan Singh and Kari Lohra — have been booked under Section 429 of the IPC (mischief by killing cattle of any value or animal above the value of Rs 50) and under Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. They have been sent to Latehar jail. “We have in the last few years recovered more than 50 muzzle-loading guns from the villagers as they are available at cheap rates and are sold by poachers who come from other districts. We will be intensifying our raids to recover more such muzzle-loading guns which are used to hunt animals in forest areas,” said Ashish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
