29-01-2021||Jharkhand||70 vaccinated at Dhanbad Central Hospital amid server glitch||Vaccination against Covid-19 kicked off at Central Hospital of Dhanbad on Friday with  Dr Pradip Kumar of the ENT department getting the first jab, while a total of 70 doctors and hospital staff were inoculated. The number of beneficiaries could have gone up if the server had not faced a glitch for sometime, Chief Medical Officer of the hospital Ranjit Kumar Thakur told The Telegraph Online. “We began the drive without any formal inauguration at 10:30 am. We believe action speaks louder than the word. There was no adverse reaction on any of the beneficiaries during the drive,” he added. A total of 237 beneficiaries were inoculated at four vaccination centers of Dhanbad, including Sadar Hospital, Central  Hospital, and two community health centres. District reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad Dr Vikash Kumar Rana said the vaccination drive at all the four centres will be carried out everyday, except on Thursdays and Saturdays. Health workers of Sarvamangla Nursing Home, and IIT(ISM) Health Centre will be vaccinated on Saturday, he added. The vaccination drive in the district began at two rural centres January 16 and continued till January 20. In urban areas, it began on January 22 and is still continuing The drive at two other centers, including Community Health Centre of Jharia and Govindpur, began on January 27 and is also going on. Preparations are also being made to launch the vaccination drive at some of the private hospitals of the district from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||3 labourers of illegal brick kiln found dead in Dhanbad||Three labourers of an illegal brick kiln, who were sleeping in a tent within the factory compound, were found dead on Friday morning at Tetulmari in Dhanbad with police suspecting that they may have died of carbon monoxide poisoning. Police have sent the bodies of the labourers, all from Purulia in Bengal, for post-mortem and are investigating the factory operations as they believe it was being run illegally. Talking to the media, Katras inspector, Bhikari Ram said, “The trio was working in the factory at Rengunitand for the last several months. They used to live in a tent within the factory compound,” said Katras police inspector Bhikari Ram. “They used to cook their meals in the tent during the night and had kept a coke oven inside. It seems they died due asphyxiation due to carbon monoxide emanating from the factory,” he said, but added that a final conclusion could be reached only after the post-mortem report was made available to police. The incident came to light at 9am on Friday when the factory owner, Sonu Sao, went to check on the three -- Mithun Bhumij, Prantosh Bhumij and Pradip Mura -- since they had not reported for work. He found them dead in the tent where they lived and immediately informed Tetulmari police over the phone. Soon, a joint team of Tetulmari and Katras police reached the site. Policemen retrieved the bodies and sent them for post-mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College. “We will also carry out an investigation to find out if the factory was operating illegally and take appropriate action,” said Ram, adding that prima facie, it seemed, it was an illegal unit. OC of Tetulmari police station Manish Kumar said they had informed the families of the trio. “They will be reaching the site by the evening and will lodge a case as per the statement of family members after the arrival of the postmortem report,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City Corporation hard sells flagship project||The Ranchi Smart City Corporation Ltd on Friday organised the Investors' Meet - 21 for Ranchi Smart City Project, where 96 people participated. Held at the Tata Auditorium-XLRI in Bistupur, the event opened up an opportunity for city-based builders, hoteliers, architects and industrialists, who will explore the business opportunity as the project of Ranchi Smart City makes progress. Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, Amit Kumar addressed the event and interacted with participants on how to take part in the mega project. “Ranchi Smart City is a mission. Let us complete it together for the pride of our state. This is, of course, a great opportunity for the builders, businessmen, hoteliers and the ones associated with the infrastructure front to take advantage of it.  The Ranchi Smart City Corporation will safeguard the investors' interest,” Kumar said. Jamshedpur Notified Area Corporation special officer Krishna Kumar, who organised the meet, said its aim was to explore investors from the steel city for promotion of the Ranchi Smart City project. “Under the Ranchi Smart City project, construction in different fronts, including housing development, educational infrastructure, health care infrastructure, entertainment and recreational, parks and river front development will be done. These apart, works also will be done in the public transport, smart water supply, connectivity infrastructure, commercial hubs, convention centre as well as hotels will also be done. For making all this possible, the Corporation needed the active participation of the builders, hoteliers and stake-holders from other areas operating in the steel city so as to make the ambitious project a great success,” he told The Telegraph Online. Kumar stated that the turnout of the investors from the steel city was as per their expectation and hoped that they will get on the bandwagon once the smart city project starts to roll. He pointed out that the state government has already acquired 656 acres of land for area-based development work under the Ranchi Smart City project. "Now is the time to give the concept of the smart city a concrete form, which is not possible without the active participation of investors from a vibrant city like Jamshedpur," said the JNAC special officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Lalu Prasad bail hearing deferred to February 5||The Jharkhand High Court deferred the bail hearing of RJD supremo Lalu Yadav to February 5 on Friday, denying some respite to the jailed RJD chief who was recently shifted to AIIMS in Delhi for treatment. The court of Justice Apresh Kumar Singh, who was hearing Lalu’s conviction in a fodder scam case pertaining to the Dumka treasury, posted the hearing to the first week of February after the CBI sought time to file a counter affidavit. Lalu, who is fighting multiple cases of corruption related to the fodder scam _ alleged fraudulent withdrawals from district treasuries is seeking bail in the Dumka case for which he has been sentenced to 14 years. He is seeking bail now on health grounds, claiming that he has already served half of his sentence. Speaking with reporters, Lalu’s counsel Prabhat Kumar confirmed the developments. “The court has posted Lalu’s bail hearing in regard to the Dumka case till February 5 as the CBI required some time to prepare for arguments,” he said. The Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals to the tune of Rs 3.13 crore. Other fodder scam cases against him pertain to illegal withdrawals in Ranchi, Chaibasa (misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore) and Deoghar treasuries. In the Chaibasa case, he was granted a five-year jail sentence. In the Deoghar treasury case, he was sentenced to 3.5 years, but was granted bail in the 2013. Last week, Lalu who was being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was diagnosed with pneumonia which led to respiratory distress. A RIMS medical board then decided to send him to AIIMS in Delhi for treatment via air ambulance on January 23. His wife and former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and daughter Misa had come to visit him at RIMS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Many districts experience unseasonal rains||Two induced cyclonic circulations caused by the impact of a western disturbance passing through the northern parts of the country led to unseasonal showers in several districts of Jharkhand on Friday. Weathermen said the circulations, coupled with wind convergence (easterly and westerly in the lower and middle levels of the atmosphere), resulted in adverse weather conditions. The convergence of westerly and easterly winds resulted in heavy moisture incursion in the lower levels of the atmosphere, bringing rain. The condition also resulted in a rise in minimum temperatures,” explained Abhishek Anand, the deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that weather conditions would improve from Saturday. "This would again result in a drop in night readings," he added. Met statistics revealed that light rain occurred in several parts of the state since Thursday evening. Lohardaga recorded the highest rainfall of 8mm while Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded 5.5 mm rain. Capital Ranchi, steel city Jamshedpur, Ramgarh, Khunti, Bokaro and several other places woke up to overcast skies. Ranchi witnessed rainfall in traces (which cannot be measured) while Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan region experienced over 1mm rain. Light showers were also reported from Koderma, Simdega and Giridih. The adverse weather resulted in a rise in minimum readings. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5  degree Celsius, two notches above normal, while the minimum temperature in Jamshedpur rose to 11.3 degree Celsius, one point above normal. Even as the minimum temperatures rose, maximum temperatures in several districts fell due to cloud cover. A duty officer at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said satellite pictures suggested improvement in weather conditions after the next 24 hours. "Dry weather conditions are expected over Jharkhand from Saturday. But shallow to moderate fog would continue to prevail during the next few days in isolated pockets of the state," said the duty officer. He said minimum readings were expected to fall 2-4 degree Celsius, signalling a return of the cold conditions in several districts after the next 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad craftsmen stage protest, demand resumption of exhibitions||Over 50 Dhanbad craftsmen, facing economic issues due to closure of exhibitions, staged a day-long protest at the Rajiv Chowk on Thursday, demanding permission for resumption of fairs across the state. The protesters also also handed over a memorandum addressed to the chief minister Hemant Soren and Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, demanding the same. These people, including makers of Bamboo handicraft, jute handicraft, paper handicraft, wood handicraft, weavers, embroiders and dhokra artisans, are dependent on sale of their articles through stalls put up in exhibitions and fairs, and are facing their worst economic crisis since the Covid-induced lockdown. Dharmjit Chaudhary,  who led the Dharna on Thursday, said “More than a lakh of people across the state, including the around 10 thousand from Dhanbad, who directly or indirectly depend on the income through the exhibitions are facing difficulty in managing bread and butter since the last ten months. We are on the verge of starvation and some have drowned deep into debts, taking money from money lenders to manage the household expenses.” “We ask the state government to allow us to organise exhibitions. We will follow all SOPs recommended by them,” he added. Mahendra Sao (51), a Jharia-based jute artist said his income has gone down to almost zero after the lockdown. “I used to earn around Rs 20 to 25 thousand per month through the sale of different jute articles like table mats, wall mats and carpets. Now I have lost all my savings in managing the home expenses for seven family members.” The emotions were common among protesters like Simaldih-based crockery artist Sanjay Kumar Barnwal and Jharia-based Raju Sao, who used to put up balloon stalls at fairs. Barnwal said most of his sales were done during these exhibitions. “My family of four, including me, my wife and two children, have also turned hand to mouth due to the present scenario,” he added. “No one in our family had ever imagined that we will have to face such a situation when fairs will be debarred for such a long time,” Raju said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Sabal awards to be hosted on YouTube this year||The second edition of the annual Sabal Awards instituted by the Tata Steel Foundation to acknowledge the spirit and talents of Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) will be hosted online on Saturday. It will be hosted on  YouTube and will reach out to achievers across the country. The Tata Steel CSR has received entries from 306 individuals spanning across 53 unique locations representing 18 states and union territories. Sabal Awards are designed as a step forward to reach out to several exemplary persons in an effort to recognise the ultimate expression of spirit through their talent, and who are engaged in contributing to the larger cause of disability in their own unique ways. The awardees comprise individuals whose journeys of relentless struggle and dauntless courage are an inspiration to thousands of people out there who are pursuing their passion and are often motivated by the adversities they face. Many among the PWD awardees are extremely popular on social media with one of them having a Facebook group with 70,000 members from across 100 countries to take forward disability advocacy for employability, vocational training, and others. The list also includes dancers, singers, writers, and performers whose unmatched enthusiasm has outdone challenges with many of them publishing books to participating in reality shows. Awards will be given in seven categories spread across two broad benchmarks - Sabal Spirit of Expression aimed at unearthing and recognising the talents of PWDs in the creative fields and Sabal Outstanding Vision which is an attempt to recognize individuals with inspiring stories of overcoming adversities. The competitive categories include exceptional dancer, vocalist, wordsmith, poetry, artist, and an exceptional performer for participants with intellectual disability. The award ceremony would also witness the felicitation of change agents - the ‘Sabal Saathis’ – thereby acknowledging their contribution towards the vision of an equitable world. As many as 67 awards will be conferred during the ceremony. State Disability Commissioner, Jharkhand, Satish Chandra; Director, Tata Steel Foundation Chanakya Chaudhary and Patron for Centre for Hearing Impaired Children, Ruchi Narendran among others, will be at the online event. “The annual awards not only honour persons with disability but also salutes their determination to pursue their aspirations. While setting an example for others from the community they are also working to ensure equality of opportunity,” said chief (corporate social responsibility), Tata Steel, Sourav Roy over a telephonic press conference. Tata Steel Foundation in partnership with EnAble India, a leading organisation in the field of disability empowerment, instituted Sabal - Center for Abilities in 2017 in Noamundi. Sabal is based on the principles of creating a participative infrastructure that will allow PWDs to find a one-stop resource centre for skilling, employability, and financial independence. Sabal has so far reached more than 5,000 lives through disability certification, linkages with government schemes and job opportunities, digital literacy, and capacity building workshops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab trafficker, rescue seven girls from Ranchi airport||Ranchi Police on Thursday arrested a woman trafficker and rescued seven tribal girls from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi while they were being trafficked to New Delhi to work as domestic helps in households. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), SK Jha told The Telegraph Online that the police swung into action after receiving a tip-off from an informer about minor girls from Khunti district being sneaked to the national capital by air. “Thanks to our informers, we got to know that the girls were being trafficked to work as domestic helps in Delhi. Our team was quick to nab the trafficker and rescue the girls before they could board the flight,” Jha said. The rescued girls, all residents of Khunti, have been sent to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Ranchi for counselling, said Jha, adding that the woman trafficker arrested during the operation has been identified as one Poonam Barla. Thursday’s sweep could possibly be the first-ever such operation conducted at the Ranchi airport, police said. So far, victims of human trafficking were mostly rescued from railway stations and bus stands in Jharkhand. “We are investigating the matter. Once the girls give their statements to CWC, we will get a clearer picture of who all were involved in the deal and how were the girls convinced to go to Delhi,” said the SSP. Several hundred children are trafficked every year from Jharkhand to work as domestic helps in the metros, especially Delhi. Activists working against human trafficking in the state claim that most of the girls trafficked to other states are subjected to physical, mental and sexual torture by trafficking agents and employers. While some victims manage to escape the clutches of traffickers and return home, many end up developing severe ailments and mental trauma after years of oppression, say activists. As per figures with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), as many as 373 women were trafficked from Jharkhand in 2018. Representatives of Save the Children, an international NGO working for child rights, said that the number of children trafficked from Jharkhand was much higher than what the NCRB claims. Mahadev Hansda, the State Programme Manager for the NGO said, “While we assisted rescue operations in Khunti, West Singhbhum and Ranchi districts, we realized that the number of Jharkhand’s children rescued from New Delhi was nearly 700 per year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Para-teacher detained for rape of minor in Palamau||A para-teacher has been detained for the alleged rape and murder of a 13-year-old student in Palamau district of Jharkhand. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s father at Panki police station, the accused Shambu Singh, 35, had raped her daughter on the night of January 25 and threatened them of dire consequences if they informed the police about the crime. On Tuesday night, the accused had given the girl something to eat after threatening them again, according to the father. The girl’s health started deteriorating the next day and she died on Wednesday night. “My daughter had gone to relieve herself at around 8pm in the toilet situated at a little distance from our house. When she did not return, I went in search of her and saw the para-teacher raping her at a distance from the toilet. When I started shouting the para-teacher shoved a pistol to my head and threatened to kill me,” the father has alleged in the complaint lodged at Panki police station on Thursday. Frightened, the girl and her family kept mum. However on Tuesday night, the para-teacher in the Upgraded Primary School at Karri, who is a resident of the same village, again came to their house and threatened to kill the family members if they informed the police, according to the father of the girl, who was a Class VII student. “Then he took my daughter to a corner and made her eat something. My daughter complained of intense stomach pain from January 27 afternoon and started vomiting in the evening. Before we could take her to hospital she died on the same night,” the complaint said. Palamau superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar said the complaint had been received and the para-teacher had been detained. “We have received the complaint. I have asked Lesliegunj deputy superintendent of police Anup Kumar Baraik to investigate the case. We have detained the para-teacher for interrogation. We have sent the girl’s body for post-mortem to the Medininagar Medical College and Hospital. Everything will become clear after we receive the post-mortem report,” the SP said. Meanwhile, a police officer investigating the case expressed surprise at the father’s complaint. “They live in a densely populated area. It is not possible for a man from the same village to rape a girl and also threaten her family and have the audacity to visit their house again the next day. The teacher does not have any criminal history. Some relatives have also claimed that the girl had been complaining of stomach pain earlier. However, everything will become clear after we receive the autopsy report,” said the police officer. Karra village in Panki block is around 150km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren eyes Bengal tribals for Fifth Schedule||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday made a strong pitch for including tribal areas of Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. Addressing a rally at Jamda Circus Ground in Jhargram, Bengal, Soren made it clear that the JMM would be fielding its candidates in all the tribal-dominated areas during the Assembly polls in the neighbouring state. The rally was attended by over 3,000 JMM cadres mostly from Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore. “The JMM has a history of fighting for the cause of tribals and we would fight for inclusion of tribal areas in Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution. Jhargram and nearby districts were a part of our original greater Jharkhand proposal. We would want these districts to be included under the Fifth Schedule so that tribals have a say in governance at every level,” said Soren, who spoke in Santhali for most of his speech. The Fifth Schedule deals with administration of scheduled areas where tribal communities are in a majority. Tribal Advisory Councils (TACs) are constitutional bodies formed under the Fifth Schedule to deal with welfare and advancement of Scheduled Tribes in states. Taking a veiled dig at the BJP-led central government, Soren asked the people to beware of the party which had a history of selling lands of the poor to the corporate sector. “We should be cautious of those people whose only agenda is to sell property and resources to capitalists. If this continues, then the day is not far when blood would be cheaper than water in our country,” said Soren. Other senior leaders who attended the rally included Jharkhand transport minister Champai Soren, labour minister Satyanand Bhokta (from the RJD) and JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. Another rally by Soren is planned for the second week of February at Raghunathpur in Purulia district, while the third is going to be held at Alipurduar in north Bengal in early March. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the JMM had fielded candidates in 23 constituencies in Bengal, which were spread across Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, Birbhum, Darjeeling and Alipurduar districts. Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Birbhum share their borders with Jharkhand, while Darjeeling and Alipurduar have sizeable tribal population, who migrated to work in tea estates. Bhattacharya, however, was non-committal on whether the JMM would forge an pre-poll alliance with either the ruling TMC or the Congress in the polls. “At the moment we are planning to contest the polls on our own without thinking too much about an alliance,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
