30-01-2021||Jharkhand||JAC to push back matric, intermediate exams to May||Jharkhand Academic Council is likely to defer matric and intermediate exams to May to give more time to students to prepare, JAC officials hinted  following a meeting on Saturday morning. Earlier this month, JAC had announced that the exams would be held from March 9 to March 26. But on Saturday,  JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh  told reporters that they were  now looking at May. “Exams in all likelihood will now be held between May 4 onwards. A formal announcement will be made soon,” he said. Sources said that the decision to push the exams to later was taken after the state education department asked JAC to reconsider the dates. “Schools for class 10 and 12 were only reopened in December in the wake of the board exams. While online classes were held during the lockdown, it was mostly perceived as inadequate vis-à-vis classroom mode of training. Therefore, the education department wanted JAC to reconsider the dates,” said an official. CBSE board exams this year will take place in May. The council holding ICSE and ISC exams has also said that these would be deferred from the usual February-March time-table. It is yet to announce the schedule. Now, the JAC  schedule is akin to the other boards. In November last year, Jharkhand Education Project Council  curtailed the syllabus by 40 per cent across all classes. Thereafter in December, the state government allowed reopening of schools for classes 10 and 12. All schools were mandated to allow students to join in-person classes after getting parents' consent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Local passenger trains to run from Monday||South Eastern Railway announced the resumption of local trains on Saturday, in addition to extending the services of two special trains till March 31. Ranchi-Patna Special and Rajendra Nagar-Durg Special trains, which were earlier supposed to run till January 31, will now operate till March 31. “We decided to continue the running of both the trains considering the good rush of passengers,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, the office of SER's chief passenger transportation manager ( CPTM) in a separate circular announced restoration of several local passenger trains under its jurisdiction. The trains include Tata-Barbil MEMU Passenger, which will resume operation from February, and the Tata- Chakradharpur MEMU Passenger, which will run from February 2 Apart from this several other daily passenger trains including Tata-Kharagpur MEMU Passenger, Chakradharpur - Gomoh MEMU Passenger and  Chakradharpur  -Rourkela MEMU Passenger will resume operation from February 2. A spokesperson of Chakradharpur railway division said all passenger trains will follow the previous scheduled time of departure and arrival from the originating stations. Passengers were asked to strictly follow all the safety-related protocols before and during their journey in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau civil surgeon surprises patients on World Leprosy Day||On World Leprosy Day, survivors Shobha Devi and Mahender Misser of Jour village in Palamau received a surprise visit from civil surgeon, Palamau, John F. Kennedy and disease consultant M.K. Mehta, who inquired about their health. Leprosy, a rare skin infection, is looked down upon by society, resulting in patients to avoid getting treatment. Shobha, whose feet are deformed, found herself in a similar situation and got too late in starting her treatment. According to Kennedy, she was treated for six months and was saved from further deformities. On Saturday, the visiting officials made her run from the sadar hospital to the block hospital. Mahender Misser, meanwhile, has deformities in both his hands, and also wasted time in getting treatment. He said as he used to work with iron bars he thought his hands were getting stiff because of handling the bars, and only came to know later of his condition. In order to treat him, officials had given him a ball to press the hands and a tub to wash them, but both got damaged. Kennedy asked Mehta to provide him with the essentials. Mahender’s hands are now clawed because he took the leprosy medication too late, the civil surgeon said. District leprosy officer M.P. Singh said the disease rate is less than one per 10,000 population in Palamau. Kennedy said that apart from observing World Leprosy Day on every last Sunday of January, Jharkhand launches a two-week drive to identify the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||New health secy to beef up rural medical setup||The state health department will focus on strengthening the health setup at the rural areas of Jharkhand in a bid to ease the load on premiere healthcare centres in the cities, newly-appointed health secretary KK Soan, who will be on an inspection spree in the coming week, said on Saturday. “We will start inspecting the Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres in the far-flung villages and address the problems there,” said Soan. “Since our priority is rural health infrastructure, the department’s active involvement in strengthening the healthcare centres in rural areas will be crucial in addressing the loopholes in the system,” he added. Primary and Community health centres are government-run healthcare facilities built to provide immediate medical assistance to patients in the villages. However, due to lack of infrastructure and qualified medical staff, most of the villagers who visit these local healthcare centres are referred to government-run premiere hospitals either in Ranchi, Dhanbad or Jamshedpur. This practice of sending almost every patient to the premiere hospitals in the cities mounts additional pressure on the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital in Jamshedpur and SNNMCH, formerly known as the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad, health officials say. “The idea is to provide sufficient facilities in the villages, so that minor to moderate ailments can be treated there itself, and patients are not unnecessarily referred to the bigger hospitals,” said Soan. Soan also interacted with doctors at RIMS in an informal meeting on Saturday and sought their suggestions for improving the health setup in the state’s largest government-run hospital. On Monday, the health secretary will inspect Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and speak to the staff there. For construction of new hospitals in Giridih and Khunti districts, the government has already finalised a 20 acre plot near the collectorate in Giridih, said Soan. A 24 acre land, about 20-minute drive from Khunti, will also be made available soon for construction of a hospital there. However, he did not disclose the number of beds that would be allotted for each of the two new hospitals. Giridih and Khunti are both rural-dominated districts. While patients from Khunti often have to travel to Ranchi for treatment, patients in Giridih travel to Dhanbad in case of medical emergency, sources said. During an interaction with media persons in Ranchi’s Suchna Bhawan on Saturday, Soan said that the department will not think of the immediate outcome of the initiatives taken to strengthen the rural healthcare setup as the process may take time, but the situation will improve gradually, he assured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant announces ‘khadi grant’ of Rs 2,000 for Tana Bhagats||Chief minister Hemant Soren announced an annual ‘khadi grant’ of Rs 2,000 for every member of the Tana Bhagat sect on Saturday, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The idea is to help members of the sect that adheres to Gandhian ideals buy and maintain their signature attire (white khadi kurta/sari and cap),said government sources. “Like policemen who get uniforms, we have now decided to provide Rs 2,000 per year to every Tana Bhagat. For the first time in 20 years, a government is in place which is sensitive to everyone’s needs and aspirations,” the chief minister said at Banhora on the outskirts of Ranchi where he inaugurated a guest house for Tana Bhagats built at a cost of Rs 2.73cr. Hemant also unveiled a statue of Gandhi and Jatra Tanabhagat. In Ranchi, he began the day by garlanding the statue of the Mahatma. Governor Droupadi Murmu also paid he respects to the father of the nation. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who also garlanded the statue of the Mahatma, said that if Gandhi was alive today, he would have been highly “depressed” and “saddened” to see the plight of our “annadatas” under BJP rule. Speaking to the media here Oraon said that Gandhiji always stood for the rights of farmers. “In Champaran (Bihar) he fought for farmers rights through non-violent means and was also behind the farmers in Kheda in Gujarat. Whenever any injustice was meted out to farmers, he would fight for them as they are the country’s annadata. He would have been sad and depressed seeing how farmers are being exploited, attacked and harassed today under BJP-led Union and state governments,” said the former IPS officer, alluding to police action against farmers organisations following widespread violence in Delhi during their tractor rally on Republic Day. The Congress, he said, would continue to oppose the new farm laws and support protesting farmers through non-violent means till they are repealed. On Sunday, Jharkhand Congress is scheduled to hold a 80-km tractor rally from Godda to Deoghar in Santhal Parganas in solidarity with protesting farmers. Referring to Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Oraon said, “Like Gandhiji, Patel too fought many battles for farmers. However, the BJP, which often invokes Patel and Gandhiji’s names for its petty politics, has forgotten the virtues and principles they stood for. The BJP government in the Centre is hell bent on selling all farmland to private players only to help its corporate friends.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 52 per cent Covishield target on Friday||Jharkhand achieved 52 per cent of its vaccination target on Friday as 8,759 of the 16,879 people registered for the immunisation received Covishield shots, data updated by the National Health Mission said. Palamau achieved 80 per cent of its vaccination target on the day – the highest among all the 24 districts, with 796 out of 1,000 people getting vaccinated. Despite failing to achieve even 50 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, Ranchi administration administered the vaccine shots to 919 people, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, however, achieved only 42 per cent of its target as at least 2200 people were registered for vaccination at the 16 centres here on Friday. Only one case of Adverse Effect Following Vaccination (AEFI) was reported on the day. The person who suffered from adverse effects was a resident of Ranchi. As of Friday, 33,069 people have received the jabs, with 2,988 of them being from Ranchi. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 57 per cent of its target so far as at least 24,455 people registered for vaccination did not turn up at the vaccination centres, reveals government data. The active cases of Covid-19 infection saw a downward trend on the day, but Ranchi continued to report more than 70 per cent of the state's cases. Of the 45 people found infected across the state, 33 were from Ranchi. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day as the state reported 86 recoveries and 54 of them were reported in Ranchi alone. Friday’s findings brought the number of active cases down to 628 in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 patient in Bokaro died during treatment, taking the death toll in the state to 1,070, a bulletin released by NHM stated. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, however, was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent, the bulletin further stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Shots fired at stationary SUV, police claim 'an act of intimidation'||Unidentified criminal shot at a stationary SUV in Shastrinagar area, under Kadma police station late on Friday night, triggering fear and panic in the densely-populated locality. Of the three shots fired at the car, one of the pellets remained stuck in the vehicle's rear seat with a threat letter found lying near the vehicle. The rear windscreen was also ruptured partially. The vehicle owned by Rishikesh Chandra was parked inside the garage of his house at Block No 4 in Shastrinagar. Concerned with the criminal act, the vehicle owner, who is a material supplier of Tata Steel, lodged an FIR with the Kadma police station on Saturday morning, leading the police to start an investigation. A CCTV camera installed in front of the house captured the act of firing.  The police have taken the footage in which one lone youth was seen going over to the place where Chandra's house is located and returning on foot.  Sound of gun-shots has also been captured in the footage around 11 pm. In the letter that was found near the vehicle, the victim was asked to pay `rangdaari' (extortion money) or be ready to die. The man who was seen in the CCTV camera footage is tall with his face partially covered as he had put on a hoodie jacket. Deputy superintendent of police (headquarters-II) Arvind Kumar who looks after the Kadma area confirmed about the shooting at a stationary SUV. "It appears that some criminals tried to instigate fear in the mind of the vehicle owner who is a Tata Steel supplier.  We have obtained the CCTV camera and are trying to detect the person involved in the crime," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DSP also said that the content that was found near the car was intimidating, probably intended to create fear in the mind of the victim. Police have detained more than one suspects and are trying to detect the person responsible for the incident by interrogating them. Chandra (55) said he has no enmity with anyone and such act must have been committed by some local criminal with an intention to extort money. "From the kind of act, it appears that the person involved in the crime is a local man.  Such incidents are on the rise in Kadma locality.  Let the police detect the criminal," Chandra said while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
