31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal groups block roads, trains as demand for Sarna Code intensifies||Members of various tribal bodies took to the streets, blocked railway tracks and heavy vehicles across Jharkhand on Sunday, demanding the inclusion of the Sarna Code in the religion census of 2021. Three tribal outfits – Central Sarna Committee, All India Tribal Development Council, and Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan — called for a rail and road blockade in Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Bihar on Sunday in a bid to mount pressure on the Centre for approving Jharkhand’s resolution for the Sarna/Adviwasi code. The movement of trains was affected in several parts of Jharkhand as protestors blocked railway tracks and raised slogans supporting the Sarna Code and the tribal community. A large number of security personnel were deployed at bordering areas of the state to keep the situation under control and avert any mishap. The three major tribal outfits also took out a torchlight procession in Ranchi on Saturday evening and announced Sunday’s rail and road blockade at Albert Ekka Chowk, the heart of the state capital.
On Sunday, Central Sarna Committee president Phoolchand Tirkey was part of the demonstrations at Silli Railway Station. The tribal outfit stopped several trains under the Muri section of South Eastern Railways. Phoolchand said, “The process for Census will begin in April and tribal bodies across the country want the inclusion of Sarna Code in the Census this time. We will intensify our demonstrations if the government does not pay heed to us.”
“The Constitution under Article 25 has granted freedom to preach and practice the religion of one’s choice to every citizen of India, but the Centre is snatching this right granted to the tribal by the Constitution,” he added.
All India Tribal Development Council’s president Satyanarayan Lakra warned that the tribal protest will be larger than the ongoing farmer’s protest if the government continues to stick to its “dictatorial” attitude.
The Jharkhand Assembly passed a resolution for the inclusion of the Sarna Code in the Census and sent it to the Centre last year. In the special session of the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren had said that the Sarna Dharma Code is important for the tribal and he did not want any politics over it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dance institute felicitates corona warriors of coal city||Sixty-six individuals from different walks of life including doctors, nurses, paramedics, social workers, women volunteers, and journalists were felicitated as Corona Warriors at Dhanbad, for their selfless service during the pandemic. SDD Dance Classes, a private dance coaching institute, had organized the programme at Hirapur Hatia to honour the individuals. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha was present as the chief guest. Speaking at the event, Sinha said, “People from all walks of life have contributed in the battle against Covid 19 across the country. Dhanbad, being no exception, has witnessed doctors, nurses, and other paramedics who led the fight against the pandemic from the frontline. The plasma donor who came forward to donate blood at a time when it was most needed is commendable.” He added, “No less is the contribution of various social organisations who operated community kitchens to provide food to the hungry during the lockdown and distributed masks, sanitizers and other protective gears free of cost to those in need.” Dr. Sushil Kumar, secretary Indian Medical Association, Dhanbad Chapter, had offered his services as a doctor at Central Hospital Jagjivan Nagar - a dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad was felicitated by the district administration and the dance institute also. “I had counseled patients including journalists during my deputation at the hospital. Being positive is crucially needed during the treatment,” said Kumar. He added that he had earlier volunteered his service free of cost at the Covid Hospital since May 14, 2020. However, the district administration had him engaged in active duty. “As frontline workers, doctors need to set a standard,” he further added. Head of the Department of Medicine of the PMCH, DR UK Ojha, who worked tirelessly to attend patients during the pandemic, was also felicitated during the programme expressed similar sentiments. General Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, Gopal Bhattacharya who donated blood 69 times and also played a crucial role in mobilising people to donate blood during the pandemic was also felicitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||One arrested in Jamshedpur for running illegal slaughterhouse||In the wee hours of Sunday, a team of police officials seized a huge quantity of prohibited bovine meat from a triple-story building at the densely-populated Dhatkidih locality, which falls under Bistupur Police station. The police arrested one person for running a clandestine slaughterhouse and seized all the types of equipment used for slaughtering animals. According to sources, the second floor of the building had been converted into a slaughterhouse, while people continued to stay on the floors below. Vishnu Raut, OC, Bistupur police station, confirmed the news, however, he didn’t disclose the number of cattle seized from the unauthorised slaughterhouse. “We have seized around 80 kgs of bovine meat from an illegal slaughterhouse that had been set up on the second floor of the residential building. A 40-year-old man identified as Anwar Qureshi has been arrested for running the slaughterhouse. He used to sell the meat clandestinely to people. We are in the process of sending them to the jail,” said Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said that they had conducted the raid at about 3 am on Sunday after getting specific information about the unauthorised slaughterhouse. This is not the first time that a residential building has been identified as a bovine slaughterhouse. In 2018, about half-a-dozen cows were seized by police from the first floor of a residential building at Dhatkidih locality. Regularly, police do seize bovine mean being brought into Jamshedpur from places like Haldipokhar and Chandil. But the running of an unauthorised slaughterhouse close to Tata Main Hospital has shocked the residents of Dhatkidih locality itself. “At a time when the district administration is trying to eliminate Coronavirus from the steel city, the act of running a clandestine slaughterhouse inside a residential building of a densely-populated area like Dhatkidih is a serious crime.  The police and administration should stop such activity strongly as it tends to create friction,” observed Saheel Akhtar, a resident of Dhatkidih while talking to this website. Akhtar, a businessman said the residents should remain vigilant about such activity and inform the police immediately when needed. It may be noted cow slaughter has been banned in Jharkhand since 2005. The ban has made unscrupulous businessmen Qureshi to trade in the bovine meat in and around Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab 4 for attacking, looting a Pebco Company employee||The police on Sunday arrested four criminals who were wanted in connection with a case of loot committed near the Indian Oil Corporation's petrol pump at Mango in Jamshedpur late on the night of January 22. The looters identified as Mohammed Taufique Khan alias Baccha (22), Naim Khan alias Banti Khan (24) Sheikh Arif and Sheikh Ibadat, both 25-year-old had also inflicted grievous injuries to the victim Rajnish Kumar Jha by stabbing in the head and neck in that eventful night. A resident of Mango, Jha (40) is a staff at the Pebco Company in Gamharia and had fallen victim to the looters while he was returning home on foot at about 11.15 pm on January 22 night, when the incident took place. The victim had got down at the Sitaramdera bus terminus from a bus and was returning home on foot. As he was passing through the petrol pump, the four criminals surrounded him and demanded the money and mobile phone. As he resisted the criminals, one of them fished out a knife and attacked him in the head and neck, causing the victim to get seriously injured. Then the criminals had snatched away his smartphone and the wallet which contained just Rs 70 in it. A police party had later rescued the victim and got him admitted at the MGM Medical College Hospital. Later the police had registered a case against four unidentified criminals on the statement made by the victim on January 24. Revealing about the breakthrough, deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-I) Pawan Kumar said they arrested one after another accused in the case on getting a tip-off on Sunday. "Acting on a tip-off, we first picked up Banti Khan from his rented house in Munshi Mohalla. On being interrogated, Banti confessed his crime. Then we arrested the remaining three accused from their houses in Azadnagar thana area in Mango one after another early on Sunday morning. We recovered the smartphone from the possession of Baccha," said the DSP (Headquarters-I) while addressing a press conference on Sunday afternoon. Kumar said the investigation was carried out by the Mango thana OC, Vinay Kumar who had swung into action to detect the case from the day the case was registered. The police on Sunday forwarded the four accused to jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Toffee draws kids to polio vaccine in Palamau ||It was two drops of the oral polio vaccine along with a coconut flavoured toffee on Sunday at the vaccination centre in Palamau’s Ramgarh health centre, and the eyes of the kids remained glued only to the latter. India kicked off its polio vaccination drive for the year on Sunday, where kids between ages zero to five are administered the doses, but many parents in Palamau, especially those from the tribal areas, refuse to bring their kids to the booth and ask health workers to visit them instead. But the efforts of ANM Jyoti Theeteeo and her team did bear fruit, when they brought in the toffees with their own money, attracting kids from the district -- a move lauded by district Civil Surgeon John F. Kennedy. Kennedy said while Sunday was the booth day for vaccination, the door-to-door campaign will be done on Monday and Tuesday, along with the procedure for administering Covishield. Instructions have been given to carry out both the vaccinations smoothly, he said. The civil surgeon also made a surprise visit at three vaccination booths in Ramgarh, Piprahi and Sarahuwa. He was shown the vaccine vial monitor, a device used to discard open vials of vaccine. The workers at the Ramgarh booth knew how to handle it well, Kennedy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two more passenger trains for Dhanbad travellers||Passengers of the Dhanbad division will soon be able to avail the services of two more passenger trains, besides an express train, with the Railway Board granting permission to the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway to restore services of passenger trains - NS Gomoh Barwadih and Dehri on Sone-Barkakana. Since March 2020, these two passenger trains had not been in service due to the pandemic. However, both the trains will be plying as ‘special’ passenger trains from tomorrow. The passengers from Gomoh, from  February 2, will also be able to avail the services of the Gomoh Chakradharpur Gomoh special train, which will be operated by the South Eastern Railway.
Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal, not just informed about the running of these two passenger trains but also shared a detailed schedule about the stoppages of both the trains. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Chief Yard Master of Gomoh, BK Mandal said, “We are prepared for the operation of the two trains including the NS Gomoh Barwadih Gomoh passenger special train which will leave from here at around 5.30 am and also for Gomoh Chakradharpur Gomoh train, which will depart at 2.30 pm after arriving from Chakradharur at around 1 pm.” “The crew team will board in the NS Gomoh Barwadih Gomoh passenger special train from Gomoh. This team of South Eastern Railway will accompany the train from Chakradharpur,” further said, Mandal.
Expressing happiness over the railway’s plan to restore the facilities of these two trains, Sanky Gupta, a renowned RTI activist from Gomoh, said, “Both the trains will be quite useful for the passengers of Gomoh as large of passengers travel between Gomoh and Barwadih and also between Gomoh and Chakradharpur.” In the past, Gupta has fought a long battle for the development of a rail overbridge at Gomoh to overcome the problem of traffic congestion caused due to the presence of three closely placed railway crossings. “However, we are demanding for the restoration of Asansol Gomoh EMU train which is also lying suspended since March last year as a large number of passengers need to travel between Gomoh and Asansol daily,” said Gupta. Meanwhile, the railway has decreased the frequency of some trains due to foggy weather. Dhanbad Firozpur Cann Express, will not operate on Thursdays and Saturdays till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Crisp north winds push temperatures down across Jharkhand||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Jharkhand on Sunday as the mercury nosedived five notches below normal at several places in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand due to a free flow of dry and crisp north-westerly winds. Giridih recorded the lowest minimum reading across the state on Sunday with the minimum temperature plummeting to 5.1 degree Celsius. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum experienced severe cold when it recorded night readings of 6.6 degree Celsius, which was seven notches below normal. On Sunday, capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degree Celsius, which was four notches below normal. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees celsius, 5.3 notches below normal. Palamu headquarters Daltonganj Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 5.3 degrees Celsius, five points below normal. Bokaro and neighbouring Ramgarh recorded 6.1 degree Celsius. The readings in both the places were four notches below normal. Met statistics revealed plummeting night readings in most parts of the state due to the dominating north westerly winds. "The cold wave condition which is prevailing over Jharkhand is likely to continue for the next 48 hours," said a duty officer at Ranchi Met centre. He said a feeble western disturbance as a trough in lower and mid-tropospheric levels with its axis at 3.1 km above mean sea level was expected around February 5. "This is expected to result in cloud formation and light rains over isolated pockets of Jharkhand on February 5 and 6," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Union Budget 2021: Jharkhand wants more Central funds, IIT in Ranchi||The Jharkhand government expects the Union Budget, to be unveiled on Monday, to provide for increasing Central assistance to the state, improving inter-district rail connectivity, an IIT in Ranchi and special road projects under the Bharatmala project. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is understood to have sent the state’s wish list to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman earlier this month, said he expected the Centre to focus on timely and increased assistance. “Considering the revenue shortfalls in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with inadequate and untimely compensation to the states under goods and service tax (GST), the Centre must act accordingly,” he said in a statement on Sunday. Giving an example, the minister said that under various social security schemes, the state government gives Rs 1,000 to every beneficiary. “Out of this, the Centre’s share is only Rs 300. They (Centre) should increase its share so that the load on poor states like our is lessened,” he said. “After the introduction of GST, states have limited scope for generating revenues. Hence, the onus of more assistance lies with the Centre now. This apart, I have also demanded that the time of transfer of Central funds to the state should be changed to the first of every month against the existing practice of transferring funds on the 20th day of the month,” Oraon added. To boost higher education, the minister said he has asked for an IIT in Ranchi even though ISM in Dhanbad was accorded the status of an IIT a few years back. “An IIT in Ranchi will give our students, mainly tribal youths, access to state of art technical education,” he said. Oraon said districts like Khunti and Chatra were still without rail connectivity and that the Union government must provide Jharkhand its due share of rail links. In terms of roads, he said he has cited the Bharatmala project and sought connectivity between Sahebganj in Santhal Pargana and Dharma in Odisha. “This will strengthen port and cargo activities between the two states,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cinema halls will not open in Jharkhand on Monday||Cinema halls in Jharkhand will not reopen on Monday despite the Centre allowing theaters across the country to operate at full capacity from February 1 onwards, officials from the state disaster management department said on Sunday. “There is no possibility of movie theaters reopening before February 5,” disaster management department secretary Amitabh Kaushal said. “We will hold a high-level meeting on Friday, February 5, and a decision regarding reopening of movie theaters will be taken during the meeting,” he added. Cinema halls across Jharkhand have remained closed since the enforcement of a nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic back in March 2020. While most states and Union territories have allowed running movie theaters with 50 per cent capacity, Jharkhand is yet to allow theaters to open their doors. Bars, restaurants and malls were opened in the state last year. “The Centre has allowed all states to allow movie theaters to run at full capacity. The question of allowing theaters to run at full capacity or not arises only after theaters are allowed to open,” said Kaushal, adding that the meeting on February 5 will be chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and disaster management minister Banna Gupta. Besides movie theaters, coaching institutes, primary schools, swimming pools, public parks and amusement parks have not received the state government’s nod to reopen.  “The meeting will not be about cinema halls only, but also about other services that have remained closed since the lockdown was enforced,” said the disaster management secretary. Cinema hall owners in the state have been crying hoarse over the alleged apathy of the government towards them, claiming that the lockdown has pushed many businessmen to the brink of bankruptcy. A staffer at Nucleus Mall, who did not wish to be named, said that many employees working in the multiplex were sacked during the lockdown. Sameer Kumar, a manager at Fun Cinemas in Ranchi’s Spring City Mall, said that movie hall owners have been requesting the government to let them resume services, and are expecting a positive decision from the state. “Jharkhand is one of the few states that has not allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to open. We are expecting the government’s nod as soon as possible as we have already incurred huge losses during this crisis and are not in a position to handle further revenue loss,” he said. Multiplexes clearly outnumber single-screen-theaters in the urban areas of Jharkhand, but the few single-screen-theaters left have been one of the worst-hit business ventures during the lockdown, sources said. In its latest decision back in December last year, the government allowed social gatherings of 200 people in enclosed areas, while 300 people were allowed to attend gatherings in the open. The government also allowed a maximum of 200 people to attend religious gatherings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||100 live turtles recovered at Koderma rail station||A team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) seized three bags containing 100-alive Indian flap shell turtles on early Sunday morning from platform No-3 of Koderma Railway Station in Koderma district. The Indian flap shell turtle is a protected species under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A team led by in-charge Jawahar Lal, assistant sub-inspector Ankur Kumar, jawans Vikas Mishra and S.K Ram found three bags on the platform with no one around. Lal said suspecting something suspicious, they checked the three bags and found 100-turtles. He said smugglers might have fled after seeing the RPF team there. “We are scanning the CCTV records of the station to find them,” informed Lal. The RPF team said they had informed the forest department officials about this recovery. “We will handover the turtles to them for its release at someplace safe,” they stated. Lal said they had registered an FIR against the unknown smugglers and search is on for them. This was not the first time that turtles were recovered in Koderma which has high demands for its meat as well as for making medicines. These turtles are found in ponds, rivers, drains and other water reservoirs of the Indian subcontinent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police officials, paramilitary forces foil potential IED blast||West Singhbhum district police along with paramilitary forces on Saturday foiled a subversive act by CPI-Maoists at Gitilipi village, where they had planted a series of can bombs all connected to each other. The 34 IEDs were detected during a search operation on the Gitilipi and Maridiri village in the rebel-affected area, after the police received an intelligence input, saying that the naxals had laid several can bombs on a mud road between Gitilipi-Maridiri. “Acting on the tip off, we set up a police team which with the support of CRPF’s 60 battalion started a search operation by following the standard operating procedure (SOP).  After an hour-long search, the police and paramilitary forces succeeded to detect the can bombs buried under the mud-road,” West Singhbhum superintendent of police, Ajay Linda told The Telegraph Online. “The IEDs were laid on a stretch of 150 meters. Soon a bomb disposal squad was pressed into service and all the bombs  detonated after they were recovered from under the road,” Linda added. He revealed that the naxals had connected the bombs with each other by Codex wire, which has also been recovered. The SP said the Gitilipi-Maridiri road is used largely by the villagers and the paramilitary forces also use the road frequently for carrying out anti-insurgency operations. “It is evident that the Maoist rebels had laid the bombs, which were of different intensity. These were meant to inflict damage to the paramilitary forces.  Had we not got the intelligence input about the bombs, there would have been heavy casualties of the paramilitary forces and also of the villagers," said the senior police officer. Linda informed that  the police have registered a case against unidentified naxals with the Goelkera thana in the evening. According to police sources, people living in the Goelkera area have started cooperating with the police and paramilitary forces increasingly. "It is a good sign that the people residing at the naxal-infested area are giving information about their activities. If the locals continue to pass on such vital information, it can be said that the naxals are on the verge of elimination," a senior police officer told us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||16 complain of discomfort after receiving Covid jab on Saturday||As many as 7,607 of 13,502 beneficiaries registered for vaccination against the Covid-19 virus were inoculated in Jharkhand on Saturday, helping the state achieve 57 per cent of its vaccination target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Palamu has achieved 76 per cent of its vaccination so far by inoculating at least 3120 of 4193 registered beneficiaries in the district – the highest among 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, on the other hand, achieved 55 per cent of its vaccination target as 3,631 of 6,426 people registered for vaccination here were administered Covishield shots. As many as 40,721 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine since January 16, said figures released by the NHM on Saturday night. At least 643 people were administered the vaccine shots in Ranchi on Saturday, while no inoculation was done in Lohardaga. Bokaro achieved 82 per cent of its target on Saturday by inoculating 860 of 1,049 beneficiaries registered for vaccination. Ranchi achieved 56 per cent of its target on the day. As many as 16 beneficiaries complained of Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) on the day, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 224. However, Ranchi, which has reported almost 60 per cent of AEFI cases did not report any fresh case of adverse effects post vaccination on Saturday. At least 13 AEFI cases were reported in Koderma, one in Jamtara and two in Godda on Saturday. However, no severe cases of AEFI have been reported in the state so far, say doctors. Meanwhile, the number of Covid patients dropped below 600 in Jharkhand on Saturday as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases. While 100 patients recovered from the infection on the day, only 49 fresh cases surfaced, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported 31 of the 49 fresh cases, but also accounted for at least 61 of the 100 recoveries. The number of active cases dropped to 303 in Ranchi and 55 in East Singhbhum after Saturday's findings. As per NHM data, Ranchi was the only district with more than 100 active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Saturday. While the cases dropped, another patient from Ranchi died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand to 1,071 and that in Ranchi to 235. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Drive reduces leprosy in Singbhum ||A nearly four-decade initiative by Tata Motors and social outfit Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj in Jharkhand’s Singbhum region towards early detection and treatment of leprosy has led to a significant reduction in the incidence of cases. On World Leprosy Day on Saturday, Dr Sanjay Srivastava, chief of medicine, Tata Motors Hospital, and a governing committee member of the Samaj, said that their efforts had brought down the incidence of leprosy cases in Singbhum from 21 out of 1,000 in 1991 to only 0.3 out of 1,000 in 2017-18. “We are grateful to Tata Motors for providing all support as part of its CSR initiatives. The NJMS has been conducting a massive exercise of an ‘early case detection campaign’ which began in 1991 with Ichagarh and Nimdih blocks (then in combined Singhbhum district and now in Seraikela-Kharsawan district). Every year we target over 1 lakh people as part of our survey. This has helped in bringing down the incidence of leprosy cases from 21 out of every 1,000 people in 1991 to 0.3 in 2017-18,” said Dr Srivastava. The Samaj was established in August 1981 with a clear vision to support the cause of leprosy prevention, control and rehabilitation. Its major projects include conducting a Leprosy Case Detection Campaign for identification of new cases and running an old-age home for leprosy patients called Antyoday Bhawan (near Parvati Ghat in Bistupur) and supporting the rehabilitative measures for patients residing at various leprosy ashrams in Jamshedpur. “Leprosy as a disease has a social dimension. More than the availability of treatment, the disease leads to social stigma due to complicated wounds, ulcers, disfigurement and disabilities. Most of the leprosy patients face social exclusion in their community. Furthermore, if not identified in time, leprosy may lead to permanent disability. We at Tata Motors realised the need to work mainly because still today leprosy exists largely in the eastern part of the county,” said Dr Srivastava. Initially, the Samaj worked in seven self-settled leprosy colonies (ashrams) in and around Jamshedpur, primarily focussing on providing treatment to the patients. In due course of time, the need was felt for early detection of leprosy in the communities mainly because of the patients’ tendency to hide their condition in fear of social stigma. This led to door-to-door surveys in different blocks of East Singhbhum district from 2018-19. The Samaj also manages the Antyoday Bhawan, a 52-bed indoor care old-age home for leprosy patients. Since its establishment in 1989, this facility has successfully treated and rehabilitated over 3,000 leprosy patients. During their stay, the Samaj takes care of the hospitalisation needs of leprosy patients who are admitted for various ailments and care of ulcers and other complications. During treatment, Tata Motors provides free supply of food and medicine to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||10 lakh senior citizens allegedly not receiving pensions for last six months||Over 10 lakh senior citizens in Jharkhand are allegedly not receiving their social security pensions for the last six months and facing hardship amid the Covid-19 pandemic, according to economist and human rights activist Jean Dreze. Dreze took part in a protest march by elders, widows and disabled on Friday at Barwadih block in Latehar district, over 180km from state capital Ranchi, and termed the denial of pension as contempt of a Supreme Court order. “The protesters on Friday belonged to some of the poorest communities, including those from a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG). For many of them, especially the elderly people living alone, pensions are a critical lifeline despite the meagre amount of Rs 1,000 per month. However, they are not receiving their pensions for the past six months. This is in violation of the November 28, 2001, order by the Supreme Court that pensions should be paid promptly by the 7th of each month,” said the Belgian-born Dreze. He said during their discussions with the administration and the department of women, child development and social security, senior officials admitted that the central government’s share for the National Social Assistance Programme (the central pension scheme) was diverted to pay the elderly under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) during the lockdown. Avinash Kumar, principal secretary of the social welfare department, admitted the problem but said the allotted money has already been sent to all the 24 districts for disbursement to the beneficiaries. “The problem arose as the funds were used up,” he said. The protesters at Barwadih demanded apart from prompt payment, the enhancement of the pension amount to at least Rs 2,500 per month and immediate sanction of all pending applications. Chief minister Hemant Soren has on several occasions earlier promised to increase the pension amount to Rs 2,500 per month and this pledge was also part of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha manifesto in the 2019 Assembly polls. On February 4, 2020, Soren had promised in Dumka timely payment of pension and said that, “pehle garibon ko pension, phir DC ko vetan (pension will be given to the poor before the deputy commissioner’s salary)”. On 29 December last year, the chief minister had promised universal coverage of social security pensions in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress to hold tractor rally in Santhal Pargana to express solidarity with farmers||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress will organise a tractor rally in Santhal Pargana on Sunday to express solidarity with the protesting farmers and demand withdrawal of the new farm laws. Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said on Thursday that they have requested farmers of the state to join the ‘hul’ rally that will start from Kargil Chowk in Godda and will culminate at Rohini Saheed Sthal in Deoghar, around 80km away. “The rally will be coordinated by Congress MLA and former minister Pradeep Yadav, while finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will the chief guest on the occasion,” Patralekh told mediapersons at the Congress Bhawan in Ranchi. Minister and Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam, minister Satyanand Bhokta, party MLAs and leaders of the ruling alliance partners will also join the rally, he added. “When I went to the Singhu border to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, I saw how they were spending nights in the biting cold. Many died during the agitation,” Patralekh said, adding that many young people preparing for competitive examinations or aspiring to be doctors had also joined the farmers. “The coming generations will not forgive us if we don’t do our bit to express our solidarity with the farmers who are demanding withdrawal of the farm laws that are spreading discontent among them and try to draw attention of the badshah (ruler) who paid no heed,” Patralekh said without taking any particular name. We are holding meetings at various places for inviting farmers to join the tractor rally on Sunday, the agriculture minister said. “We condemn the violence that happened in Delhi on Republic Day but it was designed to sabotage the farmers’ agitation and to malign them,” he said, referring to the chaos at the Red Fort. “I appeal to both the President and the Supreme Court to take cognisance and institute a judicial inquiry into the happenings that day so that the truth comes to the fore,” Patralekh demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
