01-02-2021||To mark the National Martyrs’ Day||National Martyrs’ Day observed||HPU pays tributes to martyrsHimachal Pradesh University observed the Martyrdom Day on Saturday. The university’s faculty and administration, including the Vice-Chancellor, remembered the martyrs on the occasion and paid tributes to them.Painting competition on Feb 2The Himachal Pradesh State Wetland Authority and ENVIS Hub, Council for Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE) is celebrating the World Wetlands Day on February 2 by organising an online painting competition and webinar. For the online painting competition, students have been divided into two categories - Class VI to VIII and IX to XII. The best 10 entries will be submitted to HIMCOSTE by the Deputy Director of Elementary Education, and the top three will get cash reward. The webinar will be organised on ‘The importance of wetlands eco-system’. JNU Assistant Professor Sanjeev Sharma will be the key speaker. The World Wetlands Day is celebrated every year on February 2 to raise awareness about wetlands. Wetlands are among the most productive ecosystems in the world, comparable to rain forests and coral reefs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/national-martyrs-day-observed-206248
01-02-2021||RESIDENTS of Manhon||Irregular water supply irks residents||Monkey menace at IGMC a threat to patientsDUE to broken windows of the ramp area of the six-storey building of Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital (IGMC), monkeys can be seen roaming inside the hospital very often. Usually, a large number of attendants eat food and take some rest in the said area, where the monkey menace causes a lot of inconvenience to them. The patients admitted to the hospital too are scared as the simians attack them every now and then and snatch their eatables. The situation is no different outside the hospital building. The hospital administration should take note of the problem and do the needful immediately.— Asha, RohruIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you? The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/irregular-water-supply-irks-residents-206244
01-02-2021||Dharamsala||BJP makes clean sweep in Pragpur||The BJP has made a clean sweep in Pragpur panchayat samiti election held here today. The BJP won both the posts of president and vice president of Pragpur panchayat samiti. Pragpur panchayat samiti has 33 members. In the elections held today Renu Bala of the BJP was unanimously elected president and Rakesh Kumar, also of the BJP vice president. The elected members of panchayat samitis credited Minister of Industries and Transport Bikram Thakur for BJP victory in Pragpur. Bikram Thakur, while talking to newsmen, said the development works carried out by the present BJP government in Jaswan Pragpur  had led to the situation where the Congress even failed to put up a fight in panchayat samiti elections.  Thakur thanked the CM for the development works carried out  in his constituency and said that the Pragpur area has become ‘Congress mukt’ due to consistent work carried out by the present BJP government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-makes-clean-sweep-in-pragpur-206048
01-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Indora BDC posts go to BJP||NURPUR, JANUARY 31 After winning Nurpur and Fatehpur Block Development Committees (BDCs), the BJP also captured the Indora BDC today. The Congress is now pinning its hope only on the Nagrota Surian BDC.   Sahdev Thakur, elected from Toki BDC ward, and Yashpal Thakur from Bhapoo ward were unanimously elected chairman and vice-chairman of the Indora BDC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indora-bdc-posts-go-to-bjp-206049
01-02-2021||Ambika Sharma---||BJP faces uphill task in forming Solan ZP||Tribune News Service Solan, January 31 The BJP faces an uphill task in securing the support of 12 newly elected zila parishad (ZP) members for electing its chairman and vice chairman. A two-third majority is required for the elections to the two posts as the first meeting of the elected members will be held tomorrow. The BJP has won seven seats in the 17-member ZP while its four rebels were among eight independents who won the elections. Since the Congress has won barely two seats it has little chance of electing its chairman and vice chairman. Leaving no stone unturned to establish its stronghold over the ZP, the BJP has already roped in four other elected members. They met senior leaders at Shimla yesterday and pledged their support to the party. The BJP leaders were endeavouring to rope in another member so as to complete the two-third quorum for electing its chairman and vice chairman tomorrow, informed a senior leader. In case they fail to do so, only a simple majority would be required in the next meeting. The party was, however, facing another challenge as who should be elected as the chairman and vice chairman. If the rebels are elected to the top posts it could set a wrong precedence and may trigger indiscipline in the party. This could mar the party’s prospects of smoothly electing the two top leaders.  Eight elected members took oath on January 28 where the remaining nine were abstained.  Since the Congress candidates held both posts in the outgoing ZP, the BJP was keen to wrest these this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-faces-uphill-task-in-forming-solan-zp-206050
01-02-2021||---||Congress hopes to get top posts in Sirmaur ZP||Solan, January 31 The Congress is hopeful of electing its chairman and vice chairman in the Zila Parishad (ZP) in Sirmaur district as it claimed to have secured the support of an independent candidate. Both the Congress and the BJP have won eight seats each in the 17-member ZP. Poll to elect the two coveted leaders would be held tomorrow where a two-third majority is required. In case the required numbers are not mustered by either party, only a simple majority would be required in the next meeting. Eight members — an independent candidate Neelam Devi and seven Congress candidates – took oath on Saturday while one of its members abstained on the plea of being hospitalized. Neelam Devi, a BJP rebel, had contested as an independent after being denied a party ticket. The seven BJP members had, however, failed to turn up as a planned move. Shillai MLA and senior Congress leader Harshwardhan Chauhan has claimed that they had the majority support of nine members. He said one of their members Anjana Sharma, who had won from Bagani ward, had not turned up at the oath taking ceremony as she was unwell. Some BJP members were also in touch with them, he said. He claimed that the BJP did not even have eight members. That is why they did not turn up to take oath on Saturday. Sirmaur district is the home turf of BJP’s state president Suresh Kashyap and the party is confident of elevating its leaders to the top posts. The fact that one Congress member had abstained from taking oath, it remains to be seen if the BJP would muster her support. Since these polls are not held on party symbols, those who have won can shift either way keeping in view the lure of top posts. It remains to be seen who manages to attain the required numbers for the coveted posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-hopes-to-get-top-posts-in-sirmaur-zp-206051
01-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Sarkaghat schools to stay shut for students till Feb 7||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 31The summer-closing schools will remain closed for students in Sarkaghat of Mandi district till February 7. The decision was taken by the Education Department today after 41 teachers tested positive for Covid last night in the town.A large number of teachers were deployed on election duty during the urban local bodies and panchayat elections held recently. They might have been infected there, sources said. As many as 178 samples of teachers were taken in Sarkaghat of which 41 tested positive, a majority of them were asymptomatic.The government had decided to recall all teachers of summer-closing schools from January 27 and resume regular classroom teaching for students of Class V and Class VIII to XII but a sudden spurt in cases in Sarkaghat has hit the plan.Deputy directors of higher education have been directed to send information if Covid cases are reported among students and teachers, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma, adding that a notification had been issued in this regard. Teachers would attend schools as usual.Classes will start in other schools in strict adherence to Covid guidelines. However, teachers with symptoms like fever, dry cough, flu and cold are exempted from attending the schools.All classrooms will be sanitised and other precautions like social distancing and wearing mask will be strictly followed. Schools have already submitted their micro plans to the department. The online classes will continue and the winter-closing schools will open on February 15. No decision has been taken regarding resuming regular teaching in elementary schools.The Health Department is keeping its fingers crossed as the number of Covid patients has suddenly increased from 44 on January 29 to 94 yesterday and there are apprehensions that the number may swell due to recent panchayat elections and the celebrations that followed after the results.All degree colleges will open from February 8 and ITIs, polytechnic and engineering colleges from February 1.Order not for teachers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sarkaghat-schools-to-stay-shut-for-students-till-feb-7-206052
01-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Leopards sighted in Una village, residents on alert||Una, January 31 Residents of Khad village of Haroli sub-division, near the Bankhandi forest area, adjoining the Una-Hoshiarpur road have been sighting leopards near their habitations for the last one week.  The residents claim that the number of leopards on the prowl during night could be anywhere around two to three and that stray dogs are falling prey to the big cats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopards-sighted-in-una-village-residents-on-alert-206053
01-02-2021||Mandi||To end dry spell, locals seek divine intervention||To end long dry spell in Kullu and Mandi, people of both districts are seeking the divine intervention. They are visiting nearby temples to seek rainfall and snowfall for better crop. Due to the lack of rainfall, farmers of both districts are worried. Timely snowfall is considered as a white manure for apple plants and other fruit plants. People of Hatgarh and Nandgarh gathered at the temple of a local deity, Latogli, to seek rainfall to end the long dry spell two days ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-end-dry-spell-locals-seek-divine-intervention-206054
01-02-2021||Kullu||Opening of tunnel will boost winter tourism, says DC||Various events are being organised in Lahaul and Spiti during the snow festival and ‘Chholo’ sports competitions were organised in Tholang and Udaipur today. Locals practiced ice climbing at Keylong under the guidance of mountaineering experts. Pankaj Rai, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, said the possibility of winter tourism in the valley had increased after the opening of the Atal Tunnel. He said the topography of the area was adequate for adventure winter sports. He said the administration was making efforts to promote tribal culture and set a framework for adventure tourism through the snow festival so that tourists would have facilities to experience them. “A mountaineering expert team is exploring spots to conduct ice climbing in Lahaul valley. The administration is planning to promote winter adventure sports through snow festival. The youth of the area are being motivated to promote adventure tourism,” he said.  Mountaineering expert Bharat Bhushan said the valley was suitable for ice climbing, ice hockey, skiing, sledding, winter camping etc. and these would provide employment opportunities to the youth. He said this would boost rural tourism in the valley and also inspire the youth to become professionals in winter sports. Mountaineer Anil from Nainital said there was immense potential for adventure sports here. He said the youth could be trained to carry out ice-climbing to promote adventure tourism. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opening-of-tunnel-will-boost-winter-tourism-says-dc-206055
01-02-2021||Shimla||Dry spell continues, January ends with 58% deficit rain||The state received 58 per cent deficit rain during January and all twelve districts recorded deficit rain ranging between 39 per cent and 73 per cent.The state recorded 37.7 mm average rain from January 1 to January 31 against normal rainfall of 89.9 mm and rain deficit was 73 per cent in Mandi, 66 per cent in Bilaspur, 65 per cent in Shimla and Solan, 58 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 55 per cent in Hamirpur, 51 per cent in Kinnaur, 50 per cent in Una and Chamba, 49 per cent in Kullu and 39 per cent in Sirmaur district.The MeT office has predicted rain and thundershowers in lower hills from February 3 to 5 and rain and snow in mid and higher hills at isolated places from February 2 to 5 and dry weather thereafter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-spell-continues-january-ends-with-58-deficit-rain-206056
01-02-2021||Kullu||Sports tourney begins at Hamta||The winter sports state championship being conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association (HPWGA) commenced today at Hamta. HPWGA president Luder Thakur said around 200 sportspersons would participate in various events. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sports-tourney-begins-at-hamta-206057
01-02-2021||---||1st cycling c’ship for Shimla held||Shimla, January 31 The first District MTB Championship was organised by the Shimla Cycling Association at Potterhill in Shimla today.  Akshir Gaur won in the men’s under-23 category while Divija Sood stood first in the youth girls’ under-14 category and Akash Sherpa bagged the elite men title. The championship was open only for residents of Shimla district. There were two events in the championship — ITT (Individual Time Trial) and Mass Start XCO — and 50 participants took part in the event. Shimla Cycling Association president Mohit Sood said this was our maiden championship for Shimla district, giving a platform to the local riders to showcase their talent and give them more opportunities to grow and excel at the national level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1st-cycling-cship-for-shimla-held-206058
01-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Who after Virbhadra haunts Congress||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 31Though there are two years for the next Assembly elections, the question of who after Virbhadra has begun to haunt the Congress, especially in the backdrop of his announcement that he would not be contesting the elections.Even though the octogenarian leader retracted from his statement within hours, terming it remarks made in a lighter vein, his statement has brought into focus the question as to who will lead the Congress in the 2022 Assembly polls as the star campaigner. Needless to say that there is no leader who can match the “Raja’s” charisma and statewide appeal, though the party has several senior leaders like Thakur Kaul Singh, GS Bali, Asha Kumari, Ram Lal Thakur, CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan and Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu.Holds sway over votersThe Congress high command is well aware of Virbhadra’s stature and clout though they realise that it might not be possible for him to crisscross the state to campaign, considering his age and failing health. However, they would want the next elections to be fought under Virbhadra’s leadership as he is the only face in the party who holds sway over voters, be it in Una, Chamba, Kangra, Shimla or SirmaurDespite the BJP’s claims of having got an overwhelming support in the panchayat elections, the fact is that the ruling party has not done too well. The Congress, despite not having the kind of monetary power and coordinated effort, did reasonably well which does not augur well for the BJP. CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri met Virbhadra yesterday to impress upon him to ensure his availability for the next elections. “It is you who has to get the next election contested, so please drop the idea of retiring,” said Agnihotri.It is learnt that Virbhadra, who is the sitting MLA from the Arki constituency in Solan district, openly aired his displeasure on being ignored by the present Congress leadership. “I was instrumental in launching and shaping the career of so many present Congress leaders, but what hurts most is that nobody bothered to call on me or enquire about my health, thinking that I am no longer a force to reckon with,” he said. They don’t realise his fighting spirit and his political stature is very much intact.With the six-time Chief Minister dominating state politics for the past almost four decades, the Congress has failed to groom its second leadership to an extent where a leader enjoys statewide popularity. “It is unlikely that he will contest the next election or even be in a position to take to hectic campaigning across the state,” remarked a senior leader. The Congress high command too is well aware of Virbhadra’s stature though they realise that it might not be possible for him to crisscross the state to campaign, considering his age and failing health. However, they would want the next elections to be fought under Virbhadra’s leadership as he is the only face in the party who holds sway over voters.The popularity and base of other leaders are more or less confined to their own districts. As far as state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore is concerned, he is too novice to electoral politics and does not enjoy mass appeal. However, somebody like Asha Kumari, who has remained AICC general secretary, or GS Bali, who had lost the last Assembly polls, could take others along.Another problem in the Congress is several claimants for the post of chief minister. There are at least half a dozen contenders. The list includes sitting MLAs and some former ministers. Now it remains to be seen whether the Congress can put up a cohesive show to take on the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/who-after-virbhadra-haunts-congress-206059
01-02-2021||Shimla||With 42 new cases, tally reaches 57,536 in Himachal||With 42 new cases being reported on Sunday, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 57,536 in the last 24 hours. There were three Covid deaths in the state in the last 24 hours, with one death each in Shimla, Solan and Una. With this, the fatality figure has gone up to 967. The highest number of 21 cases was reported in Mandi, eight in Solan, six in Shimla, three in Kangra, two in Sirmaur and one each in Una and Kinnaur. With this the total number of active cases in the state was 390 out of a total of 57, 536 positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/with-42-new-cases-tally-reaches-57-536-in-himachal-206061
01-02-2021||---||Manav Bharti University scam: 36,000 fake degrees detected… just the tip of iceberg||Shimla, January 30The fake degree racket of Manav Bharti University (MBU) in Solan is turning into one of the biggest scams of its kind following the detection of 36,000 fake degrees from 14 of the 55 hard disks scanned so far by a special investigation team of the CID.This is just the tip of the iceberg as the number of fake degrees is set to multiply manifold with the scanning of the remaining 41 hard disks. The scam is likely to run into crores of rupees, said the investigation team.The passport of main accused Raj Kumar Rana, the chairman of Manav Bharti Charitable Trust who is running the MBU, has been revoked and extradition proceedings to bring back his wife, son and daughter from Australia are in progress, Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu told mediapersons here today.Of the Rs 440-crore properties belonging to Rana and his family, those valuing Rs 194.74 crore are linked to the proceeds of the crime and have been attached, the DGP said, adding that this is the biggest-ever attachment of properties of any educational institution in the country in a money laundering case.ED attaches Rs194-cr assets of key accused||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manav-bharti-university-scam-36-000-fake-degrees-detected%E2%80%A6-just-the-tip-of-iceberg-205746
01-02-2021||---||Deputy Commissioner: Shivratri festival to be celebrated in grand way in Mandi||Mandi, January 30The international Shivratri festival of Mandi district will be the first festival to be celebrated in a grand way in the state after the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. It will kick-start on March 11.Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur today convened a meeting with the Kardar Sangh, Mandi, to discuss the issue. After a thorough discussion, it was unanimously decided that the Shivratri festival would be celebrated in a grand way like earlier. All 216 deities of the district would be invited to the week-long festival.The Deputy Commissioner said, “This year, the international Shivratri festival will be celebrated with grandeur. All activities at the festival will be organised as before, though the sub-committees will decide on the nature of the activities. The full compliance of the Covid protocol and SOPs will be ensured at the festival”.“The theme of the fair will be focused on the golden jubilee of Himachal’s statehood. Hence, the word golden will be associated with all events. the festival will be known as the Golden International Shivaratri Fair 2021,” he added.He said that the first procession of the deities known as ‘Jaleb of Madho Rai’, chief deity of Mandi town, would be taken out on March 12, second ‘Jaleb’ on March 15 and the third ‘Jaleb’ on March 18.Meanwhile, the decision of the district administration to celebrate the festival in a big way has delighted the people of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deputy-commissioner-shivratri-festival-to-be-celebrated-in-grand-way-in-mandi-205593
