02-02-2021||New Delhi||Parts of north and central India to witness rains from February 3 to 5: IMD||Parts of north and central India are likely to receive rains from February 3 to 5, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday.The IMD said a gradual rise in minimum temperatures is very likely over most parts of northwest and adjoining central India during the next three to four days and the current spell of cold wave conditions is likely to abate in the next 24 hours.According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over Afghanistan. An induced cyclonic circulation also lies over central Pakistan and adjoining west Rajasthan.These systems are likely to affect weather over northwest Himalayan region from the night of February 2.“The confluence of southwesterlies, in association with the western disturbance and lower level southeasterlies, are very likely over the plains of northwest and adjoining areas of central India during February 3-5,” the IMD said.Under the influence of above systems, scattered to fairly widespread, light to moderate rain/snow with isolated thunderstorm, lightning and hail (is) very likely over the western Himalayan region from February 2 night to February 5.“Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir on February 3 and 4, and over Himachal Pradesh on February 4,” the IMD said.Fairly widespread light to moderate rain/thundershowers with isolated lightning and hailstorm are likely over plains of northwest India during February 3 to 5, over Madhya Pradesh from February 4 to 5 and over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand from February 5 to 6. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parts-of-north-and-central-india-to-witness-rains-from-february-3-to-5-imd-206961
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Dalai Lama’s words of wisdom amid pandemic||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama shares quotes and words of wisdom to deal with the new realities of the panic-stricken world along with how to combat rising extremism, polarity and climate change besides his views on Tibet in his new book.“The Little Book of Encouragement”, which has 130 quotes, is edited by Renuka Singh and published by Penguin Random House.The Dalai Lama says as one among the more than seven billion human beings alive today, he has made a commitment to promoting human happiness.“We tend to think that happiness comes from money and power, without acknowledging the role of the mind or that the key to happiness is inner peace. We all want to live a happy life and to do so is our right. What we need to do is to cultivate inner values such as warm-heartedness and compassion. I am very happy to have had this opportunity to share some of my thoughts and experiences with readers,” he says about the book.He asks readers to discuss these thoughts with friends and, if possible, put them into practice in day-to-day life.On the pandemic, the Dalai Lama writes: “In this time of serious crisis, we face threats to our health, and feel sadness for the family and friends we have lost. Economic disruption is posing a major challenge to governments and undermining the ability of so many people to make a living. The crisis and its consequences serve as a warning-only by coming together in a coordinated global response, will we meet the unprecedented magnitude of the challenges we face. I pray we all heed the call to unite.”He also terms climate change and global warming as another very serious issue.“Today, the pandemic is one threat we face. Another very serious issue is that of climate change and global warming. Scientists have predicted that if we don’t act to stop it now, in the coming decades, water sources such as rivers and lakes, may dry up. An additional problem that needs to be addressed is that of the growing gap between the rich and the poor. Tackling these difficult circumstances will require that we work together,” he says.He praises India’s rich civilisational heritage, saying it is “rooted in the long-standing traditions of karuna and ahimsa: compassion and non-violence. I believe India is the only country with the potential to combine its ancient knowledge with its modern education. We must, therefore, endeavour to integrate India’s ancient wisdom with contemporary approaches to schooling, with the aim of promoting positive human values”.On Sino-India ties, he writes: “India and China have developed a sense of competition in recent times. Both countries have populations of over a billion. Both of them are powerful nations, yet neither can destroy the other; so, they have to live side-by-side.”On the Tibet issue, he writes: “I always tell Tibetans: it is much better to consider the Chinese as our brothers and sisters than to think of them as our enemy — no use in that. For the time being, there is a problem with our Chinese neighbours, but only with a few individuals in the Communist Party. A number of Chinese leaders now realise that their 70-year-old policy regarding Tibet is unrealistic.”There was too much emphasis on the use of force then, he says, adding” “So now they are in a dilemma: how to deal with the Tibetan problem? Things seem to be changing.”The Dalai Lama further writes: “It is my vision to make my home country, Tibet, into the world’s largest nature preserve. Following the ancient Tibetan Buddhist tradition, Tibet must and can become a demilitarised sanctuary of peace and nature.”He says he has the karmic relationship to be in the role of the Dalai Lama and is at home with it.“You may consider that, under the circumstances, I am very lucky. However, behind the word ‘luck’, there are actual causes or reasons. There is the karmic force of my ability to assume this role as well as the force of my wish to do so. Part of my daily prayer is this: ‘As long as space exists, and as long as there are migrators in cyclic existence, may I remain to remove their sufferings’.”He goes on to say that his death may well mark the “end of the great tradition of Dalai Lamas”; the word means ‘great leader’ in Tibetan.“It may end with this great Lama. The Himalayan Buddhists of Tibet and Mongolia will decide what happens next. They will determine whether the 14th Dalai Lama has been reincarnated in another tulku. What my followers decide is not an issue for me; I have no interest. My only hope is that when my last days come, I will still have my good name and will feel that I have made some contribution to humanity,” the Dalai Lama said.According to Singh, though the spread of COVID-19 has given rise to uncertainties, unknown fears, anxieties, loneliness, and depression, nevertheless, it is an opportune moment to explore one’s interiority.“The Dalai Lama rightly points to our ‘emotional hygiene’ that helps the mind and heart to gain inner strength, peace, clarity, and happiness... His Holiness has always advocated the principle of interdependence and maintained that we are deeply connected by our humaneness which unites us all,” she says.Premanka Goswami, editor at Penguin Press, feels these words of the Dalai Lama “wrapped in love, compassion and encouragement have the power to infuse fresh energy in the disease-stricken world”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lamas-words-of-wisdom-amid-pandemic-206880
02-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||BJP grabs 2 top Solan ZP posts||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 1Ramesh Thakur and Kamlesh Kumari of the BJP were elected chairman and vice-chairman of the Zila Parishad in Solan district today. Of the 17 Zila Parishad members, 14 supported their candidatures while the Congress failed to even put up a contest. The Congress has only two members in the civic body.Besides seven BJP members, seven Independent members supported the candidatures of Ramesh and Kamlesh. Four BJP rebels had won as Independents and it was clear that they would support the party as no disciplinary action was taken against them for contesting against the official nominees.Ramesh had won the election from the Darwa ward in Kasauli tehsil while Kamlesh, a BJP rebel, had won from the Ratwari ward in Ramsheher tehsil.Trilok Jambal, BJP’s general secretary and in-charge of Zila Parishad poll, said that united efforts by the party helped register the overwhelming victory. He attributed the victory to the people-friendly policies of the state and Central governments.Jamwal played a key role to rope in Independent candidates, including BJP rebels, many of whom had ambitions to secure both key posts. The party was in a ticklish situation to appease senior leaders who had won as rebels and also ensure that they support the official nominees.Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, party secretary Payal Vaid, district president Ashutosh Vaid, and vice-president Purshottam Guleria were present on the occasion.A victory rally was later taken out in Solan town. Saizal said that the party was hopeful of forming the government after the next Vidhan Sabha poll.Meanwhile, the Congress has been dealt a severe blow in the elections. The party could win only two seats and its official candidates performed dismally in Srinagar, Bawasani, Salogra, Kunihar, Ratwari and Dhundan wards. The poor performance has triggered an internal strife in the party with leaders blaming each other for the debacle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-grabs-2-top-solan-zp-posts-206806
02-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||BJP outwits Congress, captures Kangra ZP||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 1The BJP managed to bag the posts of chairman and vice-chairman of the prestigious Kangra Zila Parishad in the elections held today.Ramesh Brar was elected chairman. He got 30 votes whereas the Congress candidate polled 23 votes. One Zila Parishad member opted for NOTA. For the post of vice-chairman, BJP candidate Snehlata Parmar got 31 votes whereas the Congress candidate got 23 votes.Interestingly, some Zila Parishad members, who owed allegiance to the BJP even before Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, cross voted in favour of the Congress. When the Chief Minister had visited Dharamsala on January 29, a sizeable 33 members had met him and promised support to the party, sources said.On January 30 when the elections were scheduled the BJP still had 33 members, but the elections could not be held as the quorum could not be completed. The minimum requirement for the quorum to be complete was 36 members.To ensure that there was no poaching, the ruling party members had been housed in a hotel in Dharamsala. The sources here said that yesterday the BJP suffered a scare when six members, who were staying in the hotel, went missing.Even today the BJP that was claiming that it had 26 Zila Parishad members who had fought on party ticket and seven more, who were their affiliate members, could muster the backing of 30 members to get majority for the post of chairman, bringing infighting within the party to the fore.The Zila Parishad elections in Kangra, politically most significant district of the state, have given a new lease of life to the Congress that was a divided house and leaderless in the region. The party managed to win 19 seats. The Congress leaders from the district came together and tried to make a serious effort to win the post of chairman. The party leaders garnered the support of four Independent members and increase their tally to 23 in the elections for the post of chairman.The newly elected chairman and vice-chairman of the Zila Parishad were administered the oath of office by Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati.New lease of life to CongThe Zila Parishad elections in Kangra have given a new lease of life to the Congress that was a divided house and leaderless in the region. After winning 19 seats the Congress leaders from the district came together and tried to make a serious effort to win the chairman’s post. They mustered the support of four Independent members and increased their tally to 23 in the elections for the post of chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-outwits-congress-captures-kangra-zp-206790
02-02-2021||KULLU||Ski and snowboarding meet concludes at Hamta||The two-day ski and snowboarding state championship conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association (HPWGA) concluded at Hamta near Manali today.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, who was the chief guest, said that the state government was making efforts to promote winter games. He said that skiing slopes and infrastructure would be developed in Solang Nullah and Hamta to conduct national level competitions. A ski lift would be set up to Hamta. The chief guest felicitated the winners and encouraged all the participants.HPWGA president Luder Thakur said that around 200 sportspersons from all over the state participated in various events in different categories. Slalom and joint slalom skiing, snowboarding and cross country competitions were held during the championship. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ski-and-snowboarding-meet-concludes-at-hamta-206791
02-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||40% students attend schools on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 1Around 35 to 40 per cent students of Class V and Class VIII to XII attended summer closing schools on the first day after a prolonged break due to Covid-19. The attendance in Class XII was around 48 per cent.The schools were sanitised and the students wearing masks were allowed to enter classes after thermal screening. Attendance is not compulsory and online teaching is still continuing. The seating arrangements were also altered to ensure proper social distancing but the morning assemblies were not held and sports and other outdoor activities are also suspended.However, schools remained closed in Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district. These would reopen on February 8, as 41 teachers tested positive for Covid on January 30.There were no special arrangements of buses to take students to schools, as the timings were staggered to avoid overcrowding and some students had to return home after waiting for transport.Meanwhile, Industrial Training Institutions (ITIs), polytechnics and engineering colleges also opened today. Only 50 per cent students were called and the remaining 50 per cent would come tomorrow, said Rajender Mehta, placement officer at Government ITI, Shimla. He added that the students were being called in shifts. They had been directed to enter and leave the premises one by one to avoid overcrowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/40-students-attend-schools-on-day-1-206792
02-02-2021||Shimla February 1||Nothing new for farm sector, says Kisan Sabha||The Union Budget has almost nothing new to offer for agriculture. It has completely disregarded farmers protesting across the country demanding a fair remuneration for their toil and labour. In 2020-21, the budgeted allocation for agriculture was Rs 1,34,349 crore, which has fallen to Rs 1,22,961 crore in 2021-22.There has been an overall reduction of 8 per cent in allocations towards agriculture even in nominal terms, said Kuldip Singh Tanwar, president of the Himachal Kisan Sabha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nothing-new-for-farm-sector-says-kisan-sabha-206793
02-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Reformative, will help attain self-reliance: Industry||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 1Investors in the industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) today termed the Union Budget as progressive and reformative that would help in attaining self-reliance while boosting development.Sanjay Khurana, president, BBN Industries Association (BBNIA), described it as a bold and reformative Budget with a development agenda. He added that a disinvestment route had been adopted to generate resources to create a developed, robust and modern and self-reliant India, which is a bold initiative.IMJS Sidhu, president, Vardhman Textiles, Baddi, said, “Since the textile sector is the biggest employment generator after agriculture, the creation of seven textile parks over three years through the MITRA Scheme will create a strong manufacturing base while giving a major push to employment”.Sandeep Verma, chairman, Engineering and Exports Committee of BBNIA, termed the Budget as growth-oriented and welcomed the support announced to the micro, small and medium enterprises that had been hit by the recent sharp rise in iron and steel prices and relief to metal recyclers.Shailesh Pathak, chairman, CII Himachal Pradesh, lauded the Budget announcements for the northern states and said many of the states were hubs of MSMEs and there are many positives for the sector such as the rationalisation of the custom duty structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reformative-will-help-attain-self-reliance-industry-206794
02-02-2021||Shimla||Caters to all sections of society, says BJP||Himachal BJP president Suresh Kashyap today hailed the Union Budget as historic, saying it caters to all sections of society.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj called it a Budget of Aatmanirbhar Bharat that would strengthen the economy. Describing the Budget as optimistic and pro-people, especially after the pandemic, he said the Union government had stressed upon health and rural India.Meanwhile, the CPM said the Budget was a big push to neo-liberal policies of the BJP government. The GDP growth was still negative at - 7.5 per cent and there was no possibility of recovery.“Himachal has been totally ignored. Nothing has been spoken about the railway network and 69 national highways announced during the 2017 Assembly elections in the state,” said Sanjay Chauhan, member, CPM state Secretariat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/caters-to-all-sections-of-society-says-bjp-206795
02-02-2021||---||Union Budget: Himachal totally ignored, says Virbhadra||Shimla, February 1Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh has termed the Union Budget as directionless, which has totally ignored Himachal Pradesh.He said that despite the tall claims of the BJP, Himachal had been discriminated again. “Himachal has been totally ignored even in the Railways budget, as there is no budgetary provision for the expansion of the rail network in the state,” he added.Virbhadra said the Budget was totally directionless with no mention of means to generate employment avenues or enhance growth. He added that the Central Government had unsuccessfully made an attempt to impress people. “The Budget clearly has more for those states where the Assembly elections are due,” he added.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said the Budget had been framed in a way to ensure a political mileage for the BJP as most of the benefits had been announced for the states that are to go to the polls. “BJP national president JP Nadda and Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur hail from Himachal, but still there is nothing for the state in the Budget,” he added.Rathore said Himachal had been hit hard as the tourism sector and small scale industries took a severe beating due to the Covid outbreak but the Budget announced no relief for these sectors. “The Union Budget does not provide any relief to the middle class and will only result in rise in prices and unemployment,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-budget-himachal-totally-ignored-says-virbhadra-206796
02-02-2021||---||Himachal CM: Budget inclusive, to benefit all sectors||Shimla, February 1Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today termed the Union Budget as all inclusive and ambitious but disappointment was evident considering that the state was expecting more with Anurag Thakur being the Union Minister of State for Finance.The Chief Minister said the Budget is inclusive, complete and ambitious even during the pandemic. He said the Budget rests on six pillars, which are health and well being, physical and financial capital and infrastructure, inclusive development for aspirational India, reinvigorating human capital, innovation and research and development and minimum government and maximum governance.“All the sectors in Himachal will be benefited for which allocations have been made. It is not possible to name benefits extended to a state name wise,” he said when asked about schemes specific to the hill state.The CM lauded the announcement by the Union Finance Minister of more than Rs 5 lakh crore in capital expenditure, which would ensure better infrastructure in the country. He appreciated the provision of Rs 28,700 crore under the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide better drinking water nationwide. Now, this mission would also be started in urban areas along with rural areas, which was an appreciable initiative.The Chief Minister said the details of what the Budget has for the state would be known later but even if there was a cut in the allocation due to the Covid pandemic, the state government would take steps to cut down wasteful expenditure.He said despite the Covid pandemic the Budget was a great effort, as reflected in the sudden rise in the BSE sensex. “The Budget shows India as a modern and independent country, in which everyone will be provided opportunities of development and growth. The youth will also get employment and self-employment opportunities,” he added. Special emphasis had been laid on ease of doing business in the Budget, he said.LEADER SPEAKThe Budget shows India as a modern and independent country in which everyone will be provided opportunities of development and growth. The youth will get employment and self-employment opportunities. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterHimachal has been totally ignored even in the Railway Budget, as there is no provision for the expansion of the rail network in the state. It is totally directionless with no mention of means to generate job avenues. — Virbhadra Singh, former Chief MinisterThe Budget is a step towards self-reliant India. The increase in the health Budget is an indication of government’s concern for the health sector and people of the country. The allocation of Rs75,000 crore for the agriculture sector will help farmers. — PK Dhumal, former Chief MinisterThe Budget is historic as it caters all sections of society. The government is committed to the welfare of farmers and a provision has been made to give 150 % of the cost as the MSP for agriculture produce. — Suresh Kashyap, state BJP chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-budget-inclusive-to-benefit-all-sectors-206797
02-02-2021||Rajesh Sharma||Swan turns into waste dumping ground||Una, January 18The Swan river along with its network of 73 tributaries and micro water channel systems has become a dumping ground for household waste. This is happening as only one of the 245 panchayats in the district has a solid waste management system. Besides, municipal waste is also being dumped along the river. The garbage is adversely affecting the flora and fauna ecosystem of the river, while plastic waste is hindering the percolation of water to ground aquifers.Affecting flora, faunaThe Swan finds a mention in the ancient Indian scriptures as the revered ‘Sombhadra’, but human beings, whom the river had nurtured and sustained for centuries, are contaminating its waters with waste. About 85 per cent of the rainfall in the district ends up in the Swan while the remaining drains into the Gobind Sagar reservoir. The Swan river system helps in the percolation of rain water to the ground aquifers, which sustain agriculture on the adjoining fertile land, also referred to as the food bowl of the state.Waste mgmt plantsSolid waste management plants are being set up in each of the five subdivisions at a cost of Rs3.64 crore. The plants are proposed at Kutheda Khairla village in Amb, Saghnai in Gagret, Jhalera in Una, Palkwah in Haroli and Muchali in Bangana. —Sanjeev Thakur, Project officer, DRDAAjouli is the only panchayat in Una subdivision to have a solid waste management system. Waste is segregated at the household level and transported to a common facility where plastic material is shredded and sold to industrial units, bio-degradable material is composted and biomedical waste, including sanitary pads, are incinerated. The rest is sold to junk dealers.In all other panchayats, waste is generally dumped at an secluded open space. The Una Municipal Committee also dumps the city waste in the river at Rampur village. During the monsoons, waste from even remote villages gets washed into the river system. While a part of the garbage gets buried under sand and gravel, the remaining flows into the Sutlej in Ropar district at the confluence of the two rivers.Sanjeev Thakur, Project Officer of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), said that solid waste management plants were being set up in each of the five subdivisions at a cost of Rs 3.64 crore. The plants were proposed at Kutheda Khairla village in Amb, Saghnai in Gagret, Jhalera in Una, Palkwah in Haroli and Muchali in Bangana subdivisions.Thakur said that 60 per cent grant had been released for creating infrastructure of all five waste management plants, which would serve a cluster of surrounding villages. He added that these would have facilities for bio-composting, incineration and shredding, based on the type of material to be recycled. Once these waste management systems start working, new ones would be sanctioned, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/swan-turns-into-waste-dumping-ground-200264
