03-02-2021||Shimla February 3||Light snow briefly brings cheers to Shimla, surrounding areas||Shimla and surrounding areas got a light spell of snowfall, briefly bringing cheers to tourists and apple growers before rain dampened their good spirits. “We are pinning hopes on MeT office prediction of rain and snow in mid and high hills from February 3 to 5,” said President of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood.He said hotels expected tourist occupancy in the state to rise to 70 per cent from the current 30 per cent because of the snow.There are no restrictions or curfews in Himachal currently, giving tourists longer to stay outside.  “We had come here for our anniversary and snow was a pleasant surprise and we really enjoyed”, said a couple from Punjab.“It was nice to see snowflakes on The Ridge but it vanished within minutes and drizzle followed,” said another group of tourists from Haryana.The local Met department has warned of thunderstorm and lightening in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Kullu and Mandi district on Thursday and rain and snow at many places in middle and high hills. Rain and snow is likely at isolated places in the state on February 5.Snow is considered white manure for apple while rains are beneficial for the wheat and vegetable crops, Director Agriculture N K Badhan said.“Ground frost in lower hills is not conducive for the crops and irrigation and fogging would help,” Badhan said, adding that the silver lining was that there is rain deficit but not moisture deficit.Minimum temperature at Keylong and Kalpa in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur district dropped to minus 5 degrees and minus 1.5 degree, Kufri 0.5 degree; Dalhousie 2.8 degrees; Shimla 4.5 degrees, Dharamshala 4.6 degrees; and Manali 5 degrees.Maximum temperatures dropped 3 to 4 degrees across the state. Bilaspur recorded the highest maximum at 21.5 degree Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/light-snow-briefly-brings-cheers-to-shimla-surrounding-areas-207434
03-02-2021||Tokyo||Rights groups call for boycott of Beijing 2022 Winter Games||A coalition of 180 rights group on Wednesday called for a boycott of next year’s Beijing Winter Olympics tied to reported human rights abuses against ethnic minorities in China.The Games are to open in one year, on February 4, 2022, and are set to go forward despite the pandemic.The coalition is composed of groups representing Tibetans, Uighurs, Inner Mongolians, residents of Hong Kong, and others.The group has issued an open letter to governments calling for a boycott of the Olympics “to ensure they are not used to embolden the Chinese government’s appalling rights abuses and crackdowns on dissent.”           Rights groups have previously asked the Switzerland-based International Olympic Committee to move the games from China. The IOC has largely ignored the demands and says it’s only a sporting body that does not get involved with politics.The groups said because of the IOC’s inaction, “it now falls on governments to take a stand and demonstrate that they have the political will to push back against China’s reprehensible human rights abuses.”                 Beijing was host to the 2008 Olympics, which it promised would improve human rights in the country. Instead, the groups say the prestige of the Olympics has led to “a gross increase on the assault on communities living under its rule.”               The situation of the Uighurs in northwestern China has received most of the attention. Last week, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken reiterated on his first day in office that he believed genocide was being committed against Xinjiang’s ethnic minorities.China has brushed off the criticisms as interference in its internal affairs and politicisation of sports. It has reacted strongly to charges of genocide. One Chinese official called it the “lie of the century.”       Since 2016, China has swept a million or more Uighurs and other predominantly Muslim minorities into prisons and indoctrination camps that the state calls training centers, according to estimates by researchers and rights groups.People have been subjected to torture, sterilization and political indoctrination in addition to forced labor as part of an assimilation campaign, according to former residents and detainees, as well as experts and leaked government documents.China at first denied the existence of the internment areas. It later acknowledged them, but denied any abuses and says the steps it has taken are necessary to combat terrorism and a separatist movement.“The IOC refused to listen in 2008, defending its decision with claims that they would prove to be a catalyst for improved human rights,” he letter says.“As human rights experts predicted, this decision proved to be hugely misplaced; not only did China’s human rights record not improve but violations increased substantially without rebuke.” — AP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rights-groups-call-for-boycott-of-beijing-2022-winter-games-207386
03-02-2021||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut gifts 4 flats to Rangoli Chandel, other cousins in Chandigarh||Actress Kangana Ranaut, who has reportedly gifted new flats to her siblings Rangoli, Aksht and two cousins in Chandigarh, on Tuesday said she was fortunate that she could share her wealth with family."I want to encourage people to share their wealth with their family. Remember happiness multiplies when it's shared, they are beautiful luxury apartments under construction will be ready in 2023 but I am very fortunate that I could do this for my family," Kangana tweeted.On the work front, Kangana will next be seen in "Thalaivi", where she essays late actress-turned-politician J Jayalalithaa.The actress also has "Tejas", "Dhaakad" and "Manikarnika: The legend Of Didda" lined up. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangana-ranaut-gifts-4-flats-to-rangoli-chandel-other-cousins-in-chandigarh-207329
03-02-2021||Shimla||39 per cent people in Himachal suffer from obesity, 11.5 per cent diabetic||Thirty-nine per cent people in Himachal Pradesh suffer from obesity while 11.5 per cent are diabetic, according to a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research-India Diabetes (ICMR-INDIAB).The nationwide study, under which findings for the state were released on Tuesday, also stated that around 77 per cent people in Himachal Pradesh suffer from dyslipidemia - abnormal levels of one or more kinds of lipids in the blood that leads to increased risk of heart diseases.The survey covered nearly 4,000 people in the state and it was conducted from September 2019 to March 2020, the study's principal investigator Dr JK Mokta, who is a professor at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital's medicine department here, said."Himachal ranks seventh in the country in terms of prevalence of type-two diabetes, and has a higher prevalence than the national average as well as its neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand," he said.The prevalence is same among males and females, but is higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas, Mokta added.He said that according to the study, around half of those suffering from diabetes have not been diagnosed with the disease and are unaware of  the problem."Moreover, around 18 per cent people here are prediabetic, which means they have a 50 per cent chance of developing diabetes in the next 10 years," Mokta said, adding that Himachal is the fourth worst-hit state in terms of abdominial obesity, with 55 per cent people having a larger than normal waist circumference.The study also showed that around 31 per cent people in the state suffer from hypertension. The fifth National Family Health Survey released in December had come out with similar results for the state against the popular belief that residents of the hill-state are healthier on account of more physical activity in the mountainous terrain, it said. Sixty-one per cent of the respondents, in fact, were found to be physically inactive, and only five per cent were highly active, the study found."Unhealthy food habits and an increasingly sedentary lifestyle seem to be responsible for all these disorders. The average cereal consumption in Himachal is 78 per cent wheat and 21 per cent rice. But people are largely consuming refined carbohydrates and not whole grains," Mokta said.The milling process removes the dietary fibre and nutrients from the whole grain. They are also snacking on unhealthy foods in between meals, such as samosas, without indulging in additional physical activity, he said citing the study."Legumes, complex carbohydrates, fruits and vegetables are not adequately present in our diets. Our ancestors also took carbohydrate-rich diets but indulged in extensive physical work which is missing now on account of motor vehicles, machines and sedentary jobs," Mokta said.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/39-per-cent-people-in-himachal-suffer-from-obesity-11-5-per-cent-diabetic-207319
03-02-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Illegal homestays hit Kangra hoteliers hard||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, February 2 Small homestays that have mushroomed around Kangra district have hit the business of registered hotels. Hoteliers are alleging that they have to bear the brunt of their increasing numbers. Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary, Smart City Dharamsala Hotel Association, while talking to The Tribune, said many online sites were booking rooms of unregistered homestays in Kangra district. This has hit the business of organised hotel industry, especially during the pandemic.  “During the pandemic, the tourism industry in Dharamsala was hit hard as the arrival of tourists almost came to a naught. Some domestic tourists have now started travelling, but they also prefer homestays instead of hotels,” he said. Gandhi said homestay owners or people renting their rooms charge very low rates from tourists as they do not have to pay any taxes.  The government should take steps to protect the organised hotel industry as loss of business to the sector was also loss to the government in terms of taxes, he said. Members of the hotel associations claimed that homestays were not allowed in urban areas like Dharamsala. Still, a large number of illegal homestays and guest houses were functioning in the city and its adjoining area.  Information gathered from the Tourism Department revealed that there were about 200 registered homestays in the district. Besides, hundreds more properties were being sold on online tourism portals in the name of homestays. Tourism Department officials said at present no clear-cut rules were framed in the state that could bar private properties selling their rooms in online properties.  Besides homestays, the Excise Department had earlier objected to time-sharing hotels running in the state and not paying taxes to the state government. After the implementation of the GST, time-sharing hotels are paying taxes in the state in which their company was registered. While they are operating their hotels in Himachal, no taxes were coming to the state. State excise officials have written to the state government that the matter of time-sharing hotels not paying any taxes to the government should be taken up in the GST council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-homestays-hit-kangra-hoteliers-hard-207242
03-02-2021||Mandi||Two Rohtak men held for ATM fraud||The cyber cell police, Mandi, today arrested two residents of Rohtak for ATM card cloning. Rohit and Aman were engaged in ATM card cloning to withdraw money from bank accounts of people. In one case, Rs 20,000 was withdrawn from the account of a local businessman, while Rs 13,000 from the account of another person. These accused used ATM kiosk of HP State Cooperative Bank to withdraw money. After complaints to the police, the cooperative bank authority had checked the CCTV footage and found these two inside the ATM kiosk involved in suspicious activity. Today, the duo again visited the same ATM kiosk, where the cyber cell police nabbed them.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-rohtak-men-held-for-atm-fraud-207243
03-02-2021||---||Golden jubilee rath yatra on April 15: CM||Shimla, February 2 The proposed Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra to celebrate the golden jubilee of statehood will possibly commence on April 15 and cover every area of the state, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a meeting here today. He said that the involvement of people in the yatra should be ensured, besides the active participation of the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions, urban local bodies, mahila mandals and yuvak mandals to make the event a mega success. The design of the ‘raths’ should be uniform and attractive, he added. All major departments must actively highlight their achievements on LED screens installed on the raths. The yatra would also highlight the achievements of the state in the past 50 years, he said.  The Chief Minister said that the Rath Yatra would cover every cluster of two to three panchayats of the area where the event would be held to highlight the achievements of the state. He added that the focus should also be on highlighting the policies and programmes of the state government.  He said that efforts would be made to highlight the achievements of the areas through which the Rath Yatra would pass. He added that a Rath Yatra Committee would be constituted to give suggestions to make the event attractive and informative.  The yatra would be accompanied by cultural troupes which would not only entertain people but also highlight the glorious journey of the state through songs and skits. He added that he would himself ensure the maximum presence of people in the yatra.  Thakur said that on the arrival of the yatra at a specified place in a block or a panchayat, it would be received by the representatives of the panchayati raj Institutions and prominent people of the area. He added that events such as ‘Itihaas pe Charcha’, a debate and painting competitions would also be held to ensure the active participation of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/golden-jubilee-rath-yatra-on-april-15-cm-207244
03-02-2021||Solan||Baddi youth duped of Rs 83K||A Baddi youth was duped of Rs 83,442 in lure of receiving an interview call from a website shinejobs.co. The police registered a case of cheating on the complaint of Atul Kumar, a Chamba resident. A sum of Rs 100 was sought from Atul by the website staff as service charge for an interview for a job. Atul took his colleague Anil Tiwari’s credit card of City Bank and paid the money through the online mode, but since the transaction was not completed he paid it four times. A sum of Rs 83,442 was debited from his account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-youth-duped-of-rs-83k-207245
03-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Finance panel five-year grant a breather for Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 2Though there has been a marginal cut in the revenue deficit grant (RDG), the 15th Finance Commission’s grant of Rs 81,977 crore for the next five years has come as a major breather for the state government.Boost for airport projectsThe report of the 15 Finance Commission was placed in Parliament yesterday. With this the state government would receive Rs 950 crore per month, which would take care of the hefty salary burden of over two lakh government employees. The fact that the Finance Commission did not make a major cut in the RDG is the biggest relief for the state government, which was apprehensive about a possible cut in view of the Covid pandemic.While the revenue deficit grant given by the 14th Finance Commission was Rs 40,642 crore, the RDG given by the 15th Finance Commission is Rs 37,199 crore, which shows a marginal decrease.A new feature this time has been the Rs 1,420-crore state specific grant on the recommendations by the Finance Commission. This includes Rs 1,000 crore for the construction of an airport at Nagchala in Mandi district, Rs 400 crore for the expansion and upgrade of the Gaggal airport in Kangra and Rs 20 crore for the development of the Jwalamukhi temple in Kangra.The grant of Rs 1,000 crore for the construction of an airport in Mandi has brightened the chances of the project taking shape. It is now being expected that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur could make a budgetary provision for the airport in the budget for the year 2021-22, besides seeking funds from the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation.A grant of Rs 3,049 crore has been made for the urban local bodies and Rs 2,258 crore for disaster management. The 14th Finance Commission had announced a grant of Rs 72,033 crore for Himachal while the 15th Finance Commission had enhanced it marginally to Rs 81,977 crore for the period 2021-22 to 2025-2026. A provision of Rs 19,309 crore had been made for the financial year 2020-21.A sum of Rs 35,064 crore would be received as the tax share, Rs 37,199 crore as the revenue deficit grant, Rs 37 crore for the health sector, Rs 2,222 crore for the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana and Rs 21 crore for data and statistics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finance-panel-five-year-grant-a-breather-for-himachal-207246
03-02-2021||shimla||Budget disappointing: Sukhu||Former HPCC president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu has described the Union Budget as disappointing as it ignored Himachal.  He said even Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur failed to bring any major scheme for the state. Himachal is celebrating the golden jubilee of statehood but no package had been given to it while a small state like Goa had been given Rs 300 crore. All four Lok Sabha members from Himachal are from the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been saying that Himachal was his second home, but instead of giving relief to apple growers and farmers, the government had imposed an agriculture cess, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/budget-disappointing-sukhu-207247
03-02-2021||---||Power Dept staff to go on strike today||Shimla, February 2  More than 15 lakh Power Department employees and engineers will go on strike tomorrow against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill proposed to be introduced in the Budget session of Parliament. On the call of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers, the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) Employees Union will organise demonstrations throughout the state in front of the board offices. The union termed the Bill as “anti-farmer” and “anti-electricity consumer”, as it would pave the way for the privatisation of the power sector in the country. HPSEBL Employees Union secretary HL Verma said that the Central Government was bent upon destroying the state power companies despite strong opposition from farmers and department employees and engineers. He demanded the immediate withdrawal of the Bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-dept-staff-to-go-on-strike-today-207248
03-02-2021||---||26 Covid cases, one death in Himachal||Shimla, February 2As many as 26 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 57,587. Besides, one person died of the virus in Kangra in the last 24 hours, and as a result the fatality figure rose to 968.The highest number of seven cases was reported in Mandi, followed by six in Kangra, four each in Una and Shimla, three in Kullu and two in Solan. The total number of active cases stood at 365.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/26-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-207249
03-02-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Atal Tunnel to be shut for three days||KULLU, FEBRUARY 2Tourist vehicles will not be allowed to visit Atal Tunnel from February 3 to 5 in the wake of inclement weather forecast.Solang-tunnel road to be tow-away zoneKullu SP Gaurav Singh said the Meteorological Department had issued a warning of snow and rain. The threat of avalanches, landslides, icing on the roads and fog increased in adverse weather. Vehicles would not be permitted beyond the Solang nullah. He urged tourists to avoid going towards higher reaches and disaster-prone areas and follow the advisory.The tunnel had been closed for 24 days from January 6. It was reopened to tourists on January 30 after the administration got approval from the BRO. A large number of people were crossing the tunnel and the vehicular movement had increased due to which there was a possibility of accidents. People were facing inconvenience due to traffic jams on the approach road to the tunnel.Kullu DC Richa Verma said a patrol vehicle had been deployed between Solang and the south portal of the tunnel and it had been declared a tow-away zone to ensure smooth traffic.Verma said there would be a ban on the operation of snow scooters and ATV vehicles beyond the Solang barrier.The DC said the time for tourist vehicles going from the Solang barrier to the south portal had been fixed from 9 am to 11 am and from 12 noon to 1 pm. The tunnel would be closed during this period for maintenance. She said tourists would have to come back by 4 pm from the tunnel to Solang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/atal-tunnel-to-be-shut-for-three-days-207250
03-02-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Neelam is Chamba ZP chairperson||Chamba, February 2  Neelam Kumari, a member from the Bakhtpur ward, was declared elected to the post of Zila Parishad chairperson of the district today.  She got 13 votes in her favour, while Pankaj Kumar, a member from Motla ward, got five votes in a direct contest. Similarly, Hakam Singh, a member from Karyas ward, was declared elected as vice-chairperson of the Zila Parishad. Hakam Singh got 11 votes, while Lalit Thakur, a member from the Kilod ward, got seven votes.  The election process to the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson of Zila Parishad was conducted at a meeting which was chaired by Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer DC Rana at Bachat Bhawan here today.  The DC also administered the oath of office to the newly-elected chairperson and vice-chairperson. Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania, HP Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj, MLAs Vikram Jaryal and Jia Lal Kapoor and other dignitaries were also present at the swearing-in ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/neelam-is-chamba-zp-chairperson-207251
03-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Special award for two Hamirpur officers||Hamirpur, February 2 Two officers Commandant Anurag Chaudhary and Commandant Sachin Verma of the Indian Cost Guards were conferred the Special Operations Award on Raising Day at the ICG headquarters in New Delhi yesterday.  Sachin Verma was from ward no 10  of the town while Anurag Choudhary was from Chakmoh village.  They were awarded for their exemplary service during a fire incident in the sea between India and Sri Lanka in September 2020. The officers, who were pilots, were part of a team that rescued 22 crew members of oil tanker ship MT New Diamond.  The ship caught fire after a major explosion in its engine room on September 3. The ship, a greek-owned vessel, was chartered by the Indian Oil Corporation. The team swung into action and pulled the ship 40 miles away from Sri Lanka to safe waters and helped contain fire.  Both officers were posted abroad. Sachin Verma was a student of Sainik School, Sujanpur Tihra, while Anurag Chaudhary had his schooling from Mumbai and Noida.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-award-for-two-hamirpur-officers-207252
03-02-2021||Mandi||‘Overcharging’ by pvt schools irks parents||Parents are irked by private school authorities for overcharging school fee in Mandi district and said they would pay only the tuition fee.  The parents alleged that despite the direction of the HC and the state government to charge only tuition fee, private schools were demanding extra fee from them. Also, in case of non-payment of fee, the school authorities were threatening them to expel the students from the school.  Mandi Students and Parents Manch president Suresh Sarwal said, “It is a matter of concern that despite the direction of the HC and the state government to charge only tuition fee, private schools are overcharging.”  “We urge the CM to constitute a regulatory commission to monitor the functioning of private schools across the state” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overcharging-by-pvt-schools-irks-parents-207253
03-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Kullu police officer bags NCW Women Covid Warrior award||Kullu, February 2 Bhuntar police station in-charge SI Garima Surya has become the only woman police officer of the state to be awarded the ‘Women Covid Warrior Real Hero Award’ on behalf of the National Commission for Women (NCW) by Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, on Sunday.  The National Commission for Women felicitated women Covid-19 warriors who had done exceptional and commendable work during the pandemic on its 29th Foundation Day.  Garima Surya performed her four-month regular duty without any leave as a frontline Covid warrior at Bajaura naka at the gateway of Kullu. She was the only woman police officer with other police personnel at the naka during this period. She performed her duty relentlessly despite many challenges during Covid crisis. Garima is a resident of Deva Manal village in Sirmaur district. She started services in the Himachal Police in September 2016 and served as SHO Kullu Mahila Police Station for four years. Currently she is serving as SHO at Bhuntar Police Station. The Kullu police were elated after the award was bestowed to their fellow colleague. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda, DGP Sanjay Kundu, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and many other dignitaries congratulated the officer. Many social organisations and prominent persons also praised Garima for her achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-police-officer-bags-ncw-women-covid-warrior-award-207254
03-02-2021||---||MeT predicts rain, snowfall||Shimla, February 2   Hinting at a break in the prolonged dry spell, local the MeT office has predicted thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in lower hills on February 3 and 4 and rain and snow in mid and higher hills from February 3 to 5. Farmers and fruit and vegetable growers are worried as continued dry spell would spell doom for crops, fruit and vegetables, which had already been sown. The region received 37.7 mm average rains from January 1 to February 2 as against the normal rainfall of 95 mm, a deficit of 60 per cent. The day temperatures on Tuesday rose marginally and stayed three to four degree above normal. Bilaspur and Hamirpur recorded maximum temperatures of 25.5°C and 25.3 °C, followed by Una 24.7°C, Sundernagar 23.5°C, Solan 23.2 °C, Shimla 16°C, Manali 15°C and Keylong 0.5 °C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-rain-snowfall-207255
03-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Students carve sculptures at Keylong snow festival||Kullu, February 2 A snow craft competition was organised at the snow festival at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district today. Students of Government Senior Secondary School, Keylong, carved beautiful sculptures from snow, as they got a chance to showcase their skills after the school reopened after about 11 months.    Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said community participation had been remarkable during the snow festival being organised for the first time. He said excellent programmes were being organised with the cooperation of people. Lahaul and Spiti’s tribal arts, culture, festivals, costumes, cuisines etc. were being showcased at the festival. Rai said that various events were held at different places in Lahaul and Spiti. The idea of the snow festival was conceived to provide a platform for these activities to promote winter tourism. He added that traditional sports were being promoted during the festival. Archery, ‘chholo’, tug-of-war on snow etc. were the interesting games being introduced. He said the major festivals of the district such as Fagli, Halda, Losar, Kuns, Zukaru, Gochi, Poona, and Lamohi were celebrated during the winter when the valley is covered with snow. These festivals were celebrated in unique ways in different areas. He added that the cultural genres of all events of Lahaul were getting integrated into each other for the first time through the ‘Maha Utsav’.  The Deputy Commissioner said that these festivals would be celebrated in every village in the traditional form. He added that the snow festival, which commenced on January 25, would conclude in the last week of March. Efforts would also be made to run a taxi service such as the HTRC’s ‘Ride with Pride’ scheme for different areas from Sissu and arrangements would be made to include tourists in the programmes in villages to promote rural tourism. Meanwhile, Rai chaired a meeting with the sub-committees of the festival and released a calendar of events for February. He said that the Atal Tunnel had opened the doors of prosperity and happiness for the Lahaul valley people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-carve-sculptures-at-keylong-snow-festival-207256
03-02-2021||In an open letter to the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court||NSUI writes to HP Chief Justice||HPUTA opposes teachers’ transferA delegation of the Himachal Pradesh University Teachers' Association (HPUTA) on Tuesday met the Vice Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh University and raised the issue of transfer of ICDEOL teachers to PG centre departments and other institutes of the university. Opposing the decision, HPUTA said the move would harm the interest of teachers working in respective departments. "It is important that as per the past practice, all recruitment and postings in different wings and institutes shall be made only through proper recruitment process which includes advertisement and selection committee for the concerned department," they maintained. Instead of transferring the interested teachers, their services should be utilised for the betterment of ICDEOL for which they had been appointed legitimately, the members added.School shines in Children Science CongressStudents of Shiva International School, Ghumarwin, Bilaspur, performed well in different activities in the state-level Children Science Congress. In the junior category, Kartik Sharma was selected as the most active student and Arunima and Shreyashi secured first position in the quiz competition. In the senior section, Hardik Parmar grabbed the first position in scientific project report and secured a place in the national-level scientific project report.Students of Him Academy bring laurelsThree students of Him Academy Public school Hira Nagar have bagged first position in two different categories in a state-level science fair. Tanishak and Aryan won first position in senior quiz competition, while Preetika bagged the first position in scientific survey report in senior category. All three students will now participate in the national-level science fair. The school authorities congratulated the students and their teacher guides for the achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-writes-to-hp-chief-justice-207282
03-02-2021||An open garbage dump near Sairi Hospital in Solan has become an eyesore as well as threat to the health of the patients. Most of the time alcohol bottles and garbage is littered around the dump. Also||Open garbage dump an eyesore||— Rajan Shandil, SolanParking hassles for patientsDUE to the paucity of parking space at the IGMC, patients and their attendants are facing inconvenience. Vehicles parked on the restricted road from the IGMC to Sanjauli are challaned by the police and there is little space on the Indus road. Patients are told to park their vehicles on the main road below the IGMC and they are forced to pay Rs100 for taxi to come to the hospital. If the government is serious about the health of the people, this is the first step to help patients.— Pinki, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/open-garbage-dump-an-eyesore-207283
