04-02-2021||---||In pics, Kasauli, Dagshai get season’s first snow||Kasauli, February 3Kasauli and Dagshai on Thursday received season's first snowfall.  Snow brought cheer to residents of Kasauli and its vicinity as white cover enveloped the entire area. Tourists made a beeline to Kasauli even as vehicles skid on the road owing to the slippery surface.Locals celebrated the snowfall and could be seen out playing amidst the chilling cold. Children, too, came out of their houses to play as only light snowfall was witnessed in the area in several years.Traders kept themselves warm by burning wood in the open and are expecting brisk sale of woollens and electrical gadgets.Traders kept themselves warm by burning wood in the open and are expecting brisk sale of woollens and electrical gadgets.Power supply has been disrupted.Predicting snowfall in mid and high hills, the Meteorological Department had already issued yellow weather warning for thunderstorm in Himachal Pradesh for February 4.It also snowed in Shimla, Kufri, Keylong, Kalpa and several other high reaches of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pics-kasauli-dagshai-get-seasons-first-snow-207913
04-02-2021||---||Himachal Police raid Delhi house; seize 6 kg heroin; African arrested||Shimla, February 4In the biggest-ever narcotics seizure, the Kullu police have seized 6.297 kg of heroin from a house in Delhi and arrested an African national.The nine-member police team raided Delhi on Tuesday and seized the heroin. The approximate value of the seized drug is Rs 30 crore.Following the leads, police also arrested two suppliers of heroin in Banjar on January 30.This is the biggest-ever haul of heroin by the state police till day, said DGP Sanjay Kundu, adding that financial investigation leading to the attachment of proceeds of illegal income would follow. The 38-year-old African was living in Delhi without a visa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-raid-delhi-house-seize-6-kg-heroin-african-arrested-207906
04-02-2021||Mandi||Shut in March, Spiti valley to open for tourists||Residents of Spiti are all set to welcome tourists from February 17. The valley was shut since March last year in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Now, the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti has become Covid-free. To attract tourists to the Lahaul valley, the district administration has organised a two-month-long snow festival.Takpa Tenzin, president of the Committee for Preventive Measures and Sustainable Development, Spiti, said, “The decision to open the Spiti valley for tourism has been taken unanimously by stakeholders of the tourism industry and valley residents.”However, the tourists coming to the region will have to strictly follow all standard operating procedures. Takpa said, “All tour operators have to ensure that tourists, mainly those travelling in a group, have a Covid negative test report from an authorised hospital or lab 72 to 96 hours before arrival.” Meanwhile, entry to Kibber village and Kibber wildlife habitat remains prohibited as villagers have decided not to host tourists this winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shut-in-march-spiti-valley-to-open-for-tourists-207590
04-02-2021||---||Farmers delighted||Mandi, February 3Farmers were delighted today following fresh snowfall in higher reaches and rainfall in lower regions of Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts. They had been worried about their crops due to a long dry spell of weather.According to residents of Lahaul and Spiti, mild snowfall occurred in Keylong and some other parts of the district. Snowfall was also reported near the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, making travelling on the road risky. Famous tourist places such as the Solang valley, Kothi and Gulaba beyond Manali also received snowfall, delighting the hoteliers of Kullu and Manali.Snowflakes were experienced in Manali town during the day time to the delight of the tourists. The higher areas of the district such as Shikari Devi and the Prashar lake also experienced snowfall, reviving the cold wave in the region.Nakul Khullar, an orchardist of Kullu district, said, “It is a blessing for the horticulture sector in Kullu district as the fresh spell of snowfall and rainfall has ended the long dry spell of weather. In Kullu district, a large tract of land is covered under fruit crops, which need adequate moisture and cool temperatures for a better yield”.To ensure public safety, the Kullu district administration has restricted traffic movement towards the Atal Tunnel beyond the Solang valley. The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment, Manali, has issued a warning of a snow avalanche in Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti. As a result, the district administrations of Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti have advised tourists to avoid going to high altitude areas in the next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-delighted-207473
04-02-2021||---||Mild snow cheers tourists in Shimla||Shimla February 3Shimla and its surrounding areas received a fresh spell of mild snow, bringing cheers to tourists and apple growers. However, the happiness was shortlived as the traces of snow were followed by sleet and intermittent rain.“We are pinning hopes on the MeT office prediction of rain and snow in mid and higher hills from February 3 to 5,” said president of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood.The occupancy, which is about 30 per cent, was expected to increase to over 70 per cent after snowfall. There were no Covid restrictions and tourists could enjoy freely, he said, urging the tourists, planning a trip to Shimla, to adhere to the standard-operating procedures and wear mask.“We had come here for our anniversary and snow was a pleasant surprise and we really enjoyed it,” said a couple from Punjab.“It was nice to see snowflakes on The Ridge but these vanished within minutes and drizzle followed,” said another group of tourists from Haryana.The Met Department has warned of thunderstorm and lightning in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Kullu and Mandi district tomorrow and predicted rain and snow at many places.Snow is considered white manure for apple while rain is beneficial for the wheat and vegetable crops. Ground frost in lower hills is not conducive to the crops and irrigation and fogging will help, said Director, Agriculture, NK Badhan.Keylong and Kalpa in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts shivered with a minimum temperature of minus 5 degrees and minus 1.5 degree followed by Kufri 0.5 degree while Dalhousie, Shimla, Dharamsala and Manali recorded a low of 2.8 degree, 4.5 degree, 4.6 degree and 5 degree C.The maximum temperatures decreased by 3 to 4 degrees and Bilaspur was the warmest with a high of 21.5 degree C.Dark clouds overcast the sky, reducing visibility to a few metres and vehicles were forced to move at a snail’s pace with headlights on even during the day.Met forecastThe Met Department has warned of thunderstorm and lightning in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Kullu and Mandi district on Thursday and predicted rain and snow at many places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mild-snow-cheers-tourists-in-shimla-207474
04-02-2021||Palampur||Power, transport hit  in Palampur||The upper reaches of Dhauladhar hills and high-altitude areas of the Palampur region experienced heavy snowfall in the past 24 hours while lower areas were lashed by heavy rain.Bhanghal has been cut off following heavy snowfall at the Thamsar Pass.Normal life in the region was paralysed following heavy snowfall and rain. Power supply and transport services were also hit. Many parts of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur and adjoining areas remained without power following a snag in the transmission lines feeding many parts of Kangra.Traffic to Chhota Bhanghal and Billing came to a standstill. Meanwhile, the district administration has suspended paragliding at Bir Billing. Tourists have been advised not to take risk by visiting Billing as the road is slippery at many points. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-transport-hit-in-palampur-207475
04-02-2021||---||Bharmour to receive quality power supply||Shimla, February 3A 33-KV line has been connected to Lahal substation in Bharmour. “Now, the Bharmour region will get effective power supply and about 60,000 people will get relief from the low voltage problem,” said Ram Subhag Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Power) and Chairman, Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited.Having a capacity of 315 mva, the Lahal substation had been completed by Himachal Pradesh Transmission Corporation Limited at a cost of about Rs 260 crore. “With the construction of the Lahal substation, the power supply in Bharmour will be strengthened,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bharmour-to-receive-quality-power-supply-207476
04-02-2021||---||Padma Shri for linking Zanskar valley with Darcha||Mandi, February 3Social worker Tsultrim Chonjor of Stongde village in Ladkah has been named for the Padma Shri award for his social work. He has dedicated his life and property to social cause.Chonjor’s social work came to notice when he constructed a 38-km-long stretch of road from Kargyak village in the Zanskar valley of the Ladakh region towards Darcha village in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh via Shinku La from May 2014 to June 2017. He spent Rs 57 lakh from his own pocket and sold his ancestral property to construct the road.Sources said he was a government employee, who had worked with the state Handicrafts Department from 1965 to 2000. He was unhappy as the region lacked road connectivity.Sold aNcestral property for projectThe social work of Chanjor was recognised by the Border Roads Organisation authority, which later took the responsibility of constructing the road from Darcha ahead of Shinkula Pass in Lahaul Spiti towards Padum village, the main headquarters of the Zanskar valley in the Ladakh region.The Tribune had also highlighted the social work of Chanjore, when he constructed the road in the area.Talking to The Tribune over phone from his native of village Stongde in Ladakh, Chonjor said, “It is a matter of happiness for me that the Central government has named me for the highest civilian award for my social work. My dream will come true, when all remote areas of country would be connected with road facility where people are facing difficulty in availing the transportation facility due to lack of road connectivity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/padma-shri-for-linking-zanskar-valley-with-darcha-207477
04-02-2021||Our Correspondent||HRTC pensioners resent delay in monthly payment||Nurpur, February 3Pensioner’s Welfare Manch of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has expressed anguish over the erratic disbursal of monthly service pension to the retired employees of the corporation.State president of the manch Balram Puri said it had become difficult for the HRTC pensioners to support their families in the absence of timely disbursement of pension.Puri said the pensioners were not even getting their retirement financial benefits which were due for the past five years. “The HRTC management is yet to release arrear of 27 per cent DA which is due since 2015, leave encashment since 2016 and pension arrears since 2018. The management is also yet to disburse dues worth Rs 300 crore to the pensioners,” he said.He added that the manch had submitted several memorandums to the Chief Minister and the Transport Minister for the past three years seeking permanent solution of monthly pension and disbursal of financial benefits but to no avail.Puri urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to make provision of disbursement of dues and regular monthly pension to the HRTC pensioners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-pensioners-resent-delay-in-monthly-payment-207479
04-02-2021||Samayra||Nurpur student brings laurels||Five-day NCC camp beginsThe 7 HP (I) COY has started a five-day camp for college students. As many as 85 cadets, including both boys and girls, from different colleges of Shimla are taking part in the camp. Commanding Officer Col. Suneet Sangta inaugurated the camp and interacted with the cadets. He spoke to them about maintaining discipline and distance during the camp and what they would learn in the camp.Sack VC, Dean of Studies: NSUIThe NSUI has demanded the resignation of HPU Vice Chancellor and Dean of Studies after the Supreme Court also held the decision to grant admission through merit instead of entrance exams. The High Court had already declared the decision illegal and had asked HPU executive council to take action in this matter. "Now, since the Supreme Court, too, has held the decision illegal, the government must sack the VC and the Dean of Studies with immediate effect," said NSUI state president Chhatar Singh. The NSUI also demanded a judicial inquiry into the allegations of corruption in the appointment of teaching faculty in the university.ED action against mbu hailedWhile welcoming the ED action against the Manav Bharti University (MBU) a few days back, the ABVP demanded action against all private universities which have been accused of corruption and selling degrees. ABVP's Vishal Verma said such universities were a blot on the education system. The ABVP said the SIT constituted to end corruption in private universities should speed up its inquiry and all those indulging in wrong practices be punished sternly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-student-brings-laurels-207480
04-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Growers wary of 35 pc cess on imported apple||tribune news serviceShimla, February 3A sense of euphoria among apple growers following the Finance Minister’s announcement that 35 per cent agriculture cess will be imposed on the import of apple is dying down.The announcement led growers into believing that the cess will be levied over and above 50 per cent customs duty that is imposed on the imported apple. Had it been the case, the import would have become dearer and the demand for local produce would have increased.The government, however, revised the customs duty to 15 per cent while announcing the imposition of 35 per cent cess. “We need to wait for the notification to get a clear picture,” said Amitabh Awasthi, Secretary, Horticulture.‘Not levied on total value of imports’With the revision of the custom duty to 15 per cent and the imposition of 35 per cent cess on it, the total tax realised from imports worth Rs100 will be around Rs20, as the cess will be levied on the 15 per cent customs duty, not the total value of the imports. In a nutshell, the import duty on apple will decrease, which will hurt the domestic apple growers. —Lokinder Bisht, President of progressive growers associationApple growers, on the other hand, are certain that the import duty, contrary to their long-standing demand, has not been increased. “We have been told by sources that the government has simply divided the import duty into two heads – 15 per cent customs duty and 35 per cent agriculture cess. So, there has been no increase in import duty that would have helped the local produce,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association of Himachal Pradesh.An Indian Institute of Foreign Trade official lent further credence to Chauhan’s assertion. “The import duty on apple can’t be increased beyond 50 per cent as per the WTO agreement. Raising the duty beyond 50 per cent will be a violation,” he said.The Progressive Growers Association fears the reduction in the customs duty from 50 per cent to 15 per cent, even with 35 per cent agriculture cess, will actually hurt the growers. “A 50 per cent custom duty on imports worth Rs 100 will attract a tax of Rs 50. With custom duty revised to 15 per cent and the imposition of 35 per cent cess, the total tax realised from imports worth Rs 100 will be around Rs 20 as the cess (which is a tax on tax) will be levied on the 15 per cent customs duty, not the total value of the import,” said president Lokinder Bisht.“In a nutshell, the import duty on apple will decrease, which will hurt the domestic apple growers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/growers-wary-of-35-pc-cess-on-imported-apple-207481
04-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||BJP captures BDC top posts in Dharampur, Kullu||Solan, February 3The BJP received captured the Dharampur block development committee (BDC) in Solan district today.BJP’s Jamuna Devi was unanimously elected chairperson while Madan Mohan Mehta would be the vice-chairman. A two-thirds majority was required to elect the two top posts and the BJP mustered the support of 16 of the 23 members.Jamuna Devi was elected from the Darwa ward in the Doon Assembly constituency while Madan Mohan Mehta was elected from the Gulari ward in the Kasauli constituency, the home turf of Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal.The BJP leaders were upbeat as the party has already elected its chairman and vice-chairman of the Zila Parishad. The party has also established a stronghold over the Nalagarh BDC and it is looking forward to elevate its members to the Solan BDC tomorrow.KULLU: BJP-supported candidates secured the posts of president and vice-president of three Block Development Committees of the district on Wednesday. BJP’s Sumitra Devi and Yashpal were elected president and vice-president of the Kullu BDC.In Naggar BDC, BJP-supported Kundan Singh and Anita became president and vice-president. BJP-backed Lata Devi and Dur Singh were elected president and vice-president of the Banjar BDC.The elections to the Anni and Nirmand blocks would be conducted tomorrow.Banjar MLA Surender Shourie participated in the procession with the BJP-supported victorious members. He said that the people had reposed faith in the party and the government.District BJP president Bhim Sen Sharma said that claiming the top posts in all the three blocks indicated the support of the masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-captures-bdc-top-posts-in-dharampur-kullu-207482
04-02-2021||Illegal mining is going on unchecked at Biarghatta near Thural in gross violation of rules. The land involved in mining belongs to the Forest Department and is not leased out for mining by the state government. The mining mafia in the area has flourished under the shelter of local leaders. The mining department looks helpless in initiating action against the culprits who have been causing loss in lakhs daily to the state exchequer. The government must act and punish the culprits — Mukesh Kumar||illegal mining rampant||Need for crash barriersA terrible accident a few days back near Sankat Mochan in Shimla, in which a newly wed couple died, reinforced the need to have crash barriers on the road. The ill-fated couple would have probably survived the accident if the road had a crash barrier at that point. —Rajat Chauhan, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-rampant-207483
04-02-2021||---||Himachal hopeful of getting bulk drug park: CM||Solan, February 3Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the state government was hopeful of getting a mega bulk drug park for the state as they have aggressively bid for it before the Union Government.He was virtually addressing the pharmaceutical industry from across the country during a regional conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry on the Changing Landscape of Indian Pharmaceutical Sector and Strategically Gaining Global Leadership.Thakur stressed on providing ease of doing business to the entrepreneurs, besides state-of-the-art infrastructure to the industry.Bikram Singh, Industry and Transport Minister, said, “The state is rapidly moving from being an agrarian state to one of the most industrially developed states in the country.”Ram Subhag Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries and Power, applauded the efforts of officials of the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Government of India in announcing various schemes and incentive to give impetus to active pharmaceutical ingredient formulation in the country. He further urged Department of Pharmaceuticals to announce the allocation of Bulk Drug Parks soon.Navdeep Rinwa, Joint Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Government of India, said that the BDPs and production-linked incentive schemes were aimed at laying strong foundation for Atmanirbhar Bharat.Dinesh Dua, Chairman, CII Northern Region, Committee on life Science and Biotech, said India was poised to become a pharmacy to the world. He appreciated the efforts of the DoP for introducing schemes and incentives for the pharma sector.B R Sikri, Co-Chairman, CII Northern Region, Committee on life Science and Biotech, said, “Himachal has a significant role to play in making India a hub of API formulation and reducing our dependence on China.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hopeful-of-getting-bulk-drug-park-cm-207484
04-02-2021||Shimla||59 Covid cases, one dies in Himachal||As many as 59 Covid cases were reported in the state today, raising the tally to 57,646. Besides, one person died of the virus in Kangra in the past 24 hours.The highest number of 31cases was reported in Mandi, followed by seven each in Shimla and Sirmaur, six in Hamirpur, five in Una, two in Kinnaur and one in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/59-covid-cases-one-dies-in-himachal-207485
04-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||Power board staff stage dharna||Shimla, February 3HPSEBL employees and engineers held a demonstration throughout the state today on a call given by the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill proposed to be introduced in the Budget session.Addressing a rally in Shimla, HPSEB Employees Union secretary HL Verma opposed the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, saying it would pave the way for privatisation of the power sector in the country.“The Bill proposes de-licensing of electricity distribution business and to bring competition in the power sector. De-licensing of electricity distribution means the highly technical subject will be handed over to anyone. Besides, the policy of cross-subsidy aimed at providing electricity to the poor and farmers at cheaper rates will be abolished in a time-bound manner,” he said.The union opposed the move to privatise distribution companies.Nurpur: Members of the HPSEBL employees’ union of Nurpur, Jawali and Fatehpur Zone, led by state senior vice-president of the union Pawan Mohal, staged a dharna on the premises of the electrical division here on Wednesday. They also took out a march in the Chogan bazaar against the Electricity Amendment Bill proposed to be introduced in the Budget session of Parliament.The protest demonstration was organised on the call of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers. Addressing the board employees, Mohal said the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill was anti-consumers and anti-employees. “The new Bill will adversely affect the service condition of the electricity employees and consumers will get power supply with unaffordable tariff,” he said.Hamirpur: A call to withdraw the Bill was given by employees of HPSEBL here. The employees union of the HPSEBL staged a protest here despite rain. They gathered against the proposed amendments to the law and privatisation of power boards.Earlier, members of the Centre for Indian Trade Union (CITU) staged a dharna in favour of the HPSEBL employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-board-staff-stage-dharna-207486
04-02-2021||Mandi||Jan Manch at Rewalsar  on Feb 14||A Jan Manch will be organised at Rewalsar in Mandi district on February 14 to resolve the issues of common people of the Balh Assembly constituency. After the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, the Jan Manch programme could not organise in the district.Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said, “The Jan Manch will be organised at Government Senior Secondary School at Rewalsar in the Balh Assembly segment of Mandi on February 14. Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania will preside over the programme that will begin at 10 am”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jan-manch-at-rewalsar-on-feb-14-207487
04-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||136 traffic violators challaned||KULLU, FEBRUARY 3 The automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR) CCTVs cameras installed in Manali town under intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) in November last year has been successful in bringing 136 violators to book.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that challans were issued for rash driving, bike stunts, without helmet, triple riding, using mobile, overspeeding, etc. from cameras. The SP said that the first ITMS of the state was set up in Kullu and the second was installed in Manali. It was proving effective in monitoring traffic violations round the clock.  He added that a long-term assessment of this system is in progress and violators can be captured by the cameras during the day as well as in the night. He said that the motive of this system was not to issue challans but to motivate people to follow traffic rules. The SP appealed to the drivers to obey traffic rules to avoid being challaned. He said that speed limit boards had been installed in different locations of Manali town and traffic offences are recorded by the cameras located at various points and sent to the control room at Manali from where the challan is sent to the violator with date and time of offence along with a photograph.  He said that challan can be settled in the traffic control room at Rambagh or police station, Manali, within seven days after which it will be sent to the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/136-traffic-violators-challaned-207488
04-02-2021||Dharamsala||BJP executive meet in Dharamsala from Feb 17||BJP state president Suresh Kashyap, while addressing a press conference here today, hailed the decision of 15th Finance Commission to give Rs 1,000 crore for Mandi international airport and Rs 400 crore for the expansion of Gaggal airport.He said Himachal had got a liberal deal from the Union government in the Budget.He hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for giving a progressive Budget to pull the country out of the Covid-induced recession.Kashyap was here to hold meetings with the party workers in view of the state executive of BJP meeting to be held at Dharamsala from February 17 to 19. He said that BJP national president JP Nadda would attend the meeting. Besides Nadda, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other office bearers of party, Union Minister for State for Finance Anurag Thakur would also participate in the meeting, Kashyap said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-executive-meet-in-dharamsala-from-feb-17-207489
04-02-2021||ibune News Service---||Tibetans protest Winter Olympics in Beijing||Dharamsala, February 3 Tibetan activists held a protest march in McLeodganj today to condemn the International Olympic Committee decision for hosting the upcoming Winter Olympics 2022 in Beijing. The activists from Tibetan NGOs organised a streetplay to express anger and disappointment. The play symbolised Chinese president Xi Jinping and IOC president Thomas Bach joining hands ignoring the sufferings of the Tibetans, the Taiwanese, the Uyghurs, the southern Mongolians and Hong Kong residents. The activists alleged that they believed hosting the games in a country committing genocide and ethnic cleansing was akin to legitimising these crimes. Crackdown against democracy and human rights had intensified across China and the countries it occupied. Despite that, the IOC had chosen to ignore these facts. The Tibetan Youth Congress, the Tibetan Women’s Association, the Students for Free Tibet, the National Democratic Party of Tibet  and the Guchusum Association of former political prisoners of Tibet jointly organised the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetans-protest-winter-olympics-in-beijing-207490
04-02-2021||Shimla February 3---||‘Swarnim Vatika’ drive launched||As part of the celebrations of 50 years of Statehood of Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today planted a cherry blossom, commonly known as ‘pajja’, at Kareru Forest near Shimla. He inaugurated the year-long celebrations by the Forest Department and congratulated it for taking the initiative to establish ‘Swarnim Vatika’ in each Assembly constituency. He said this would create aesthetic spots for people to relax and enjoy.  He said the initiative would also enhance the forest cover of the state and would sensitise and educate the people of the urban and semi urban community about the importance of forests and its conservation by involving them in the plantation activities.  Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said at least 68 ‘Swarnim Vatikas’ would be established in the State in different Assembly constituencies during the coming year. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Savita said 800 saplings of cherry blossom are proposed to be planted, which has medicinal properties and is considered to be useful in getting rid of burning sensation in body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/swarnim-vatika-drive-launched-207491
04-02-2021||Solan||Liquor bottles with fake holograms seized in Nahan||Officials of the State Taxes and Excise Department seized liquor bottles bearing fake holograms from five shops at Nahan and Shillai in Sirmaur district today.They inspected five retail liquor shops, a wholesaler and a distillery following complaints and seized 220 boxes of liquor bottles with fake holograms.Three broken liquor bottles with fake holograms were also found in the distillery at Kala Amb.The officials, however, found no variation in the stock of liquor with the manufacturer or the retailer and the wholesaler.“A scrutiny of the hologram showed a minor variation from the original one issued by the department. A report has been sent to senior officials,” said PP Singh of the State Taxes and Excise Department, Nahan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/liquor-bottles-with-fake-holograms-seized-in-nahan-207492
04-02-2021||Solan||Security agency faces licence cancellation||The SP, Baddi, has recommended cancellation of the licence of Daksh Detective Security Agency, Jharmajri, in Barotiwala industrial area after its security guard was found involved in theft at an industrial unit. SP Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said the agency was given a licence to operate on May 10, 2018. Gross negligence of the agency was found as a security guard enrolled by it has been found involved in theft /misappropriation of packaging material of an industrial unit, RSH Global, Baddi. Several cases of security guards being involved in thefts have come to light in this industrial belt. A security guard Rajkumar, a resident of Chamba district, was enrolled by the said security agency and given a fake identity proof in the company.  The agency was issued a notice by the police on February 1 to produce the security guard in the police station at Baddi and direct him to join the police investigation but the agency did not comply with the notice and reply given by it was found unsatisfactory.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/security-agency-faces-licence-cancellation-207493
