05-02-2021|| Shimla||Budget session of Himachal Pradesh Assembly from February 26||The budget session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha will be held from February 26 to March 20.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the Finance Ministry, said the budget for the financial year 2021-22 will be presented in the assembly on March 6.There will be a total of 17 sittings in the budget session. The dates for the budget session were decided at the Cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister, here on Friday.Speaking about life being crippled due to heavy snowfall, he said both Public Works department (PWD) and HP State Electricity Board (HPSEB) had been asked to undertake work at a war footing so that normalcy returns.Thakur said any person stranded must be rescued while people should be advised not to venture into any such areas with heavy snow.He said the chairman, HP State Electricity Board, had been directed to restore power supply at the earliest.“It is but natural that electricity gets affected due to heavy snow but now with the weather clearing up, directions have been issued to get the roads and power supply restored at the earliest,” he revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/budget-session-of-himachal-pradesh-assembly-from-february-26-208358
05-02-2021||Solan||Power supply yet to be restored in many parts of Solan district even after 24 hours||Power supply was yet to be restored in various parts of Solan district such as Kasauli, Chail, Barog, Dagshai, Dharampur and its periphery even after more than 24 hours.Snow might have brought cheer to the agrarian community but it has left behind a trail of destruction for the state electricity department.As dozens of trees fell on the power poles and lines, the infrastructure has suffered severe damage. The staff of the electricity department has been on their feet since 7 am this morning at severely hit areas but power supply was not restored up till 4 pm this evening.Officials of the department were yet to assess the loss caused due to yesterday’s snow though it would easily run into crores given the large scale disruption to power poles.Work remained suspended in offices and people shivered in the cold due to lack of power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-supply-yet-to-be-restored-in-many-parts-of-solan-district-even-after-24-hours-208352
05-02-2021||Solan||Tourists make beeline for Kasauli , Chail, Barog||A heavy snowfall after many years sprang a pleasant surprise for Kasauli residents today. Chail, Barog, Dagshai and Solan also witnessed heavy snow.Tourist vehicles from the Tricity and neighbouring Punjab made a beeline for the cantonment town to enjoy the snow.However, traffic was hit as vehicles skidded on the snowy road and, as a precaution, the police diverted the vehicles through the Kumarhatti Bypass after these were stuck at Barog, which was later closed to traffic. The road leading to Kasauli was also closed near Garkhal as motorists could not negotiate the snowy surface. “I had to walk from Garkhal to Kasauli along with my family as my car was stuck in the snow,” said Amit Gupta, a Kasauli resident.The power supply in Chail, Kasauli, Barog, Dagshai and other areas was also hit as trees fell on the lines. Superintending Engineer, power, Rakesh Thakur, said they were yet to assess the loss. Repair work could not begin immediately as traffic was hit at Barog, Chail and on roads leading to Kasauli.Snow brought cheer to the locals and traders hoped to do a brisk business following the influx of tourists. Children ventured out to play in the snow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-make-beeline-for-kasauli-chail-barog-207980
05-02-2021||---||Shimla, Solang, Kufri don white mantle||Shimla, February 4The Queen of the Hills, as Shimla is popularly known, today recorded the highest snowfall on a single day in February in the past 19 years. This was also the season’s heaviest spell.The town and upper areas were cut off from rest of the state as most of the roads were blocked. Normal life was paralysed in Shimla and surrounding areas and half of the town remained without electricity for hours and a large number of vehicles were stranded.Life came to a standstill and chaos prevailed as the administration struggled to clear the roads. A large number of trees were uprooted and even Cart Road, the lifeline of the town, was blocked. However, traffic to Rampur was diverted through Dhammi and Basantpur.“We have never seen such a situation. The roads earlier used to be cleared instantly and only roads beyond Dhalli were affected but, this time, even the main roads were blocked and the commuters had to park their vehicles and walk to their destinations,” said Nalin Kumar, a senior citizen.In a nice gesture, police helped in taking patients to hospitals. Upper Shimla was cut off during the day following a heavy snowfall and uprooting of trees. Sliding of vehicles blocked several roads, said ASP, Shimla, Praveer Thakur, adding that work to clear roads was in progress.Shimla recorded 51 cm of snow. The town had recorded 54.1 cm of snow in 24 hours on February 12, 2002, said Director, Met Department, Manmohan Singh. The department has predicted rain and snow tomorrow too.Solang received 30 cm of snow, Kalpa 14 cm, Gondla 11 cm, Kufri 10 cm, Bharmaur and Khadrala 5 cm each, Manali and Keylong 3 cm each and Dalhousie 2 cm. intermittent rain lashed low hills and Ghamrooe received 18 mm of rain followed by Palampur 15 mm, Nurpur 13 mm, Dharamsala 12 mm, Dehra Gopipur and Seobagh 9 mm each, Nagrota Surian, Tinder, Banjar, Jogindernagar, Gaggal and Rajgarh 8 mm each, Guler and Bhuntar 7 mm each, Aghar, Gohar, Chamba and Sundernagar 6 mm each.Keylong was the coldest at night with the minimum temperature of minus 6.3 while Kalpa, Dalhousie and Shimla shivered at minus 1.2 degree, minus 1.1 degree and 1.8 degree C. The maximum temperature decreased by 5 to 6 degrees and Una was the warmest with18.4 degreeSnow brought cheer to apple growers who were disheartened with the prolonged dry spell as snow is considered white manure for the apple crop and drop in temperatures would provide the chilling hours.Tourist footfall to increaseDespite heavy snow, tourists were seen enjoying the snow on The Mall Road and The Ridge. The hotel occupancy, which is about 30 per cent, is expected to increase as roads will be cleared on Friday, said president of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood, adding that the season would go till February 14.Roads blockedAs many as 271 roads were blocked in the state. The maximum number 115 roads were blocked in Lahaul and Spiti district followed by Shimla (69), Mandi (44) Kullu (34), Chamba (6) and Solan (4)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-solang-kufri-don-white-mantle-207981
05-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Heroin worth Rs 30 crore seized, kingpin arrested||KULLU, FEBRUARY 4A team of the Kullu police seized the biggest-ever haul of heroin after a raid in a house in Delhi and arrested a 38-year old kingpin of African origin. The nine-member team conducted the raid on Tuesday and recovered 6.297 kg of heroin worth Rs 30 crore in the international market.DGP Sanjay Kundu said that this was the biggest haul of synthetic drugs seized by the Himachal Police so far. He appreciated Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and his team for the success. He said emphasis was being laid on catching big fish and suppliers in the illicit trade.The DGP said, “Drug trafficking networks were being unearthed and financial investigations were being carried out to seize the proceeds of crime (income from illegal trade trade). The Enforcement Directorate and income tax authorities will also be involved to take action for seizure of money and property of the accused.”The DGP said that a total of 1,538 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in the state in 2020 and 2,044 Indians and 14 foreigners were arrested.He said that 351.018 kg of charas and 6.751 kg of heroin (chitta) had been seized last year. Kullu SP said that 55 grams of heroin was seized from two accused in Parla Bhuntar area of Kullu district on January 30. The team went to Delhi to investigate linkages and achieved success in nabbing the kingpin along with the haul of synthetic drugs.Kullu police has tightened noose on drugs mafia and seized large quantities of contraband and arrested many kingpins involved in the illicit trade. The police had arrested an African kingpin Ebube John, alias Goodwill (41), from Delhi on January 29 who had been supplying heroin throughout India for many years. Another heroin kingpin Nigerian national David, alias Ugochukwu John Obiako, was arrested from Delhi on February 14 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heroin-worth-rs-30-crore-seized-kingpin-arrested-207982
05-02-2021||---||Plan to bring Renuka lake on world tourism map||Solan, February 4The district administration will chalk out a plan in coordination with the wildlife wing of the Forest Department to bring the famous Renuka lake on the world tourism map.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi, said this while celebrating World Wetland Day at Renukaji. He said since various programmes were being held to celebrate 50 years of Statehood, year-long celebrations would be undertaken at this wetland to develop it as a major tourist attraction centre. A detailed plan would be chalked out by April 15.“Steps will be initiated to develop it into a major pilgrimage centre, given its historical background. Various departments like Nehru Yuva Kendra, Yuvak Mandals and residents of nearby panchayats will be roped in for its cleaning and desilting. The water quality will also be regularly tested and large-scale saplings be planted in its vicinity to enhance its flora and fauna,” said Pruthi.“It is our moral duty to keep environment clean and people should help the district administration in conserving the wildlife,” Pruthi asked the locals.Divisional Forest Officer, wildlife, Krishan Kumar, said the focus was on chalking out a plan for developing the Renuka wetland. The department was also endeavouring to conserve the wildlife which includes winged visitors as well as animals and birds housed in the Renuka zoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-bring-renuka-lake-on-world-tourism-map-207983
05-02-2021||---||Heavy snow at Atal Tunnel, Lahaul valley cut off||Mandi, February 4Residents of the Lahaul valley were cut off from the rest of the state after heavy snowfall near the Atal tunnel and its nearby places on the Manali-Leh highway in Kullu district today. It had been snowing in the region since yesterday, hampering traffic movement between Kullu and Lahaul.The Kullu district administration restricted the movement of tourist vehicles beyond Nehru Kund towards the Solang valley. Around 30 cm of snowfall was reported at Solang Nullah and the Atal Tunnel, bringing traffic to a standstill.The district administration of Lahaul and Spiti issued an advisory to the people of the district to refrain from going to Kullu from the Lahaul side. Pankaj Rai, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, said, “There is a warning of a snow avalanche in the area. Due to the fresh snowfall in the region, it will be risky to go to Kullu or Lahaul via the north or south portals of the Atal Tunnel”.Power supply disrupted in Mandi, KulluIn Mandi district, heavy snowfall occurred in the Seraj valley, blocking 14 roads. Similarly, the Mandi-Karsog road was blocked late afternoon after heavy snowfall in the Karsog valley.The famous religious tourist places of Mandi district such as Shikari Devi, Kamrunag valley and the Prashar lake area also received considerable snowfall. Meanwhile, power supply was disrupted in some parts of Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-snow-at-atal-tunnel-lahaul-valley-cut-off-207984
05-02-2021||---||Higher reaches of Sirmaur get snow||Solan, February 4People reeled under cold conditions in the higher reaches of Sirmaur district with fresh snowfall lashing the area today.The highest peak of Churdhar and other areas like Nohradhar, Haripurdhar, Shillai and Rajgarh received several inches of snow. With power supply being disrupted in several rural areas, people reeled under cold weather conditions.Several rural roads like Shillai- Chopal, Haripurdhar-Kupvi, Haripurdhar- Chopal, Shillai-Gattadhar, Haripurdhar- Nohradhar, etc., faced disruption in vehicular traffic owing to the heavy snow, informed a local resident Ramesh.Power supply was disrupted in the Haripurdhar, Gattadhar and Nohradhar belt owing to the inclement weather as the power infrastructure developed snag.Deputy Commissioner Sirmaur Dr RK Pruthi said efforts were afoot to restore power and vehicular traffic in the rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/higher-reaches-of-sirmaur-get-snow-207985
05-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Road safety rally held during Snow Fest||KULLU, FEBRUARY 4A Gypsy snow-ride rally and archery competition was organized today at Keylong in the series of various events being held during the snow festival in Lahaul-Spiti.Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai flagged off the rally taken out to convey the message of road safety during the Road Safety Month campaign launched by the government. Twelve riders participated in the rally which commenced from Keylong market to the Stingri helipad and returned back to police ground at Keylong.The DC said that the Gypsy rally was taken out for the purpose of public awareness. He said with the opening of the Atal Tunnel there has been a tremendous increase in the arrival of tourist vehicles in Lahaul. Hence, road safety in snow-bound areas needed more attention. He said that it was necessary to follow the traffic rules, but special precaution and competency was required along with the traffic rules in the snowy conditions.Rai said that travelling should be avoided during snowfall and commuters should keep snow-chains while traveling on snowy roads. He said that there is a lot of enthusiasm among the tourists to visit Lahaul but they should travel only in favourable weather conditions.Lahaul and Spiti HRTC Regional Manager Mangal Chand Manepa said that through this rally today, an effort has been made to spread a message to the people that along with the traffic rules it is necessary to keep in mind the ways of driving on ice like lesser use of brakes, driving mostly in power gear and driving at low speed.The participants of the rally also took part in the archery competition at police ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-safety-rally-held-during-snow-fest-207986
05-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Sudhir stages comeback, to lead Cong in MC poll||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 4Staging at a comeback after being in wilderness for long, former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma today held a meeting of party workers in Dharamsala and appointed observers for all 17 wards of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation.Sharma, who had been missing in action in Dharamsala for the past more than three years after his defeat in the last Assembly elections 2017, has announced that would be playing a proactive role in the forthcoming Dharamsala Smart City corporation election.After his defeat in 2017 it was being speculated that Sudhir Sharma had abandoned the Dharamsala Assembly constituency and was planning to contest from some other constituency in the next Assembly election. He also did not contest the Dharamsala Assembly byelection held in 2019 after local BJP MLA Kishan Kapoor was elected MP from the Kangra parliamentary segment. The Congress had to bank on a greenhorn Vijay Karan.Politically inactive for over 3 yearsAfter his defeat Vijay Karan blamed Sudhir and his supporters for opposing him. Sudhir, had, however, denied the allegations.Sharma said that he would contest the forthcoming municipal corporation elections of Dharamsala. It was the Congress government that gave several development projects to Dharamsala. The Smart City project was awarded to Dharamsala by the previous Congress government. However, the present government in the last three years has not been able to implement the project.The previous government had also given second capital status to Dharamsala but the present government has shelved the plan. Sudhir Sharma said that the Congress would go into Dharamsala municipal corporation elections with these issues.Though he is planning to lead the Congress from the front in Dharamsala MC election, the former minister faces a challenge in bringing together splinter groups within the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sudhir-stages-comeback-to-lead-cong-in-mc-poll-207987
05-02-2021||---||Transfer fake degree case to CBI: Cong||Shimla, February 4The Congress today accused the state government of trying to hush up the fake degree scam and demanded that the case be handed over to the CBI.Rajinder Rana, MLA and Congress vice-president, while addressing mediapersons here today, said that considering its seriousness the case should be handed over to the CBI. “The alleged network of the fake degree scam is spread not just across 17 states of India but also abroad where degrees have been sold,” he alleged.Rana said that the recognition of Manav Bharti University (MBU) be cancelled and it be closed. “It is the duty and responsibility of the government to protect the interests of the students studying here and they should be shifted to other universities,” he added.He said that the manner in which the state government was keeping quiet on the issue and the main accused in the scam had got bail pointed towards an attempt to shield the guilty. “If a thorough probe is held into the case, the names of some powerful politicians, whose wards have benefited and are working abroad, can be known,” he alleged.Rana said that the previous BJP government was responsible for the mess in private universities. “The previous BJP government obliged investors and allowed 17 private universities to come up in Solan district alone, with three located in one panchayat,” he alleged.He said Manav Bharti University was given nod when it did not even fulfil the norms. He added that even now the investigating agencies had not probed into the financial transactions of the university by checking its bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transfer-fake-degree-case-to-cbi-cong-207988
05-02-2021||---||IIT-Mandi develops app for Covid patients||Mandi, February 4Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Mandi have developed LakshmanRekha, an artificial intelligence biometric-driven home quarantine management application (HQMA) for Covid patients. According to them, the application uses a combination of biometric verification, geofencing and artificial intelligence to continuously monitor and accurately detect the identity of a home quarantined person.“Besides quarantine management, this application can also serve as an unbreachable mobile phone platform for normal (non-Covid) mobile users, situations like curfew or any national emergency for identifying the violators or lawbreakers,” said a researcher.Dr Aditya Nigam, Associate Professor, School of Computing & Electrical Engineering, IIT Mandi, said, “We have developed a pilot version of the LakshmanRekha mobile application and tested it over small datasets. The obtained results are very good and now we are working to add more functionality, scalability and usability to make it ready for deployment.”“Considering the fact that we are still working on tracking the rapid spread of coronavirus in society, it has become crucial to continuously monitor the movements of every person with symptoms, LakshmanRekha can play a key role in the home quarantine management system,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-mandi-develops-app-for-covid-patients-207989
05-02-2021||Mandi||Solid waste management in Lahaul school curriculum||To educate students of Lahaul and Spiti about solid waste management, the district administration has decided to incorporate the topic in the school curriculum.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul and Spiti Pankaj Rai introduced solid waste management as a topic in the curriculum of Government Primary School at Keylong in the district.He said that to make schoolchildren aware of the need of solid waste management, the topic had been added to the curriculum in some schools on a pilot basis. He added that the students could play a vital role in making their parents and neighbourers aware about the importance of sanitation and solid waste management in the district.Pact with IIT, DelhiFor solid waste management, we have signed an MoU with the IIT, Delhi. Soon, the system of collection, management and disposal of solid waste will be implemented throughout Lahaul. —Pankaj Rai, DC of lahaul and spiti“Due to an increase in the number of tourists and business activities in Lahaul and Spiti, there will be a problem of solid waste in the coming days. Hence, it is necessary to educate people about how to deal with the problem,” he added.“The topic will be taught informally to schoolchildren so that they can take interest in it. In the next two months, a number of informative videos and learning programs will be organised for children so that they can increase their understanding of the subject,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solid-waste-management-in-lahaul-school-curriculum-207990
05-02-2021||Mandi||Congress opposes move to hold Shivratri fair||The Congress has opposed the decision of the district administration to hold the week-long Shivratri fair here in a grand way amid the pandemic threat.Aakash Sharma, Congress spokesperson, said, “The decision is an open invitation to Covid. Since March last year, a large number of people have died of Covid in the state. The threat is not over, but the district administration has decided to celebrate the Shivratri in a mega way”.“Is the district administration ready to take the responsibility if any mishap takes place? We are apprehensive that the mega celebration will prove to be a disaster for children, old-age people as well as common man. After the panchayat elections, there is an increase in Covid cases in Mandi district,” he added.“During the Shivratri fair, over 200 deities arrive here along with their followers. The festival witnesses a huge gathering of people,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-opposes-move-to-hold-shivratri-fair-207991
05-02-2021||Shimla||47 Covid cases in Himachal||As many as 47 Covid cases were reported in the state today. Besides, one person died of the virus in Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/47-covid-cases-in-himachal-207992
05-02-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh top performer in biomedical waste mgmt||Shimla, February 4Himachal Pradesh has been adjudged the top performing state along with Chandigarh, Delhi, Puducherry and West Bengal in a comparative evaluation made by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) regarding the implementation of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016.These states/UTs have a total score of 21 out of 24 according to a report submitted by the CPCB before the National Green Tribunal. The CPCB identified 12 key performance indicators (KPIs) to assess states with respect to effectiveness in monitoring, ensuring compliance and implementation of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016.Pursuant to the notification of new regulation in 2016, the state board had taken several initiatives to sensitize the stakeholder institutions which are allopathic, ayurvedic and veterinary hospitals/institutions to achieve the better compliance of rules, a spokesperson of the state government said here.More than 100 trainings and workshops were organised at the state, district and local levels to bring in all institutions under regulatory ambit of the rules, he added.Despite the Covid pandemic, the state regulatory agency put in the best efforts to enforce the measures for management of bio-medical waste and granted the authorisation to about 4,000 healthcare institutions, which is almost 58 per cent of the total authorisation granted so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-top-performer-in-biomedical-waste-mgmt-207993
05-02-2021||Shimla||Government favouring corporates, alleges CITU||The CITU yesterday staged statewide demonstrations against Labour Codes, Electricity Amendment Bill and the Union Budget. Declaring the Budget against employees, farmers and labourers, CITU warned the government that if Labour Codes, Electricity Amendment Bill and farm laws were not rolled back, the agitation would be intensified.   CITU president Vijender Mehra alleged that the government was working for corporates and was bent upon handing over all financial resources to them. The government had cut down the budget for MGNREGA by 41 per cent and for Anganwari workers by 30 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-favouring-corporates-alleges-citu-207994
05-02-2021||Chamba||110 black spots rectified in Chamba||Since identifying and rectifying black spots on roads in the hills is one of the priorities of the PWD, 110 black spots have been rectified.Jeer Singh Thakur, Executive Engineer, PWD, Chamba division, stated this while addressing a special awareness programme during the 32nd Road Safety Month organised here today. He said due to difficult geographical conditions, special precautions were required while driving on the roads in Chamba district.As many as 40 contractors of the PWD from the district participated in the awareness programme. The contractors present also assured that they would work with promptness to improve the black spots at their level. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/110-black-spots-rectified-in-chamba-207995
05-02-2021||Shimla||Diabetes prevalence in Himachal more than national average||The prevalence of diabetes is higher in Himachal Pradesh than the national average. In terms of obesity, the state ranks sixth in the country, and matches the national average for hypertension.These shocking revelations have been made in the pan-India ICMR-India Diabetes study conducted in 29 states and two union territories over the last one decade. “For a state that was assumed to be doing much better than a majority of other states at least on these parameters, the results are shocking,” said Dr Jitender Mokta, principal investigator of the study in Himachal Pradesh.“Diabetes and obesity have become equally worrisome in rural areas and among women. As against the national average of 10 per cent, the prevalence of diabetes in Himachal is 11.5 per cent. While the prevalence among males is 11.6 per cent, it’s 11.4 per cent among females,” said Dr Mokta. “Compared to 7.80 per cent in rural areas of the country, the prevalence of diabetes in Himachal’s rural areas is 11.2 per cent,” he added.He said that the ratio of known diabetes cases to unknown is 1:1 in the state.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/diabetes-prevalence-in-himachal-more-than-national-average-207996
05-02-2021||Chamba||Use available land for medical college: DC||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today chaired a meeting with regard to the full utilisation of land currently available at various places near here with officials of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College and the Health Department here.He discussed about the land available near the medical college and the Health Department, leprosy hospital at Sarol in Chamba, Tuberculosis Hospital and the Chief Medical Officer’s office. He said that to ensure the availability of basic services, the principal of the medical college should prepare an action plan for the overall use of the available land for the construction of residential and other buildings.Rana said 14 bighas were available near the tuberculosis hospital and about 20 bighas were available in the leprosy hospital complex at Sarol. The departmental process related to the construction of buildings should be started to provide additional residential facilities to doctor.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-available-land-for-medical-college-dc-207997
05-02-2021||Dipender Manta||Mini-Secretariat project at Karsog hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 4The construction of the mini-secretariat building at Karsog in Mandi district has been hanging fire since 2015. Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had laid the foundation stone of the project in 2015 but no progress had been made since then.When the BJP came to power in 2017 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur laid the foundation stone of the project again.However, no progress has been made towards construction so far. When completed, the building would house the office of different departments.Ram Lal, Suresh Kumar, Mohan Singh and other residents of Karsog said the mini-secretariat building in the town was a long-pending demand of the residents.“The people have again urged the government to start its construction as soon as possible,” said Ram Lal.Prithi Raj Negi, block Congress president, said, “We are urging the government to construct the building in the heart of the town. It is proposed to be constructed two km away from the town. Due to its distant location, it will be inconvenient for the public”.Arvind Kumar Bhardwaj, XEN, Public Works Department, Karsog division, said the department would soon invite tenders for the project which would to be completed at a cost of Rs 14.86 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mini-secretariat-project-at-karsog-hangs-fire-207998
05-02-2021||THE road at Meenus in Sirmaur has worn away due to the lack of repair and maintenance. Rains create more problems as two-wheelers skid and the absence of parapets worsens the situation. The government should ensure timely repair of the roads. — Mahesh||Ensure Timely Repair of roads||Provide road connectivity REsidents of Chakki, Batla, Bhayee, Chiun and Thera of Jadrong gram panchayat in the Bhatiyat sub-division of Chamba are living in remote areas without road connectivity. The residents have to walk 15 km to approach any road. No medical facility is available in this remote area. Patients and elderly face a lot of hardships during emergency. The government should provide road connectivity and basic amenities to the residents of this area. — Ram Mohit, Chamba WHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-timely-repair-of-roads-207999
05-02-2021||Himachal Pradesh University had decided to conduct entrance test for admission to MPhil||Entrance test for MPhil, LLM on Feb 23||Withdraw Feb 2 notification: ABVPBlaming the HPU administration for looting students, the ABVP has asked the university to the withdraw the notification issued on February 2 regarding giving a golden chance to the 2013, 14 and 15 BBA and BCA students of RUSA batches to complete their degrees with a fee of Rs 20,000. The ABVP claimed that the university, in its notification issued on December 16, has offered this chance to the students by paying a fee of Rs 5,000. The ABVP demanded the withdrawal of the Feb 2 notificationAPS Dagshai best boarding schoolArmy Public School (APS), Dagshai, has been adjudged the best boarding school in the state and the second best in "The India Merit Awards" by Education Today for exemplary contribution in the field of education. It is a Bengaluru-based organisation that awards various achievements in education on the basis of a nationwide survey. APS, Dagshai, has been conferred the top rank for the first time. Principal SK Mishra said it was a proud moment for the school fraternity and the credit goes to the management, staff and students of the school.Solan schools excel in science CongChildren from Solan schools have excelled in the 28th state-level Children Science Congress. Devanshu from St Luke's, Solan, secured first position in Senior Secondary Mathematics Olympiad while Ananya Kalia of Pinegrove School, Dharampur, excelled in the senior rural activity corner. She was adjudged among the best three in the state. Alankrita and Khushboo of SVN Kunihar secured second position in junior rural science quiz. Prakriti of MRA DAV, Solan, was among the best four in Senior Secondary project report competition and among 16 nominated for National Science Congress. Ipshita of Sri Aurobindo Baddi and Jhanvi of DAV Ambuja were among the best four in senior rural section and nominated for the National Science Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/entrance-test-for-mphil-llm-on-feb-23-208000
05-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Snow in Shimla, Manali, Kalpa, Keylong; roads blocked||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 4Roads were blocked and several areas cut off as Shimla and its surrounding areas, the tribal belt and other higher hills experienced another spell of snow on Thursday.Vehicular traffic came to a halt in upper Shimla region as snow is still continuing, bringing cheer to tourists, locals, farmers and fruit-growers.Also read: In pics, Kasauli gets season’s first snow Kothi, Kalpa, Gondla, Khirki and Kufri recorded 15 cm, 12 cm, 11 cm, 10 cm and 8 cm of snowfall respectively, while Manali, Keylong and Dalhousie recorded 3 cm of snowfall till Thursday morning, blocking the vehicular traffic.Rohru, Chopal, Narkanda and other places in upper Shimla region are cut off and road restoration work would start after the snow stops, said Shimla ASP Praveer Thakur.Kharapathhar, Tikker, Khadrala, Sungri and Dodra-Kwar in Rohru sub-division of Shimla district are experiencing continuous snow, blocking the roads.Snow started in Shimla and adjoining areas on Thursday morning and people came out of their houses, beating extreme cold wave conditions to enjoy the snow.The lower hills of the state are experiencing widespread rain, breaking the prolonged dry spell and farmers are happy as rain is needed for rabi crops, especially wheat and vegetable crops.The hoteliers are getting ready to meet the tourist rush as the snow and long weekend is expected to increase the tourist inflow. The occupancy that was around 30 per cent is likely to go up to over 70 per cent, said Shimla Restaurant and Hotel Association president Sanjay Sood.The local Met office has predicted rain and snow in the middle and high hills on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-shimla-manali-kalpa-keylong-roads-blocked-207855
05-02-2021||Shimla||‘Wow Himachal’ season 2 this month||The second season of “Wow Himachal”, a web series streaming on digital platform, will be launched in February. The first season of the series was launched in November 2020 with five episodes in an endeavour to show the best of Himachal.This series will include historic and cultural stories, tales related to fascinating traditions and mysteries, said Rajesh Kumar, owner of Mahadev Studios, who came up with the concept during the lockdown.“I have highlighted the beauty of Rajasthan and last year made a series on rock bands of the North-East. During the lockdown, I felt that people from outside were exploring the beauty of the Devbhoomi and decided to launch a series highlighting those who left everything to come back home and started something unique to promote the state, besides little-known facts,” said Rajesh, who hails from Jogindernagar.The first season had episodes on people who promoted local culture and food. The episodes narrated tales of Khadu Café opened in Matiyana by a couple to promote local food, heritage Barners Court where the Simla agreement was signed (Now, Governor House), Sanjauli Monastery, the only Buddhist monastery teaching Tantra.“The cost of one episode ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 2 lakh as the equipment and production house is our own,” says Rajesh Kumar, who has 20 years of experience in the industry and shot more than 50 videos and web series. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wow-himachal-season-2-this-month-207478
