06-02-2021||Shimla||In pictures: Temperature in Himachal’s Manali, Kufri, Keylong, Kalpa dip to sub-zero level||Himachal Pradesh’s tourist hotspots Manali, Kufri, Keylong and Kalpa shivered at sub-zero temperature on Saturday after recent snowfall in the state, the Meteorological Department said.The minimum temperature in the state decreased by one to two degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours, Shimla Met Centre Director Manmohan Singh said.The tribal Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 13.7 degrees Celsius, he said.Kalpa recorded a low of minus 6 degrees Celsius, he added.A birds eye view shows a city neighbourhood covered in snow after a spell of heavy snowfall in Shimla. — PTIThe minimum temperatures in Manali and Kufri settled at minus 2.4 and minus 0.7 degrees Celsius respectively.Shimla and Dalhousie registered a low of one and 1.1 degrees Celsius, Singh added.The highest temperature was recorded in Una at 25.2 degrees Celsius, he said, adding that the weather will remain dry from February 7 to 12. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pictures-temperature-in-himachals-manali-kufri-keylong-kalpa-dip-to-sub-zero-level-208795
06-02-2021||Shimla||Had existing farm laws been beneficial, farmers would not have committed suicide: BJP leader||Defending the Centre's new farm laws, BJP Kisan Morcha national spokesman Kamal Soi said that had the existing legislations been beneficial for farmers, so many of them would not have committed suicide.Talking to PTI during his visit to Shimla on Friday, he said, "In Punjab, 700 to 800 farmers commit suicide in a year."  A resident of Ludhiana district in Punjab, Soi further stated that 95 per cent agricultural land in his state has been mortgaged to banks as farmers are under the burden of Rs 125 lakh crore debt.Had existing farm laws been beneficial for the farmers, so many of them would not have committed suicide facing burden of huge bank loans.That is why the Union government enacted the three new farm laws for the benefits of the farmers but they are being misled, he said.Soi said he had difference of opinions with the agitating farmers but he went to the Singhu border in December and distributed 500 jackets and other items to them on humanitarian grounds.The BJP Kisan Morcha national spokesperson urged the agitating farm leaders not to remain adamant on their demand for repeal of the new laws and to help reach a solution to the ongoing agitation.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/had-existing-farm-laws-been-beneficial-farmers-would-not-have-committed-suicide-bjp-leader-208738
06-02-2021||---||3 masked men rob jeweller’s house at gunpoint in Baddi||Solan, February 6Cash and valuables worth lakhs were looted from a house of a Baddi-based jeweller by three motorcycle-borne youth allegedly at gunpoint when his mother was alone at home last night.Three motorcycle-borne youth entered Rajesh Aggarwal's house located at Phase-1 housing board colony at Baddi while he had gone to Chandigarh with his family last evening.According to the jeweller's mother Rani Devi, the youth had covered their faces with a white hankerchief and they initially enquired about his son.The trio then brandished a revolver and took away cash and jewellary from the house, including the jewellary worn by the woman. They also took away a suitcase belonging to the jeweler, which contains important documents.A case under Sections 382 and 34 of the IPC has been registered by the police and search was on to trace the miscreants.The jewellers of the area have decided to assemble at Baddi and meet SP Baddi to press for immediate arrest of the miscreants.They said that since such incidents can happen with anyone, it was pertinent to ensure that the miscreants were arrested soon.Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said the probe was underway and it was being ascertained if a gun was used to rob the woman as has been alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-masked-men-rob-jewellers-house-at-gunpoint-in-baddi-208720
06-02-2021||---||Shimla areas sans power, water supply disrupted||Shimla, February 5Following the daylong snowfall on Thursday, many parts of Shimla went without electricity for over 24 hours. While a few areas plunged into darkness on late yesterday, many other lost the connection on Friday morning. Also, because of the erratic power supply and low voltage, water supply to the city, too, was affected in several parts of the city on Friday.“Many trees fell in the city because of the heavy snowfall, damaging our lines and disrupting power supply. As a result, multiples faults developed,” said Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) Superintendent Engineer Lokesh Thakur.“We have already restored electricity in 90 per cent areas of the city. We are trying to reconnect the remaining areas by around 8 pm,” he said.Apart from the city, the peripheral areas and higher reaches, too, are coping with either no electricity or an erratic supply. “There has been damage to supply lines in upper Shimla areas too. In higher reaches, especially in Karsog area, many lines have been snapped. Our staff is trying its best to restore the electricity at all places,” said HPSEBL spokesperson Anurag Parashar.For many, it’s been a torturous 24 hours without electricity. “We spent the last night without electricity, and it seems we will have to spend another night shivering in the cold. How do we keep small children warm in this cold weather without electricity,” said Mala Devi of Sujana village, near Jubbarhatti Airport.Congress councilor Inderjit Singh said the elderly who need oxygen cylinders suffered a lot in the absence of electricity for such a long duration. “The government and the department knew there was alert issued for snow, so the preparations to handle the situation could have been better,” he said.Sanjay Chauhan, former mayor of the city, was equally critical. “If we can’t restore electricity in the capital for well over 24 hours, we can imagine the situation in far-flung areas,” he said. Chauhan said the delay in the restoration of electricity was happening because the government had reduced the department’s manpower drastically over the years. “There is hardly any staff on the ground for maintenance and repair work. It’s the government’s ploy to let the services deteriorate and prepare the ground to eventually hand over the electricity board to private players,” he alleged.He further asked that when the entire surrounding areas was in darkness last night, how come the IAS colony had electricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-areas-sans-power-water-supply-disrupted-208636
06-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Roads slippery, commuters a harried lot amid traffic jams in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 5Commuters were a harassed lot as sliding vehicles on slippery roads led to traffic jams as Shimla shivered under biting cold wave conditions.A breakdown of a bus near Jutogh on the Shimla-Mandi road became a nightmare for commuters as traffic was blocked for more than two hours. A large number of vehicles was stranded on either side of the blockade and people were so disgusted that many of them with light luggage got down of their vehicles and started onward journey on foot.The jam continued even after the vehicle was removed as the road was blocked due to piling up of vehicles in a haphazard manner which was moving at snail’s pace and the police had hard time in resuming normal traffic. The jam could be seen till Chakker and Dhanda from Tutu.As many as 465 roads are closed due to snow. The maximum number of 144 roads is blocked in Shimla district. Further, 2048 DTR transformers have developed snags resulting in disruption in power supply at numerous places.Supply of essential commodities like milk, bread and newspaper was hit as roads were blocked in the morning. Road restoration work is in progress, Chandigarh-Shimla and Shimla- Mandi roads have been opened for vehicular traffic and bus service has started. The upper Shimla region remained cut off for the second day due to thick layer of snow on main roads and link roads.All the major roads in the town have been cleared for traffic, said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla. Road to Kufri has been opened but unnecessary movement should be avoided as the roads are slippery and could lead to accidents, he added.Surge in tourist inflowAs expected, there was surge in tourist inflow and the occupancy in hotels in the state capital has increased from 30 per cent to 70 per cent. Hundreds of tourist vehicles are arriving since morning and all parking lots are full.Tourist made a beeline to Shimla following snowfall. The occupancy is around 70 percent but the problem is that neither there is light nor water to cater to the tourists, said Tourism Industry Stake Holders Association M K Seth.Record snow in 24 hoursShimla and adjoining tourist resort of Kufri received 57 cm and 60 cm of snow in one day, breaking 30-year-old record while Shilaroo and Khadrala recorded 55 mm and 49mm, Jhenjheli 15 mm, Sarahan 12 cm,12each, Kasauli 10 cm and Kalpa and Keylong 7 cm.Kandaghat was the wettest in the region with 63 mm rains, followed by Rohru and Solan 50 mm, Dharampur 40 mm, Rampur 27 mm, Gohar-24 mm, Tinder, Banjar, Rajgarh and Paonta Sahib 18 mm. Weather will remain dry for next six days from February 6 to Feburary 11 and night temperatures are likely to fall by 3 to 5 degree during next three days, MeT office said.Night temperatures dropped sharply in higher hills. Keylong and Kalpa recorded a low of minus 7.2 degree and minus 4.3 degree while Kufri and Shimla shivered at minus 3.1 degree, and 1.0 degree, followed by Solan and Manali zero degree, Sundernagar 1.7 degree, Dharamsala 1.8 degree.People vent ire on networking sitesThe Facebook page of Shimla administration was full of negative comments. Residents took to the social networking site to vent out their ire, saying that the system has collapsed, roads are blocked, there is no electricity. They flayed the administration for poor response.Key roads cleared for traffic movementThe road restoration work is in progress. Chandigarh- Shimla and Shimla- Mandi roads have been opened for vehicular traffic and bus service has started. The upper Shimla region remained cut off for the second day due to thick layer of snow on main roads and link roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-slippery-commuters-a-harried-lot-amid-traffic-jams-in-shimla-208637
06-02-2021||Solan||Electricity yet to be restored in Solan||Various parts of Kasauli, Chail, Barog, Dagshai, Dharampur and its periphery in Solan district remained without power for over 24 hours today. Though the supply was partially restored in Kasauli by evening, areas like Chail remained without power even today.  As dozens of trees fell on the power poles and lines, the infrastructure has suffered severe damage. The staff of the electricity department has been on their feet since 7 am this morning at severely hit areas, but supply was not restored till 5 pm this evening. Officials of the department were yet to assess the loss caused due to yesterday’s snow though it would easily run into lakhs given the large-scale disruption to power paraphernalia. Superintending Engineer, HP State Electricity Board Limited, Rakesh Thakur said the main line of 33 KV was restored by evening, but it was yet to be ascertained if all villages in Kasauli area were getting power as damages had also occurred in the poles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electricity-yet-to-be-restored-in-solan-208638
06-02-2021||---||BRO starts clearing snow on Manali-Leh National Highway||Mandi, February 5The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) today started snow clearance operation on the Manali-Leh highway via the Atal tunnel to restore traffic movement between Manali and Keylong.In the last two days heavy snowfall was reported at the Atal tunnel and its nearby areas that blocked the traffic movement between Manali and Keylong on the Manali-Leh highway.The Border Roads Organisation has engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the road from Manali to Solang valley.According to BRO officials, there is considerable snow deposited on the ground in the region. The entire area is avalanche prone from Solang valley in Kullu up to Tandi in Lahaul-Spiti.Due to the ongoing snow festival in Lahaul valley this year, the BRO is struggling to keep the Manali-Atal tunnel-Keylong road open for the access of tourists to Lahaul valley.The road clearance work is under progress.Apart from this, the Public Works Department in Mandi and Kullu has engaged their machinery and workforce to clear the roads for traffic movement.The most affected areas of Kullu district are Ani, Banjar and Manali subdivisions where many roads are still blocked for traffic movement.According to the Public Works Department authorities, 45 roads of Nirmand, 20 roads of Banjar and 11 roads of Manali are blocked for traffic where snow clearance operation is going on.Apart from this, 80 electric transformers of the HP State Electricity Board are dysfunctional in Kullu district because of heavy snowfall in the region. In Mandi district, 33 roads have been restored for traffic today, while restoration work was under progress on the remaining 51 roads in the district. The most affected areas are Seraj and Karsog valleys in Mandi.Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, Rugved Thakur said the restoration work of road, water supply and power supply was under progress in affected areas of the district.Snow fest on, struggle for BRODue to the ongoing snow festival in Lahaul valley this year, the BRO is struggling to keep the Manali-Atal tunnel-Keylong road open for the access of tourists to Lahaul valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-starts-clearing-snow-on-manali-leh-national-highway-208639
06-02-2021||Our correspondent---||Gochi fest celebrated in Lahaul||Kullu, February 5 Gochi or Gotsi utsav was celebrated in Kardang on the 11th day of the snow festival in Lahaul today. Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai also attended festival, which is held in the Gahar valley to celebrate the birth of boys.  In Peukar village of the valley, it is also held to celebrate the birth of girls. A ‘Shivling’ made of sattu flour is worshipped which is called Yulla devta in the local dialect.   The Deputy Commissioner said that there was a lot of enthusiasm among tourists to visit Lahaul and the local public is also ready to welcome them.  He said cultural programmes would be organised in Jahlma tomorrow and various events would be held in Triloknath on February 7. Archery, tug of war, knitting, ‘chholo’ and snow craft competitions were organised during the snow festival at Jahlma today. Men and women participated in various sports events organised under the supervision of Superintendent of Police Manav Verma. The SP said various sports activities would be organised at village, panchayat, zone and district levels.  He said the Lahaul valley had been divided into four zones comprising Koksar to Dalang, Dalang to Jahlma, Junda to Tindi and Billing to Darcha. He added that volunteers from police and Nehru Yuva Kendra would help all coordinators for smooth management of sports activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gochi-fest-celebrated-in-lahaul-208640
06-02-2021||---||Class VI, VII regular teaching from February 15 in Himachal||Shimla, February 5The state Cabinet at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today decided to start regular teaching for students of Class VI and VII in schools from February 15. However, the service of mid-day meal would remain suspended till March 31.All government educational institutions in Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district would be allowed to reopen from February 8; these institutions were closed after a large number of teachers tested positive for Covid. However, if any teacher or employee or student is found Covid-19 positive in any educational institution of the state, that institution would be closed for 48 hours and would reopen after proper sanitisation, as per the protocol.No mid-day meal to be served in schools till March 31It was decided that the new academic session 2021-22 would begin on April 1. The students of standard first to fourth would attend online classes at their homes. Instead of serving cooked mid-day meals in schools, all students would be provided dry ration and the cooking cost would be transferred to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries or their guardians.The Cabinet also decided to allot 20 kanals and one marla of the Industries Department at Tahliwal in Una district on lease to the Haroli Industrial Infrastructure Development Society for 30 years at one rupee per square metre annually for setting up a general engineering cluster.The Cabinet gave nod to the deployment of 30 Home Guard volunteers on a daily basis in Baddi to strengthen law, and order and the traffic system.It also gave its consent to framing the Himachal Pradesh Taxation (on Certain Goods Carried by Road) Rules 2021 by repealing the Himachal Pradesh Taxation (on Certain Goods Carried by Road) Rules, 1993 to make the payments of all taxes, demand or any other sum through the electronic mode, besides manually.It decided to provide one modern ambulance in every medical college of the state for three months to be operated through M/s GVK EMRI. The Cabinet decided to notify the draft Right of Way Policy-2021 to set out a transparent and time-bound process for giving the right of way approvals to set up telecom infrastructure. It would also help in implementing ease of doing business in the telecom sector.It approved the Himachal Pradesh Water Sports and Allied Activities Draft Rules, 2021 and the Himachal Pradesh Miscellaneous Adventure Activities (Amendment) Rules, 2021. It also okayed the Himachal Pradesh Aero Sports Rules-2020 to promote aero sports activities.The Cabinet also decided to hold the Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha from February 26 to March 20.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the Finance Ministry, said the Budget for 2021-22 would be presented in the Assembly on March 6. There would be 17 sittings in the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-vi-vii-regular-teaching-from-february-15-in-himachal-208641
06-02-2021||Palampur||Two brothers die of Covid in Palampur||A pall of gloom descended in Palampur town    today  as soon as local residents came to know about the death of Harish Chawla, a local businessman, due to Covid-19.  He was a social activist and was associated with various voluntary charitable organisations  of the town. Earlier last week,   his younger brother Mukesh Chawla also lost his life due to Covid.  Harish remained associated with the media for a long time and worked for various vernacular newspapers. Both brothers were admitted to a private hospital in Chandigarh last month.  Local residents paid tributes to them.  There is now none left in the bereaved family to look after the business.  Local residents  said the brothers lost their lives in the absence of proper health services in Palampur. They added that initially the duo was treated  at Palampur Tanda Medical College but their condition deteriorated and they were shifted to  a private hospital in Chandigarh. Within a week both of them died, leaving behind young widows and children. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-brothers-die-of-covid-in-palampur-208642
06-02-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP bags Nagrota Surian BDC||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 5The Congress suffered a setback on Friday when it lost a majority of its supporters at the time of the formation of the Block Development Committee (BDC) of Nagrota Surian of Jawali subdivision. The party had been claiming 16 Congress supporters out of a total 24 members.Only 13 members had attended the first meeting of the BDC scheduled on January 30 to elect its chairman and the vice-chairman. In the absence of the quorum, the SDM, Jawali, had deferred the election proceedings and announced to reschedule the same within 10 days. Interestingly, some of the elected Congress supporters BDC members deserted the party today.The BJP supporters Pooja, elected from Naana BDC ward who secured 14 votes out of 24, and Dhiraj Atri, who was elected from Pharian BDC ward and got 15 votes, were elected chairperson and vice-chairman. Local MLA Arjun Singh and former minister and state Congress vice president Chander Kumar had made the BDC a prestige issue.Local Congress leaders, during the previous election proceedings on January 30, had proposed the name of Pooja for the post of chairperson but she shifted her loyalty to the BJP and was elected as chairperson.Congress-supported members Umesh Kumar and Sher Singh, who had contested for the posts of chairman and vice-chairman, got 10 and 9 out of total 24 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-bags-nagrota-surian-bdc-208643
06-02-2021||---||Demolition of McLeodganj hotel begins||Dharamsala, February 5The Kangra district administration today started the demolition of a hotel and restaurant built on forestland at McLeodganj by the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority on the build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. The demolition exercise began as per the Supreme Court order of January 12 this year.The Supreme Court had upheld the order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) of 2016 and ordered the demolition of the hotel and restaurant constructed on forestland at the entrance of McLeodganj by a private entrepreneur for the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority.The court had held that allowing the structure on forestland would amount to legalising an entirely illegal construction. It had directed the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Authority to commence the demolition of the hotel and restaurant within two weeks of the date of the judgment and complete the exercise within one month. In the event of default, the Chief Conservator of Forests along with the administration shall demolish the structure and recover the cost and expenses as arrears of land revenue from the Bus stand authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demolition-of-mcleodganj-hotel-begins-208644
06-02-2021||---||71 fresh cases, tally 57,764 in Himachal||Shimla, February 5As many as 71 Covid cases were reported in the state today, raising the tally to 57,764. Fortunately, no death due to the virus occurred in the past 24 hours; the total number of fatalities stood at 970.The highest number of 42 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by nine in Una, four each in Kangra, Kinnaur and Solan, three each in Kullu and Sirmaur and one each in Bialspur and Chamba.The total number of active cases stood at 462.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/71-fresh-cases-tally-57-764-in-himachal-208645
06-02-2021||shimla||First paperless e-Cabinet meeting of nation||Himachal became the first state in the country to have a paperless e-Cabinet meeting here today.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the first e-Cabinet, making the end-to-end processing of the Cabinet paperless by implementing the e-cabinet application. The entire process from initiation of a Cabinet memo, approval of the Cabinet memo through concerned Secretary, Chief Secretary, concerned Minister and finally by Chief Minister to place in the Cabinet has been made online. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-paperless-e-cabinet-meeting-of-nation-208646
06-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Shepherds seek special provision in Budget, list demands||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 5With Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur arriving in Palampur tomorrow, migratory shepherds have prepared a list of their demands for him. The migratory shepherds, who constitute about seven per cent population of the state, are alleging that there was no separate provision for them in the state Budget. They want that a special provision should be made for them in the state Budget.Pawana Devi, president of the state migratory shepherd organization, while talking to The Tribune, said that there are more 20 lakh sheep and goats in the state that are reared by migratory shepherds since centuries across the plains and hills of the state. Despite the fact that these shepherds constitute a significant part of state’s population and contribute to the state’s economy there was no special provision in state budget for them. “We will urge the Chief Minister to make special provision for migratory shepherds in the state Budget”, she said.Their grievancesShe further said the biggest challenge being faced by the traditional shepherd community was that it was fast losing traditional pastures to the development projects and strict forest policies. The state government should envision its development projects keeping in view the traditional rights of the migratory shepherds.Besides, the shepherds have rights over the forests of the state and they should not be barred from entering into any forest area while on their migratory routes, she said.Pawana Devi said a gang was active in lower areas of the state and its members are involved in stealing of sheep and goats when they migrate to lower areas. Some of the gang members were arrested by the police but released because of insufficient evidence. The government should take strict action against the gang was that involved in looting cattle wealth from migratory shepherds of the state, he said.She said that the migratory shepherds of the state have been demanding since long from the animal husbandry demand that mobile veterinary dispensary should be provided to them as many shepherds lost their cattle wealth due to foot rot disease. Since the migratory shepherds are constantly on move only a mobile dispensary can provide medical assistance to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shepherds-seek-special-provision-in-budget-list-demands-208647
06-02-2021||Nurpur||No bird mortality in Pong area, fishermen want ban lifted||On the 40th day of surveillance being conducted by Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) of the wildlife wing of the state Forest Department in the Pong wetland bird sanctuary area, no dead migratory bird was found. The wildlife and animal husbandry authorities heaved a sigh of relief after recording zero mortality today when the cumulative mortality figure remained 5,004.As per information, just single-digit mortality of birds was being reported by the RRTs for the past one week, indicating control over the outbreak of bird flu in the sanctuary area. The sanctuary comprises nine beats in two wildlife ranges of Dhameta and Nagrota Surian.Chief Warden, Wildlife, Archana Sharma told The Tribune that though no dead bird had been retrieved from any wildlife beat on Friday, as per the action plan recommended by the Union Ministry of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries, teams would continue post-operative surveillance till March-end, when migratory birds start returning to their native countries.The RRTs had started counting, identifying and scientifically disposing of dead birds 40 days ago. Wildlife staff also followed epidemiological protocols and recommended standards for the control and containment of the avian influenza outbreak in the Pong wetland areas of the sanctuary.Meanwhile, the fishermen who earn their livelihood from the Pong wetland have appealed to the state government to lift the ban on fishing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-bird-mortality-in-pong-area-fishermen-want-ban-lifted-208648
06-02-2021||---||Fire erupts at Baddi pharmaceutical unit||Solan, February 5A fire erupted in a packaging material store on the third floor of a pharmaceutical industry at Gullerwala village in the Baddi industrial area around 10.50 am today. No employee was present at the store at the time of the incident.Firefighters immediately arrived there on receiving information. Factory staff saw smoke billowing out of the store and tried to douse the flames. Fire engines were also requisitioned from Nalagarh, Baddi and nearby textile units. Though the fire was brought under control within a few hours, it was yet to be doused completely by evening.‘Short circuit may be the cause’The factory staff believes short circuit to be the cause of the fire. Commandant, Home Guards, Dr Shiv Kumar said that the actual loss would be estimated after the fire was doused totally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fire-erupts-at-baddi-pharmaceutical-unit-208649
06-02-2021|| Our Correspondent---||BJP-supported president, vice-president take oath||Hamirpur, February 5 Manoj Minhas and Sandeep Kumar, both BJP-supported members in the 11-member MC, took oath of office as president and vice president, respectively, of the Municipal Committee here today.  The BJP candidates had gained a strong foothold in the election leaving only two seats for the Congress and one for independent, who later went with the BJP. CL Thakur, subdivisional officer, administered the oath of office while Narender Thakur, MLA, was also present.  The MLA said that new MC team would be provided every help for the all round development of the city. He said that in recent years the city had expanded considerably and challenges for its upkeep had also increased. The MLA said that keeping town clean, beautiful and well-planned should be the priorities of the new team. Manoj Kumar, new president of the MC, said he along with his team would provide transparent working of the MC. He said that he was aware of the past working of the committee and would like to improve upon it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-supported-president-vice-president-take-oath-208650
06-02-2021||Shimla||SJVN member of global solar alliance||The SJVN has become a member of the International Solar Alliance (ISA), a coalition of solar-resource rich countries to address their energy needs. SJVN chairman Nand Lal Sharma presented a cheque for Rs 7.4 crore to Upendra Tripathy, Director General, ISA, in the presence of RK Singh, Minister for Power and New and Renewable Sources, to join as corporate member of the ISA.  Sharma said the membership would provide the SJVN a global platform to garner cooperation from member countries to enhance the use of solar energy in a safe, convenient, affordable, equitable and sustainable manner. The ISA is the only international body with exclusive focus on solar energy. Till date, 67 countries have ratified the framework agreement of the ISA and 86 countries have signed the agreement. Sharma said the SJVN would now get associated with various projects/ schemes/ events of the ISA as its corporate member, which would provide both brand visibility and business benefits to the SJVN. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-member-of-global-solar-alliance-208651
06-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Tulsi cultivation gets a boost during Covid in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 5The cultivation of tulsi has received a major boost during the pandemic in the lower regions of the state. “With everyone focusing on building immunity and tulsi being one of the foremost immunity-building herbs, its cultivation has gone up significantly,” said Ujjwal Deep, Project Officer at Research Institute in Indian Systems of Medicine, Joginder Nagar, while manning the exhibition of medicinal plants in Shimla on the occasion of the golden jubilee of statehood.Ujjwal said that the Department of Ayurveda had been encouraging people for the cultivation of medicinal plants for the past four or five years. “Around 500 plants have been identified as medicinal in the state and the department has been trying to encourage people to cultivate many of these,” he added.Besides providing plants for cultivation, preferably in clusters as it is not commercially viable in small landholdings, the department also provides subsidies to the tune of 30 per cent to 70 per cent per hectare to the famers for the cultivation of medicinal plants.“The subsidy in the lower region is 30 per cent while in the higher altitude areas, it goes up to 70 per cent,” said Ujjwal. “Besides, we also try and provide market linkages to the farmers by bringing both buyers and sellers at a common platform”, he added.The department encourages farmers to cultivate medicinal plants in their wastelands. “The idea is not to stop traditional farming. The cultivation of medicinal plants is an alternative source of income for the farmers. While augmenting their income, the practice will provide us with enough herbs for medicinal purpose,” he said.He said herbs found in higher attitudes are of extremely high quality and hence their demand was very high. “The cultivation of high-altitude herbs can fetch a very good price to the farmers. There’s no competition for the higher altitude herbs,” added Ujjwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tulsi-cultivation-gets-a-boost-during-covid-in-himachal-208652
06-02-2021||The ABVP on Friday submitted a memorandum to the HPU Examination Controller||Extend last day for filling forms||Cancer Awareness Week at varsityA Cancer Awareness Week began at Shoolini University with a Yogananda Guru series webinar with Sarbjeet Singh. Sarbjeet has been working to uplift the underprivileged people in the state. He said it was important to give back to society and one should help others in tough times. He said humanity was the biggest religion and all should practice humanity. Poonam Nanda, Dean, Students Welfare, said various activities were being organised to mark this week, which included running of food stalls to raise funds for charity, a cricket match, zumba fun and fitness cancer awareness sessions, poster-making and a music evening on zoom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/extend-last-day-for-filling-forms-208653
06-02-2021||It took a long time for the authorities to get roads cleared and restore the traffic movement following snowfall in Shimla. Besides||Lack of preparation||Construct speed breakersThere is an urgent need to increase speed breakers between Sudli Chowk to Trimath Chowk in Chuwari town. This stretch has become a death trap as a number of two-wheeler riders have lost their lives due to rash and negligent driving. The local administration and Nagar Panchayat authorities are requested to build speed breakers so that precious lives can be saved. — Abhishek Thakur, ChuwariWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lack-of-preparation-208658
06-02-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Watch: Traffic on Shimla-Chandigarh road disrupted after town gets highest single-day snow in February in 19 years||Chandigarh, February 5Traffic movement on the Shimla-Chandigarh highway was disrupted on Friday morning after Thursday's heavy snow.Only 4/4 vehicles could move owing to the slippery road conditions.As news of snow spread, tourists flocked to Shimla. The administration was trying to remove snow from the road and streamline the traffic.Vehicular traffic on Chandigarh-Shimla road was resumed up to Tuti kandi bypass while roads leading to hospitals were being cleared on priority basis, said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla.The power supply was disrupted and half of the town was without electricity since last night, while power supply was erratic in several areas.Upper Shimla area remained cut off for the second day.The snowy landscape is likely to stay for two to three days.In the past 19 years, Shimla has recorded the highest snow on a single day in February. This was also the season's heaviest spell.The last heaviest spell in the month was on February 12, 2002.“On Thursday, Shimla experienced 50 cm snow,” said Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorology department.Places near Shimla such as Kufri, Chail and Narkanda have also been experiencing snow, turning the tourist destination even more picturesque.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/watch-traffic-on-shimla-chandigarh-road-disrupted-after-town-gets-highest-single-day-snow-in-february-in-19-years-208304
