07-02-2021||Dharamsala||Municipal corporation elections in HP may be held on party symbols: Jai Ram Thakur||Elections in municipal corporations of Himachal Pradesh may be held on party symbols, and the government will amend the rules needed for this, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.Addressing the media in Palampur, the chief minister indicated that the municipal corporations of Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan are likely to go to polls in the last week of March.“The Himachal government is planning to conduct elections in all the municipal corporations of the state on party symbols, and for that, the government shall amend the needed Act,” he said.“Recently, elections have been completed for gram panchayats, nagar panchayats, nagar parishads, zila parishads and block development committees in Himachal Pradesh. Of course gram panchayat elections were not contested on party symbols, but in these elections, supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party have won the majority of seats,” Thakur said.According to the results available so far, the BJP has won all seven zila parishads, 18 nagar parishads out of 29, 14 nagar panchayats out of 21, 61 block development committees out of 69 and 75 per cent of the total declared seats of gram pradhans in the recent elections, he said.Thakur said his government has created a record by constituting three new municipal corporations, 379 new panchayats and seven new nagar parishads in the state in a single stroke.He said the state government will organise 51 programmes in Himachal Pradesh on the occasion of the Golden Jubilee Year of statehood. These programs will start from April 15. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/municipal-corporation-elections-in-hp-may-be-held-on-party-symbols-jai-ram-thakur-209154
07-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Train halts at Himachal Pradesh’s snow-covered station; video leaves netizens ‘spellbound’||The Ministry of Railways has shared a “spellbinding” 20-second clip of a passenger train halting at a snow-covered station in Himachal Pradesh.Taradevi Station, of the Shimla-Kalka route, has been covered in a blanket of snow for some time now.This location is a ‘sight to behold’.The Ministry of Railways shared the video on their Twitter account.“Spellbinding! Taradevi Station of Shimla-Kalka heritage route covered in a blanket of snow is a sight to behold,” read the video’s caption.Spellbinding ! Taradevi Station of Shimla-Kalka heritage route covered in a blanket of snow is a sight to behold. pic.twitter.com/yOeTrpu4rF  Since being shared, the clip has over 16,000 views and close to 1,200 likes.On the same day, Minister of Railways, Minister of Commerce, and Industry and Minister of Consumer Affairs Piyush Goyal retweeted the same video on their Twitter accounts. “A sight to behold! The enthralling surroundings of Taradevi on the outskirts of Shimla covered in a blanket of snow,” he wrote.A user wrote: “Awesome.... One of the best vistadom Toy Trains!!!! As best as Glacier Express Swiss. Had a chance to travel in last March from Kalka to Shimla. Your & ministry’s efforts are commendable, @PiyushGoyal ji ““BLISSFUL TO WATCH,” wrote another.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/train-halts-at-himachal-pradeshs-snow-covered-station-video-leaves-netizens-spellbound-209142
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Will make sheep rearing profitable, says Jai Ram Thakur||Palampur, February 6The state government is committed for the welfare of the Gaddi community and will initiate schemes for making sheep rearing a profitable vocation, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said in Palampur's Banuri near here on Saturday.Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterPlans for every sectionWe have ensured all-round development and rolled out welfare schemes for every section, including farmers, youths, women, employees and weaker sectionsHe said this while addressing a sheep breeders' conference organised by the HP Wool Federation after inaugurating a tribal community and training centre built at Rs 1 crore.Thakur said the state had witnessed rapid development in the fields of health, education, drinking water supply and roads. In the past one year, despite the pandemic impacting the economy severely, his government had made all efforts to ensure development works do not get affected.“We have ensured all-round development and rolled out welfare schemes for every section, including farmers, youths, women, employees and weaker sections,” he said while highlighting the achievements of his government in the past three years.The Chief Minister, who was addressing a public meeting after inaugurating the State Wool Federation complex here, said that he always believed in the politics of development and not vendetta.In the past three years, his main focus remained the development of the state. He added that the tourism industry had received a major setback in the past 11 months as all hotels were closed. However, the industry was now returning to normalcy and over 90 per cent hotels and homestays were functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-make-sheep-rearing-profitable-says-jai-ram-thakur-208922
07-02-2021||Solan||BJP bags Sirmaur top zila parishad posts||BJP’s Seema Kaniyal and Anjana Sharma were elected the chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Zila Parishad in Sirmaur today. The duo secured nine of the 17 votes while the Congress-backed candidates got eight votes each.The BJP won the contest winning over Anjana Sharma, a Congress-backed candidate, after the Congress roped in BJP rebel Neelam Sharma.Both BJP and Congress had secured eight seats each. It seemed that the vote of Neelam, would be decisive. Though Congress leaders mustered her support, they failed to secure the vote of Anjana. And in return, she was rewarded with the vice-chairperson’s post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-bags-sirmaur-top-zila-parishad-posts-208923
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Ahead of MC polls, CM woos NGOs, elderly||Palampur, February 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today appealed to intellectuals, members of NGOs and senior citizens of Palampur to vote and support the BJP-supported candidates in the forthcoming municipal corporation elections next month so that the town could witness a new era of development.The Chief Minister was addressing a meeting of a select group of citizens here this evening. He said that it was the BJP government that upgraded the Palampur municipal council to a municipal corporation.The new corporation is spread over 15 square kilometres with a population of over 40,000. He added that the previous Congress governments in 40 years neglected the development of Palampur. The Palampur municipal council was set up in 1952, but its limits were never extended in the past 68 years.It was the present BJP government that realised the problems of the residents of Palampur and upgraded the council to a corporaiton.Thakur said, “Palampur is one of the fast growing towns of Himachal. It needs planned and fast development with all civic amenities for residents, which is only possible with the support of the state government and an effective urban body”.He added that his government had already released adequate funds for the construction of rain shelters, installation of streetlights, drainage etc.Besides, over Rs 3 crore had also been given to the new municipal corporation under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The Chief Minister assured the residents of the town that there would be no shortage of funds for development works.The NGOs and senior citizens requested the Chief Minister to field educated, honest and matured persons in the municipal corporation elections so that better and meretricious candidates are elected.Industry Minister Bikram Thakur and Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar thanked the people for attending the function.Trilok Kapoor, Chairman of the State wool Federation, thanked the Chief Minister for upgrading the Palampur municipal council to a corporation and allocating funds for development works. Pankaj Sharma, Municipal Commissioner, assured the residents of making all efforts for the development of Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ahead-of-mc-polls-cm-woos-ngos-elderly-208924
07-02-2021||Hamirpur||26 students to be felicitated||As many as 26 students of Career Point University would get gold medals for their outstanding performance. This was stated by SK Sharma, Vice Chancellor of the university, here today. He said the CM would give the medals and degrees to the students.He said 11 students of MTech, 72 of BTech, 147 of MSc, 68 of BSc, 52 of management studies, 62 of hotel management, 31 of law, 81 of BCA, 40 of MCA, 14 of PGDCA, five of PhD and five of MPhil would be awarded degrees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/26-students-to-be-felicitated-208925
07-02-2021||---||Cash, valuables looted from jeweller’s house at Baddi||Solan, February 6Three motorcycle-borne youths looted cash and valuables worth several lakhs of rupees from the house of Baddi-based jeweller Rajesh Aggarwal allegedly at gunpoint when his mother was alone around 8 pm yesterday.The miscreants entered Aggarwal’s house located in Phase-1 Housing Board Colony at Baddi while he along with his family had gone to Chandigarh last evening.According to his mother Rani Devi, the youths had covered their faces with a white cloth and they enquired about her son. The trio then brandished a gun and decamped with cash and jewellery, including ornaments worn by the woman. They took away a suitcase containing important documents belonging to the jeweller. A case under Sections 382 and 34 of the IPC has been registered and a search has been launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cash-valuables-looted-from-jewellers-house-at-baddi-208906
07-02-2021||---||Himachal Kisan Sabha: Farm agitation mass movement, not limited to one state||Shimla, February 6The Himachal Kisan Sabha (HKS) flayed Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for terming the farmer agitation a “one-state phenomenon” in Parliament on Friday.Kuldeep Tanwar, President, HKSAcross the countryChakka jams being held at thousands of places across the country will tell the Agriculture Minister that the agitation has become a mass movement and is not limited to one state.“Chakka jams being held today at thousands of places across the country will tell the Agriculture Minister that the agitation has become a mass movement across the country and not limited to one state,” said Himachal Kisan Sabha (HKS) president Kuldeep Tanwar while leading the ‘chakka jam’ in Shimla along with Theog MLA Rakesh Singha. Responding to the call of a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the HKS and other organisations held traffic at 22 places across the state. Singha warned the government to repeal the agriculture laws or get ready to face agitations all over the country. “The government has no choice but to repeal these laws. It is seriously mistaken in thinking that it could tire out the farmers by drawing the agitation long. Farmers are not going to get tired, rather agitation is going to spread to all parts of the country,” Singha said.Tanwar said it was extremely unfortunate that the government had laid down nails at the Delhi border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-kisan-sabha-farm-agitation-mass-movement-not-limited-to-one-state-208903
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||5,000 given houses under CM’s scheme, says minister||Hamirpur, February 6Urban Development and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said here today that the Urban Development Department was providing houses to the homeless in urban areas under the Chief Minister Urban Livelihood Scheme.He directed officers to create awareness about the scheme. About 5,000 people benefited from this scheme so far. The department had sanctioned Rs 50 lakh for the solid waste management to Hamirpur district. The additional fund of Rs 50 lakh would be allocated for the construction of parking in the city soon.Bhardwaj instructed officers of the Cooperative Department to prepare proposals for loan-related schemes for cooperatives. The minister said cooperatives played an important role in the development of society.Congratulating the newly elected officials of the city Municipal Committee, Suresh Bhardwaj said new plans were prepared for the planned development of Hamirpur. Devashveta Banik, Deputy Commissioner and CL Thakur, Sub-divisional Magistrate, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-000-given-houses-under-cms-scheme-says-minister-208905
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Cultural programmes mark snow festival at Lahaul||Kullu, February 6Cultural programmes were held at Jahlma during the snow festival at Lahaul today. Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda was the chief guest on the occasion.The cultural programmes started with a tableau parade by various mahila and yuvak mandals. The minister led the parade and also witnessed sculptures crafted from snow. He lit the lamp to commence the programme. Teams of women from mahila mandals of Gohrma, Junda, Jahlma, Nalda and Gharbog presented folk dances.The minister said the opening of the Atal Tunnel would help the people of the valley. He said this had paved the way for promoting tribal culture and tradition of the valley through the snow festival. He said this festival would be celebrated every year and adequate infrastructure would be developed so that tourism activities were boosted and tourists get access to various events in different villages.Markanda said the festival was being celebrated with the aim of bringing the rich tribal culture on one platform and promoting traditional sports. He said the culture, traditions, customs, cuisine and sports of Lahaul were unique and these would be preserved and promoted through the snow festival. He said this would help to promote tourism in the valley and provide new employment avenues to the locals. He added that new projects like zip linings, sheet-skating would be combined with tourism in the near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cultural-programmes-mark-snow-festival-at-lahaul-208902
07-02-2021||---||Power, water supply almost back to normal in Shimla||Shimla, February 6The electricity and water supply is limping back to normal in Shimla after severe disruption following daylong snowfall on Thursday. “We have restored electricity in almost the entire city now. There can still be some pockets without electricity due to local faults. We will take care of that as well at the earliest,” said Lokesh Thakur, Superintending Engineer, Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited.Water management officials, too, sounded optimistic of smooth supply tomorrow onwards. “All our pumping stations are working since 11 am today. So, we are certain that water supply will be smooth tomorrow onwards,” said Dharmendra Gill, Managing Director, Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL). For two consecutive days, many areas of the city have not received water supply.Many rural areas surrounding the city were likely to go without electricity this night. “It’s going to be the third consecutive night without electricity. We have no clue when electricity will be restored. All we can do is just wait,” said Anil Kumar, a resident of Jathia Devi village.Lokesh Thakur claimed that the shortage of staff in the SJPNL did not affect their efforts to restore electricity because they are authorised to hire private labour in emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-water-supply-almost-back-to-normal-in-shimla-208911
07-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Dental college in Solan district plans closure, students in lurch||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 6About 105 students of MN DAV Dental College, Tatul, near here are facing an uncertain future as the college is planning to close its operations.This will affect the future of the second, third and fourth-year students. They are skeptical about the fate of the college because the authorities did not participate in the centralised counselling for the first-year admissions for the 2020-21 batch at Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) last year.Exercise begunThe Directorate of Health and Medical Education (DHME) had begun an exercise to adjust the students in three private dental colleges. Their managements had been sent letters by the directorate in December, seeking to know how many students could be admitted to various batches, said a senior functionary of a private dental college.He added that the colleges could only admit students against a few vacant seats in each batch as the sanctioned strength couldn’t be exceeded. This information had been conveyed to the directorate.Dr Ravi Sharma of the DHME said, “I am not aware if the dental college is closing its operations. An institute can’t be forced to admit a fresh batch, if it is not financially viable.”Officiating principal Girish said, “The DAV management is considering to close it.”Worried parents and students have, however, sent letters to the Health and Family Welfare Minister, the Secretary, Health, the Chief Secretary, Director, Health and Medical Education, DC, as well as the Vice-Chancellor of the HPU seeking intervention.“Various authorities, including the Prime Minister’s Office, Dental Council of India and officials of the state government, have been informed about the condition of more than 100 students,” said a parent from Delhi whose daughter was a third-year student.“I am a third-year student and it is the first year of our clinics and attaining practical learning. Any sudden change will hit our studies and mental health,” said a student.Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal said, “The closure of the college is a matter of concern as many people have been employed here. The future of students can’t be jeopardised. I have directed the Secretary, Health, to look into it.”Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said there was something fishy about the way the college management had been behaving for the past few months and the college wore a deserted look. The information regarding the condition of the students would be sent to the government for timely action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dental-college-in-solan-district-plans-closure-students-in-lurch-208897
07-02-2021||Shimla||Plant 200 saplings, Himachal High Court tells offender||To protect the forest cover, the HP High Court has directed an offender, who had damaged forest with his JCB, to restore and enlarge the green cover by planting 200 saplings by August 15.The court further directed him that the plantation would be done on the same patch or around it from where the illicit felling took place and the Forest Department would provide the saplings to the petitioner.The court passed this order on a petition filed by Ashish Kaushal expressing his inability to pay bank guarantees imposed by the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) as a term for releasing his JCB. The Divisional Forest Officer on September 20, 2020, had ordered the release of the petitioner’s confiscated vehicle with a condition to furnish a bond of Rs 5,00,000 along with one surety in the like amount and the FDR or bank guarantee of Rs 15,00,000.Justice Anoop Chitkara observed: “Forests are a national wealth which is required to be preserved. When a forest is harmed or forest produced is obtained illegally by any person’s actions, the primary objective is to restore the forest and not just punish the offender.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plant-200-saplings-himachal-high-court-tells-offender-208898
07-02-2021||---||10-year jail for throwing acid on girl||Solan, February 6The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Nalagarh, Barinder Thakur, today sentenced Santosh Kumar of Bihar to 10-year imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 28,000 for throwing acid on a girl.The case pertains to September 15, 2015, and the victim and the accused were working in a healthcare company at Jharmajri in Barotiwala.Santosh Kumar, a resident of Ibrahimpur in Bihar, was pained at being rejected by the victim and threw acid on the girl in a fit of rage. The girl suffered 25 per cent burns.The case was proved by the prosecution on the basis of witnesses, said the public prosecutor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-year-jail-for-throwing-acid-on-girl-208899
07-02-2021||Vijay Arora||Friend request no excuse for sexual relations, rules High Court||Shimla, February 6“Just because the victim sent a friend request to the accused, it does not give him the right to have sexual relations with her,” said the High Court while rejecting the bail plea of 19-year accused, who had sexually assaulted a 13-year-old girl.The vacation judge, Justice Anoop Chitkara, observed, “It is not unusual for youngsters to send friend requests. It implies that children, who create social media accounts, do so to search for partners, or they intend to receive such invitations. The use of social media in present times is a norm. People use social media for networking, knowledge and entertainment and not to get stalked or be exploited sexually and mentally.”The court passed this order on Thursday on a bail petition filed by the youth, who is in a custody for taking the girl to a hotel where he allegedly committed coitus with her on the ground that the victim had sent a friend request to the petitioner on the Facebook. It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that while making a Facebook profile, the mandatory age is 18 years. She disclosed herself as 18-year-old.Rejecting the contention of the petitioner, the court further observed that “In the present case, the victim is a child in the first year of her teens. The fact that she sent the friend request to the accused cannot lead to the presumption that she did it with an intent to allure the accused to establish coitus. It was not uncommon for people not to reveal everything about their age and identity on the social media as it is a public platform.”The court observed, “If a child mentions the wrong age on the Facebook, it does not become a gospel truth, and it certainly does not lead to a prima facie presumption that such person is not a child but a major of 18 years of age or above.” The victim’s father lodged an FIR on November 14, informing the police that his daughter had been missing since November 13, 2019, and the petitioner had committed sexual assault with her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/friend-request-no-excuse-for-sexual-relations-rules-high-court-208900
07-02-2021||---||Snow avalanche warning in Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti||Mandi, February 6The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) in Manali has issued a fresh warning of an avalanche in Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti on the Manali-Leh and Manali-Beas Kund axis and the Udaipur-Killar-Chamba road in the next two days. The Himachal Pradesh Disaster Management Authority has asked the Deputy Commissioners of Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti to maintain a vigil on the obtaining situation.According to the SASE, on the Manali-Leh axis, there is a snow avalanche threat at Kalath on the Chandigarh-Manali highway, Nehru Kund-Kulang-Palchan-Kothi on the Manali-Leh highway, Tandi-Keyong Darcha in Lahaul and Spiti on the Manali-Leh highway, Darcha-Patsio-Zingzingbar on the Manali-Leh highway, and at the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang on the Manali-Leh highway.On the Manali-Beas Kund axis, there is the threat of a snow avalanche at Palchan-Solang-Dhundhi-Beas Kund on the Manali-Leh highway via the Atal Tunnel, on the Udaipur-Killar and Chamba road at Tandi-Kirting-Thirot-Kukumseri-Udaipur and the Triloknath area in Lahaul and Spiti, besides at Udaipur-Shaor-Chhau in Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba districts.In the Banjar area of Kullu district, there is a snow avalanche threat on the Khanag-Jalori Pass road on the national highway No. 305. Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma and Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai have issued advisories to local people and tourists to refrain from going to these areas in the next few days.Traffic movement is restricted on the Manali-Leh highway from the Solang valley up to Sissu in the Lahaul valley. Meanwhile, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has restored the Manali-Leh highway for traffic from the Lahaul side up to the north portal of the Atal Tunnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-avalanche-warning-in-kullu-lahaul-and-spiti-208901
07-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Tourists flock to snow-clad Shimla hills, hoteliers rejoice||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 6Heavy snowfall in Shimla and its adjoining areas has proved a boon for the sagging tourism industry. With a surge in the tourist arrival, the hotel occupancy has increased to over 80 per cent.“The occupancy is likely to increase further during the weekend,” said Sanjay Sood, president, Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association.A large number of tourists also visited Kufri, which saw a sunny day today. Meanwhile, normalcy returned to the popular hill station after it witnessed a heavy snowfall on Thursday. Traffic was resumed on all main roads in Shimla and its upper areas, Theog, Rampur and Kumarsein, said Deputy Commissioner Aaditya Negi.At least 294 roads were, however, still closed to traffic and power supply remained erratic at many places as 639 transformers were yet to be repaired.The maximum 116 roads were blocked in Lahaul and Spiti district followed by 85 in Shimla. The restoration work was in full swing and most of the roads were likely to be opened in the next 48 hours, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-flock-to-snow-clad-shimla-hills-hoteliers-rejoice-208978
07-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab, Haryana, HP allowed to borrow additional Rs 5,034 crore post ease of doing biz reforms||The Finance Ministry has granted permission to four states of Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to borrow an additional Rs 5,034 crore for undertaking ease of doing business reforms. In a statement, the ministry said four more states namely, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have undertaken ‘Ease of Doing Business’ reforms stipulated by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. “Thus, these States have become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources and have been granted permission to raise additional Rs 5,034 crore through Open Market Borrowings,” it said. With this, 12 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, have undertaken the stipulated reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. On completion of reforms facilitating ease of doing business, these 12 states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 28,183 crore, the statement added. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government of India had in May last year enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP.  Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the States. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified were implementation of One Nation One Ration Card System, ease of doing business reform, Urban Local body/ utility reforms and power sector reforms. Till now, 17 states have carried out at least one of the four stipulated reforms and have been granted reform-linked borrowing permissions.  Of these, 12 states have implemented the one nation one ration card system, 12 states have done ease of doing business reforms, five states have done local body reforms and 2 States have undertaken power sector reforms.  Total reform linked additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states stands at Rs 74,773 crore, the ministry added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-haryana-hp-allowed-to-borrow-additional-rs-5-034-crore-post-ease-of-doing-biz-reforms-208830
