08-02-2021||Mandi||Police arrest man for carrying 14 Kg charas in Mandi||A man was arrested for allegedly carrying 14 kg charas in Mandi district on Sunday night, police said.The accused, identified as Devi Singh of Dhamreda village, was travelling in a car in Balh area, when police personal on patrolling duty at Galma stopped his vehicle. Police recovered 14 kg charas from the vehicle and arrested Singh.Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said that Singh will be produced before court to seek a police remand for further interrogation.“The house of accused was raided, where around Rs 1 lakh cash and a weight measuring machine was found. The brother of the accused, who is still absconding, was also involved in this case. Efforts were on to nab the other accused,” she added.Agnihotri stated that a case has been registered under NDPS act and an investigation was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-arrest-man-for-carrying-14-kg-charas-in-mandi-209593
08-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||HRTC in financial mess, losing crores every month||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 7The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) is struggling to drive its way out of financial troubles. Compared to the revenue it generated in the last three months of 2019, the state-owned road transport corporation has suffered losses ranging from Rs 40 crore to Rs 50 crore per month in the last three months of 2020. As against the revenue of Rs 72.77 crore in October, Rs 66.4 crore in November and Rs 62.69 crore in December 2019, the revenue dipped to Rs 21.71 crore, Rs 28.88 crore and Rs 23.68 crore in the corresponding months of 2020.Clearly, the HRTC services that came to a screeching halt during the lockdown have not picked up pace even after most of the coronavirus-induced restrictions are gone. “At the moment, the occupancy in our buses is just around 40 per cent. And out of the total 3,179 routes that we ply, we are operating only on round 40 per cent routes,” said Sandeep Kumar, HRTC Managing Director.“The occupancy has failed to pick up even after the lifting of restrictions because people are still skeptical about travelling in public transport. They still prefer to travel in their own vehicles due to the fear of the virus,” said the Managing Director. He urged people to use HRTC services as their buses were sanitized regularly, drivers and conductors wear masks and all other Covid-related precautions were taken.The HRTC is pinning its hopes of financial revival on the restoration of long routes, both within and outside the state. “Coronavirus and now the farmer agitation has badly affected our inter-state services, which is our major source of income. Hopefully, we will be able to restore these services sooner than later,” said Kumar.“Another drain on the HRTC revenue is the unauthorised operations of private buses. They are given contract carriage permits, but many of them operate as stage carriage, which dents the HRTC revenue,” said the Managing Director. As a result of the financial distress, the government is footing the salary bill of the HRTC employees.Sharp dip in revenue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-in-financial-mess-losing-crores-every-month-209330
08-02-2021||Solan||Bank robbery bid foiled||An attempt to steal cash from the UCO Bank at Sangrah in Sirmaur district was foiled by locals who, on hearing some noises from the bank in the wee hours today, woke up and went there to look into the matter.  This alarmed the miscreants who attempted to flee but  were caught by the locals who chased them and handed them to the police around 3 am. The miscreants had entered the bank  from the rear side by breaking open the grill of a window. They disconnected  the  burglar alarm and a closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera installed inside the bank to avoid being identified. However, before they could take away the cash, they were challenged by the locals.  Sirmaur SP Khushal Sharma  said the accused who were caught were juveniles. They have been   handed over to their parents, he said.    While one of the miscreants was a Haryana resident, another one is a local who works at a cloth shop next to the bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bank-robbery-bid-foiled-209331
08-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||154 got RCs with fake ID proofs||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 7The Registration Licensing Authority (RLA) here has detected 154 persons, who got their vehicles registered with the RLA and procured registration certificates (RCs) by submitting fictitious ID proofs.All such vehicles have been blocked on Vahan portal by the RLA and issued seven-day notices to them and told to reply. These vehicles cannot be sold now.SDM-cum-RLA Surinder Thakur said if the owners didn’t comply with the office notice, their RCs would be cancelled. He said the government had enhanced the registration fee from 3 per cent to 9 per cent, besides Rs 2,000 as green tax to be deposited by the vehicle owner before applying for RC. It will discourage outsiders to procure RCs in the state.Sources reveal that most vehicles are from neighbouring Pathankot district in Punjab who got their vehicle registered in the local RLA to save the registration fee, which was 3 per cent in Himachal Pradesh whereas it was 9 per cent in Punjab.The owners in connivance with some agents managed to upload their documents, including fictitious ID proofs, on the transport portal and obtained their RCs. The Directorate of State Transport directed all RLAs to verify their documents.The practice of getting their vehicles registered with the state RLAs has been prevailing for the past many years. Some have also managed to prepare their double Aadhar Cards in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.High registration fee in PunjabMost vehicles are from neighbouring Pathankot district, whose owners got their vehicle registered with the local RLA to save the registration fee, which was 3 per cent in Himachal Pradesh whereas it was 9 per cent in Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/154-got-rcs-with-fake-id-proofs-209332
08-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Nehru’s statue in Palampur in a state of neglect||Palampur, February 7The statue of the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, installed in the heart of the town is in the state of neglect and needs immediate maintenance.The statue was installed at Nehru Chowk by the local Lions Club 30 years ago. In the absence of proper upkeep, the statue is in a bad shape.The Palampur Municipal Council maintained the statue for years but of late it has turned a blind eye to it. In the absence of maintenance, the platform of the statue has developed cracks and the statue itself is in a poor condition. No paint, whitewashing or polishing have been done for the past several years.Senior officers and political leaders of the area, who pass through Nehru Chowk daily, are not concerned about the condition of the statue.A senior administration officer said that the local authorities had no funds for the maintenance of statues. Therefore, their condition had worsened.He said that even for the repair and replacement of the statues of the martyrs installed in the town, their families and general public had been making contributions. Even for the replacement of the statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a local trust headed by Yogi Raj Swami Amar Jyoti had contributed money.Enquiries revealed that the funds for the repair and maintenance of statues were released by the state Languages and Culture Department. The Deputy Commissioner’s office had sought funds for the repair of these statues two years ago but no money had been released till date. Therefore, most of the statues are in the town are in a bad shape.Cries for attention||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nehrus-statue-in-palampur-in-a-state-of-neglect-209333
08-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||110 vehicles registered with fake documents in Palampur||Palampur, February 7Irregularities in the registration of light motor vehicles have come to light at the office of the local Motor Licensing Authority. Over 110 light vehicles (cars), which were banned by the Supreme Court, were registered at the local MLO office on the basis of fake documents.The Supreme Court had banned the registration of BS-IV (Bharat Stage-IV) vehicles in the country from April 1, 2020. It had also directed the Union Government and all states that after April 1, only BS-VI standard vehicles would be registered. However, information gathered by The Tribune reveals that over 110 BS-IV standard vehicles were registered with the local Motor Licensing Authority during the pandemic period.Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra, who is also a motor vehicles registration authority in Palampur, when contacted by The Tribune, said as soon as the matter came to his notice, he conducted an inquiry and cancelled the registration all such vehicles which were registered with forged documents. He said an FIR in the Palampur police station was also being registered against the culprits. Besides, he had also informed the higher authorities. He said he had issued a show-cause notice to the concerned clerk of the motor licensing branch who had uploaded the fake documents. The police will further probe the matter, he added.The SDM said these vehicles were purchased from different dealers based in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana and later fake documents were prepared to show these vehicles as “Bharat Stage VI (BS-VI)”, based on which registration certificates were achieved.Agents played a major role in the registration of these vehicles as during investigation, the addresses of owners of these vehicles were found to be fake. The authorities failed to trace even a single owner of these vehicles across Kangra district.Earlier, the state Director, Transport, had cautioned all Motor Licensing Authorities in the state in this regard, thereafter the SDM conducted an inspection of the motor vehicle branch.SDM conducts probe||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/110-vehicles-registered-with-fake-documents-in-palampur-209334
08-02-2021||Chamba||MLA Pawan Nayyar opens garden, plants 600 saplings||As part of golden jubilee year programme for the full statehood of Himachal Pradesh, a ‘golden garden’ was opened by local MLA Pawan Nayyar at Lower Julakari in Chamba town on Saturday. Around 600 saplings were planted in the golden garden.Nayyar said: “Our life is impossible without trees. If there are trees, then there will be life. Everyone depends on nature from birth to death. It becomes our duty to plant more and more trees.”He underscored the need to stop deforestation and protect trees. He urged everyone to plant trees around their houses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-pawan-nayyar-opens-garden-plants-600-saplings-209335
08-02-2021||Mandi||Army recruitment rally from March 1 to 12||The Army recruitment rally for the posts of soldier general duty, military clerk/ storekeeper, military technical, aviation, ammunition examiner and military technical nursing will be organised at Palampur in Kangra district for the youths of Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti district from March 1 to 12.Col M Raja Rajan, Recruitment Director of the Army at Mandi, said, “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the recruitment rally could not conducted from October 6 to 14 last year”. He said the recruitment process would be conducted on the premises of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University at Palampur.“Only those candidates can participate who had registered themselves for these posts by September 20, 2020. The candidates can download their admit cards February 10 onwards. The candidates are advised to visit the recruitment site at Palampur only on the day and time of recruitment given in the admit cards,” he said.Col Rajan said it was mandatory for all candidates to use masks, gloves and sanitiser during the recruitment rally. He added, “The recruitment process is completely computerised and transparent. So, candidates are advised to not come under the influence of any broker on the promise of a job. Candidates with fake certificates will be handed over to the police and legal action will be taken”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-recruitment-rally-from-march-1-to-12-209336
08-02-2021||---||Rs50-cr fake billing racket in steel scrap industry busted||Solan, February 7 The Directorate General (DG) of GST Intelligence, Baddi, has busted a racket of fake billing amounting to Rs 50 crore in the iron and steel scrap industry.  The GST Intelligence team had conducted raids across various locations in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. One of the masterminds has been arrested from Mandi Gobindgarh and sent to judicial custody.  Harvinder Pal Singh, Deputy Director, Baddi, said, “During the investigation, it has come to notice that various big industries of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are involved in fake billing. More searches will be conducted in the coming days to nab more people involved in this nexus.” He said, “Thorough investigations and searches will also be conducted across the state against beneficiaries of  fake billing to recover government dues. Last month too, the  Baddi team had arrested a mastermind involved in fake billing from Chandigarh who  was sent to judicial custody.” The revelation has brought the working of the State Excise and Taxation Department under the scanner.  It is intriguing how field officials had failed to detect fake invoices worth crores of rupees being used by the erring  iron and steel scrap industry. Earlier, similar fake billing was unearthed by the  DG of GST Intelligence  from  inverter, UPS battery and mobile battery manufacturing companies in the Baddi area.  By raising and using fake invoices, fraudulent taxpayers avoid paying the due C-GST and the State-GST.  As much as 50 per cent amount pertains to the S-GST  which was a big loss to the state exchequer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs50-cr-fake-billing-racket-in-steel-scrap-industry-busted-209338
08-02-2021||---||Gang-rape in Mandi, accused on the run||Mandi, February 7 A girl was gangraped at Sundernagar in Mandi district a few days ago. The accused are absconding. According to official sources, two persons in connivance with six other youths committed the crime in a room at Sundernagar and video-recorded the whole incident. The victim was on a tour in Mandi along with her friends, who later committed the crime.  The victim was working in a company in Chandigarh. Additional Superintendent of Police, Mandi, Ashish Sharma said a zero FIR was registered in Chandigarh against the accused, which was referred to Mandi.  On the basis of the FIR, a case has been registered against the accused at Sundernagar in Mandi. “In preliminary investigation, it was found that the main accused is a friend of the victim. The accused, along with his other friends, had arranged a room at Sundernagar for a party, where they later committed the crime”, he added. The ASP stated that more details about this case were still awaited because the victim had not yet joined the investigation.  As soon as the details about the accused are known, the police will launch a hunt to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gang-rape-in-mandi-accused-on-the-run-209340
08-02-2021||Abhinav Vashisht---||Manali-Keylong road reopened||KULLU, FEBRUARY 7 The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) cleared snow to restore the road connectivity between Manali and Keylong via Atal Tunnel today. The tunnel had been shut for vehicles since February 3 after the region witnessed snowfall.  The BRO started snow- clearing operation on February 5 and restored the traffic between Manali and Keylong via Atal Tunnel. The Lahaul and Spiti district administration has issued advisory that only four-wheel drive vehicles will be allowed to move in view of the prevalent conditions. The entire area from the Solang valley in Kullu up to Tandi in Lahaul-Spiti is avalanche-prone and the police have advised the commuters to be cautious.  The opening of the road will provide access to tourists to go to the Lahaul valley where snow festival is going on. Now the locals are also hopeful that the tourist vehicles would be allowed to cross the tunnel. There is lots of craze among the tourists to witness the engineering marvel. Lahaul valley is also experiencing tourist footfall for the first time during winters, largely due to Atal Tunnel. Lahaul and Spiti Superintendent of Police Manav Verma said only 4X4 vehicles would be allowed till the road condition became more favourable. He advised the residents to avoid travelling on the road as it was risky in the prevailing conditions. He urged the commuters to travel only between 11 am and 4 pm. The commuters have been advised to inform the authorities before traveling for their safety. The BRO officials said the  snow removal task from Manali up to Keylong hadbeen accomplished. They said that all roads in the Lahaul valley had also been cleared of snow.  Tourism stakeholders said adequate infrastructure should be developed to keep the approach roads to the tunnel clear for all types of vehicles. They said that avalanche protection barricades could be set up at vulnerable areas for safety of the commuters. Chemicals can be sprinkled on the road to prevent icing and skidding of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-keylong-road-reopened-209341
08-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Tribal youth fest at Sissu in July||Kullu, February 7 A tableau procession by various mahila and yuvak mandals was held after paying obeisance at the Triloknath Temple during the snow festival at Lahaul today.  Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda inaugurated the cultural programmes. Teams of mahila mandals of Triloknath, Hinsa, Shakoli, Bardang, Chhating, Mashadi, Kishori and Kukumseri enthralled the audience by presenting folk dances. The minister said a museum would be built in the  temple for the preservation of the ancient heritage. The chief guest and other guests were served traditional dishes. The minister announced a grant of Rs 15,000 each to all mahila mandals who took part in the cultural programme. Markanda said a 10-day-long All-India Tribal Youth Festival would be held in Sissu in July. He said the festival would provide an opportunity to exchange sports, culture, cuisines, costumes and local dialects. He said residents of all the valleys of Lahaul and Spiti would participate in the festival. He added that entire Lahaul would be connected by the telecom network. He said tap water would be provided 24 hours a day in Lahaul and this task would be accomplished by next winter. The minister said the government had made new rules for adventure sports.  Udaipur SDM Raj Kumar, Higher Education Director Surjeet Rao and other officials were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tribal-youth-fest-at-sissu-in-july-209342
08-02-2021||---||Man dies as boulder falls on car in Mandi||Mandi, February 7One person was killed while other injured critically when a boulder rolled down from a hillside and fell on their car on the Chandigarh-Manali highway near Dawada in Mandi today.The deceased has been identified as Ajay Pal (55), a native of Mandi. His wife Parminder Kaur was also injured critically. She was rushed to a nearby hospital. According to the police, she is stable. They both were travelling to Kullu from Mandi when the mishap took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-dies-as-boulder-falls-on-car-in-mandi-209343
08-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong facing serious leadership crisis: CM||Palampur, February 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the Congress had lost ground in the state and fighting for survival. The Chief Minister said the party was also facing serious leadership crisis as there was no leader left in the state to lead the party.The people had rejected the Congress in the elections held for Zila Prishad, Municipal Councils and Block Development Samitis.Addressing a prees conference here, he regretted that the party had failed to play the role of an effective opposition. He predicted that the BJP was moving ahead to achieve Mission Repeat 2022 and would easily win 50 seats to form government.He said he always believed in overall development of state. Creation of three municipal corporations by his government was a decision in that direction. In the absence of proper planning the Congress leaders allowed these important cities of the state to become slums only because of their vested interest and vote bank politics.He stated that in coming days people of Palampur would witness sea change in the newly merged areas in municipal corporation. New development projects like sewerage, construction of roads, installation of street light and cleanliness drive would be taken up on priority.He said the process of selection of candidates for MC elections had already begun and the party was in the process of setting up election management teams. The elections were likely to be held by the end of March when election commission announces poll schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-facing-serious-leadership-crisis-cm-209344
08-02-2021||Dharamsala||Chinese criticism of US Tibetan Act rejected||The Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) has rejected the false accusations made by the so-called “People’s Congress of Tibet Autonomous Region” on the landmark Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) 2020 of the US Government.  As per the Chinese state media, the Tibetan autonomous region has expressed its indignation and firm opposition to the passing of the US Act on Tibet. It alleged, “The Tibet Bill grossly interferes in China’s internal affairs and gravely violates the fundamental principles of international laws and basic norms governing international relations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chinese-criticism-of-us-tibetan-act-rejected-209345
08-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||70% syllabus for Himachal Pradesh board exams||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 7The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education is preparing to conduct board examinations of class 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th in the state.However, students in remote areas of the state are at disadvantage as they could not study online due to poor mobile signals or network problems in their areas.Now, the board has decided to hold its examinations offline. To provide relief to the students, it has been decided that papers would be prepared from 70 per cent syllabus.The Chairman of the education board, Dr Suresh Soni, said they had taken into consideration the fact that poor students and those located in the remote areas could not attend classes online regularly.Dr Soni said model question papers had been uploaded on board website and the schools had been informed to help the students solve these papers so that they could do well in their board examinations. The idea was to prepare them before the final examinations.He said question papers would be designed in such a manner that students did not face difficulty in getting pass marks. It had been decided that 40 per cent questions would be easy, 30 per cent moderately difficult and 20 per cent difficult or tricky.In multiple choice questions, the students would be given 30 per centmore choices.The students in Bharmour and Pangi faced difficulty in taking online classes. They had to climb hilltops at places to attend their classes because of signal problems. In Jwalamukhi, a farmer had to sell his cow to buy a smartphone so that his children could take online classes.Naresh Sharma, a teacher, said about 80 per cent students attended online classes regularly. The board had decided against promoting the students to the next classes without examinations but tried to help the students to clear their annual examinations.The likely pattern||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/70-syllabus-for-himachal-pradesh-board-exams-209346
08-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Poor infra, shortage of staff lead to power crisis in Palampur||Palampur, February 7The shortage of field staff and poor infrastructure has affected power supply in Palampur and its adjoining areas. Rural areas are the worst affected as there is no one to address public complaints after 5 pm.In the past 10 years, Palampur has witnessed vast urbanisation as over 10,000 new houses have come up but the power supply infrastructure has remained the same as it was 10 years ago.At present Palampur has no independent power substation and the town and the adjoining areas are dependent on the decade-old Maranda substation, which is already overburdened leading to frequent power cuts.Several plans were made for setting up separate power substation for Palampur, but because of official bottlenecks, nothing has materialised till date, resulting in inconvenience to the public.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that over 60 per cent posts of field staff like linesmen, supervisor, electrician, foremen and other technical staff had been lying vacant for the past years as most of the field staff had retired, but no new recruitment had been made.Sandeep Kumar, Executive Engineer, Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL), said two new power substations were coming up at Holta and place near Government Degree College. With the commissioning of these substations next month consumers would heave a sigh of relief.He agreed that with the increase in domestic and commercial consumers, the existing power supply system needed augmentation.He said at present the HPSEBL was faced with manpower crisis. “There is a complete ban on new appointments in the HPSEBL for the past 10 years. The existing staff is under a lot of pressure as they have to face public wrath every day,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-infra-shortage-of-staff-lead-to-power-crisis-in-palampur-209347
08-02-2021||Solan||Nauni scientist is Uttarakhand director horticulture||Harminder Singh Baweja, principal scientist (floriculture), Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has assumed charge as Director, Horticulture, Uttarakhand.With over 30 years of experience in teaching, research and administration, Baweja has worked on key positions like Managing Director, HP State Agriculture Marketing Board (HPSAMB), besides holding the post of Director, Horticulture, in the State.Baweja said, “It is a great opportunity to head Uttarakhand where a plethora of opportunities are available in diverse fields like honey, pollen, kiwi cultivation etc. Valuable experience gained in Himachal Pradesh in various assignments will be optimally put to use.”He also remained professor and officiating head of Floriculture and Landscape Architecture at the Nauni university. He held other key positions like chairman of Tea Marketing in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-scientist-is-uttarakhand-director-horticulture-209348
08-02-2021||---||Bias alleged in IGMC canteen contract||Shimla, February 7The Youth Congress has alleged favouritism and wastage of public money in the allotment of tender for the outsourced catering service at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC).“The service has been awarded to a contractor, who hails from the CM’s constituency,” alleged state Youth Congress working president Yadupati Thakur here today.Medical Superintendent Janak Raj said: “The institution follows all procedural guidelines laid down by the government for the tendering process.”He, however, claimed that not only tenders were manipulated to benefit the contractor, but also the public money was wasted to benefit him. “In the tender, a condition was inserted that only those having experience of serving in 500-bedded facility could apply. There are only two 500-bedded hospitals in Himachal — the IGMC and Tanda. Only he fulfils the condition as he is already working in the Tanda hospital,” he said, adding that three other companies were disqualified.He claimed that the cost incurred on catering was Rs 2 crore when the government was running it, but the contractor was being paid Rs 5 crore for the same job.“The cost should have gone down as outsourced employees cost less than government employees. Instead, the cost has risen by Rs 3 crore. It has been done to benefit the contractor,” he alleged.The Youth Congress threatened to gherao the Health Minister and the Chief Minister if the government failed to come clean on the issue within 10 days. It demanded an inquiry by an independent agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bias-alleged-in-igmc-canteen-contract-209349
08-02-2021||Our Correspondent||52,678 children to get polio drops on Feb 14||Chamba, February 7It is a matter of satisfaction that after 2012 no new case of polio has come up in the country. But nonetheless, continuous surveillance is necessary and intensive pulse polio immunisation campaign is going on for this purpose.This was stated by Deputy Commissioner DC Rana while presiding over a meeting to review arraignments for immunisation starting on February 14.The DC said in Chamba district, an estimated 52,678 children would be given polio drops on February 14. These also included targeted children of tribal Pangi and Bharmour regions.For the purpose, a total of 542 polio booths would be set up in the district out of which 530 would be in rural area whereas 12 would be in urban area. He said in addition to 108 supervisors, teams of 2,261 personnel would be deployed for this entire operation, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/52-678-children-to-get-polio-drops-on-feb-14-209350
08-02-2021||---||Himachal Government gives nod to demands of vet officers||Shimla, February 7Most of the long-pending demands of Himachal Pradesh Veterinary Officers Association (HPVOA), including filling of 25 posts for creating cluster sub-cadre, appointment of Data Entry Operators, providing tablets/mobile phones and issuing of identity cards to the staff were accepted by the government and in many cases orders have also been passed.“The demands were discussed during a meeting between representatives of the HPVOA and Additional Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry), Nisha Singh and several long-pending demands were settled”, said General Secretary of the Association, Dr Madhur Gupta.The orders have been passed for moving the case for revival of post Additional Director for approval of the Cabinet. Drawing and Disbursing officers (DDOs) have been directed to appoint data entry operators in a time-bound manner at the departmental level so that the veterinary officers (VOs) are relieved of stress.The orders have been conveyed to Director, Animal Husbandry, to identify para staff/PVAs and attach them at sub divisional veterinary hospitals (SDVH) permanently and train them for data entry.The association apprised that field officers of the department were not having official Identity cards which created a lot of trouble to them during the lockdown phase as they had to struggle to prove their identity before the police and the administration. The ACS issued orders that I-cards must be issued within a month.The ACS directed the Director, Animal Husbandry, to opt for standardised procedures across the state to deal with biomedical waste management.The ACS informed that the case for strengthening of SDVH/VPC has already been sent to the Finance Department for approval.Dr Gupta said that for Covid vaccination of vets/paravets, the matter will be taken up with the government by the ACS while the proposal regarding strengthening of state veterinary hospital, Shimla, zonal veterinary hospitals, sub divisional veterinary hospitals and vet polyclinics across the state is at final stage.Meeting held||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-gives-nod-to-demands-of-vet-officers-209351
08-02-2021||---||Balh residents threaten agitation over proposed airport on March 1||Mandi, February 7Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti has threatened to stage a massive protest against the state government at Balh on March 1 over the proposed airport at Balh valley in Mandi.A meeting of samiti members was held at Kansa ground in Mandi under the leadership of Joginder Walia, president of Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti to make a future strategy.Walia said the state government was ignoring the interests of the people of Balh valley. This mega project would hit the people of the area directly but the state government was not ready to have a dialogue with the people.Walia said, “Earlier we had requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to initiate a dialogue with the people of Balh valley to hear their grievances. Despite our repeated requests till now nothing has been done in this regard.”“A large number of people in Balh valley are going to lose their agriculture and commercial land beside residential and commercial property for this ambitious project. The samiti will fight with full vigour to save the rights of affected people”, he added.“We have decided to stage a massive protest against the state government from Kansa Chowk to the office of Sub Divisional Magistrate, Balh, in Mandi on March 1 to raise the voice of affected people in front of state government”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/balh-residents-threaten-agitation-over-proposed-airport-on-march-1-209352
08-02-2021||Shimla||HPERC chief inducted in national board||Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (HPERC) chairman Devendra Kumar Sharma has been appointed as Member, National Security Advisory Board (NSAB), by the National Security Council Secretariat. The NSAB consists of a group of eminent national security experts outside of the government. The members are usually senior retired officials, civilian as well as military and distinguished members of civil society having expertise in internal and external security, foreign affairs, defence, science and technology and economic affairs. The NSAB advises Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor, and the National Security Council (NSC) on policy issues referred to it.Sharma joined as HPERC chairman on September 26, 2020. He has more than 39 years of experience in energy and water resources sectors in India and abroad. He has worked as chairman, Bhakra Beas Management Board, Ministry of Power from April 2017 to July 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hperc-chief-inducted-in-national-board-209353
08-02-2021||Palampur||Gang of thieves busted; 2 held||The police busted a gang of interstate thieves that were involved in several incidents of thefts reported in Palampur and adjoining areas.Amit Sharma, DSP, said two persons identified as Noor Mohmad of Churah in Chamba district and Salim of Kathua in Jammu were arrested from Panchrukhi.He said the police also recovered several stolen items from their custody, including LEDs, heat pillars and speakers, recently stolen from a shop in Panchrukhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gang-of-thieves-busted-2-held-209354
08-02-2021||Several parts of Shimla town were without electricity for 24 to 60 hours after the record snowfall of 57cm on February 4. The residents of the capital city were anguished and said that it seems that we are living in the ancient age with no light and water. The government is making tall claims of Smart City project but Shimla was nothing less than a remote village after snowfall. “Is this the smart city the government is talking about”||Shimla: Smart city or an ancient village!||Also read: Palampur Agriculture University in a fix over milk orderA recommendation from the Chief Minister’s office had officials in Kangra in a quandary this week. A former scribe from Palampur had written to the Chief Minister that since he was not getting pure milk from vendors, he may direct the Palampur Agriculture University to supply him pure 2.5 litre milk daily from dairy farm of university at his doorsteps. He offered to pay in cash for the milk to the university. The request of scribe was sent by the CM office to the officials in Kangra for further action. Now the officials are in tizzy how to get the request executed.Results matter, not the means!Not holding the Zila Parishad polls on party symbols has its own advantage. It conveniently helps parties to poach opponents if a party doesn’t have the right numbers to elect its chairman and vice-chairman. A large number of BJP rebels won this year but none faced disciplinary action for contesting against the official candidates. Conveniently, quite a few were elected to lead the zila parishads much to the chagrin of the official candidates. Only results matter, not the means it seems for the politicians, never mind if it means politicising even the grassroot institutes to the hilt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-smart-city-or-an-ancient-village-209369
08-02-2021||In order to enroll deserving students of Arya Government College||NCC fitness test camp organised||Pinegrove girl tops science eventAnanya Kalia, a Class X student of Pinegrove School, Dharampur, secured the first position in the "Activity Corner" among participants across the state in the 28th Children's Science Congress organised online by HIMCOSTE. The news brought cheer to the school fraternity. Executive director of the school, Capt AJ Singh, while congratulating her, expressed hope that children would continue to bring laurels to the school with their hard work and sincerity.Briefing on anti-ragging normsA welcome and orientation programme was organised at Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College (PJNGMC), Chamba, for the new batch of MBBS students. Principal Dr Ramesh Bharti said the session got delayed by five months due to the pandemic. He said ragging was a matter of concern in educational institutions but believed that the Chamba medical college was free from the menace. He said as per guidelines of the Supreme Court and the National Medical Commission (NMC), all anti-ragging measures had been taken and students were given phone numbers of anti-ragging committee members in case they faced any such incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ncc-fitness-test-camp-organised-209370
08-02-2021||Shopkeepers on the upper floor of Mandi's Indira Market let the water flow down to the ground floor||Mischief by shopkeepers||— Prehlad, shopkeeper, MandiRoad cries for repairThe Jawali-Dehra link road is in bad shape but the Public Works Department has failed to repair or maintain this road. Big potholes have developed on this stretch, which are an open invitation for road accidents. The condition of the stretch between Jawali and Haripur on this link road has turned from bad to worse. The commuters face inconvenience while plying their vehicles on this stretch. The PWD authorities should immediately repair this road keeping in view the larger interest of the road users.— Kamal Mahajan, DehraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mischief-by-shopkeepers-209372
08-02-2021||Our Correspondent||MC poll may be held on party symbols: Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Palampur, February 7Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today indicated that poll to the Palampur, Dharamsala, Mandi and Solan municipal corporations may be held on party symbols. If needed, the government would make amendments to rules in this regard, he said.Thakur, addressing a press conference here, said the term of the Dharamsala MC would end on April 8. Therefore, elections may be held in the last week of March. The recent elections for gram panchayats, nagar panchayats/parishads, zila parishads and block development committees in Himachal were not contested on the party symbols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-poll-may-be-held-on-party-symbols-himachal-pradesh-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-209411
08-02-2021||J Mark Baker||Kangra patwari’s defining role in a scholarly work on kuhls||On January 16, I received the sad news that Krishan Kumar Sharma, retired patwari, residing in Chimbal Har near Palampur, had passed away. He was 88 years old, a dear friend and mentor.We first met in the autumn of 1990, when I was beginning field research on the kuhl irrigation systems of Kangra valley for my PhD degree. The gravity flow, community-based irrigation system of Kangra valley in Himachal comprises one of the largest locally managed irrigation networks in the world. Known as kuhls, they have endured for centuries despite recurring floods, droughts and earthquakes. Though rapid socio-economic changes challenge their ability to persist today, most kuhl irrigation systems here continue to brim with water during the hot, dry pre-monsoon season, when dependence on kuhl water for irrigation peaks.writing of this book in the 1990s.I had heard about an extraordinary archival record that describes many details of these irrigation systems — the Riwaj-i-Abpashi — that was first prepared during the 1874 settlement of Kangra district. In the hope of seeing this important historical document, I presented myself to the Palampur tehsildar. My request was generously approved. The tehsildar deputed Sharma, who was posted in the tehsil office, to provide assistance with translating it from Urdu into Hindi and English. This chance meeting grew into a friendship and a joining of two families on opposite sides of the globe, which continues to this day.In the first few days of our work together at the tehsil office, Sharma carefully read aloud in Urdu and translated, while I wrote in my notebook. The unique combination of his scholarly Urdu, along with his detailed knowledge of local agricultural practices and Kangri language, enabled him to accurately translate and explain each sentence. After a few days of working together, Sharma requested and received permission to take the volume to his home in the nearby village of Bindraban.Continuing our work at his ancestral house represents some of my earliest and fondest memories together. Absorbed in the Riwaj-i-Abpashi, we would sit side by side on a charpoy in the shade of a towering mango tree, next to a small cowshed and the woodpile. It was during these days that I first met and got to know his family — his wife, his mother, his sons Vijay, Uday and Sanjeev, and daughter Meena.Our friendship quickly deepened. Sharing the evening meal, often staying the night, getting to learn from Shyam Lal Sharma, his father (Pitaji) — these were all memorable elements of that time. In fact, two of the many stories Pitaji recounted during our evening conversations — including one about the dire consequences of challenging the authority of a kohli (kuhl watermaster) — were included in my book about the kuhl irrigation systems of Kangra. Pitaji was steeped in the oral history of Kangra and, despite his increasing blindness, he retained a razor sharp memory of the region, including changes in agricultural practices, political authority, etc. It was through extensive conversations with him that I first realised how kuhls are embedded within the culture and identity in Kangra.Sharma also gave me permission to cultivate one of his family’s small terraced paddy fields. This “participant observation” enabled me to experientially familiarise myself with local agricultural and water management practices. Ploughing with a pair of bullocks and planting, cultivating and harvesting paddy on this plot of land, in addition to participating in the annual kuhl irrigation system maintenance and repair activities, provided me with a nuanced understanding of these irrigation systems. Without Sharma’s support, this embodied understanding would have been hard, if not impossible, to obtain. He provided a solid foundation from which to launch the more than two years of extensive fieldwork and archival research on which ‘The Kuhls of Kangra’ is based.My return to the United States in 1993 marked the end of long-duration stays with the Sharma family in Kangra. However, our friendship remained strong, nourished by return visits to Kangra every two-three years with my spouse, and later, our children.Sharma was an extraordinary person. He embodied and reflected the historical periods he lived through. His impressive command of multiple languages reflected his education in the mission school in Palampur before 1947. He would often reference poems and stories from the cannon of British literature, recite verses of beautiful Urdu poetry, and recount stories from Hindu texts. In his later years, sitting cross-legged and bolt upright on a cot on the verandah of the roadside home he built in Chimbal Har, he would elaborate at length on poetry, stories, history and philosophy.Sharma’s passing is certainly most acutely felt by his close family, but for me, it represents an immeasurable loss of a dear friend, an elder and a teacher. His loss also represents a fraying of the threads that connect the past to the present. It is now through our shared memories of Sharma, and ongoing relations with his family, that these threads of continuity and connection may be sustained.— The writer is Professor at Humboldt State University, California, USA, and author of ‘The Kuhls of Kangra’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-patwaris-defining-role-in-a-scholarly-work-on-kuhls-209058
