09-02-2021||Shimla||10 workers from Himachal, including 7 from Rampur subdivision,  missing in Uttarakhand flash floods||Ten persons, including seven from Rampur subdivision of Shimla district, working in Chamoli district of Uttrakhand are missing, following flash flood caused by sliding of glacier in Joshimath. Himachal Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj who was in Rampur today said that president of Shingla Gram panchayat informed about seven missing persons. He said that Shimla administration is in touch with its Chamoli counterpart and all efforts are being made to trace the missing persons.Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aaditya Negi told The Tribune that seven missing persons were from Rampur subdivision of Shimla and majority of them were reportedly working in the tunnel of the Rishi Ganga Hydro Power Project in Chamoli and their whereabouts are not known.Diwan Singh, Devender Singh, Kailash Chand, Ashish, Amit Kumar, Pawan Kumar and Rakesh Kumar, all from Rampur subdivision of Shimla district are missing and feared trapped in the tunnel of the project, Negi told The Tribune.We are in constant touch with the district magistrate, Chamoli and number of missing persons could rise as information is still pouring in.The district Disaster Management Authority, Chamoli, is keeping us updated about the rescue operations being carried out by the NDRF, ITBP and other agencies, he added.The remaining three included Rakesh Kapoor, Gurmeet Verma working in Kundan Power Project and Jeet Singh Thakur.The family members of the missing persons are in a state of shock and pinning hopes on the rescue teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-workers-from-himachal-including-7-from-rampur-subdivision-missing-in-uttarakhand-flash-floods-210007
09-02-2021||Palampur||17 +ve, Palampur's Netaji Subhash College of Nursing a containment zone||The district administration today declared Netaji Subhash College of Nursing as containment zone after its 17 students tested positive for Covid-19 last night.Passing the order to this effect, Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra said Section 144 of the CrPC had been promulgated to avoid crowding. The entire college complex, DMC Hospital and a part of Ward 13 of the Palampur Municipal Corporation has been declared containment zone till further orders.The SDM said arrangements had been made to test over 100 students of the nursing college who were residing in hostels.The infected students have been sent in isolation as per rules. College Director Bhubnesh Sood said the institute’s management was extending full cooperation to the administration and the Health Department in tackling the situation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-ve-palampurs-netaji-subhash-college-of-nursing-a-containment-zone-209822
09-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Count of glacial lakes in Sutlej basin rising||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 8The rapid increase in glacial lakes downstream of Karcham and Nathpa in the Sutlej river basin in Kinnaur is becoming a cause of constant worry, especially against the backdrop of the catastrophe in Chamoli in Uttarakhand.It is in view of this threat from increasing glacial lakes that the State Centre on Climate Change in the HP Council for Science, Technology and Environment is using more sophisticated equipment which will help provide clearer pictures of the glacial lakes in Himachal and the Tibetan Himalayan Region.The increase in the number of glacial lakes remains a major cause of worry for Himachal too, especially the Sutlej basin which has some of the country’s biggest hydel projects like Nathpa Jhakri, Karcham Wangtoo and Baspa.Uttarakhand-like threatPreliminary interpretation of the Sutlej basin right from the origin of the Sutlej basin reveals that the number of lakes is increasing as is evident from the high resolution of satellite data being used. Prior to the installation of these high tech contraptions, these newly formed lakes could not be mapped.The state centre in collaboration with Space Application Centre, Ahmadabad has been mapping and monitoring all these lakes in the Tibetan Himalayan region and in Himachal.Nishant Thaklur, Joint Member Secretary of the climate change centre, said the formation of lakes at the snout of glaciers was being mapped and monitored as they contain a lot of water and could cause major damage in case of bursting. Based on the 2019 study, the Sutlej basin has the highest 562 lakes, Chenab basin 242 lakes, Beas basin 93 lakes and Ravi basin 37 lakes.The previous year studies have already indicated the phenomena of increasing glacial lakes which are a potential threat to the downstream areas in various parts of the state. “The use of LISS-III data having resolution 23.5 mts and LISS-IV satellite data having resolution of 5.8 mts will give detailed information of such changes were taking place in the higher Himalayan region,” explained Dr SS Randhawa, Principal Scientific Officer, State Centre on Climate Change.Dr Randhawam revealed that the centre has undertaken a detailed study of one of most vulnerable lakes - Geepang Lake in Lahaul Spiti district. “The study has identified the potential locations which are susceptible to damage in case the lake bursts,” he said.He added that the installation of the new high tech gadgets would help identify and monitor any new changes in all the five basins in the state to avert an Uttarakhand-like catastrophe. Himachal suffered more than Rs 800-crore loss due to flash floods in the Sutlej river in 2000 and later in 2004 the formation of a lake Parechu in the upper basin of the Spiti river in Tibet posed threat to the villages downstream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/count-of-glacial-lakes-in-sutlej-basin-rising-209663
09-02-2021||Shimla||Vaccination Phase-II from tomorrow||The second phase of Covid vaccination in the state will start on February 10. Around 48,000 frontline workers of the police, the Central Armed Police Forces, Urban Development, Revenue and Panchayati Raj departments will be vaccinated. National Health Mission Director Nipun Jindal said  here today that till Saturday, the state had covered more than two-thirds of healthcare workers. The districts authorities had been directed to give the first dose to healthcare workers by February 9. “Those who could not get vaccinated due to any reason, a mop-up round has been scheduled on February 12,” said Dr Jindal. District health teams had been directed to accomplish 50 per cent vaccination of the frontline workers till February 13. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-phase-ii-from-tomorrow-209664
09-02-2021||Shimla||Website audit of Private varsities in the offing||The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) has sent a format to the universities seeking details for an audit of their websites.The decision was taken after a private university in Solan district informed the regulatory commission that a fake website was running in its name. An FIR was registered on its police complaint.“Recently, a complainant, who claimed to have completed B.Com (2015-2018) from a private university, approached the commission alleging that the university was not verifying his mark sheet. A copy of the mark sheet of the student has been forwarded to the police for investigation,” said Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman of the commission.“Both cases pertained to the same university and the nexus of fake websites functioning in the name of private universities cannot be ruled out. To ascertain the facts, we have sought the details of the websites from the private universities,” he added.The details sought by the commission include procurement, functioning, upgrade, technical details, privacy policy and security and about people managing and operating the websites.Investigations by The Tribune revealed that agents in Delhi were selling mark sheets of some universities in the country claiming that the degrees would be verified and the students could check the degrees online on the websites of the universities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/website-audit-of-private-varsities-in-the-offing-209665
09-02-2021||---||Low attendance marks Day 1 in govt colleges of Shimla||Shimla, February 8Colleges reopened in the state today after over 10 months. Even as attendance was low in all three government colleges in Shimla, the students were thrilled and hoped there would be no further disruption in their studies.“We have been looking forward to the opening of colleges for the past many months. We had been fed up sitting at home. Now, that we are back, we want to catch up with studies we missed out in 10 months,” said Tamanna Jhamta, a BA-II student of Government College, Sanjauli.While the students were busy with their friends, the college authorities were chalking out plans for the best possible implementation of Covid guidelines.While every college has prepared micro plans to implement the guidelines, the Sanjauli college has opted for the odd-even formula to maintain social distancing in classrooms.“We have small classrooms but our strength is substantial. So we have decided to divide the students in each class into two groups on the basis of their roll numbers and they will come on alternate days,” said college principal CB Mehta.“Besides, we are involving students to raise awareness among all to follow the norms,” he said.At RKMV, too, there was sharp focus on following the guidelines. “We had deputed our peons at the gate for thermal scanning of the students. Besides, the campus and classrooms have been sanitized,” said vice-principal Gopal Chauhan.The students appeared aware of the need to adhere to the norms. “Colleges may have opened, but we know we need to take precautions,” said Kritank Haigta, a BA-II student.Odd-even formula at Sanjauli collegeWhile every college has prepared micro plans to implement the Covid safety guidelines, the Sanjauli college has opted for the odd-even formula on the basis of students’ roll numbers to maintain social distancing in classrooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/low-attendance-marks-day-1-in-govt-colleges-of-shimla-209666
09-02-2021||Mandi||Mandi man held with 14 kg charas||A man was arrested allegedly with 14 kg of charas in the district on Sunday. The accused, Devi Singh of Dhamreda village of the district, travelling in a car was stopped by the police. They recovered 14 kg of charas from his possession and arrested him. SP Shalini Agnihotri said, “The house of the accused was raided and Rs 1 lakh in cash and a weight measuring machine were seized. His brother, who is absconding, is also involved. Efforts are on to nab him,” she added. In another case, the police seized 2.7 kg of charas from Shrawan Kumar of Thaltukhod village in Mandi. Cases have been registered under the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-man-held-with-14-kg-charas-209668
09-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Peukar village celebrates birth of girls during utsav||Kullu, February 8Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai today attended the Gochi ‘utsav’ at Peukar village as part of a series of events being organised during the snow festival in Lahaul.The ‘utsav’ is generally held in the Gahar valley to celebrate the birth of boys but in Peukar village, it is held to rejoice the birth of girls.The DC said that Gochi here gave a very strong message on the model of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ for the whole country.He added that the government had introduced several schemes for daughters but this village a role model in itself for the entire country as it stands up to convey the message of gender equality. He also honored families of newborns.The ‘utsav’ began with the worship of local village deity Tangzar Mahadev and only a few people offered prayers at the holy spot amidst the snow above the village. Then people went to Gochi Grih (the house where Gochi was organised) and danced to the tunes of folk instruments. The local people served traditional dishes on the occasion.The DC witnessed traditional things used in old times, utensils and objects of handicrafts. Locals said these stones and earthen pots were used to make traditional dishes like ‘marchu’. He said an exhibition of these ancient heritage items would be organised on the conclusion of the snow festival.Rai said that from next year, arrangements would be made to run 4X4 vehicles to connect all valleys of Lahaul so that tourists could witness and participate in the festivities. He encouraged people to start hospitality units for tourists through the ‘Home Stay’ scheme. He said tourism potential of the valley would be harnessed in a planned manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/peukar-village-celebrates-birth-of-girls-during-utsav-209669
09-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Architects meet CM over ‘flimsy’ objections raised by TCP office||Palampur, February 8Members of the Palampur Architects Association today called on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and lodged a protest against the functioning of the local Town and Country Planning office, which caused harassment to residents of the town.Sashi Badhan, Akshya Katoch, Ajay Sharma, Vinay Sharma, Anup Dhiman, Rajiv Nagpal, Shashi Sharma, Sunny Rana and Kunal Sabhabal, members of the association, apprised the Chief Minister that the office was raising flimsy objections in building plans.They said the government had notified that there should be one-time observations only and objections should be conveyed to applicants in one go, but the TCP office was raising observations time and again, resulting in harassment.Hundreds of files had been waiting for the approval for the past two years. They said earlier, there was provision for car parking in the boundary lines of a plot, but the TCP authorities had arbitrarily withheld the approval for such parking in many cases.The association also told the CM that Tibetan refugees in Bir were a harassed lot as the TCP office had denied approvals to their houses under the pretext that they were not the owners of the land. In fact, the Tibetans could not buy land in India, therefore plots were allotted to them by the Tibetan Rehabilitation Societies.Besides, there were some areas where there was no need for approvals, however, the TCP authorities were stressing for approvals in such areas too.The members complained that in most cases, approvals were referred to Dharamsala instead of taking decision by the local officers, which had also resulted in delay in the approvals of building maps.They asked the CM to look into the matter and save the public from harassment.‘Residents being harassed’They said the government had notified that there should be one-time observations only and objections should be conveyed to applicants in one go, but the TCP office was raising observations time and again, resulting in harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/architects-meet-cm-over-flimsy-objections-raised-by-tcp-office-209670
09-02-2021||---||Jagdish Chander Sharma is Additional Chief Secy||Shimla, February 8Jagdish Chander Sharma, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, has been promoted to the rank of Additional Chief Secretary.The decks for the promotion of Sharma, belonging to the 1991 batch, had been cleared by the Cabinet at its meeting last week and the Department of Personnel issued the orders today. Besides being Principal Secretary to the CM, Sharma is looking after the PWD, Excise and Taxation and Information and Public Relations Departments.Rajneesh, who belongs to the 1997 batch, has also been promoted to the rank of Principal Secretary. He is looking after Information Technology, Urban Development and Town and Country Planning Departments.Subhasish Panda, also from the 1997 batch, too has been given promotion as Principal Secretary. He is on Central deputation and is serving as Deputy Director (Administration) at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jagdish-chander-sharma-is-additional-chief-secy-209671
09-02-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Hamirpur villagers stop hospital construction||Hamirpur, February 8Villagers stopped the construction of a medical college and hospital campus at Jolsappar village in the district today following the closure of a link road. The lone road to the village passes through forestland that has been identified for the construction of Dr Radhakrishanan Medical College and Hospital. As this motorable road has been dug up for the construction of the boundary wall of the hospital, the villagers are demanding another link road to the village. They took up the matter with the district administration and with the college authorities and also asked the construction company to stop the work until the matter was resolved.Local MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu along with Nadaun SDM Vijay Dhiman reached the village to resolve the issue. He said that another link road to the village would be constructed. He appealed to the villagers not to create hindrances in the construction of the medical college campus. He added that the previous UPA government had sanctioned the college with a budgetary provision of over Rs 200 crore and it would be one of the best medical institutions in the region.The SDM said that the villagers demanded another link road to their village as the old road had been dug for the construction of the boundary wall of the hospital. He added that the administration was exploring ways to provide an alternative road.GS Bist, Executive Engineer, CPWD, said that such teething troubles had delayed the hospital project but now it would be completed within the stipulated time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-villagers-stop-hospital-construction-209672
09-02-2021||---||Government proposes Rs 9,405 cr outlay||Shimla, February 8The government proposed an outlay of Rs 9,405.41 crore under the developmental budget for 2021-22, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while presiding over the morning session of the MLA priority meeting for the financial year here today.Thakur said 251 projects worth Rs 926.24 crore had been approved under NABARD under MLA priorities during the year. Of this, Rs 565.52 crore had been provided for roads and bridges whereas Rs 360.72 crore for minor irrigation and drinking water schemes.He said during the three-year tenure of the government, a provision of Rs 21,300 crore was made as annual plan outlay.Chamba: MLAs from Chamba urged the CM for opening the Jal Shakti division at Pangi, an Eklavya School, a ropeway project, the upgrade of the Holi-Chamba road, the construction of a mini secretariat at Chamba, adequate staff in the medical college, better power supply, sewage in smaller towns and infrastructure to attract tourists.Sirmaur: The MLA from Sirmaur asked for developing the district from the tourist point of view, the IPH division at Rajgarh, upgrade of schools, bridges, sewerage, channelling of the Markandey river under the flood management project, proper facilities and equipment for the medical college, Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya, buildings for newly upgraded sub-tehsils and tehsil, the electrical subdivision at Sangrah, more staff in remote health institutions and colleges, relaxation of condition of two bighas for Mukhyamantri Lok Bhawan, upgrade of the Paonta-Shillai-Menus road to two lanes.Una: The MLAs demanded beautification of the Chintpurni temple, upgrade of the Jhalera-Amb road to four lanes, 20 tubewells, a degree college, sanctioning of the fifth phase of the Swan channelisation, primary health centres, better sewerage facilities and a stop to illegal mining.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri urged the CM to strengthen the institution of MLAs and invite them to the functions of the Golden Jubilee Year of the Statehood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-proposes-rs-9-405-cr-outlay-209673
09-02-2021||Shimla||29 Covid cases||With 29 new cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases reached 57,925.  There was no Covid death in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/29-covid-cases-209674
09-02-2021||Our Correspondent||No new taxes in merged areas for three years: CM||Palampur, February 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today assured residents of newly upgraded Municipal Corporation of Palampur that no new taxes would be imposed in the merged areas. He said that the state government had already declared a tax holiday of tree years and a notification to this effect had already been issued. If needed, it could be extended further.He categorically stated that MANREGA-like schemes would also be continued in MC areas.Addressing a public meeting here last evening, the Chief Minister said Congress leaders were misleading the people on the issues of new taxes and MANREGA which was far from truth. He said Congress leaders never wanted the upgrade of Palampur Municipal Corporation because of their vested interests. Therefore, they were creating misunderstanding among people.Planned and systematic developmentThe BJP government is committed to the planned and systematic development of the urban areas of the state and formation of MCs is a step forward. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThe Chief Minister said that the BJP government in the state was committed to the planned and systematic development of the urban areas of the state and formation of MCs was a step forward. He thanked the people for their wholehearted support to the BJP in the PRI and Urban Local Bodies elections and hoped that similar would be situation in the elections of four MCs of state.The Chief Minister laid the foundation stones and inaugurated development projects worth Rs. 45.66 crore in Palampur area of Kangra district.He inaugurated projects worth Rs 5.94 crore which includes flow irrigation schemes at Maniara Tappa, Jugehar and Rani Di Kuhl and Rs 1.37 crore civil supply godown at Sidhpur Sarkari. He laid the foundation stones of projects of Rs 39.72 crore, including improvement of Kasba Jugehar water supply scheme in Kothi Pahra gram panchayat of Palampur tehsil.Thakur announced that a statue of Dr BR Ambedkar would be installed at the premises of Mini Secretariat, Palampur. He announced Rs 50 lakh for Golden Jubilee Nature Park being constructed at Palampur at a cost of Rs 1.65 crore.Industries Minister Bikram Singh and chairman, Wool Federation, Trilok Kapoor were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-new-taxes-in-merged-areas-for-three-years-cm-209675
09-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||No let-up in hooliganism by taxi drivers in Shimla||Tribune News SeriousShimla, February 8In a shocking incident, a bank employee was allegedly murdered by taxi drivers in the state capital and his body thrown on the railway track below taxi stand near old bus stand. The railway police has registered a case of murder and arrested two accused in connection of the case while the third is still at large.On the night of February 2, Tek Chand (deceased), working in HDFC Bank, along with his friend went to a taxi stand to hire a taxi but had a clash with the taxi drivers who were overcharging. The scuffle turned ugly as other taxi drivers also joined. After brutally beating up the victim, they threw him on railway track.Verification soon: SPThe body was recovered by the railway police who initiated the proceedings under section 174 Cr.PC and handed over the body to the family members after postmortem. However, the family members were not convinced with the suicide theory and raised an alarm following which footage of CCTV was scanned.The footage confirmed clash between the deceased and the taxi drivers. A case of murder under section 302 and 34 A of IPC was registered by the railway police. In the meantime, the scared eyewitness accompanying the deceased also narrated the incident to the police.The police yesterday arrested Kiran Kumar, alias Polard (the main accused) and Anil Kumar, alias Neelu, while the third Ram Swaroop, alias Sonu, was still absconding. Stating this, in charge railway police, Shimla Ram Singh added that a manhunt has been launched to nab the third accused.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said that this is not the first case of taxi drivers indulging in crime. Mandatory verification of bus operators, taxi operators and operational drivers would be done and people with criminal background would not be allowed to ferry commuters.Earlier also, taxi drivers were involved in criminal activities. A policeman was attacked and locals were thrashed by them and cases were registered.On many occasions, people have complained about the rowdy behavior of taxi operators during late evening and night hours near old bus stand.Increasing hooliganism by taxi operators and drivers has become a cause of concern as Shimla is a tourist place. How safety of tourists can be guaranteed if the residents feel unsafe in the city commented a local, living in the vicinity of old bus stand, seeking anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-let-up-in-hooliganism-by-taxi-drivers-in-shimla-209676
09-02-2021||---||2 held for sexually exploiting minor||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 8Two persons, including a woman, were held for exploiting a minor girl. Bir Bahadur, Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Paonta Sahib, said a case under Section 363 of the IPC was registered at the Majra police station on January 30 regarding a girl who had gone missing from the area on January 28. She was located at Paonta Sahib on January 31 and it was revealed that she had left her house due to some personal reasons.She had met Shalu, a resident of Yamuna Nagar, who was residing at the Devinagar area of the town. She allured her for a good life and took the girl to her house. She was later taken to a hotel where she was sexually exploited by some persons.The girl was repeatedly exploited by a few persons at other hotels on January 29 and 30 and Shalu continued to make money. The girl left Shalu’s residence on January 31 and she was located by her relative at a park from where she was taken to the police station at Majra.The SDPO said a case under Section 376 of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and theProhibition of Immoral Trafficking Act had been registered.A special investigation team was constituted under the supervision of the SDPO. Shalu has been arrested. One more accused from Majra has also been arrested who had allured her initially on the promise of marriage and had sexually exploited her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-held-for-sexually-exploiting-minor-209677
09-02-2021||---||Due to heavy snowfall, 168 roads still blocked in Himachal||Shimla, February 8As many as 168 roads are stilled blocked in the state. The maximum number of 96 roads are blocked in Lahaul and Spiti, followed by 40 in Shimla and 28 in Kullu.The local Met station has predicted rains and snow at isolated places in higher hills tomorrow and dry weather in the state for next six days from February 9 to Feburary 14.With continued dry weather over the past four days, the rain deficit has increased to 53 per cent as the region received 52.8 mm average rains against the normal rainfall of 112.7 mm from January 1 to February 8.The maximum temperatures increased by a few notches across Himachal and stayed four to seven degrees Celsius above normal as weather remained dry and Una recorded a high of 26.4 degrees Celsius. Shimla and Kalpa recorded a high of 18.7 and 13.7 degrees Celsius, seven degrees Celsius above normal.The minimum temperatures also rose marginally and stayed one or two degrees below normal and Keylong and Kalpa in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts were the coldest with a low of minus 6.6 and minus 1.8 degrees Celsius while Manali and Bhuntar shivered at 1.6 and 2.6 degrees Celsius.Interestingly, Shimla and the adjoining tourist destination of Kufri, which experienced heavy snowfall, were warmer with maximum temperatures at 6.9 and 8.5 degrees Celsius.The farmers in lower hills heaved a sigh of relief as the rise in minimum temperatures has reduced the occurrence of ground frost, which causes damage to vegetable and other Rabi crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/due-to-heavy-snowfall-168-roads-still-blocked-in-himachal-209678
09-02-2021|| Lalit Mohan||Tsering front-runner for the post of Sikyong||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 8Former Speaker of Tibetan Parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering has emerged as the front-runner in preliminary round of the elections held for the post president (Sikyong) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) also known as Tibetan government-in-exile, the result for which were declared today.Election Commissioner Wangdu Tsering announced that Penpa Tsering was leading in the first round of elections securing 24,488 votes. He was followed by Kalsang Dorjee, former bureaucrat in CTA, securing close to 14,554 votes. Gyari Dolma, former home minister, trailed Dorjee with a difference of around 1,200 votes, leaving her out of the race for Sikyong. She got 13,363 votes. A total of about 60,000 exile Tibetans out of 80,000 in 30 different countries across the world cast their votes in the elections held in January.Penpa Tsering was born in the Bylakuppe refugee camp in 1967. He attended the Central School for Tibetans (Bylakuppe), topping the merit list in Class XII and later did his graduation from Madras Christian College, Chennai, where he majored in economics.He served as the general secretary for the Tibetan Freedom Movement and the Nigerian Tibet Friendship Association during his college years. He ran a private export business and later a restaurant.He served as Executive Director at the Tibetan Parliamentary and Research Centre (TPPRC) at New Delhi from 2001-2008.He was elected to the 12th and 13th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and became Speaker of the House of the 14th Parliament -in-Exile in 2008 and was re-elected the following term.He was appointed as the North America Representative of the Dalai Lama in 2016 for a year. Penpa Tsering had differences with present incumbent Lobsang Sangay and was removed as representative in the USA and also faced an inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tsering-front-runner-for-the-post-of-sikyong-209679
09-02-2021||Mandi||Hold MC elections on party symbols: Cong||The Congress favours the MC elections in the state due next month to be conducted on party symbols. Prakash Chaudhari, former minister and District Congress Committee president, told mediapersons here today that the state government should conduct the MC elections on the party symbols. The government had tried to influence the elections to the panchayati raj institutions (PRI) by misusing power. The BJP’s claim that 70 per cent of the candidates supported by it won the PRI elections was not true, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hold-mc-elections-on-party-symbols-cong-209680
09-02-2021||Chamba||Governor: Prepare roadmap for Chamba’s development||Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya said a roadmap should be prepared to take new steps, especially in the field of education, health and employment so that the expected results in these areas could be achieved and Chamba could become ideal in terms of overall development.The Governor said this in his address while presiding over a meeting organised with officials of various departments in the auditorium of local Bhuri Singh Museum today.“Many schemes of the Central and state governments are being implemented based on the goal of development and welfare. The responsibility of extending their benefits to every poor person lies with the departmental officers who are the most important link in the successful implementation of these schemes”, the Governor said.He appreciated the efforts made by various departments other than the health during the Covid-19 epidemic. He said that people should still be cautious in their daily life. He stressed on telemedicine facility for tribal and inaccessible areas.Before the meeting, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana welcomed the Governor and shared information about various aspects of the district.The Governor also visited local Bhuri Singh Museum and Bhuri Singh Power House. He said that the way the centuries-old history, art and culture had been preserved in this museum was admirable. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-prepare-roadmap-for-chambas-development-209681
09-02-2021||Solan||Paonta man stuck in Chamoli tunnel||Jeet Singh of Melion village in  Paonta Sahib is among those stuck in a tunnel at Chamoli district  in Uttarakhand where a glacier burst caused widespread damage yesterday.  He is working as deputy general manager, project, with the construction company engaged at the site. He resides in Dehradun with his family. Locals were praying for his safe return. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-man-stuck-in-chamoli-tunnel-209682
09-02-2021||---||Rewari man dies as vehicle rolls down gorge in Himachal||Mandi, February 8One tourist was killed while four sustained injuries this evening when the vehicle, they were travelling in, rolled down a gorge near here on the Chandigarh-Manali highway.The deceased was identified as Sanjay Kumar of Rewari district in Haryana.According to the police, at the time of accident, five persons were on board the vehicle. One person was killed on the spot, while four injured victims were rushed to the Zonal Hospital, Mandi. The condition of injured is stable.According to SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri, the cause of the accident was rash driving. The vehicle fell into a gorge in the area. A case has been registered and investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rewari-man-dies-as-vehicle-rolls-down-gorge-in-himachal-209683
09-02-2021||The Public Works Department started the construction of a footpath near the residence of the Additional District Magistrate in Hamirpur a few months ago. The contractor has dumped truckloads of gravel on the road||Stone grit dumped along steep road||Shortage of potable waterResidents of Lahot village under the Meharan panchayat in Karsog Assembly segment of Mandi district are facing acute shortage of potable water. The reason cited is that the water supply source, Pandli Nullah, has dried up. Around 12 families of Lahot village are suffering. The Irrigation and Public Health department has been informed about it but no initiative has been taken so far to provide water to this village. The IPH authority should provide water to this village from another source. — Pradip Kumar, KarsogWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-grit-dumped-along-steep-road-209684
09-02-2021||NSUI state secretary Rajat Rana gave a memorandum to Transport Minister Govind Singh Thakur through the Kangra DC seeking the reduction of charge for bus pass for students in HRTC buses. Rana said colleges had reopened after a long time and students would start travelling in HRTC buses so the government should consider reducing the pass charges. Besides||Reduce bus pass charges: NSUI||Open hostels systematically: ABVPThe ABVP unit of Sanjauli College submitted a memorandum to the principal demanding a systematic opening of the hostels and the construction of hostels for girls at the earliest. The students also demanded that irregularities in B.VOC Department be addressed. Other demands included installation of heaters in each classroom, sanitiser outside each classroom and setting up of a Covid committee comprising both students and teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reduce-bus-pass-charges-nsui-209686
09-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Penpa Tsering emerges frontrunner in first round of elections for post of Sikyong||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 8Former Speaker of Tibetan Parliament in exile Penpa Tsering emerged as frontrunner in preliminary round of the elections held for the post president (Sikyong) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) also known as Tibetan government in exile, the result for which were declared on Monday.In the results declared today, the Election Commissioner Wangdu Tsering announced that Penpa Tsering was leading in the first round of elections securing 24,488 votes, followed by Kalsang Dorjee former bureaucrat in CTA, securing close to 14,554 votes. Gyari Dolma, former home minister, trailed Dorjee with a difference of around 1,200 votes, leaving her out of the race for Sikyong. She got 13,363 votes.A total of about 60,000 exiled Tibetans in 30 different countries across the world cast their votes in the elections, which also chose candidates for the 45 members of the exile Tibetan Parliament.Penpa Tsering was born in the Bylakuppe Refugee Camp in 1967. He attended the Central School for Tibetans (Bylakuppe), topping the merit list in Class XII and later did his graduation Madras Christian College, Chennai, where he majored in Economics.He served as the General Secretary for the Tibetan Freedom Movement and the Nigerian-Tibet Friendship Association during his college years. He ran a private export business, and later a restaurant.He served as Executive Director at the Tibetan Parliamentary and Research Centre (TPPRC) at New Delhi from 2001-2008.He was elected to the 12th and 13th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and became Speaker of the House of the 14th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile in 2008, and was re-elected the following term. He was appointed to the North America Representative of the Dalai Lama in 2016 for a year.Penpa Tsering had differences with present incumbent Lobsang Sangay and was removed as representative of the Dalai Lama and also faced an inquiry.The first round or preliminary election for the post of Sikyong was held in January. As per the rules, now the top two candidates in first round of elections would contest for the final round that of elections that would be held in April this year. The other candidates would be considered only if one of top two candidates decides to withdraw from the final round of elections.As per the election commission those who could be candidates for the post of Sikyong will be declared on March 21, with two contestants for the post of Sikyong, and more than 90 candidates for members of Parliament (two for each parliamentary seat). There will be time for about a month for those in the list to withdraw their names, so that the final list could be drawn.The final round of voting will be held on April 11, and the official results will announced on May 20. The new members of the Parliament will take their oath of office on May 28, and the new Sikyong will likely be sworn-in in the following days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/penpa-tsering-emerges-frontrunner-in-first-round-of-elections-for-post-of-sikyong-209633
