10-02-2021||---||Venkaiah Naidu inaugurates Covid-19 makeshift hospital at Nalagarh||Solan, February 10Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu remotely inaugurated a makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Civil Hospital, Nalagarh, in Solan district on the occasion of Platinum Jubilee Foundation Day celebrations of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, on WednesdayHimachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Rs 2.36 crore  had been spent for constructing the 45-bedded Covid-19 hospital at  Nalagarh.“ Make shift hospitals were being constructed in the state to cope with requirement of beds for Covid-19 patients without affecting the medical treatment of the other patients. They are equipped with all  modern facilities,” said the CM.“With sharp decrease in number of active  Covid  cases in Himachal Pradesh, the state government has decided to convert the makeshift hospital at IGMC, Shimla, into a Medicine Intensive Care Unit,  while the makeshift hospital at Nalagarh will be turned into a Trauma Care Centre. The makeshift Hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi district will be converted into a superspeciality ward to facilitate the people,” said Thakur.Director General CSIR and Secretary, DSIR, Dr Shekhar C Mande  welcomed the dignitaries on the occasion. Director CSIR-CBRI presented vote of thanks.Chief Secretary Anil Khachi and Secretary (Health) Amitabh Awasthi were present at Shimla whereas Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh Pammi, former MLA KL Thakur and Deputy Commissioner, Solan, were present at Nalagarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/venkaiah-naidu-inaugurates-covid-19-makeshift-hospital-at-nalagarh-210513
10-02-2021||Dharamsala||30 trainee nurses test positive for COVID-19 at private institute in Palampur||Thirty trainee nurses at a private nursing college in Himachal Pradesh’s Palampur tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, a senior district official said.All of them are under isolation as per protocol, Kangra Chief Medical Officer Dr Gurudarshan Gupta said.“Apart from this, the institution and its hostels are being sanitised,” he said, adding that 16 trainee nurses of the college had tested COVID-19 positive on Sunday.So far, 8,290 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district. While 7,992 patients have been cured of the disease, 91 cases are active at present, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/30-trainee-nurses-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-private-institute-in-palampur-210493
10-02-2021|| Shimla||4 houses gutted in fire in Shimla’s Chopal; property  worth crores lost||As many as four houses were gutted in a fire that broke out in Mashda village of Chopal subdivision in Shimla district on Wednesday morning.30 persons of four families were rendered homeless, however, no casualty was reported.Preliminary investigations pointed out that the fire broke out due to leakage of a cylinder in a house of Budhi Singh and in no time the fire spread to three adjacent wooden houses.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot and villagers firefighters and police douse the flames and stop the fire from spreading further.The district administration has given an immediate relief of Rs 60,000 to the victims, besides blankets and gas cylinders, and they have been shifted to nearby forest hut and old Panchayat Ghar, said ASP Shimla Praveen Thakur.The houses gutted in fire belonged to Budhi Singh, Aatma Ram, Kirpa Ram and Heeera Singh. Loss to property is in crores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-shimlas-chopal-property-%C2%A0worth-crores-lost-210473
10-02-2021||Mandi||In Lahaul-Spiti, outrage over proposed hydel projects||Apprehending an Uttarakhand-like catastrophe, residents of Lahaul-Spiti district have raised their pitch against the proposed hydel projects in the ecologically fragile Chenab river basin.Himachal has allocated several power projects in the Chenab basin to prominent companies like the SJVNL, NHPC, HPCL and NTPC. In addition, several hydropower projects are in the pipeline for Tandi, Rashil, Bardang, Miyar and Jispa in Lahaul-Spiti. Petrified by the Chamoli mishap, residents of Tandi and Goshal panchayats held a meeting to oppose the proposed projects on the Chenab banks. Tandi panchayat pradhan Virender Kumar said: “We oppose the decision of the government to set up power projects in Lahaul-Spiti as it will adversely affect the ecology of the area. We have passed a resolution against the Tandi project.”Demand to shelve Chenab projectsVoicing similar fears, vice-president of NGO Save Lahaul Samiti Vikram Katoch said residents of the district were united in their opposition to setting up of more hydel projects in the Chenab basin. He added that campaigns would be held across the district to spread awareness about the ill-effects of power projects.Rigzin Semphel Heyreppa, president of the Jispa Dam Sangharsh Samiti, said, “In Kinnaur, projects have been set up indiscriminately, causing severe damage to the ecology. People in Lahaul-Spiti will not allow a repeat of Kinnaur.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-lahaul-spiti-outrage-over-proposed-hydel-projects-210169
10-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||No bird mortality, ban lifted on fishing at Pong wetland||NURPUR, FEBRUAY 9As many as 2,800 fishermen, who had been earning their livelihood by fishing in the Pong wetland, got respite after the ban on fishing was lifted today. The ban had been imposed by the Kangra district administration on January 3 after the avian influenza (H5N1) outbreak in the Pong wetland wildlife sanctuary.After rendering jobless, the fishermen, who were engaged in catching fish through 16 fisheries cooperative societies, have demanded a compensation because of the restricted fishing activity in the wetland.On the first day of the ban lifting, most of the fishermen were hesitant to resume normal fishing activity in the Pong wetland and preferred to wait and watch for a few days.The district administration, in its order under the Disaster Management Act-2005, had restricted the movement of human and domestic livestock around one-km periphery of the Pong wetland, declaring it an alert zone. The administration had also prohibited sale or purchase of poultry products, fish and meat within the area under jurisdiction of Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivision in Kangra district.DC Kangra Rakesh Prajapati, who revoked fishing ban order last evening, told The Tribune that after receiving a communiqué from the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, intimating that there was no mortality in poultry for the past five days, the restriction imposed on fishing activity in the Pong wetland had been withdrawn.The district administration had lifted the ban on the sale of poultry products, fish and meat in all four Indora, Fatehpur, Jawali and Dehra subdivisions on January 28 but kept the same to be enforced within the 10-km radius of the avian influenza-infested zone near the Pong wetland in Fatehpur subdivision.Praveen Kumar, Kewal Kumar and Ashok, presidents of Khatiyar, Sthana and Sihal fisheries cooperative societies, while welcoming the decision, have appealed to the government to consider the demand of the fishermen of granting compensation to the fishermen as they had no means of livelihood during the ban period of over one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-bird-mortality-ban-lifted-on-fishing-at-pong-wetland-210183
10-02-2021||---||24-year-old dies after fall||Solan, February 9Jitender Kumar (24), who was engaged in whitewashing the toll plaza at Sanwara, died after falling from the second floor of the plaza last evening.Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta said the youth slipped from the temporary platform. He sustained serious injuries and was rushed to the community health centre at Dharampur from where he was referred to the PGI in Chandigarh after a preliminary treatment. He succumbed to his injuries last evening.The deceased was a resident of the New Indira Colony at Manimajra. A case under Sections 304-A of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/24-year-old-dies-after-fall-210184
10-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Government has failed on all fronts: Cong||Palampur, February 9Congress leaders today slammed the Jai Ram government for its utter failure on all fronts like ‘inept handling’ of Covid pandemic in the state resulting in nearly 1,000 deaths. Besides the same number of persons committed suicide in the state during this period.Addressing a joint press conference here today, Deepak Sharma, state spokesperson of the HPPCC and Gokul Butail, joint secretary, AICC, said the BJP regime had failed on all fronts, be it tackling the Covid pandemic, unemployment and financial mismanagement.They said during three years period corruption was rampant, mining mafia, medical mafia and land mafia flourished under the shelter of BJP leaders. They referred to the vigilance cases pertaining to corruption during pandemic period in purchase of PP kits, sanitizers, etc.Besides, they said outsiders managed to buy big chunks of land with the help of BJP leaders in the state in gross violation of rules, whereas non agriculturists Himachal residents were moving pillar to post even to buy just 250 sq m of land despite the fact they were residing in state for the past 40 to 50 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-has-failed-on-all-fronts-cong-210185
10-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Trials held for athletics meet||Kullu, February 9The Kullu District Athletics Association (KDAA) conducted trials for the selection of the District Track and Field Team for the state-level athletics meet, at the Dhalpur ground here today. Trials were held for Under-16, Under-18 and senior categories separately for girls and boys. These were held for races of 100, 200, 300, 400, 600, 800, 1,500, 2,000, 3,000, 5,000 and 10,000 m.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trials-held-for-athletics-meet-210186
10-02-2021||UNA||Excise staff quizzed in forgery case||A Special Investigating Unit (SIU) team of the Vigilance today questioned some employees of the Una Excise and Taxation Department in connection with a case pertaining to two liquor contractors, who allegedly submitted forged receipts of payments, which they claimed to have made to the government against the quota of liquor lifted by them.Excise duty amounting to Rs 2.58 crore for 2018-19, which was due to be paid to the government by e-challans in the cyber treasury at Shimla, were reportedly not paid by them. They forged e-challan receipts and submitted these to the Una Excise and Taxation office. The anomalies had surfaced in September 2019 after which a criminal case was registered.Una Additional Superintendent of Police Sadar Chand said the case had been handed over to the Special Investigation Unit and a team, led by a DSP, had arrived in Una to investigate the case. Some employees were summoned for questioning. A bank draft for Rs 33.63 lakh, submitted to the department by the contractors, was also found to be fake. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-staff-quizzed-in-forgery-case-210187
10-02-2021||Dharamsala||NIFT-Kangra, NIT-Jalandhar sign  MoU||The National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Kangra, and the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, signed an MoU today.  The NIFT authorities said a team of six delegates, led by  Professor LK Awasthi, Director, NIT-Jalandhar, visited NIFT. The event was organised in the Centre for Advanced Textile Studies  building in NIFT. The MoU will help both institutes in curriculum design, arranging students training, research, skill development, faculty development programmes, guest lectures and student placements.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nift-kangra-nit-jalandhar-sign-mou-210188
10-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||7 from Rampur, 3 others missing in Uttarakhand's Chamoli||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 9Ten persons, including seven from Rampur subdivision of Shimla district, working in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand are missing, following flash flood caused by sliding of glacier in Joshimath.Himachal Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who was in Rampur, said today that president of Shingla gram panchayat informed about seven missing persons. He said that Shimla administration is in touch with its Chamoli counterpart and all efforts are being made to trace the missing persons.Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aaditya Negi told The Tribune that seven missing persons were from Rampur subdivision of Shimla and a majority of them were reportedly working in the tunnel of the Rishiganga Hydro Power Project in Chamoli and their whereabouts are not known.Diwan Singh S/o Sagar Das (Jakdhara village), Devender Singh S/o Maher Singh (Dhuwa Ghati village), Kailash Chand S/o Ram Lal (Kinnu village), Ashish S/o Kundan Lal (Runpoo village), Amit Kumar S/o Sadh Ram (Bagawat village) and Pawan Kumar son of Mangat Ram and Rakesh Kumar (both from Shingla village) are from Rampur subdivision of Shimla district and feared trapped in the tunnel of the project, Negi told The Tribune.The other three missing are Rakesh s/o Robin Singh, hailing from Vandla village of Palampur, Gurmeet Verma s/o Ganga Ram, resident of Purana village in Karsog subdivision, Mandi district, working in Kundan Power Project and Jeet Singh Thakur s/o Man Singh from Majra village in Poanta Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-from-rampur-3-others-missing-in-uttarakhands-chamoli-210189
10-02-2021||palampur||260 Palampur hostel girls tested for Covid||The district administration today collected samples of 260 girls for the Covid test in Netaji Subhash Nursing College hostels where 17 girl students were found infected yesterday.   The health authorities collected the samples of 260 girls staying in hostels. The SDM, Palampur, said that the test reports were expected tomorrow. He said that there were no symptoms of Covid in most of the girl students but the samples were collected to ensure safety. He added that he had ordered that no girl student would leave the hostel without the permission of the administration. Those who test negative for Covid would be allowed to go home.  The college administration has made available medical care to the infected girls in the hostels. Bhubnesh Sood, Director of the college, said they were personally monitoring the situation and extending full cooperation to the administration. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/260-palampur-hostel-girls-tested-for-covid-210190
10-02-2021||Palampur||Uttarakhand flash flood: Palampur engineer untracable||An eerie silence prevails in Bohal village on the outskirts of Palampur town where villagers are awaiting a phone call from Chamoli in Uttarakhand to hear about the well-being of Rakesh, a village youth and engineer who worked as a project manager in the Rishi Ganga Hydel project.Rakesh has been missing since Sunday. His brothers told The Tribune that he had expertise in the D-Tank technology in hydel power projects. He had also worked for other hydro power projects.Rakesh’s wife Anita Devi, who was with her two-year-old son, said the family had not got a call from the project authorities or the Uttarakhand Government about her husband. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uttarakhand-flash-flood-palampur-engineer-untracable-210191
10-02-2021||Shimla||CM: 51 events to mark Himachal statehood golden jubilee||The golden jubilee year of statehood will be celebrated in a befitting manner by organising 51 events throughout the state, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a session of the MLAs priority meeting here today. He urged the legislators of Kangra and Hamirpur districts to give their suggestions for inclusion in the Budget.Thakur said that the MLAs had donated a major portion of their salaries to fight the Covid pandemic, besides motivating the people of their constituencies to contribute generously towards the Chief Minister’s Covid Fund.The MLAs from Kangra district urged Thakur to make adequate provision in the Budget for the construction of a mini-secretariat at Indora and bridges, an Atal Adarsh Vidayalaya at Kotla be started at the earliest, a permanent police post at Nagrota Surian, redress of the grievances of 400 families of Pong Dam oustees, deployment of adequate staff and specialists in hospitals and a fine arts college at Andreta village.The MLAs also demanded smaller buses for rural routes, a BDO office and a paragliding training school and a heliport at Palampur, a bus stand at Baijnath, beautification of Khirganga, expediting the work of Central University, a bus stand at Dharamsala and expediting various works under the Dharamsala Smart City Project, strengthening of an alternative road from MacLeodganj to Dharamsala and a proper path to Adi Himani Chamunda.The MLAs from Hamirpur urged the Chief Minister to solve the drinking water problem, construct an indoor stadium at Bhoranj, a 33 KV substation at Patlander, fill the posts of patwari, expedite the work on a bus stand, develop Baba Balaknath Temple for tourism, construct the Civil Hospital building at Barsar, shift the 400-metre highway stretch passing through the upcoming Medical College at Hamirpur, a Spice Park at Nadaun and Jal Shakti and PWD divisions at Nadaun.The Kinnaur MLAs were concerned over the delay in FRA and FCA clearances. They urged the Chief Minister to take up the matter regarding the Border Area Development Plan with the Centre so that adequate funds could be made available.The MLAs from Solan district said that the online process for the approval of house maps in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area must be started and a foodgrain market be opened at Nalagrah, and the Shamti bypass and adequate parking spaces be constructed to solve the traffic problem of Solan town. The other demands included the opening of a degree college, upgrade of hospitals, and Kuthed sub-tehsil to a tehsil.The MLAs from Shimla district urged the Chief Minster for sewerage facility in Sunni town, expediting the work on the Tutu Sabzi Mandi, renovation of forest rest houses in Chopal, a one-way road to the Hatu Temple, developing Narkanda as a tourist destination, and the old Indo-Tibet road as a cycling route to promote tourism, and a special scheme for farmers.The other priorities included the shifting of the Lakkar Bazaar bus stand in Shimla town to Dhalli, an alternative road to New Shimla, increase in allocation under NABARD for each constituency, better power supply, development of Chanshal for tourism, an alternative all-weather road from Seo Dogri in Uttarakhand to Dodra Kawar. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-51-events-to-mark-himachal-statehood-golden-jubilee-210192
10-02-2021||---||3 arrested in fake website case||Solan, February 9 A  special team of the Baddi police  has arrested three persons  in the fake website case of Barotiwala-based IEC University.  Inan Ahmed (34) of Samastipur in Bihar, Mohammed Salim (29) and Bharti, both of Delhi, were arrested and  brought to Barotiwala on February 6, said sources.  The police were investigating the case as allegations that the three being involved in selling fake degrees and marksheets were surfacing on the basis of the clone website.  A case of a clone website of  IEC University at  Barotiwala, being operated by a company, had come to light. Fearing the website could be used to fool people and sell fake degrees, IEC University registrar Vinod Kumar  had lodged a complaint with the police in December 2020.  He had  stated that the university was established in 2012. Its official website is www.iecuniversity.com, but another website, with the domain name www.iecuniversity.org, was using the university logo and other details illegally.  “A company named Ample Themes had illegally created the website. When the matter came to our notice, we warned it through a letter sent on November 15, 2019, but the company did not discontinue the website,” the registrar had  stated. Police officials were tight-lipped but confirmed that a probe was under way to know how this website was being used by the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-arrested-in-fake-website-case-210193
10-02-2021||---||Ludhiana man held for murder by Nalagarh police||Solan, February 9The Nalagarh police have arrested Ludhiana resident Karamjit in a murder case of 2019. A local court today remanded Karamjit in three-day police custody, said Baddi SP Rohit Malpani. He was brought from Ludhiana on a production warrant, as he was lodged in a jail in some other case.He said while investigating a case of firing on a scrap dealer an accused was arrested from Punjab. He disclosed the involvement of Karamjit in the murder of a 25-year-old Nabha youth.The police had recovered the body of a boy, who had been thrown from a cliff in 2019 at Ramshehar. Since his body was not identified, an untraced report had been filed by the police.“The deceased boy has now been identified as Sandeep Singh, a resident of Ramdasia Mohalla, Nabha, in Punjab. The motive of his murder will be ascertained during the three-day remand of Karamjit,” added the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ludhiana-man-held-for-murder-by-nalagarh-police-210194
10-02-2021||Shimla||68 new coronavirus cases||With 68 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 57,993. There were three Covid deaths in the last 24 hours in the state as one person each succumbed to the virus in Shimla, Mandi and Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/68-new-coronavirus-cases-210195
10-02-2021||Abhinav Vashisht---||Growers upset as apple rootstock price jacked up||KULLU, FEBRUARY 9 In a jolt to orchardists, the government has increased the prices of rootstock of apple plants by around 48 per cent. The rootstock, which was sold by the Horticulture Department for Rs 240 last year, is being sold for Rs 355 this year. The price has been hiked by Rs 115, which is about 48 per cent increase. They say the decision will put a strain on their pockets. They allege that even the quality of plants is not good. Kullu Fruit Growers’ Association president Prem Sharma said apple was a major crop in Himachal and the increase was unfortunate. Anni Valley Growers Association president Rakesh Thakur said the state government had increased the price of plants by a record Rs 115. The price of sapling of walnut plant had also been increased to Rs 1,500, which was Rs 775 last year. The orchardists asked the government to withdraw the hike, keeping in mind the interests of the gardeners. They said better quality plants should be provided to them. Kullu Horticulture Department Deputy Director Vidya Prakash Bains said the funds were provided by the World Bank to import the rootstocks and the authorities of the World Bank decided the rates in consultation with the government. Some orchardists had imported rootstocks on their own and it cost them over Rs 1,000 per sapling. He said the government rates were still on the lower side and the rootstocks of good quality were being provided. The rate of walnut plants was also fixed by the World Bank and it was binding upon the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/growers-upset-as-apple-rootstock-price-jacked-up-210196
10-02-2021||Lalit Mohan---||50 pc attendance as colleges reopen in Kangra district||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, February 9 Colleges in the state reopened yesterday after remaining closed since March 2020 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. In Kangra district, most of the colleges reported a moderate attendance of about 50 per cent in the past two days. The low attendance is being attributed to the lack of public transport services in several rural areas of the district. There are reports that students in remote areas of the district are not able to go to colleges due the lack of public transport. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) is yet to operationalise all its routes citing the lack of profitability. As per the data collected by The Tribune, around 50 per cent students attended Government College at Dharamsala. The principal of the college, Rakesh Sharma, expected the students’ strength to increase in the coming days. In Government College, Nagrota Bagwan,   about 65 per cent attendance was recorded today while about 45 per cent students attended Government College, Takipur. In rural areas such as Government Colleges at Lunj and Haripur Guler, about 70 per cent attendance was reported. The college authorities claimed that students in a good strength attended the institutions as most of them are locals. The students of the colleges located in the Pong Dam area are suffering as train services are suspended for over a year. The British-era narrow guage railway line passing through villages around the Pong Dam is the lifeline of the area. Many villages in the wildlife sanctuary area are not even connected with a road.  Meanwhile, former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali criticised the state government for its failure to provide transport services in rural areas. While talking to mediapersons at Kangra, he said if the government was to reopen educational institutions, it should have also resumed bus services to rural areas. He said during the Congress regime, the HRTC provided free travel facility to the students of schools and colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/50-pc-attendance-as-colleges-reopen-in-kangra-district-210197
10-02-2021||---||Catering tender: IGMC to check bidders’ papers||Shimla, February 9 The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla, has ordered an inquiry to check the veracity of documents produced by three companies that made bids for catering services at the hospital. “If we find some irregularity in the documents, the tender will be scrapped,” said IGMC Principal Rajnish Pathania. The IGMC took the decision after Youth Congress leaders recently alleged favouritism and manipulation of tender to benefit a particular person. They had also alleged that the three unsuccessful companies, which had participated in the bidding along with the successful company, could be bogus.   “We have decided to check the veracity of the companies after questions were raised. Although we have not received any written complaint in this regard, we are conducting the inquiry to clear all doubts. At the time of technical scrutiny of the bids, we take the documents produced at their face value, and can’t vouch for their authenticity,” said DrJanak Raj, IGMC MS. “The technical committee will submit its report within two weeks,” he said. The IGMC administration, however, dismissed the charge of giving any financial benefit to the chosen contractor. The Youth Congress leaders had alleged that while the hospital was doing the catering service in Rs 2 crore, the contractor was allotted Rs 5 crore for the same job.  “It’s a totally baseless charge. We spent Rs 2 crore on just buying ration and paying the salary of minimal catering staff, which is much less than sanctioned staff at the moment. For example, as against the sanctioned 16 cooks, we just have three at the moment. The contractor will have to pay GST and other taxes, water and electricity charges and many other expenses. So, the two figures are not comparable,” said Pathania. The IGMC administration also defended the condition that required the applicants to have an experience of serving in a 500-bedded hospital. “We have 800 to 1,000 patients admitted in the hospital. So, we wanted a company that is financially as well as technically capable to serve so many people,” said Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/catering-tender-igmc-to-check-bidders-papers-210198
10-02-2021||KULLU||Bicycle rally held during snow fest||A bicycle rally was organized to spread the message of sanitation during the snow festival at Keylong in Lahaul today. The rally was flagged off by Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai from his office premises. Fifteen riders participated in the rally and went from Keylong to the Stingri helipad, conveying the message of cleanliness and proper disposal of garbage. The participants cleaned and collected garbage at Stingri helipad. The DC said the purpose of this rally was to celebrate the snow festival in a clean manner so that people become aware and separate dry waste from wet waste for their proper disposal. He said that awareness about sanitation would be provided in various panchayats during the snow festival. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bicycle-rally-held-during-snow-fest-210199
10-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||When on leave, Jawali Army man prepares youths for recruitment||Nurpur, February 9Naik Narinder Happy, a resident of Paphan village in Jawali subdivision, has been honing the skills of the youths and preparing them for Army recruitment rallies for the past over two years.Whenever he happens to come on leave at his place, a large number of youths who aspire to join the Army throng his native village seeking his guidance and training.Naik Narinder, who joined the Army in 2009 and is recruited as a Naik in the 8-Mechanise Infantry, is on three-year deputation in the NSG in Delhi from 2019. He has organised two Army motivational rallies in the BBMB ground at Guglara village. The first rally was organised on January 18 in which over 200 youths took part.After getting positive response from the youths, he again organised a rally on January 30 in which over 300 youths participated.Naik Narinder told The Tribune that he felt that a large number of youths wanted to join the Army, but could not afford to undergo the training in the recruitment academies set up in Kangra due to financial constraints.“Our youths who intend to serve the Army are usually scared of ground testing during recruitment rallies, but regular practice can save them from any disappointment,” he said. He exhorted youths to continue their ground running practice for 5 km daily for at least six months and workout for their physical fitness for one hour everyday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/when-on-leave-jawali-army-man-prepares-youths-for-recruitment-210200
10-02-2021||Shimla||Shimla warmest at night with 11.5°C||Following continuous dry weather, temperatures are rising and the state capital was the warmest during the night with minimum temperature at 11.5 degree, eight degree above normal, while Kufri recorded a low of 9 degree. In contrast, Solan and Sundernagar in mid hills and Una on the Shivalik foothills recorded a low of 4.3 degree and 5.3 degree while Keylong and Kalpa recorded minus 4.3 degree and minus 0.8 degree while Dalhousie was pleasant at night with 9.9 degree, eight degree above normal. The day temperature also rose by a few notches and Una was the hottest with a high of 27 degree while Shimla, Bhuntar and Solan recorded a high of 20 degree, 25.2 degree and 25 degree. Farmers and orchardists are a worried lot. A sudden rise in temperatures in Shimla do not augur well for ice skating as the layer is melting fast. The temperatures are likely to rise further as the local MeT station has predicted a dry spell. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-warmest-at-night-with-11-5%C2%B0c-210201
10-02-2021||Una||Satti distributes relief cheques||State Finance Commission chairman Satpal Singh Satti today distributed cheques amounting to Rs 6.53 lakh to 35 beneficiaries of various government schemes and from the Chief Minister’s Relief fund. Speaking on the occasion, Satti said relief funds amounting to Rs 1.25 crore had been distributed to affected families during the last three years from the CM’s Relief Fund in Una district.He said 5,427 new eligible persons had been included under the social security cover in Una district by the Jai Ram government and that a consolidated sum of about Rs 7 crore had been distributed to these beneficiaries till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satti-distributes-relief-cheques-210202
10-02-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Chinar’ plantation drive in Chamba||Chamba, February 9As part of ‘chinar’ plantation drive in Chamba district, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana and Additional Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Repaswal planted chinar saplings on the premises of the office of Deputy Commissioner here today.On this occasion, the DC said the contribution of trees in maintaining environmental and ecological balance was invaluable. Realizing the importance of trees, every section of the society should not only participate in tree plantation, but also have to be involved in their conservation.Rana praised the campaign launched by the forest department for afforestation, especially planting of ‘chinar’ plants, and said that the common man should also participate with full vigor in this drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chinar-plantation-drive-in-chamba-210203
10-02-2021||Many times||Broken windowpanes in HRTC buses||— Naveen Chauhan, ShimlaDog crushed by carA stray dog sleeping on the road near Hotel Clarks on the seal road between the HPTDC lift and the Shimla Club was crushed by a white Innova Crysta car on Tuesday afternoon. The residents chased the vehicle in a bid to catch the driver but the driver left the car and fled from the spot. The residents took the dog to a veterinary hospital but he succumbed to injuries. Careless driving, and that too, on a sealed road cannot be forgiven. The residents have informed the police about the incident.— Ajit Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/broken-windowpanes-in-hrtc-buses-210206
10-02-2021||The national award winner of the National Service Scheme (NSS) and other NSS volunteers from the state||Governor honours NSS volunteers||NCC camp concludesA five-day NCC camp organised by the 7 HP (I) Coy has concluded. The camp was organised for the cadets who had to appear for B and C certificate exam. Commanding officer Col Suneet Sangta congratulated the cadets and officers for completing the camp without any injuries to anyone. As many as 85 boys and girls from different colleges of the city participated in the camp.Open hostels and library: NSUIThe NSUI on Tuesday demanded the opening of hostels and library in the HPU. NSUI general secretary Yasin Bhatt said keeping in mind the interests of thousands of students, the NSUI had submitted a memorandum to the university authorities and the education directorate. The NSUI also demanded that MEd and MPhil exams be conducted on separate days as many students were appearing in both exams.SFI holds protest at HPUThe SFI today staged a protest at Pink Petals Chowk at the HPU on Tuesday. Addressing students, Reena Negi said the university didn't take demands of students seriously and tried to misguide them. She also slammed the university for not opening hostels and library. She said the students from far-flung areas of the state were suffering because of closed hostels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-honours-nss-volunteers-210207
