11-02-2021||Shimla||COVID-19: DGP among 72,204 people vaccinated so far in Himachal||As many as 6,090 healthcare workers including Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the number of people who have received the jabs in the state so far to 72,204, a senior health official said. The number of frontline workers receiving the jab has increased to 10,915 after beginning of the second phase of the vaccination drive on Wednesday.Earlier, 61,289 healthcare workers had been vaccinated in 1,133 sessions during the first phase from January 16 to February 9, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. As many as 9,419 frontline workers were to be administered the vaccine across 105 sessions on Thursday, but 6,090 people could be given the jabs, which is 64.7 per cent coverage, he said.Five cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported in the state on Thursday, Jindal said. Earlier, 98 cases of AEFI were reported during the first phase, he added.Jindal informed that around 48,000 frontline workers including personnel of the state police, central armed police forces, urban development, revenue and panchayati raj department will be vaccinated in the second phase of the drive.The district administrations have been directed to accomplish 50 per cent vaccination of frontline workers till February 13, a day before the pulse polio immunisation drive is set to begin in the state, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-dgp-among-72-204-people-vaccinated-so-far-in-himachal-210966
11-02-2021||---||Paonta Sahib police seize 350-kg poppy husk||Solan, February 11Around 350-kg poppy husk was seized by the Paonta Sahib police near the inter-state barrier at Behral in the wee hours of Thursday in Sirmaur district.The first seizure of 200 kg was made from a truck (HP-11-4991) near the barrier by a police team led by Devinder Singh. The police had received information that the said truck had gone to Sattiwala Chowk to Banjana Basti and was carrying huge cache of contraband. The truck was stopped and searched near Banjara Basti and eight bags containing 200 kg poppy husk was found. The driver, however, managed to flee from the spot.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said after recovering eight bags the policemen chased the driver who fled from a kutcha road towards a forest area. The police while searching the area saw some pits from where six more bags were recovered. They weighed around 150 kg. Being comparatively cheaper than other drugs, it is consumed by the truckers mostly.“This is the biggest haul of poppy husk recovered from this bordering belt in the recent times and search was underway to uncover all their nefarious operations,” added Bahadur.Director General of Police Sanajay Kundu, while terming it as a furtherance of their war on drugs, said, “The police have shifted focus from petty peddlers to big time smugglers. This strategic shift is proving productive in nabbing big fish and the campaign will continue across the State.”A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered and further probe was underway to trace the backward and forward linkages.Notably, after large scale drug hauls in Kullu and Kangra, this is a major achievement for the police in cracking down on the drug peddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-police-seize-350-kg-poppy-husk-210953
11-02-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Private buses driven recklessly||The TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Private buses driven recklesslyPrivate buses are always in a hurry, always overtaking other vehicles even it involves taking some risk. At times, they overtake even ambulances. Such recklessness on their part not only causes traffic snarls but also raises the chances of accidents and delaying the ambulances. — Vinod Mehta, SanjauliUltrasound machine lies idleThe ultrasound scanning machine at the Civil Hospital at Chuwari has been lying idle for the past few months as the state Health Department has failed to appoint any radiologist here. The patients, especially pregnant women, coming from far-off places are experiencing a lot of inconvenience. They have to go to private clinics at Pathankot for ultrasound tests. They have to bear extra costs for this purpose. Being the only Civil Hospital in Bhatiyat subdivision, the Health Department should fill the vacant post of the radiologist or at least ensure appointment on deputation. — Abhishek Thakur, Chuwari||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-buses-driven-recklessly-210604
11-02-2021||The ABVP unit of Sanskrit College submitted a memorandum of demands to the Principal. Unit president Sita Ram Sharma said the demands included conducting classes on a regular basis and arranging sanitisers||ABVP seeks hostels, playground||Nursing student attains top rankAmbika Thakur, a nursing student of Nahan-based Mata Padmawati College of Nursing, has attained the top rank in the entrance exam for M.Sc Nursing held by Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla. The exam was held in October 2020 and its result was recently declared. College chairman Anil Jain, secretary Sachin Jain, the principal and staff congratulated her on this achievement.Cycling championship todayAs many as 80 participants from eight districts will fight for the title of the State MTB Champion on February 11 at the 1st State MTB Cycling Championship. The Cycling Association of Himachal Pradesh will organise the event at Potters Hill. This is the first time a state championship will be held for the sport of mountain biking in Himachal Pradesh. The race will be conducted under the technical supervision of the Cycling Federation of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-seeks-hostels-playground-210605
11-02-2021||Kullu||Man held for flesh trade in Kullu||The police arrested a person for immoral trafficking from Bhuntar yesterday. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said a raid was conducted and three women were rescued, who were allegedly being forced into flesh trade. The women alleged that the manager of a hotel forced them to carry out prostitution business. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-for-flesh-trade-in-kullu-210606
11-02-2021||Dharamsala||Food packets given to needy||A J&K-based non-governmental organisation, People’s Hut Foundation, distributed food packets to needy through “Feed the Hungry Program”.Director and CEO of the foundation Rohit Koul said, “The underprivileged in India are often given unhygienic leftover food because of which they do not get sufficient nutrition and even end up falling sick. With our Feed the Hungry Program, we are trying to change this by providing hygienically packed nutritious meal to them.”He said, “We are a J&K-based NGO, but this time we have extended our support to the needy people of Himachal Pradesh, during this drive which was carried out from February 5 to 8. We distributed food packets in Dharamsala, Kangra and Palampur.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/food-packets-given-to-needy-210607
11-02-2021||Our Correspondent||SDMs told to monitor rural constructions||Chamba, February 10Deputy Commissioner DC Rana has said large commercial constructions have come up and are being raised even in rural areas. There is need to monitor whether these could withstand earthquakes.The Deputy Commissioner said this while presiding over a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) here today.He said committees would be constituted under the SDM of the area concerned who would examine the construction works.The possibilities for the construction of a helipad near the campus of the government medical college, Chamba, would be explored.The local Chowgan could be used as a relief site. Arrangements would be made for landing of a helicopter at Chowgan and for this, all obstructions would be removed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sdms-told-to-monitor-rural-constructions-210608
11-02-2021||---||Repoll for Naina Devi BDC president post sought||Dharamsala, February 10Sapna Devi, a member of the BDC, Naina Devi, in a complaint to the election commission, has alleged bungling in the elections.In a written complaint to the state election commission, Sapna Devi alleged that in the elections for the post of president of Naina Devi BDC, out of 15 members she got eight votes while the candidate of ruling party got seven votes.She alleged that the authorities conducting the election cancelled one vote that resulted in a tie between the two candidates. The BJP candidate was then declared elected.She has demanded from the state election commission that the election should be conducted again. A Vigilance probe should be ordered to look into the cancellation of the vote, she has demanded.Senior Congress leader from Bilaspur Ram Lal Thakur has alleged that officials in the Naina Devi area were bending rules to benefit the ruling party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/repoll-for-naina-devi-bdc-president-post-sought-210593
11-02-2021||---||Minor alleges abuse by father in Solan||Solan, February 10The Solan police arrested the father of a 16-year old girl here last evening after the minor alleged physical exploitation.Superintendent of Police Abhishek Yadav said the accused, who is an ex-Army man, was working as a private security guard. He was arrested and produced before a local court which remanded him in judicial custody today.Earlier, the police registered a case under Sections 504, 506, 509, 354A of the IPC and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on a complaint made by the victim. The girl will be medically examined tomorrow.The minor also alleged that the father was in possession of two sharp-edged weapons, which he used to intimidate her. The efforts made by her mother to stop him failed to yield result.She further alleged that the father also beat up her mother and pleaded to save the family from his brutalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-alleges-abuse-by-father-in-solan-210594
11-02-2021||KULLU||Skiing marks snow festival at Gondhla in Lahaul||Varius sports activities and cultural programmes were organised during the snow festival at Gondhla in Lahaul today.Keylong tehsildar Anil Kumar was the chief guest. Skiing, snowboarding, snow craft, tug-of-war and ‘chholo’ were organised. Tug-of-war on snow was the most exciting and both men and women participated vigorously. Locals crafted various structures of snow in which the Gondhla Fort remained the center of attraction.Mahila mandals of Gondhla, Thorang, Khinag, Purad, Dalang and Khangsar presented cultural programmes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/skiing-marks-snow-festival-at-gondhla-in-lahaul-210595
11-02-2021||---||Lalit Kala, performing art awards for three||Shimla, February 10The Himachal Pradesh Language Arts and Culture Academy, Shimla, has announced the Lalit Kala (Fine Art) and Nishpadan Kala (Performing Art) Awards for 2017-18.The winners were compiled by a panel of the selection committee and approved by the Chief Minister, who is the Chairman of the Language Art and Culture Academy.Education and Language Art and Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur said that the academy had started various schemes to encourage the artist and literary fraternity of the state.He added that the state government had enhanced the grant for the academy and also introduced various new schemes in the fields of preservation, documentation and publication of traditional and contemporary arts, cultural language and literature of Himachal Pradesh.The Lalit Kala Award for 2017 will be given to Dr Nand Lal Thakur in painting and to Khimi Ram in traditional sculpture for 2018. The Performing Art Award will be given to Sanjay Sood for 2017 and to SD Kashyap for 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lalit-kala-performing-art-awards-for-three-210580
11-02-2021||Our Correspondent||150 RCs made with fake papers in Indora||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 10After Nurpur, the Indora Registration Licensing Authority (RLA)-cum-SDM has also identified 150 vehicles registered with fictitious documents, including tempered Aadhaar Cards. These had been uploaded on the Vahan portal of the Transport Department.The motive behind the vehicle registration was to save road tax and register Bharat Stage-4 (BS-4) vehicles banned by the apex court from April 1, 2020.Somil Gautam, SDMFIRs likelyIf the owners fail to verify their documents, their RCs will be cancelled. FIRs can also be registered against them.Enquiries made by The Tribune reveal that the RLA has blacklisted registration certificates (RCs) of the identified vehicles and served seven-day notices on the owners. Most RCs have been obtained between April 1 and September 2020 when manual documentation was allowed for procuring RCs of the vehicles.The department had stopped manual documentation in September. The nexus between agents and the staff of the RLA could not be ruled out.Sources reveal that some agents at Nurpur and Indora are the master in tempering with invoices of the vehicles to reduce their purchase value so that token tax can be evaded. SDM Somil Gautam said as soon as the matter came to his notice, he conducted a prime facie inquiry and found the owners of 150 vehicles, who had procured RCs with fictitious documents.Gautam told The Tribune that under Section 55 of the Motor Vehicle Act, the vehicle owners had been asked to verify the documents submitted by them. “If they fail to verify their documents, their RCs will be cancelled. FIRs can also be registered against them,” he said.Meanwhile, the SDM also removed the registration clerk from the RLA office today and recommended departmental action against him to the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/150-rcs-made-with-fake-papers-in-indora-210584
11-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Irregularities found in principals’ appointment in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 10The principals of over 30 private educational institutions in the state are either overage or working in officiating capacity while five institutions are headless revealed information collected from 182 private educational institutions in the state.To add to it, the exercise undertaken by the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) to verify the credentials of principals of private educational institutes also found that some institutions were functioning without affiliation.It has also come to light that a section of private colleges has submitted fictitious data pertaining to qualifications and experience of principals to regulatory commission, said chairman of the commission, Maj General (Retd), Atul Kaushik adding that details are still awaited from about 100 institutions.There were cases where colleges not affiliated to any body have sent details of principals while in many cases the college managements have not recruited regular principals and are working with officiating principals for years, he added.“The sketchy information sent by a majority of private colleges compelled us to redraft the format. Now performa seeking details like qualification and experiences has been redesigned and the regulatory commission has also sought details of permanent residence, bank details, affiliating university besides the procedure of calculating eligibility for the post and experience”, Kaushik said.Stress has been laid on information regarding procedure adopted, mode of selection, date of advertisement, date and letter of selecting committee experts received from the affiliating body, details of selection committee, minutes of meeting, approvals from affiliating bodies and pay scale along with the relevant documents.Meanwhile, another member Surinder Sharma has been added to the two-member committee comprising Prof NK Sharda and Prof PK Ahluwalia for screening and verification of relevant documents of principals of the private colleges as the volume of documents to be screened is massive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/irregularities-found-in-principals-appointment-in-himachal-210586
11-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: 32 more nursing students infected in Palampur||Palampur, February 10Thirtytwo more students of local Neta Ji Subhash Chandra Bose (NSCB) Nursing College tested Covid-19 positive today. With this the number of infected girl students has gone to 49, as 17 students had tested positive on Monday.Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra said that all Covid positive students had been sent in isolation. He added that Section 144 of the CrPC had been imposed in the area to avoid crowding.The entire college complex, DMC hospital and a part of ward No. 13 of the Palampur Municipal Corporation had been declared a containment zone. Besides, all departments of the college, including the DMC hospital, have been closed.Ramotra said after 30 students tested positive, a dedicated Covid care health team was deputed in the college for their health check-up. He said samples of over 260 girl students in the hostels were taken the day before yesterday but 32 were found positive.The SDM also held a counselling session in the college and told the girls not to be scared. Besides, he also segragated the non-infected girls in a separate building in the college complex and advised them not to leave the hostel till further orders.He said he would review the situation next week. He had asked the management of the college to extend cooperation with the Health Department so that the infection could be contained at the earliest.A Health Department spokesman said that most of the girls were asymptomatic. Bhubnesh Sood, Director of the NSCB college, said that the administration had made adequate arrangements for the supply of essential goods.The containment period will continue and shops selling essential commodities like milk, fruit, vegetables, medicines, poultry items and grocery will remain open as per the timings fixed by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-32-more-nursing-students-infected-in-palampur-210588
11-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla Municipal councillors get shots in phase-II||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 10Shimla Municipal Councillors got themselves inoculated on the first day of the second phase of vaccination for frontline workers today.That’s surprising because the persons, originally chosen for the second round of vaccination, did not mention the elected representatives. The second phase was mainly for the police and paramilitary forces, revenues officials and sanitation workers of civic bodies.A surprise“Even I did not know that the councillors were a part of this phase. I was a bit surprised when they showed up for vaccination. However, their names were on the list,” said Chief Medical Officer Surekha Chopra. “Also, the names were uploaded by the departments concerned. So, we had no clue who all will come for vaccination. The list contains just the name and contact number of a beneficiary, not his designation,” the CMO said.MC Joint Commissioner Ajit Bharadwaj said they had forwarded the names of the councillors as they worked hard to help out people in distress during the pandemic.“They were out all the time to help people and exposed themselves to the virus. So, we gave their names too,” he said.Shimla Mayor Satya Kaundal agreed with Bharadwaj. “All our councillors are out in the field with sanitation workers. So, that must have been the reason why they have been vaccinated on priority,” the Mayor said.“We got inoculated because we want to give out a message to the people that the vaccine is safe. When people will see elected representatives taking the jab, they will also feel confident and encouraged,” said Rakesh Sharma, one of the councillors who got vaccinated.Meanwhile, on the first day of the second phase, 4,825 frontline workers were vaccinated of the total target of 8,098. The number works out to be 59.6 per cent. No adverse effect following immunisation was reported from anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-municipal-councillors-get-shots-in-phase-ii-210589
11-02-2021||---||Himachal Govt to do away with plan, non-plan classification: CM||Shimla, February 10The state government has decided to do away with the old system of plan and non-plan categorisation for the Budget and start a new system of an annual development Budget instead of the annual plan from 2021-22, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. He presided over a meeting of the State Planning Board held here to approve the Draft Annual Development Budget for 2021-22.He said that under the new mechanism all four sub plans — General Plan, Scheduled Castes Sub Plan, Tribal Sub Plan and Backward Area Sub Plan — would now be renamed the General Development Programme, Scheduled Castes Development Programme, Scheduled Tribes Development Programme and the Backward Area Development Programme, respectively.The Chief Minister said that the government had made a provision of Rs 9,405.41 crore for the development Budget for 2021-22. He added that out of this provision, Rs 6,096.70 crore (64.82 per cent) had been allocated for the General Development Programme, Rs 2,369.22 crore (25.19 per cent) for the Scheduled Castes Development Programme, Rs 846.49 crore (9 per cent) for the Scheduled Tribes Development Programme, and Rs 93 crore (0.99 per cent) for the Backward Area Development Programme.He said that steps were needed to create own resources to generate income for the state and some harsh measures were also needed to check haphazard expansions.Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary urged the Chief Minister for time-bound approval to the industrialists to set up their units in the state. He said that steps must be taken to check illegal mining in the state, and at the same time provide mining leases to people to promote scientific mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-to-do-away-with-plan-non-plan-classification-cm-210590
11-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Decline in migratory bird count at Pong wetland||Nurpur, February 10Amid avian influenza outbreak, a marginal decline in migratory bird count has been recorded in the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary this winter.An estimation of waterfowl, both migratory and local by the Wildlife wing of the Forest Department, was conducted recently and found their number has declined by over 7,000 against the last year’s count.As per official information, the total number of bird count during their annual count that concluded on February 2 is 1,08,578 of 96 different species. Out the total number, water dependent migratory birds are 1,01,431 of 51 species and water dependent resident birds are 6,433 of 29 species whereas 714 birds of 16 other species of resident non-water dependent were also recorded. Last year the total birds count was 1,15,701In successive years in bird count exercise, the assistance of ornithologists from Bombay natural history society, the Chandigarh bird club, the Asian waterfowl census and other bird watchers and volunteers was taken, but this year only 57 field staff members of the state Wildlife had been deployed in 26 sections of the wildlife sanctuary for counting keeping in view the pandemic guidelines and protocol for the avian influenza.The total count of flagship dominant species ‘bar headed geese’ was counted at 40,570. The other species which have higher number of count in this year are Eurasian coot (24,163), northern pintail (12,702), common teal (8,444), little cormorant (3,649), great cormorant (3,410), greylag goose (2,297), northern shoveler (2,275) and common pochard (2138).The Chief Warden, Wildlife, Archana Sharma, told The Tribune that the annual exercise of birds count had been undertaken under restrained conditions erupted due to the outbreak of the avian influenza first reported on December 28 and Covid-19 pandemic.She said the number of fortnightly birds count was 56,255, 46,941 and 54,931, on December 16 January 5 and January 18 that indicated that the total birds count had declined during the peak of avian influenza outbreak, but the same had picked up thereafter following containment measures undertaken in the Pong wetland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decline-in-migratory-bird-count-at-pong-wetland-210591
11-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Planting material arrives from USA||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 10The first consignment of the planting material of temperate fruits, mainly apple, from the USA has landed in India. The state Horticulture Department had placed an order for around 10 lakh plants and rootstock with five nurseries in three different states of the USA. The order includes new commercial varieties of apple-like crimson topaz, honeycrisp, premier honeycrisp, embrojia, etc, and some older varieties of rootstock. On the flip side, the overall cost of these plants and rootstock is going to be over Rs 900.The order“The planting material costs us between $9 and $12 per piece in the USA. If you add the cost of transportation and post-entry quarantine (PEQ), where these plants will be kept for a year to ensure they are disease free before they are distributed, the total cost will be more than Rs 900 per plant,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma, who headed the five-member team that visited the USA to place the order.To put this cost into perspective, the apple plants imported from Italy were offered for Rs 355 a piece this year without any subsidy. “It will be difficult to offer subsidy on these plants as the World Bank will not allow it. Maybe, we can find some other way of subsidising it and offering it at a reasonable price to the farmers,” said Sharma.— Rakesh Prajapati, DC, KangraOver Rs 900 per plantThe planting material costs us between $9 and $12 per piece in the USA. If you add the cost of transportation and post-entry quarantine, where these plants will be kept for a year to ensure they are disease-free before they are distributed, the total cost will be more than Rs900 per plant.The first priority at the moment though would be to get the entire planting material to the PEQ sites. “We have already lost some time because of Covid. Anyhow, we have the PEQ sites ready in Shimla, Sirmaur, Solan and Bilaspur,” he added. Sharma said that of the total order, around 20 per cent were grafted plants and the remaining rootstock. “Besides offering these to cluster farmers, we will multiply rootstock to reduce our dependence on imported planting material,” he said.The order was placed with five nurseries in Washington, Pennsylvania and Oregon. “The availability was less even in the USA this time, but we somehow managed to place the required order,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/planting-material-arrives-from-usa-210579
11-02-2021||---||M Venkaiah Naidu opens makeshift Covid hospitals in Tanda, Nalagarh||Dharamsala/Solan, February 10Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu today inaugurated makeshift Covid hospitals in the Tanda medical college in Kangra district and the Civil Hospital, Nalagarh, in Solan district virtually. These are the dedicated Covid hospitals.The principal of the Tanda medical college, Dr Bhanu Awasthi, said the hospital would have 64 beds, including 16 beds with ICU facility. The hospital had been developed by the Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, at about Rs 1.85 crore.The hospital has come as a major relief for the Tanda college authorities as they will now be able to restart the superspecialty hospital. The superspecialty hospital that had oncology, neurology and cardiology departments was being used as Covid hospital. Their closure had hit patients.Many patients were forced to go to private hospitals. The principal said the superspecialty hospital would start within a week as the patients would be shifted to the makeshift Covid hospital.The Tanda medical college had to bear the burden of corona patients from the lower Himachal, who required emergency treatment.Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and state Minister of Health Rajiv Saizal also participated in the event virtually.The Vice-President also inaugurated a Covid makeshift hospital at the Civil Hospital, Nalagarh, in Solan district on the platinum jubilee foundation day function of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, today Jai Ram Thakur said Rs 2.36 crore had been spent on the 45-bedded hospital at Nalagarh.“The hospitals are being constructed to cope with the requirement of beds for Covid patients without affecting the treatment of the others. These are equipped with all modern facilities,” he added.He said, “With a sharp decrease in the number of active Covid cases, the government has decided to convert the makeshift hospital at the IGMC, Shimla, as medicine ICU, the makeshift hospital at Nalagarh as trauma care centre and the makeshift hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi district as superspecialty ward.”Tanda to have 64 beds, Nalagarh 45||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/m-venkaiah-naidu-opens-makeshift-covid-hospitals-in-tanda-nalagarh-210581
11-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Commuters rue neglect of Chowari-Jot-Chamba road||Nurpur, February 10The 52-km road between Chowari and Chamba via Jot, considered to be significant from the tourism point of view, is in a state of neglect.The government is spending over Rs 15 crore on the widening of the 28-km stretch of the road from Chamba to Gate and from Gate to Khajjiar. The work is in progress but neglecting the 24-km stretch from Chowari to Jot has led to resentment among residents of neighbouring Bhatiyat.Locals and tourists coming from Lahru or the Shahpur side prefer this route, as it is the shortest route to reach Chamba, Dalhousie, Khajjiar and other connecting tourist spots.This route is also significant for the Manimahesh pilgrimage and the state-level Minjar fair in Chamba. The narrow stretch is prone to accidents. Jot has emerged as a tourist destination but it is being neglected by the Tourism Department.The distance between Lahru and Chamba via Banikhet is 96 km whereas it is just 58 km from Chowari-Jot link road.The demand for widening the stretch from Chowari to Jot has started gaining momentum. Virender Bhardwaj, Executive Engineer, PWD division, Dalhousie, said that the department had no approval for widening the stretch but in some spots, the road had been maintained.A preferred route||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/commuters-rue-neglect-of-chowari-jot-chamba-road-210583
11-02-2021||Shimla||Palampur agri varsity to start radio station for farmers soon||CSK Agricultural University, Palampur, will soon start a community radio station to make farmers aware of agriculture-related information and new technologies.This radio station will be set up at Sundernagar in Mandi district, said HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor of CSK Agricultural University, Palampur, here.Chaudhary called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan and apprised him about the new initiatives. The VC apprised the Governor that recently during the golden jubilee celebration of HP statehood, the university published a booklet dedicated to progressive farmers of the state who have done outstanding work in the field of agriculture at state, national and international level.They had been named agriculture ambassadors, who would train other farmers and inspire them for adopting new technologies in the farm sector, he said, adding that a farmer gallery had also been established for the first time in the university and soon an e-office would be set up in the university with the help of the Information Technology Department. In addition, a new website was also being designed.He said offline classes had started from February 1 and for all undergraduate and postgraduate students seeking admission, it would start from February 8. He said the work on a new project related to snow trout found in Lahul-Spiti was going on to increase the production. Apart from this, a lab was being set up in Palampur for Gaddi sheep.The Governor appreciated the efforts of the university and said the university had an important contribution in research and expansion in agriculture. He emphasised on new technologies and upgrade of the farm sector and asked to work on future strategy as per the National Education Policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-agri-varsity-to-start-radio-station-for-farmers-soon-210597
11-02-2021||---||83 Covid cases, one dies in Shimla||Shimla, February 10As many as 83 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 58,076. Besides, one person died of the virus in Shimla in the past 24 hours, taking the fatality count to 975.The highest number of 34 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 14 in Una, 11 in Mandi, six each in Shimla and Chamba, five in Sirmaur, four in Bilaspur, two in Kullu and one in Solan. The total number of active cases stood at 488 while 56,600 persons have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/83-covid-cases-one-dies-in-shimla-210598
11-02-2021||---||Industry seeks Rs 250 cr for amenities at BBN||Solan, February 10The Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh Industries Association (BBNIA) has demanded a one-time mega grant of Rs 250-crore for the BBN Development Authority to provide civic amenities after conducting an infrastructure development study of the area.In a memorandum submitted to the government, the association has demanded the implementation of the masterplan to make the area livable and creation of social infrastructure.“There should be alternative routes to approach the BBN to make roads congestion-free. Apart from this, the water bodies should be made free of effluents,” said association president Sanjay Khurana.He said the government must ensure that the incentives announced for the power sector were actually available as slew of contradictions among various arms of the government make it difficult to avail these.“The association demanded the abolition of entry tax, additional goods tax, certain goods carried by road tax and toll tax which were not subsumed into the GST,” added another member.Formulating a logistics policy for cost-effective and efficient transportation and providing a platform for logistics service providers, who are not part of any union or society, have also been raised as a key demand.Creation of an MC for the BBN, SDM office at Baddi as well as extending one year for construction in a plot be notified in view of the Covid pandemic.The government should do away with the clause of prior to commencement of commercial production for various industrial procedures rather introduce self-certification to facilitate the industry. This measure should be introduced to ensure compliance of various rules and Acts for 3 years with a further undertaking of imposition of heavy penalties in case it found to be flouting the norm.Investors also demanded a state-level GST tribunal for appeal of any dispute at the zonal level, which is mandatory as per the GST Act. The state has just one appellate authority that too with additional charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industry-seeks-rs-250-cr-for-amenities-at-bbn-210600
11-02-2021||Shimla||4 houses gutted in Shimla village||Four houses were completely gutted in a fierce fire that broke out in Mashda village of Chopal subdivision in Shimla district today morning, rendering 30 members of four families shelterless. However, no casualty was reported.Preliminary investigations pointed out that the fire broke out due to leakage in cylinder in the house of Budhi Singh. In no time, the fire spread to three adjacent houses.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot and villagers, fire fighters and police tried to douse the flames but as the houses were made of wood, the fire spread fast.The district administration has given an immediate relief of Rs 60,000 to the victims, besides blankets and gas cylinders and they have been shifted to a nearby forest hut and old Panchayat Ghar, said ASP, Shimla, Praveen Thakur.The houses gutted in fire belonged to Budhi Singh, Aatma Ram, Kirpa Ram and Heera Singh. The estimated loss to property is in about Rs 75 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-houses-gutted-in-shimla-village-210602
11-02-2021||Solan||Congress wrests top posts in Kunihar panchayat samiti||Congress-backed candidates Soma Kaundal and Manohar Thakur were elected the chairperson and vice-chairman of Kunihar panchayat samiti in the district today.This is the lone panchayat samiti of the five in the district where the Congress-supported candidates were elected to the top posts though the BJP did put up a token contest.Arki SDM Vikas Shukla said Kaundal secured 15 votes while the BJP-supported candidate secured seven votes and one was declared invalid. Thakur also got 15 votes while the BJP-backed candidate secured only eight votes.Being the home turf of six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, the party managed to put up a strong contest to the BJP, which is facing factionalism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-wrests-top-posts-in-kunihar-panchayat-samiti-210609
