12-02-2021||Shimla||Snowfall likely in parts of Himachal on Saturday||High hills in Himachal Pradesh are likely to receive rain and snowfall on Saturday, the Meteorological (MeT) department here predicted.The weather in the state remained dry on Friday, Shimla MeT centre Director Manmohan Singh said.The centre forecast rain and snowfall at isolated places of high hills in Himachal Pradesh on February 13.Keylong, the administrative centre of tribal Lahaul and Spiti district, continued to be the coldest place in Himachal Pradesh at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, Singh said.Kalpa recorded a low of 0.4 degree Celsius, Singh said.Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie registered a low of 1.8, 7 and 7.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, he said.Shimla recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius, he added.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Una at 26.8 degrees Celsius, the local MeT office said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-likely-in-parts-of-himachal-on-saturday-211459
12-02-2021||Dharamsala||HRTC to resume luxury bus service on Manali-Amritsar route on Sunday||After a gap of over 10 months, the state-run Himachal Road Transport Corporation’s luxury bus service on the Manali-Amritsar route will resume on Sunday.The bus service on the route was stopped in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Pankaj Chadha, regional manager of the HRTC, said the bus will start at 6.40 pm from Amritsar and reach Manali at 8 am the next morning through Pathankot, Dhsaramsala, Palampur, Mandi and Kullu.On the return journey, the bus will start at 8 pm from Manali.The official said around a dozen HRTC luxury buses were in operation from Dharamshala to other states before the coronavirus lockdown. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-to-resume-luxury-bus-service-on-manali-amritsar-route-on-sunday-211449
12-02-2021||---||Himachal MLA Sujjan Singh Pathania dies at 77||Dharamsala, February 12Sujjan Singh Pathania, Congress MLA from Fatehpur Assembly constituency and former minister, passed away on Friday morning.He was 77.Born in 1943, Pathania was elected MLA seven times and also remained a minister in the previous Congress government.He was a sitting MLA from Fatehpur.Pathania was not keeping well for the past three years.With his death, the Congress has lost a prominent Rajput leader from Kangra district. He is survived by a son and a daughter.Congress leaders from Kangra - GS Bali, Sudhir Sharma and Ajay Mahajan - have expressed grief at his demise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-mla-sujjan-singh-pathania-dies-at-77-211350
12-02-2021||Overjoyed on clinching the posts of chairman and vice-chairman of the Shimla Zila Parishad||Covid safety ignored in  ZP winners' rally||Poor power supply systemThe shoddy electrification system at Chail often causes power disruption during inclement weather conditions. The authorities take days to repair such snags and people have to face hardships in the biting cold. The successive governments have failed to address this problem. It seems that the issue is not on their priority list. — Ramesh, ChailIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-safety-ignored-in-zp-winners-rally-211344
12-02-2021|| The ABVP has welcomed the budget of Rs 510 crore allocated for the Central University Himachal Pradesh by the Union Government. Following the grant of the budget||ABVP welcomes budget for varsity||Hamirpur girl excels in CSIR NETBhanu Priya, who hails from Hamirpur, has secured all-India rank (AIR) 2 in the CSIR NET held in June last year. She scored 149 points to achieve the feat in Earth Sciences. She did her BSc Honours from Panjab University.Open hostels for students: SFIThe SFI on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the HPU chief warden, demanding that hostels be opened for students at the earliest. The students' body said PG exams would start from March 15. If the hostels are not opened for students, they will have to rent a place to stay which will put an additional financial burden on them. The SFI also urged the Chief Warden to exempt the continuation fee of the students who were residing in hostels before they were shut down almost a year back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-welcomes-budget-for-varsity-211343
12-02-2021||---||Theft in church on The Ridge, accused held||Shimla, February 11 A thief struck at historic Christ Church, a heritage property and landmark of Shimla on The Ridge and escaped with three brass rods costing about Rs 10,000. The incident took place at a location, constantly under police watch and equipped with CCTV cameras. The miscreant broke open the window on the back wall and entered the Church on Tuesday night. The thief tried to break the donation box but failed as it was too strong and took three brass roads while fleeing. In her complaint lodged with the police yesterday, the caretaker of the Church, Archana Kumari, said that when she entered the Church Wednesday morning, she spotted bloodstains. She also found goods scattered and three brass roads missing.    The entire incident was recorded in CCTV, which helped in identifying the accused, who had been taken into custody, police sources said. A team of police inspected the spot and seized the CCTV footage. An accused has been taken into custody in connection with the theft and investigations are in progress, said ASP, Shimla, Praveer Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/theft-in-church-on-the-ridge-accused-held-211317
12-02-2021||---||Himachal Governor pays floral tributes to Upadhyay||Shimla, February 11Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya paid floral tributes to Deen Dayal Upadhyay, co-founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, on his death anniversary, at Raj Bhawan here today. He recalled Upadhyay’s efforts for the uplift of the weaker sections of society.The Governor described Upadhyay as a visionary, great intellectual and inspiring personality who worked relentlessly for the uplift of people at the grass-roots level. He released a book ‘Atharvaveda’ written by former Secretary of the Himachal Sanskrit Academy, Shimla, Dr Mastram Sharma. The book consists of a comparative study of ‘Pratishakhya’ and ‘Ashtadhyayi’.The Governor appreciated the efforts of the author and said that the book consists of the secret of grammatology and tells how to pronounce words using the Vedic grammar formulas of ‘Atharvaveda’.He said that in the present times, both Sanskrit and culture need to be protected and promoted. The antiquity of the Vedas was honourable in the fields of faith and literature. He added that according to Indian traditions, the Vedas were the basic foundation of Vedic and cosmic culture.Later, the Governor also released a collection of poems “Pran” (iz.k), written by Shiven Kumar of Hamirpur. He said that this collection of poems contains a sensitive and subtle expression. The author had highlighted various issues pertaining to society, politics, religion and nature through poetry, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-pays-floral-tributes-to-upadhyay-211318
12-02-2021||Solan||Covid patient  jumps from hospital’s 5th floor, injured||A 41-year-old Covid patient, who was admitted to  the isolation ward of  Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan,  jumped from its fifth floor around 4.30 pm today. He was grievously injured and was  referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Additional SP Babita Rana said that the patient, a resident of the Ramkundi area of Nahan, was admitted to the hospital yesterday. He hails from Jogindernagar in Mandi and his wife, who is also infected with Covid, is quarantined at home. He works as an assistant manager in a local bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-patient-jumps-from-hospitals-5th-floor-injured-211319
12-02-2021||Shimla||36 new cases, one dies in Chamba||As many as 36 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 58,112. Besides, a person died of the virus in Chamba in the past 24 hours, raising the fatality count to 977. The highest number of 10 cases was reported in Una, followed eight in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/36-new-cases-one-dies-in-chamba-211320
12-02-2021||ibune News Service---||350 kg poppy husk seized in Sirmaur||Solan, February 11   A huge cache of around 350 kg poppy husk was seized by the Paonta Sahib police near the inter-state barrier at Behral in the wee hours today in Sirmaur district. The first seizure of 200 kg was made from a truck (HP-11-4991) near the barrier by a police team led by Devinder Singh.  The police had received information that the truck had gone to Sattiwala Chowk to Banjana Basti and was carrying huge cache of contraband. The truck was stopped and searched near Banjara Basti during which eight bags containing 200 kg poppy husk was found. The driver, however, managed to flee from the spot. DSP Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, informed that after recovering eight bags the policemen chased the driver who fled from a kutcha road towards a forest area. The police, while searching the area, saw some pits from where six more bags were recovered. They weighed around 150 kg. Being comparatively cheaper than other drugs it is consumed by the truckers mostly. “This is the biggest haul of poppy husk recovered from this bordering belt in the recent times and search was underway to uncover all their nefarious operations”, added Bahadur. “The police has shifted its focus from petty peddlers to big time smugglers. This strategic shift is proving productive in nabbing big fish and the campaign will continue across the state”, said Sanajay Kundu, Director General of Police.  A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered and further probe was underway to trace the backward and forward linkages. After large-scale drug haul in Kullu and Kangra, this is a major achievement for the police in cracking down on the drug dealers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/350-kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-sirmaur-211321
12-02-2021||Mandi||6 in the net for Sundarnagar 
gangrape||The police arrested six youths in a gangrape case at Sundarnagar in Mandi district today. Two accused are still absconding. Those arrested are Rajat Kumar (19), Surya (18), Tikshit Sen (19), Ishaan Gupta (19), Sahil Khan (22) and a minor, all natives of Sundernagar in Mandi. Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said efforts were on to nab the remaining two accused.  On February 6, the Mandi police had registered a case  at Sundernagar police station in Mandi district against eight accused in this case. Earlier, a zero FIR was registered at Chandigarh, from where the case was transferred to Mandi for investigation as the accused had committed the crime at Sundernagar on February 3.   “The accused will be produced before court to seek police remand for further investigation,” she added. A protest march was held at Sundernagar by youths, who demanded speedy justice to the victim and immediate arrest of the remaining two accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-in-the-net-for-sundarnagar-gangrape-211322
12-02-2021||---||Bali: Changes in ECA will hit food scheme||Dharamsala, February 11 Former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali in a press conference held at Kangra today flayed the union government for amending the Essential Commodities Act. Bali said that he also held the portfolio of food and civil supplies minister in Himachal. Whenever, stockists and big companies used to create artificial scarcity of foodgrains in the state raids used to be conducted. This was done to check the rising prices of essential commodities and save the poor from artificial price hike affected by traders. However, now after the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act 2020, now state can intervene in checking prices only in the cases of extreme emergencies such as war or natural calamities. By bringing in amendment to the said Act the Union government has snatched the powers of the state to check hoarding and black marketing of essential goods in the country. Bali alleged. “Who is going to benefit from doing away with the Essential Commodities Act,” said Bali. He alleged that this was done to benefit big companies that can now store and control prices of essential commodities as food grains and vegetables in the country. He alleged that in a country where the minimum wage of a labourer was still less that Rs 5000, this can spell disaster for the poor. The big multinational companies that have unlimited budget would now get a free hand to control the food of people in this country, Bali alleged. He alleged that the amendment to the Act would ultimately hit food guarantee programs of states like Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bali-changes-in-eca-will-hit-food-scheme-211323
12-02-2021||---||Tibetans’ Losar celebrations begin today||Dharamsala, February 11 Losar, the Tibetan new year celebrations, will start tomorrow. Tibetan New Year Losar 2148, the year of Iron-Ox festivities, will be celebrated from February 12 to 14. Losar marks the end of winter and start of the spring season. The end of the festival after three days is considered the first day of new year, according to the Tibetan calendar. On this day, the Tibetans pay obeisance to the Dalai Lama. On the first day of the new year, the Tibetans avoid spending money.  The behaviour is guided by the belief that if they spend on the first day, they will be under debt for the entire year. In their tradition, the first day of the new year is considered as a measure of increase in age rather than the birthday as per other tradition among other communities. The preparations of Losar start on 29th day of the last month of Tibetan year. The day is called Nyi-shu-gu in Tibetan language. On this day, all members of a family come together.  They clean up the house. Thupa, traditional Tibetan food, is prepared for dinner. The food is cooked in a single utensil and served to all. The major festivities and public celebrations will take place on the third day of Losar on February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetans-losar-celebrations-begin-today-211324
12-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Minister addresses public grievances||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 11 Forest and Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania presided over ‘Prashasan Janta ke Dwar’ programme in the Danni gram panchayat of Nurpur on Thursday.  Accompanied by officials of different government departments, Pathania listened to over 50 grievances of local residents.  Most of the grievances were related to rural development and electricity supply. He directed department officials to address these grievances within the stipulated period.   Later, addressing a gathering, the minister said such progammes would be organised in every gram panchayat in the area.  He said money would not hinder rural development activities in the area.  He asked recently elected gram panchayat representatives to focus on development. He said department officials played an important role in actualising benefits of government welfare schemes on the grassroots level.  He asked them to ensure that benefits reach the eligible without any bias. On this occasion, the panchayat pradhan put up some demands.  Minister Rakesh Pathania assured him to fulfil them on a priority basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-addresses-public-grievances-211325
12-02-2021||Dipender Manta||Car rallies banned in Spiti sanctuary area in winter||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 11The Kaza administration has banned car rallies in the sanctuary area of the Spiti valley during the winter for the conservation of snow leopards and other rare species of wildlife in Lahaul and Spiti district.The Spiti valley is being reopened to tourists on February 17. It was closed in March last after the Covid-19 breakout.According to sources, tour and travel agencies organise car rallies during winter to attract tourists. The rallies pass through the snow leopard landscape of the Kibber Wildlife Sanctuary area of the Spiti valley.According to the administration, during the winter, all wildlife animals such as snow leopards, ibex, Himalayan serows, blue sheep come down to the lower areas of the Spiti valley due to heavy snowfall in the region. February and March are also the mating season of snow leopards.Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi said, “The movement of heavy vehicles through the sanctuary area not only disturbs the natural habitat of the wild animals but also adversely affects the procreation of snow leopards, which have been declared a vulnerable species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)”.“Moreover, the state and Central governments are making efforts for the conservation of wildlife through different projects and programmes. The sighting of a snow leopard is the main attraction of winter tourism in the Spiti valley, which is a substantial source of income for local residents,” he said.Negi said, “In the larger interest of conservation of vulnerable species of wildlife, I have imposed Section 144 in the Kibber sanctuary area and no car rally will be allowed to pass through the snow leopard landscape from the PWD road, Lidang, Demul, Komic, Hikkarm to Langcha and from the Rangrik bridge to Chicham via Kee Kibber village till further orders”.“Anyone found violating the orders will face action under the Wildlife Protection Act and Section 188 of the CrPC 1973,” he added.Disturbs wild animals’ habitat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/car-rallies-banned-in-spiti-sanctuary-area-in-winter-211307
12-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Civilians’ term ends, no info on cantt board poll dates||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 11The elected civilian members are no longer part of cantonment boards in Kasauli, Dagshai, Subathu and other towns as fresh elections have not been announced after the expiry of their term on February 10.Civilian members in the cantonment boards are elected for five years and represent the civilians.The Station Commander of the Army is the ex-officio president of a Cantonment Board while the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is its member secretary. Elected civilian and nominated members constitute the board which looks after the civic amenities, besides fulfilling other objectives like regulating construction work, undertaking environment protection, etc.The last polls were held in January 2015 and the five-year term of the members was extended for six months in February 2020. Later, another six-month extension was given till February 10.CEO, Kasauli cantonment, Jigyasa Raj, said, “As per the Cantonment Act, 2006, the civilian members are elected for five years. They have been granted two extensions of six months each and there is no provision in the Act for any further extension.”She added, “The board’s working will be executed by other members comprising the Station Commander, the CEO and one member, who will be nominated from the civilian population by the Centre representative. This arrangement will be in place until the polls are held. There is no information about why no fresh poll dates have been announced by the Ministry of Defence.”“The board has already completed preparations for the polls. Voter lists have been revised and objections invited and settled in September 2020,” added Raj.It has, however, created confusion among the civilian members, who wonder if the move is aimed at introducing new changes. “Steps should be taken to ease restrictions in the cantonments, particularly related to construction as the existing norms are archaic,” said Devinder Gupta, a former member of the Kasauli Cantonment Board.Others feel that reducing the civilian representation can be detrimental to the boards as their views will not be heard. The population is also bereft of the benefits of the state and Central schemes.There are seven cantonments in Himachal — Dalhousie, Yol, Jatog , Bakloh, Kasauli, Dagshai and Subathu. Dagshai, Subathu and Kasauli are in Solan district.Term lapsed last year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/civilians-term-ends-no-info-on-cantt-board-poll-dates-211308
12-02-2021||---||66 cyclists vie for honours in MTB meet at Shimla||Shimla, February 11As many as 66 cyclists participated in seven categories in the district MTB Championship organised at Potters hill in Shimla by Cycling Association of Himachal Pradesh. It was a challenging track – a mix of trails, climbing and downhill.Divija Sood and Aayan Dogra won in the youth girls and youth boys category while Krish Gupta and Aryan Rajput bagged the sub juniors boys and junior boys title. Akash Shepra topped the under 23 boys chart while Hukum bagged the Elite Men title. Sankriti Chauhan won in the sub junior girls category.Winners of championship“Himachal and it’s terrain provides a great base for a sport like mountain biking and we have seen how the sport has grown so well in our state”, said chief guest Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (HoFF) Dr Savita.“We are thrilled to organize this championship for the first time in Himachal Pradesh. It will be a great step towards giving an opportunity to all cyclists in Himachal Pradesh to showcase their talent”, said President CAHP, Dinesh Malhotra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/66-cyclists-vie-for-honours-in-mtb-meet-at-shimla-211309
12-02-2021||---||46 awarded Yuva Vigyan Puraskar||Shimla, February 11As many as 46 students were awarded the Yuva Vigyan Puraskar during a function organised by the Himachal Pradesh Science, Technology and Environment Council here today.Presiding over the function, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Yuva Vigyan Puraskar Scheme was started in 2018 to encourage students to take up science subject, thereby motivating them to do research. He said 47 students were awarded in 2018 and 30 students in 2019.About the schemeThe Yuva Vigyan Puraskar Scheme was started in 2018 to encourage students to take up science subject, thereby motivating them to do research.Wishing a bright future to award-winning students of this year, the Chief Minister expressed hope that they would bring laurels for the state and the country. He said the initiative in itself would go a long way in inspiring students to perform better.He said the Himachal Pradesh Science Technology and Environment Council was organising various programmes such as the Children Science Conference, National Science Day, National Mathematics Day and Eclipse Observation throughout the year for the promotion and popularisation of science. He said these programmes had a special impact on students, scientists and mathematicians.Principal Secretary, Science, Environment and Technology, KK Pant said students securing the first 10 positions in XII Faculty of Science in Himachal Pradesh School Education Board examinations were awarded under the programme. He said Rs 1 lakh is awarded to the student who gets the first place, Rs 90,000 to the student who gets the second place and Rs 80,000 to student who secures the third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/46-awarded-yuva-vigyan-puraskar-211310
12-02-2021||UNA||Phase-II of Covid inoculation begins in Una||The second phase of immunisation against Covid began  in Una district today. Policemen, Home Guard jawans Revenue and Panchayati Raj Department employees are being given shots.  Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma received the first vaccine at the District Hospital followed by Additional Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar.  In the first phase launched in January, 5,442 frontline workers, including government and private doctors, health workers, ASHA and Anganwari staff were called for vaccination, of which 4,082 persons took the jabs. Chief Medical Officer Raman Kumar Sharma said 1,360 persons, who did not take the vaccines, had been advised to get themselves immunised during the ‘Mop-Up’ round to be held on February 12, after which they would not be offered a chance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/phase-ii-of-covid-inoculation-begins-in-una-211311
12-02-2021||---||Rs 75 cr released for HP SHIVA project||Shimla, February 11 Asian Development Bank has released an instalment of Rs 75 crore for Himachal Pradesh Sub-Tropical Horticulture, Irrigation and Value Addition project (HP SHIVA). The project aims at giving a boost to the plantation of sub-tropical fruits like orange, litchi, pomegranate and guava in lower regions and making the state the fruit bowl of the country.  “Rs 75 crore has been given as Project Readiness Financing. The amount will be used on the pilot project going on in four districts, namely Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi and Hamirpur,” said Joint Director, Project, Devender Thakur. “The main project will begin from 2023 and will continue until 2028-29.” The Horticulture Department has formed 17 clusters covering an area of 170 hectare for ultra high density plantation of selected fruits in these four districts.  The other activities, to be undertaken with the Rs 75 crore loan, include providing irrigation schemes and fencing the clusters to save them from animals. The main project, which will ensue after the completion of the pilot project, will cover seven districts and many more hectares of land. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Government of India, state government and the Asian Development Bank last December for allotting Rs 1,000 crore for the first phase of the project. Under this project, those areas have been given priority where horticulture is not practised or people have given up farming because of wild animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-75-cr-released-for-hp-shiva-project-211312
12-02-2021||UNA||Polio drops to be given on Feb 14||As many as 43,995 children below the age of five years will be administered polio drops on February 14 at 365 booths in the district. Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma, who presided over a meeting to review the progress of the arrangements, said 1,556 employees would be on field duty, including 144 observers.    The DC said centers would be set up in all Health Sub Centres in rural areas. Besides, special booths would be set up to cater to the children, who would be travelling that day. He said these booths would be set up near Chintpurni temple, Charan Ganga shrine in Mairi, Bangana main bazar, Una railway station, Bombay Picnic spot and Una bus stand. He said polio booths would also be set up at all inter-state barriers. If parents fail to bring their children to the booths, health workers would visit their homes on February 15 and 16 to administer the drops. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/polio-drops-to-be-given-on-feb-14-211313
12-02-2021||ibune News Service---||Congress captures Shimla Zila Parishad||Shimla, February 11 Despite desperate efforts by the ruling BJP to win over elected Zila Parishad members, the Congress today gained control over Shimla Zila Parishad as Chander Prabha Negi was elected chairperson and Surinder Retka vice-chairman. The victory came as major relief to the Opposition party, which was apprehensive of BJP trying to woo its elected members. “After holding consultations with everyone to ensure internal democracy, we decided our candidates for the post of chairperson and vice-chairperson,” said state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore. He said setting aside all speculations, Congress won the Zila Parsihad as all the Congress MLAs and other leaders unitedly took on the might of the BJP. He alleged that the entire CM office and government officials tried to intimidate and pressurize elected Zila Parishad members to support BJP in Shimla district. “The Urban Development Minister went to all the blocks to ensure that BJP gains control despite people not giving mandate to the BJP, which amounts to weakening democracy,” he said. Rathore reiterated his allegation that despite people giving a clear mandate to the Congress all over the state, the BJP despite not having majority managed to capture the Zila Parishad in many districts. “In Mandi, Bilaspur, Sirmaur, Hamirpur and many other districts, BJP pressurized and enticed Zila Parishad members to support them,” he alleged. He said this way the BJP is meeting out injustice to its own people by giving posts to Zila Parishad members who were not in their party. “The Congress has emerged strong after the Panchayati Raj elections as people have given overwhelming support to the party. We will form the government after winning the 2022 assembly elections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-captures-shimla-zila-parishad-211314
12-02-2021||Dipender Manta---||Himachal CM has his task cut out as MC poll draws closer||Tribune News Service Mandi, February 11 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur faces a challenging task in winning the Municipal Corporation in Mandi district elections for which are due in the state next month. Mandi is the home district of the Chief Minister. The state government had upgraded the Municipal Council, Mandi, as Municipal Corporation last year and created 15 wards in it. Of the total 15 wards, eight wards are reserved for women and two for the Scheduled Castes. As the MC elections are nearing, the Congress and BJP are all geared up to win the election. After defeat in Panchayati Raj elections in Mandi, the Congress is keen to reverse the trend and ensure victory. The party candidates, who are keen to contest MC election, have started door-to-door campaigning.  The Congress high command is yet to take a call on the final candidates to contest the election. The Congress is planning to depute prominent leaders to energise party workers for the elections. Prakash Chaudhari, former minister and president of District Congress Committee Mandi, told The Tribune that “The Congress is ready to challenge the BJP in MC election. The Congress is united and prominent leaders like Kaul Singh Thakur, Rangila Ram Rao, Sohan Lal Thakur, Mansa Ram and others will work collectively in the coming days to ensure the victory of Congress candidates.” The Chief Minister has given responsibility to the Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh Thakur to frame future strategy for the elections. The IPH Minister recently held a meeting with party workers in Mandi. BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal, close aide of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, also held a meeting with party workers in Mandi today to gather feedback about the prospective candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-has-his-task-cut-out-as-mc-poll-draws-closer-211315
12-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong bags Kullu Zila Parishad top posts, BJP embarrassed||KULLU, FEBRUARY 11The BJP faced embarrassment today as the Congress won the top posts of Kullu Zila Parishad. Of the 14 wards, the BJP won five seats, the Congress four, rebels four while the CPM-backed candidate won one seat.The Congress fielded BJP rebel Pankaj Parmar for the top post against the BJP’s Devinder Singh. Pankaj won the elections by securing eight votes.The BJP made rebel Vibha Singh, daughter-in-law of senior BJP leader and former MP Maheshwar Singh, as a contender for the post of vice-chairperson. However Congress candidate Veer Singh secured nine votes and won.The factionalism in the party has come to the fore as despite having eight members, including the three rebels, the BJP lost both posts. The Congress was able to rope in its rebel Maan Singh and CPM-supported member Puran Chand.They also lured BJP rebel Pankaj Parmar by offering him the top post. However, the Congress managed to secure one cross-vote for the post of chairperson and two cross-votes for the post of vice-chairperson.BJP rebel elected chairperson||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-bags-kullu-zila-parishad-top-posts-bjp-embarrassed-211316
