13-02-2021|| Shimla||Keylong shivers at minus 5.9 deg C as weather remains dry in Himachal Pradesh||The tribal Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in Himachal Pradesh at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh said on Saturday.Kalpa recorded a low of 1.4 degrees Celsius, he added.Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri registered a low of 2.4, 6.3 and 6.9 degrees Celsius respectively, Singh added.Shimla recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius, he added.The highest temperature was recorded in Una at 24.3 degrees Celsius, he added.Meanwhile, the Met office predicted dry weather in the hill state from February 14 to 19. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-shivers-at-minus-5-9-deg-c-as-weather-remains-dry-in-himachal-pradesh-211935
13-02-2021||Solan||25 stamped ballot papers found dumped in garbage at Dharampur; Congress alleges foul play||In a startling revelation, a stamped bundle of 25 ballot papers, two sealed envelopes, and account of the ballot papers relating to the Zila Parishad polls of Dharmapur block were found dumped in the garbage of a counting centre at Government Senior Secondary school, Dharampur on Saturday morning.The counting of all Zila Parishad wards, and block samite had taken place at this centre. A local resident, named Ram Rattan, happened to be waiting for someone near the school, and spotted the bundles.Rattan was aghast to notice the stamped bundles were 25 votes in favour of a Zila Parishad candidate Rajkumar Sharma. Along with this, two sealed envelopes, and some other poll related papers were found in the garbage.This has left a question mark on the process of the polls.The votes were in favour of Rajkumar Sharma—a contestant from Darwa ward. Sharma had lost the poll.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman said that this was a serious issue, and a gross negligence of the concerned staff has come to fore.The police have been directed to investigate into the matter, and a requisite action would be undertaken against those found guilty. “Since, each candidate has a polling agent at the counting centre, no discrepancy can take place at the counting centre. It seems, that some mishandling has taken place at the sealing section, and it is being enquired into. The record is supposed to be stored in the office of the block development officer after completion of the poll process,” added Chaman. Congress spokesman Ramesh Chauhan reached the spot after receiving information from Ram Rattan. He said after they received information, the district administration was appraised about the callousness of the poling staff.“Connivance of the polling staff has come to fore, and it was surprising how the assistant returning officer would account for the votes if someone challenges the poll results before a court. It was also surprising how the account had been compiled when a bundle of stamped ballot paper was found dumped openly,” said Chauhan.Chauhan urged the Chief Minister Jair Ram Thakur to enquire into it, and take a strict action against those responsible, be it the assistant returning officer or the counting staff or anyone else, and he added that an example should be set to ensure, that people who insult the democracy are not spared.“The ruling BJP is on the back foot as such tactics were aimed at benefitting their own candidate to attain electoral benefits in the panchayat polls. The ruling BJP could use similar tactics for the ensuing municipal corporation polls for Solan in order to win as officers are acting at their behest,” claimed Chauhan.Naib Tehsildar, and Dharampur police rushed to the spot, and took the papers into custody while further probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/25-stamped-ballot-papers-found-dumped-in-garbage-at-dharampur-congress-alleges-foul-play-211911
13-02-2021||Shimla||Teachers to be dismissed in verified POCSO cases||A student’s complaint ascertained by a preliminary enquiry and a medical report will now result in the dismissal of a teacher from service in cases booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Steps takenAs many as 52 teachers were booked under the POCSO Act in the state in the past one decade, which implies that on an average five such cases are registered against teachers every year. More incidents have been reported from rural areas, said sources in the Education Department.“We have zero tolerance to sexual offences against children. Schools are considered as second homes and the custodians of schools indulging in sexual activities involving students cannot be spared,” said Amarjeet Sharma, Director Higher Education.“Teachers involved in such activities will be immediately dismissed from service if the student’s complaint is ascertained in an inquiry by a Deputy Director Education or other officials and a medical report corroborates the same,” said Sharma. “We have already dismissed teachers against whom ample evidence was available while others facing probes have been placed under suspension,” he told The Tribune.In 2019, nine complaints under the POCSO Act were received against the staff in the Education Department and following a spurt in the incidents of sexual abuse and molestation of children in educational institutions, schools were asked to constitute grievance committees for child sex abuse (CSA) to report such cases. The educational institutions remained closed for most of time in 2020 due to the Covid-19 breakout.Acting tough against school managements and individuals failing to promptly report the cases of child sex abuse on school premises, and school transport during official hours or after or before it, the Education Department had cautioned them that the non-reporting of the commission of an offence would attract imprisonment and a fine under Section 19 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-to-be-dismissed-in-verified-pocso-cases-211576
13-02-2021||Shimla||Products of SHGs exhibited at ‘Udaan Mela’ in Shimla||Products of self-help groups (SHGs) of rural women and farmers, supported by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), were exhibited for sale at the three-day Udaan Mela-2021 at The Ridge in Shimla. which provided a platform to sell and buy the products of women and Farmers SHGs (Self-help Groups).About 20 self-help groups and farmer organisations of Himachal Pradesh are participating in the fest. It was inaugurated by Himachal Urban Development Minister Suresh Bharadwaj in the presence of Chief General Manager, NABARD, Dinesh Kumar Kapila.Bharadwaj appreciated the initiative and efforts of NABARD and urged everyone to encourage rural women and farmers by purchasing their products.Kapila said products of the remote Pangi hills of Chamba district were displayed in the exhibition besides spices and pulses of other hilly districts. Handloom products like Kullu shawls and jackets, hand-crafted by rural women of Kullu, are also up for sale.A large number of tourists visited the venue to buy these exquisite products. Cultural programmes are also being presented by local artistes in the fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/products-of-shgs-exhibited-at-udaan-mela-in-shimla-211577
13-02-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh officers to  go to Chamoli  to look for 10 missing persons||The state government today deputed two officers to go to Chamoli and coordinate in the rescue and search of 10 Himachalis, who were working in various power projects and had been missing since the catastrophe.LR Verma, SDM, Paonta Sahib, and Arvind Chauhan, Documentation Coordinator, District Disaster Management Authority, Sirmaur, have been directed to go to Chamoli to coordinate with the Uttarakhand officials in the search for 10 missing Himachalis.The two officers have been asked to coordinate with Swati S Bhadoriya, District Magistrate, Chamoli, and Kumkum Joshi, SDM, Chamoli. They have also been asked to extend financial help to family or relatives of the missing persons, who are camping in Chamoli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-officers-to-go-to-chamoli-to-look-for-10-missing-persons-211578
13-02-2021||Our CorrespondentChamba||Chamba admn to begin drive to boost tourism||With the aim of boosting tourism activities in Chamba district in a big way, the district administration and tourism department are all set to launch “Chalo Chamba Abhiyan” shortly extensive preparations for which are being made, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana here today.Giving information about the campaign, the DC said for promotion and revival of tourism sector post-Covid-19 pandemic, a series of mega events like paragliding, car and bike rallies and food fest would be organised throughout the year at regular intervals at various beauty spots in the district.Rana said the campaign had been designed with the key objective of attracting tourists and visitors on a large scale from across the country and abroad to come and enjoy Chamba’s natural beauty.For this, a competition would also be held from February 14 to 28 by inviting logo designs of ‘Chalo Chamba Abhiyan’ in digital form in which the bona fide residents of Chamba district could participate, Rana told.Logo would be terse, telling and elegant with the main focus on the idea of Chalo Chamba campaign depicting the history, culture and scenic beauty of Chamba district, the DC said, adding that logo must be of high resolution having a minimum size of 5 MB and the quality not less than 300 DPI which should be suitable for publication.The judging panel appointed by the tourism department would assess and determine the winning logo, Rana stated; adding that a prize money of Rs 10,000 would be given to the selected entry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-admn-to-begin-drive-to-boost-tourism-211579
13-02-2021||Shimla||No garbage bills for lockdown period for poor||City’s poor families will not have to pay garbage bills for the lockdown period. Demanding exemption for the poor from paying the garbage bills for lockdown period, the All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA) today gheraoed Mayor Satya Kaundal in her office and relented only when the latter agreed to their demand.“We have decided to forego garbage bills issued to the poor and the BPL families during the lockdown period. People will have to write an application and attach BLP card and the bills for the exemption,” said the Mayor.AIDWA secretary Sonia Sabbarwal said even those people who do not have BPL cards could get the exemption by producing an affidavit. She said many poor people lost their livelihood during the lockdown and are struggling to make ends meet.“Instead of lending a helping hand, the MC put additional burden on them by generating heavy garbage bills. So, we decided to gherao the Mayor,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-garbage-bills-for-lockdown-period-for-poor-211580
13-02-2021||Dharamsala||Two-day Losar festivities begin in McLeodganj||Losar, Tibetan New year celebrations, started today with Tibetans offering prayers at the Dalai Lama Temple in McLeodganj. Tibetan New Year Losar 2148, the year of Iron-Ox festivities, will be celebrated from February 12 to 14.Due to Covid-induced lockdown, the festivities of Losar are subdued. No foreign tourist arrived here for Losar. Most of the Tibetan institutes and monasteries also remain closed. The Tibetan administration-in-exile has advised against any large gathering during Losar.Subdued celebrationsVikas Sharma, a resident McLeodganj, said at one time, Losar used to be a huge event attracted a large number of foreign and domestic tourists.“Over the last few years the festivities have become limited as Tibetans also avoided extravagant celebrations due to self-immolations by Tibetans in Tibet. This year the festival is going to be a low-key affair,” he said.Losar marks the end of winter and the start of spring season. The end of Losar festival after three days is considered as the first day of New Year according to the Tibetan calendar. On this day, Tibetan exiles pay obeisance to the Dalai Lama.On the first day of the New Year, the Tibetans avoid making any purchase or spend money. The behaviour is guided by the belief that if they spend on the first day, they will be under debt for the entire year.Besides, every Tibetan grew in age by one year today. In Tibetan tradition, the first day of New Year is considered as a measure of increase in age rather than the birthday as per other tradition among other communities.As per the tradition, the preparations of Losar start on 29th day of the last month of Tibetan year. The 29th day of the last month is called Nyi-shu-gu in Tibetan language. On this day, all members of family get together. They clean the house, especially kitchen. Thupa, traditional Tibetan food, is prepared for dinner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-day-losar-festivities-begin-in-mcleodganj-211581
13-02-2021||The NSUI on Friday started a 'Naukri do||NSUI starts drive to seek jobs||NCC unit set up in Nurpur collegeAn NCC unit has been established in Arya Government College, Nurpur. Lieutenant Col MM Ansari from the NCC battalion, Dalhousie, inaugurated the unit on the college campus. In the current academic session, 45 students have been selected for the NCC unit, whereas a total 134 vacancies have been sanctioned for this college. On this occasion, Ansari gave NCC certificates to 22 students of Government Senior Secondary (Boys) School. He also talked about the benefits of joining the NCC in the government educational institutions.ABVP submits memorandumThe ABVP submitted a memorandum to Education Minister Govind Thakur through the Principal of Government College, Sanjauli, regarding demands of students. The main demands include the construction of girls' hostel, starting of Honours courses in Hindi, history, economics, BSc and sociology. The ABVP said it would start an agitation if these demands were not fulfilled soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-starts-drive-to-seek-jobs-211583
13-02-2021||The construction and repair work on the drains in Shimla's Subji Mandi area has left the nearby road inundated with water and slush. Commuters face the risk of slipping and falling down while crossing this stretch. As it is quite a busy road||Road inundated with drain water||Overcrowded busesPassengers as well as private bus operators seem to have risen above the fear of Covid. Many private buses running within the city limits, especially during the peak traffic hours in the morning and evening, are overcrowded, just like they used to be in pre-Covid times. It's dangerous and could spark the spread of the pandemic again. — Mohit Chauhan, SHIMLAIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-inundated-with-drain-water-211593
13-02-2021||Shimla||Himachal Government to raise Rs 1,000 cr loan for development||The Himachal Government will raise two loans of Rs 500 crore each to meet its developmental needs even as the debt burden has crossed Rs 60,000 crore. The Finance Department has already sought the consent of the Central Government to raise the loans, as required under Article 293(3) of the Constitution of India.While the term of one loan of Rs 500 crore will be 14 years, the other will be for 15 years. The loan money will reach the government treasury on February 17. With this Rs 1,000 crore loan, the Himachal Government will be left with a mere Rs 600 crore loan limit permissible in this financial year ending on March 31, 2021.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today admitted the grim financial health of the state and said that it was the Congress that had pushed Himachal into the financial crisis. “I agree that the debt burden of Rs 60,000 crore is worrisome but the fact is that we got Rs 48,000 crore debt from the previous Congress government,” he added.The grim financial health of the state has been a major cause for concern for successive governments. The main revenue generating sectors such as tourism, hydropower and industry have been severely hit due to Covid-19, resulting in low income for the government. Though these sectors are gradually looking up, it will take some time before they can return to their normal operations.The biggest financial burden on the government is the salary and pensionary bill of over two lakh employees, besides the financial liability of pension of the retired employees. The employee to the population ratio in the hill state is amongst the highest in the country. Though there has been a major check on regular recruitment and the government going for contractual appointments, the salary burden of the serving and retired employees accounts for almost half of the total budgetary allocation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-to-raise-rs-1-000-cr-loan-for-development-211594
13-02-2021||Shimla||Guv for more telemedicine centres in tribal areas||Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has said more telemedicine centres should be set up in the state, especially in tribal areas, so that people of far-flung areas could get medical facilities easily by using telecommunication techniques.He took a brief regarding the Covid-19 situation, vaccination programme and other health-related issues from officials of the Health Department here today. He said a sufficient quantity of vaccines had been supplied to the state and about 76 per cent healthcare workers had been vaccinated in in the first phase.He said due to the efforts of the government, the state stood fifth in the country in terms of vaccination of healthcare workers and all work had been done in the stipulated time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/guv-for-more-telemedicine-centres-in-tribal-areas-211595
13-02-2021||Shimla||BJP geared up for MC poll: Kashyap||The BJP will sweep the elections to four municipal corporations (MC) slated for March/ April and better its performance over the panchayat elections, state party president Suresh Kashyap said today.“The party is fully geared up for the elections to the Dharamsala, Mandi, Solan and Palampur Municipal Corporations and its performance will be better than its performance in the panchayat poll. The BJP-supported candidates wrested 67 posts of block development committee (BDC) president and also captured the posts of zila parishad president and vice-presidents in eight of the 12 districts,” he said in a press note issued here.“The Congress is a divided house with its leaders vying for supremacy. It has suffered a major setback in the panchayat and urban local bodies,” he said.However, Kashyap did not say that whether the MC elections would be held on party ticket, as not contesting the panchayati raj and urban local bodies poll helped the BJP instal its presidents and vice-presidents where its supported candidates did not win a clear majority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-geared-up-for-mc-poll-kashyap-211596
13-02-2021||Mandi||Residents await start of OPD services at Nerchowk hospital||After a significant fall in the number of Covid cases, residents are now awaiting resumption of OPD services at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College & Hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi.Currently, the medical college is functioning as Covid hospital, where OPD service has been suspended since March last after Covid-19 outbreak. The hospital caters to patients from Mandi, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Bilaspur. The patients are facing difficulty in availing other medical facilities.According to official sources, now the zonal hospital is receiving heavy rush and over 900 patients were coming to the OPDs daily.Dipak Sharma, a resident of Mandi, said “A significant downfall has been observed in Covid cases in the district, which is a good sign. Now we are awaiting resumption of regular OPD services at the Nerchowk hospital.”“Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced shifting of the Covid hospital to a prefabricated building, which is under construction. We urge the Chief Minister to resume OPD services in the Nerchowk hospital soon. It will be a huge relief for us,” he added.A majority of people in the district said they were facing a lot of difficulties in the absence of OPD services in the hospital. Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur said, “The government should have resumed the OPD services in the hospital. Due to govt’s failure in shifting the Covid hospital somewhere else, the residents of the district are suffering.”DR RC Thakur, Principal, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College & Hospital, said, “The construction work of the 100- bedded prefabricated building is under progress at Bhangrotu in Mandi, which is expected to be complete by March 15. As soon as the work is completed, Covid unit will be shifted to new building.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-await-start-of-opd-services-at-nerchowk-hospital-211597
13-02-2021||Nurpur||Probe sought into registration of vehicles with fake documents||State Congress vice-president Rajinder Rana has demanded a high-level probe into the registration of vehicles allegedly on the basis of fake documents in Kangra district. In a statement here today, Rana who is also the party in-charge of the Nurpur zone, said it seemed to be a racket after the forged degree scam by a private university in the state.He demanded constitution of an SIT in detecting “nexus between agents and state government authorities”. He said it was astonishing that vehicle registration mafia was active right from Palampur to Nurpur and Indora, but the state government was a mute spectator. He suspected some interstate gang behind this scam which had caused huge loss to the state exchequer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-sought-into-registration-of-vehicles-with-fake-documents-211598
13-02-2021||Our CorrespondentNURPUR||Seven-time Cong MLA Sujan Singh Pathania dies||Sujan Singh Pathania (78), a former minister in Virbhadra Singh’s Cabinet and sitting MLA from the Fatehpur Assembly constituency in Kangra district, passed away this morning at his native Hara village. He had been ailing for the past three years. He suffered paralysis in September 2017.He was elected MLA seven times during his 44 years of active political life. Born on September 9, 1943, in Lahore (Pakistan), Pathania, who is a senior Congress leader, was known for this straightforwardness during his political life.He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Before joining the Janta Party in 1977, he had resigned from the state Forest Department in which he was a forest range officer. He was first elected as Janta Party legislator in 1977 and later joined the Congress in 1980. After that, he won the Assembly elections in 1990, 1993, 2003, 2009 (byelection) from Jawali Assembly constituency and in 2012 and 2017, he won from Fatehpur Assembly constituency.During the last stint of Virbhadra Singh’s regime, Pathania served as the Power Minister with the additional charge of Non-conventional Energy sources and Agriculture Minister from December 2012 to December 2017. As per his family, the last rites would be performed at 11 am on Saturday.Former CM Virbhadra Singh, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other senior Congress leaders of the state have expressed grief over his demise. Ajay Mahajan, president, Kangra district Congress committee, said his demise was an irreparable loss to the family, Congress party and Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seven-time-cong-mla-sujan-singh-pathania-dies-211599
13-02-2021||Shimla||Governor, CM mourn Sujan's death||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur have expressed grief over the demise of MLA and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, who passed away at his native place in Fatehpur tehsil of Kangra district today. He was 78.In his condolence message, the Governor said Pathania would always be remembered for his service and contributions towards the welfare of society. He expressed his deepest condolences to the bereaved family members.The CM said Pathania was an honest, dedicated and sober leader, who was always committed towards the welfare of the poor and downtrodden. He said his contributions towards the development of the state, particularly Kangra, would be remembered for years to come. Several Congress and BJP leaders also expressed grief over the demise of the former minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-cm-mourn-sujans-death-211600
13-02-2021||Mandi||All eight accused in gangrape case held||In the alleged gangrape case, the police have arrested all eight accused, including one minor, in Mandi district. The accused were today produced before court from where they were sent to one-day police remand.Shalini Agnihotri, SP, said the police had arrested six accused yesterday, while two accused were on the run. On information received, two accused were also arrested late last night.“On the information given by the victim about these accused, the police raided the hideouts of the accused and nabbed them”, said SP.Those arrested are Rajat Kumar (19), Surya (18), Tikshit Sen (19), Ishaan Gupta (19), Sahil Khan (22), Mohammad Mumtaj Manda (18), Mohammad Asif (19) and a minor, all natives of Sundernagar in Mandi.The SP stated that the victim was taken to a hotel room at Sundernagar by these accused, where they committed the crime. The accused also robbed the victim of Rs 1,500.“A zero FIR was registered at Chandigarh on the complaint of the victim on February 6, from where the case was referred to police station, Sundernagar, in Mandi. All accused have been arrested under IPC 376 D and the investigation is underway”, said SP.“Seven accused were produced before the court to seek police remand to collect more evidences about this case. The court has granted police remand to all seven accused till February 13. The one minor accused in the case will be produced before juvenile justice board for further action”, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-eight-accused-in-gangrape-case-held-211601
13-02-2021||Dharamsala||Tibetan starts march, wants change in India’s China policy||Tibetan activist Tenzin Tsundue today started a foot march from Dharamsala to spread awareness among the people of India regarding the fallacy of One China policy supported by the Government of India. Tsundue, who started the foot march on the first day of Losar celebrations, said that it would conclude on March 10 in Delhi on Tibetan Uprising Day. He added that the march would be called ‘Walk a Mile for Tibet’.Tsundue said, “When the Galwan valley massacre struck India last June, most Indians couldn’t even locate this place on the map. Most of Indians have very less understanding as to why Chinese soldiers killed our jawans. How did they come to Indian borders in the first place? I am starting a march to Delhi from Dharamsala today. The main aim is to bring India’s focus on Tibet, the missing link in the India-China crisis. Our Indian brothers and sisters need to understand the reasons for China’s constant threat to India”.He said, “China is creating border disputes not only with India, but also 14 of its other neighbouring countries. China’s imperialist designs aim to expand its land and sea territories. Xi Jingping has proved to all that the real aim of the People’s Republic of China is to strategically become the global super power”.Tsundue, who is known for organising protests across India even during the visit of the Chinese President, said that it was a one-man march with two supporters for logistics and public communication. “The distance is 500 km and I plan to cover this in one month, camping every night on the roadside in night shelters. From Dharamsala, I will walk through the Kangra valley and enter the plains of Punjab from Una. I will pay my respects at the Anandpur Sahib Gurdwara and head to Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh. From there, I will head towards Delhi via Ambala, Karnal and Sonepat,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetan-starts-march-wants-change-in-indias-china-policy-211602
