14-02-2021||Shimla||3.2 magnitude earthquake hits Himachal’s Bilaspur||An earthquake of 3.2 magnitude shook Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur district on Sunday afternoon, the meteorological department said.However, there was no report of any casualty or damage to property.Tremors were felt in and around the district at 3.49 pm. The earthquake’s epicentre was at a depth of 10 km northeast in Bilaspur, the MeT department said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-2-magnitude-earthquake-hits-himachals-bilaspur-212383
14-02-2021||Shimla||Keylong shivers at -5.9°C||Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district with -5.9°C continued to be the coldest place in Himachal Pradesh, said Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh on Saturday. Kalpa recorded a low of 1.4°C, he added.Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri registered a low of 2.4°C, 6.3°C and 6.9°C, respectively, while Shimla recorded a low of 6.4°C. The highest temperature of 24.3°C was recorded in Una.Meanwhile, the Met office predicted dry weather in the state from February 14 to 19. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keylong-shivers-at-5-9%C2%B0c-212024
14-02-2021||---||Rs 6 cr sewerage project to benefit 4,500 people||Mandi, February 13BJP MLA Jawahar Thakur inaugurated the Bheuli-Bijani sewerage project. It is to be constructed at a cost of Rs 6 crore. It will benefit 4,500 people of the Bheuli and Bijani area in the district.The residents of the Bheuli area and its nearby places had urged the government to provide sewerage facility as soon as possible.Thakur said the state government had approved Rs 6 crore for the construction of this scheme that would cover 4,500 people from Bheuli up to Bijani in the district.He said the government was committed to provide basic facilities to the people of the state and efforts were on in this direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-6-cr-sewerage-project-to-benefit-4-500-people-212025
14-02-2021||Solan||Driver killed in mishap in Solan||The driver of a Maruti car (HP-12-A-8496) was killed while two other occupants were seriously injured when the car collided head on with a truck at Kirpalpur village on the Baddi-Nalagarh road last evening.Police officials said that the car hit the truck (HP-62A-3755) coming from the opposite direction owing to reckless driving. The occupants of the car were rushed to the community health centre at Nalagarh where driver Balvinder, a resident of Khera village, was declared brought dead. The seriously injured Aman, a resident of Nikuwal, and Chander Mohan, a resident of Nichla Khera, were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. A case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC has been registered. It was the second fatal accident in the past three days. A child succumbed to his injuries on Thursday after a pick-up utility vehicle run over him at Barotiwala. Three other children were also injured in the accident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/driver-killed-in-mishap-in-solan-212017
14-02-2021||Mandi||1 dies in mishap in Mandi||One person was killed when his car fell into a gorge in Karsog today. The deceased has been identified as Amar Chand of Karsog, Mandi.The victim was travelling on the Chera road when he lost control of his car and the car fell into a gorge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dies-in-mishap-in-mandi-212026
14-02-2021||Mandi||Mandi project Shivdham hangs fire||Shivdham, the most ambitious development project of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, has been hanging fire in Mandi district for the past two years. The project was proposed at Kangnidhar near here to promote religious tourism.Mandi district is known as Chhoti Kashi, which has 81 temples of Lord Shiva. The Chief Minister is keen on the project but till now there is no progress in this direction.According to official sources, the district administration has identified nine hectare at Kangnidhar for the project. But due to delay in forest clearance, the project cannot be executed.According to Thakur, several development projects in the state are hanging fire because of the delay in forest clearance. Shivdham is also one of the major projects in Mandi district.Residents said Thakur should take up the case with the Supreme Court to seek forest clearance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-project-shivdham-hangs-fire-212027
14-02-2021||NURPUR||Tearful adieu to MLA Sujan Singh Pathania||Thousands of people and political leaders bade a tearful adieu to former minister and sitting Congress MLA from Fatehpur in Kangra district Sujan Singh Pathania at his native village on Saturday.Pathania, who died yesterday, was cremated with honours. Bhiwani Pathania, his son, lit the funeral pyre.The body of the Congress leader, wrapped in the party’s flag, was brought in the cremation ground in a vehicle decorated with flowers. People accompanying the funeral procession raised slogans “Jab tak Suraj Chand rahega, Pathania tera naam rehega” and “Sujan Singh amer rahe”.Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of the Opposition, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore, general secretary Kewal Pathania, former Congress president Sukhwinder Sukhu, former ministers GS Bali, Sudhir Sharma, Asha Kumari, Vipolve Thakur and Harbans Rana, Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan, former Lok Sabha MP Rajan Sushant and Chander Kumar, former Rajya Sabha MP Kirpal Parmar, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania and Arjun Singh MLA, Jawali, paid tributes to Pathania. On behalf of the state government, the Transport Minister attended the funeral.Agnihotri said Pathania’s death was a huge loss to the party and to him. The Forest Minister said he enjoyed cordial relations with him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tearful-adieu-to-mla-sujan-singh-pathania-212028
14-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||Dalhousie health centre opens to all||Dalhousie/Shimla, February 13Dr Nipun Jindal, Managing Director, National Health Mission (NHM), said the Civil Hospital, Dalhousie, which was made as Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), had now opened for temporary health services.After the inspection of the DCHC here, Dr Jindal told mediapersons that orders in this respect had been issued by the Deputy Commissioner, Chamba, to operate the hospital for general health services temporarily.59 Covid casesDr Jindal lauded the efforts of Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajesh Guleri, Senior Medical Officer Dr Bipin Thakur and the assisting paramedical staff for making the best comprehensive arrangements to manage the DCHC smoothly.Dr Jindal said efforts were being made for filling the posts of staff in the hospital by taking up the matter with the government, while efforts were also being made under the National Health Mission and accordingly appointments of four nurses had also been made to run the functioning of maternity homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-health-centre-opens-to-all-212029
14-02-2021||---||Rs 10.8 cr approved for vegetable markets in Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, February 13The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti has approved a Rs 10.84 crore annual budget (2021-22) for the construction of vegetable markets in the two districts.There are around 11 vegetable markets in Kullu where the construction work is going on. One vegetable market is proposed in the Lahaul valley, while the APMC is planning to set up another market to facilitate the people of the region with better marketing facilities.Amar Singh, chairman of the APMC of Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti, said that the APMC had approved Rs 10.84 crore for the vegetable markets in Kullu district. Besides, the World Bank was also funding the construction of these markets.He said that Bandrol market would be constructed at a cost of Rs 12.32 crore and Shat market at a cost of Rs 4.04 crore with funds from the World Bank.“Besides, the APMC is spending Rs 44.59 lakh on Bhuntar market, Rs 3.60 lakh at Chauri Bihal, Rs 52.6 lakh at Patlikuhal, Rs 1.07 crore at Kullu and Rs 47.40 lakh at Khegsu in Kullu,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-10-8-cr-approved-for-vegetable-markets-in-kullu-lahaul-spiti-212030
14-02-2021||---||Farmers hold protest against agriculture laws||Dharamsala, February 13Farmers, most of them supporters of senior Congress leader GS Bali, held a protest in Nagrota Bagwan market today against the three farm laws of the Union Government.Bali, while addressing the farmers, said that the Central Government had become “insensitive” towards the common man. “Inflation is at the peak, fuel prices have increased drastically, and the prices of power and water have risen in the state. People have lost their jobs and businesses due to the pandemic. To add to their miseries, the government is increasing taxes on essential commodities. The fact that the government is levying more taxes on essential commodities is a signal of a sagging economy,” he said.Bali claimed that peaceful protests by people were being quelled with a heavy hand and other repressive measures. The country had never witnessed such a crackdown on peaceful protests since Independence.He said that it was high time the state government focuses on generating employment for the youth of the state. “As per my information, the number of jobless people in the state has increased from 10 lakh to 14 lakh. If the government fails to create employment opportunities for the youth, I will soon launch a statewide agitation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-hold-protest-against-agriculture-laws-212012
14-02-2021||---||Governor: Promoted Shimla-Kalka railway track as Union MoS||Shimla, February 13Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today enjoyed a rail car journey from Shimla to Kalka. He halted for a short period at Barog and visited the railway station. He also received information about this historical station.The Governor and Lady Governor Vasantha Bandaru were welcomed at Barog by Station Superintendent Dharam Dutt Upadhyay. The Governor visited the office building and the tunnel — this office building was built in 1902. Upadhyay told the Governor about the historical background of the Barog station and also Colonel Barog and British officer Harrington. The Governor also enquired about the Nails Token Instrument System, with the help of which the train runs.He said that when he was the Union Minister of State for Railways, he worked to promote this heritage railway track. He added that the Shimla-Kalka railway track is an international heritage and a true a centre of attraction. He expressed satisfaction over the cleanliness and maintenance of the Barog railway station.He added that this station should be further developed with additional facilities so that more and more tourists visit the place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-promoted-shimla-kalka-railway-track-as-union-mos-212011
14-02-2021||---||BJP executive meet at Dharamsala from February 17||Shimla, February 13The three-day meeting of the state executive of the Himachal BJP will be held at Dharamsala from February 17 to 19. A training camp for trainees will also be organised on February 17 from 9 am to 5 pm under the chairmanship of state BJP president Suresh Kashyap. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur and in-charge and co-incharge of BJP affairs in Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna and Sanjay Tandon would give valuable inputs to the trainees, said state BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal.Nadda to address meetingThe meeting of the state office bearers would be held in the evening on February 17, followed by a meeting of the working committee on February 18 and 19. The meeting would commence with the address of national BJP president JP Nadda and all ministers, MPs, MLAs, candidates of the 2017 Assembly elections, presidents and secretaries of morchas, conveners of the party cells and the presidents of the district units and the mandals would participate. The meeting is likely to review the performance of the party in the panchayat and urban local bodies elections and chalk out a future strategy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-executive-meet-at-dharamsala-from-february-17-212019
14-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Stamped ballot papers found dumped at Dharampur school||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 13In a sensational revelation, a bundle of 25 stamped ballot papers, two sealed envelopes and an account sheet of the ballot papers relating to the recent Dharmapur zila parishad elections were found dumped along with the garbage of a counting centre at Government Senior Secondary School, Dharampur, this morning.ZP candidate plans legal recourseThe counting of votes for the elections to all zila parishad wards and block samitis had taken place at this centre. A local resident, Ram Rattan, who was waiting for someone near the school, spotted the bundle.He was surprised to see a bundle of 25 ballot papers polled in favour of zila parishad candidate Rajkumar Sharma from Darwa ward. Two sealed envelopes and poll-related papers were also found.It has put a question mark on the poll process. Sharma, a resident of Patta village, also rushed to the spot. He had lost the elections.DC, Solan, KC Chaman, said it was a serious issue. The police had been directed to investigate the matter and take action against the guilty. “As every candidate had a polling agent at the counting centre, no discrepancy could take place there. It seems that some mishandling had taken place. The record was supposed to be stored in the block development office after the completion of the poll process,” he added.Congress spokesman Ramesh Chauhan, who reached the spot, said the district administration was apprised about the callousness of the polling staff. He said, “It is surprising how the assistant returning officer will account for the votes, if someone challenges the poll results before a court. It is also surprising how the account had been compiled.”He urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to inquire into the matter and take strict action against those responsible for it.“The BJP could use similar tactics in the MC poll in Solan to victory as officers are acting at its behest,” alleged Chauhan. Naib Tehsildar and the Dharampur police took the papers into custody while a probe was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stamped-ballot-papers-found-dumped-at-dharampur-school-212021
14-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||2K parking lots planned for Shimla Smart City||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 13The authorities are planning to create 2,000 to 2,500 parking spaces for Shimla Smart City by early next year. At the moment, besides small parking lots in most of the wards, Shimla Smart City has at least five major parking lots under active implementation, while the detailed project report (DPR) of two other lots has been completed. Besides, the proposals for two other parking lots, one of which has already been approved by the Smart City board of directors, are awaited.Nitin Garg, Smart City General Manager (Technical)Many of these projects will be completed this year and the remaining by early next year. The availability of more parking spaces will bring relief to residents as well as tourists“Many of these projects will be completed this year and the remaining by early next year. The availability of more parking spaces will bring relief to residents as well as tourists,” said Smart City general manager (Technical) Nitin Garg.One of the largest parking lots, which will accommodate 700 vehicles, is coming up close to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) at a cost of Rs 32 crore. Besides, two more parking lots are planned close to the hospital. “The DPR for a parking lot opposite the IGMC auditorium has been made and most of the clearances for the project have been secured. A tentative budget of Rs 15 crore, too, has been approved by the Smart City board of directors,” said Garg.The third parking at the side is planned opposite the new OPD building. “It will be a huge parking lot. In this complex, there will be rooms for patients and attendants coming from out of town. It should have a capacity of 700 to 800 vehicles, depending on the number of rooms built for people,” said Garg. “The project has been approved by the BoD, we are awaiting a proposal from the Public Works Department.”The other big parking is coming up in Vikasnagar, which will accommodate 200 vehicles. “Besides, we have parking lots coming up in Wills Park, Kacchi Ghati, Barns Court near Raj Bhavan, Panthaghati and Sankat Mochan,” said Garg.Besides creating parking spaces, Garg said initiatives like the widening of roads, creation of pedestrian paths and foot over-bridges were being taken to decongest the overburdened city roads. “A budget of Rs 55 crore had been allocated to make better pedestrian paths. The idea is to provide better connectivity to reduce people’s dependence on vehicles,” he said.“We hope all these projects are completed without getting caught up in bureaucratic or political tangles,” said Ramesh Chauhan, a city resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2k-parking-lots-planned-for-shimla-smart-city-212018
14-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Hamirpur farmers sow cash crops, reap gains||Hamirpur, February 13The crop diversification incentive project being run in collaboration with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has created a new hope for farmers and gardeners in the district. While farmers faced a crisis of livelihood during the coronavirus outbreak, the JICA project paved the way for self-reliance for many of them. Adopting the mantra of self-reliance, these farmers have earned a good income by growing cash crops in their farmlands with the help of JICA project.Dile Ram, a resident of Jamali village, says that it was impossible for him to support his family and survive on the income from small landholding. He adds that after the implementation of the crop diversification incentive project in his village, he can now earn sufficient income to support his family.He says that a lift irrigation scheme has been constructed for about 9.55 hectares of agricultural land in Jamali village and about 35 farming families are directly being benefited from it. After providing irrigation facility, officials of the JICA project and agricultural scientists motivated the farmers of the village to produce vegetables that gave them an income of Rs 1.75 lakh, he adds.Watan Singh, another farmer of the village, says that with training from the JICA and improved varieties of seeds and plants, they can harvest high yields.He says that even during this time of crisis, the farmers of the village have planted cucumber, ladyfinger, tomato, bitter gourd and early cabbage. Narendra Kumar, Pritam Singh and Jagdish Chand of nearby villages have also adopted cash crop cultivation.Vinod Sharma, Project Director of the JICA, says that the agency is providing training and teaching scientific techniques to farmers to help them increase their crop production and thus improving their economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-farmers-sow-cash-crops-reap-gains-212013
14-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur Rotary Eye Foundation: A boon for eye patients||Palampur, February 13The Palampur Rotary Eye Foundation, a charitable voluntary organisation engaged in the service of visually challenged for the last 35 years, has proved to be a boon to the residents of eight districts of the state. It is not only serving patients in Himachal but also from neighbouring states of Punjab, J&K and Haryana.With the support of the local community, the foundation has established three eye hospitals at Maranda (Palampur), Paragpur (Dehra) in Kangra District and Dhussara in Una District and one Women and Child Care Hospital at Thakurdwara (Palampur).“All these hospitals are equipped with the latest infrastructure for the treatment of eye patients. All types of minor and major surgeries are conducted here. Since the inception of the three eye care centres, more than 25 lakh patients have visited these institutions. As many as 2,16,418 of 25 lakh patients were operated upon for various eye ailments and their sight restored on reasonable charges. Besides, free of cost surgeries are also performed here for poor patients. Earlier, locals had to go to Amritsar and Chandigarh,” said Raghav Sharma, general manager of the hospital.The Rotary Eye Foundation was formed in 1981 on International Year of Disabled. It envisaged to create an institution with facilities for detailed investigation, treatment and surgery of all kinds of eye aliments. A campaign to raise funds was floated with the participation of the local community. Today, the hospital has sufficient funds and all modern gadgets. This hospital has emerged as a pioneer institution in northern India.Dr Shiv Kumar, a social activist who has set up several education institutions in the state, is the founder Chairman of the Rotary Eye Hospital, Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-rotary-eye-foundation-a-boon-for-eye-patients-212015
14-02-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Dry winter, ‘guchhi’ yield likely to be low||Kullu, February 13Farmers harvesting wild morel mushrooms, commonly known as “guchhi” in the region, may face disappointment this year as the plant growth is likely to be low because of dry winter.According to a local belief, “guchhi” bursts from the ground during thunderstorms in the spring season. Experts say that moist and humid weather conditions during the winter boost the growth of this edible fungus. However, the valley has witnessed scanty snowfall and rainfall this year, which might affect the “guchhi” growth.“Guchhi” cannot be grown, as it sprouts naturally in shady forest floors, orchards, yards and meadows in the mid and lower Himalayan regions. This plant species is found in the upper reaches of Kullu, Mandi, Chamba, Shimla, and Sirmaur districts. “Guchhi” of this region is in high demand and this rare wild mushroom records business worth crores of rupees every year. Dried “guchhi” costs about Rs 8,000 per kg and provides a commercially productive alternative to farmers of higher areas in the state.A food, usually known for a painstaking hunt for harvesting in the forests, ‘’guchhi’’ is a highly-priced delicacy in star category hotels across the world. Besides its delicious and exotic taste, experts say that it is also rich in proteins and other nutrients and is believed to be helpful in treating cancer. It is also used in many types of medicines.Harvesters say that less rainfall and snow in the state will impact the quantity of “guchhi” this year. They add that the growth of “guchhi” has decreased in the past few decades due to climatic changes.Amit Sood, an entrepreneur engaged in “guchhi” trading, says that the dry weather in January is likely to impact its production by about 15 per cent. He adds that if February also goes dry, “guchhi” production will decrease by about 40 per cent.He says that eight to nine tonnes of “guchhi” grew in different valleys of the district from February to May about two decades ago but now its yield is about four to five tonnes.Scientists, too, are worried about the decreasing quantity of the wild growth, which was found in abundance earlier. Scientists of GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment and Sustainable Development at Mohal, Kullu, are monitoring the growth of “guchhi” as well. They say that there is a dire need for research to conserve the wild mushroom that is being affected by climate changes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-winter-guchhi-yield-likely-to-be-low-212016
14-02-2021||* 1.20L vehicles registered in Shimla town||Cable metro part of plan to ease Shimla traffic||* 2,500 can be accommodated in public parking lots* 24,000 remain parked on roadsides in townBhanu P LohumiTribune News ServiceShimla, February 13The Shimla police have come out with a 70-page document suggesting short and long-term measures to decongest the state capital roads. The Shimla City Traffic Regulation and Management Plan was released by Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj here today.Around 1.20 lakh vehicles are registered in the town that has public parking lots to accommodate 2,500 vehicles only. Around 24,000 vehicles remain parked alongside roads. The exact data on private parking is not available.“Shimla city was designed to accommodate around 35,000 persons, but its present-day population has swelled to around 10 times of that limit,” said Shimla SP Mohit Chawla, the man behind the latest initiative.International and best practices were studied and it took around seven months to prepare the vision document, he said. The town has been divided into eight sectors for initiating remedial measures.The short-term measures listed in the document include deployment of 119 additional traffic police personnel in the town, clearing encroachments, diversion of traffic from busy roads during peak hours and introducing shuttle services.Increased use of public transport, cable metro projects, multi-storey parking lots at strategic points, widening of roads, construction of overbridges, expansion of the old ISBT and shifting of Lakkar Bazaar bus stand to Dhalli are some of the long-term measures suggested in the vision document.The plan identifies 22 traffic bottlenecks in the town. It blames traffic chaos on acute shortage of parking space, haphazard parking alongside narrow roads, lack of traffic sense among people and existence of offices, hospitals, educational institutions and shopping centres along busy road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cable-metro-part-of-plan-to-ease-shimla-traffic-212039
