15-02-2021||New Delhi||SC allows diversion of forest land for public welfare projects in Himachal||The Supreme Court Monday allowed diversion of forest land in Himachal Pradesh for carrying out certain public welfare projects.The apex court allowed the diversion of forest land for projects like Hydro Electric Projects, national highways, Indian Institute of Technology, Degree College, Model School, construction of electric substations etc.“It can be deciphered that some of the reliefs sought by the State of Himachal Pradesh can be straight away granted and some other reliefs can be granted subject to certain clearances. The projects for which permission may be granted and projects which can be permitted subject to certain conditions,” said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian noted.The bench noted that First project of Green Corridor National Highway is in two parts, for each of which separate final approval has been granted under Section 2 of the Forest Conservation Act, by Ministry of Environment and Forests.The top court adjourned for 12 weeks, the application seeking to carry out silviculture felling of Khair (Acacia catechu) trees in the forests areas of the State in accordance with the approved working plans.It directed the committee to examine the contents of the application while filing its further report regarding result of Silviculture operations already undertaken. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-allows-diversion-of-forest-land-for-public-welfare-projects-in-himachal-212851
15-02-2021||A sharp curve in Dharampur||Sharp turn dangerous for vehicles||Shortage of waterThese days there is a perennial shortage of water in the Ram Nagar area of Dharamsala. When the IPH authorities are contacted, they just say that the shortage is due to less rains. However, people in Ram Nagar face water shortage whether there are rains or not. When there were rains, damaged pipes was the cause of water shortage. The government should pull up IPH officials to ensure a proper supply of water to residents of Dharamsala Smart City. — Inder Mohan, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sharp-turn-dangerous-for-vehicles-212708
15-02-2021||The HPU's ABVP unit paid tributes to martyrs of the Pulwama attack at the Pink Petals chowk of the university. Stating that the sacrifice made by the soldiers was supreme and couldn't be forgotten||ABVP remembers Pulwama martyrs||Ensure well-being of martyrs' kin: NSUIThe Chowari unit of the NSUI on Sunday paid floral tributes to the soldiers who were martyred in the Pulwama attack at Chowari. NSUI state secretary Rajat Singh Rana said the country could never forget the contribution of brave soldiers. Remembering the Pulwama attack, Rana said the governments should ensure well-being of soldiers' dependents.Lit fest held at Shoolini varsityA literature fest was organised at the Shoolini University, Solan, which saw a session on how Hindi film scripts evolved. Mihir Pandya from Inderprasth College, Delhi, interacted with Ajit Andhare, Chief Operating Officer, at Viacom 18 Motion Pictures. A session on literature and films, in which Ashwani Bhatnagar, Neelam Kanwar and Karan Oberoi were panelists, was also held. It was moderated by Rajesh Williams. A session on renowned author, Githa Hariharan, in conversation with Manju Jaidka, organiser of the Shoolini Literature Festival, and another on "Reworking mythologies" was also held. The day closed with a session with poet and lyricist Irshad Kamil, moderated by Ashoo Khosla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-remembers-pulwama-martyrs-212707
15-02-2021||---||Winter closing schools to open from today||Shimla, February 14The winter closing schools in Himachal will reopen from tomorrow (February 15) after a break of 11 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and regular classes for students of classes V to XII will resume.Earlier, the government had decided to start regular classes for students of class V and Classes VIII to XII in summer closing schools from February 1 but now regular classes for students of classes V to XII will start from Monday (February15) in all schools.The schools were closed from March 16, 2020, in the wake of the pandemic. Online teaching for all students from classes I to IV will continue and the academic session 2021-22 will start from April 1, 2021.The schools have made micro-plans for calling students. Besides changing timings to maintain social distancing, sanitising of classrooms, thermal screening of students will be conducted and crowding at entry and exit points will be avoided.The principals and heads of institutions have been directed to strictly adhere to SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) and ensure that students, teachers and other employees wear masks, there is no spitting and hostels are opened only if necessary, said Higher Education director Amarjeet Sharma.Some of the schools that have a large number of students have opted to call them on alternate days or have double shifts. The students have been advised to follow norms and not discriminate with students having Covid-19 history.The classes of class V and classes VIII to XII of summer closing schools have already commenced from February 1 and decision to call students of classes VI and VII also was taken by the government on February 5. The colleges which also opened from February 8 have been directed to give priority to practicals.The syllabus of classes X and XII has been curtailed by 30 per cent and pre-board examinations are likely to be conducted by February-end, regular board examinations in March/April.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-closing-schools-to-open-from-today-212611
15-02-2021||Una||Pulse polio drive begins||Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajinder Garg today launched a district-level pulse polio campaign in Una district at a health facility in the Chintpurni Assembly segment. He administered polio drops to some children below the age of 5 years to kickstart the campaign, during which 44,000 children will be immunised during three days.  Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said more than 1,500 health and anganwadi workers besides officials had been deputed for the job. He said 365 immunisation booths at health sub-centre level and eight mobile booths had been activated. Besides, he said booths had also been set up at major bus stands, Una railway station and all 12 interstate barriers of the district to cater to children who were travelling.  He said children who had failed to report at booths on Sunday would be given the oral polio vaccine at their homes on 15 and 16 February. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pulse-polio-drive-begins-212612
15-02-2021||Tribune Reporters||622 grievances heard in 10 districts||Shimla, February 14Jan Manch was organized in 10 districts of the state today. During this programme 622 grievances were received and most were said to have been “disposed of on the spot”.MP and Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary presided over Jan Manch held at Shri Naina Devi Ji of Bilaspur district. During this programme, 41 complaints were received.On the occasion, the minister inaugurated district level pulse polio immunisation drive. Under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme, four girl child were distributed Rs 5,000 each.During the programme, 30 disability certificates, 30 Ayushmaan Bharat Care and four Himcare cards were also issued.In Shimla district, the Jan Manch was organised at gram panchayat, Karyali, which was presided over by Chairman 6th state Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti. As many as 73 complaints were received and 29 were disposed of, while the remaining were sent to the department concerned for speedy redressal.Reach out to farmers, Speaker tells Agri staffChamba: Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar presided over a jan manch programme organised in the Haripur panchayat falling under the Chamba assembly constituency today. The Speaker said officials should organise camps to inform people about schemes and programmes. He told the Deputy Director of Agriculture that the department staff should reach out to farmers themselves so that farmers get the benefit of all schemes.During the Jan Manch, as many as 41 demands related to various departments were put up in addition to two problems.Speed up development work: Dy SpeakerSolan: Deputy Speaker Hansraj today said the government was endeavouring to make available basic facilities at the doorsteps of the people. He urged officials to speed up the pace of development. He was presiding over the 19th Jan Manch at Gorkhuwala gram panchayat in Paonta Sahib today.He directed the DC, Sirmaur, to constitute a team and ensure that all complaints received during the Jan Manch were addressed before the next programme. Soon, a district-level Jan Manch would be organised where secretary-level officials would also be present.As many as 32 complaints were received while 21 received in the earlier programme had been addressed. As many as 100 demands were also highlighted by the people.Meanwhile, as many as 62 of the 82 complaints were addressed at a Jan Manch held at Mamlig panchayat today which was presided over by Urban Development, Town and Country Planning, Housing and Parliamentary Affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj.53 complaints in ChintpurniUna: A Jan Manch programme was organised at Kinnu village in the Chintpurni segment of the district, which was presided by Food and Civil Supplies minister Rajinder Garg. A total of 53 complaints were received.People from a cluster of seven panchayats, Sidh Chalet, Ghevat Behad, Sarada, Lohara Upper, Lohara Lower, Bhagda and Mandholi were invited to present their grievances. However, 14 complaints received from people residing in some other panchayats were also addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/622-grievances-heard-in-10-districts-212613
15-02-2021||Solan||Autobiography of Shoolini varsity’s founder released||An autobiography of Shoolini University founder and Chancellor Prof PK Khosla, “Trysts with Karma”, was released by Ambassador Vishnu Prakash, former Indian envoy to Canada and South Korea, at a virtual function.The 300-page autobiography details the life and experiences of Prof Khosla with all his ups and downs. The book begins with his memories of the Partition and closes with the life during the pandemic.Releasing the book, Ambassador Vishnu Prakash said it contained life time experiences and provided insights into the thought process of Prof Khosla. He said the author had been frank and not hidden even extreme adverse circumstances which he had faced. The autobiography provided a gripping account of his experiences, he said.Prof Khosla said, “The script of our life is drafted in heaven and is based on our karma”. He said, “We come here to play the designated role scripted on the basis of past karma. Nothing happens merely as a coincidence and whatever happens is the sum of our actions in pre and post-natal lives.”He said his life had been influenced by Paramahansa Yogananda and his teachings had prompted him to follow the science of “Kriya yoga”. He said, “Kriya yoga is a psycho-physiological method by which human blood is decarbonised and recharged with oxygen. This technique is energising me even at the age nearing 82 and keeping me actively calm and calmly active. So I decided to dedicate this book to the science of Kriya yoga.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/autobiography-of-shoolini-varsitys-founder-released-212614
15-02-2021||---||Scholarships to SC students to be paid through DBT||Bhanu P Lohumi Tribune News Service Shimla, February 14 The payment of post-matric scholarships to Scheduled Caste students will be made through direct bank transfer (DBT) through Aadhar-enabled payment means after fool-proof verification of eligibility criteria and preparation of database by states/UTs. The guidelines, issued by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in the wake of multi-crore scholarship scams unfolding in some states, are aimed at bringing transparency in the disbursement of scholarships. The students pursuing post-matric courses, including diplomas, professional courses and postgraduate courses, in nine categories of institutions, including institutes of national importance, state-run schools, colleges and universities, private universities, colleges and institutions, approved by various regulatory bodies are eligible for scholarship. As per new guidelines, the existing committed liability system in funding pattern will be replaced by 60:40 sharing between the Union government and states and 90:10 sharing in case of special category states and the demand will be assessed on the basis of average demand for the past three years with 5 per cent annual increase. The scheme will remain operative for five years from 2020-21 to 2025-26. The scheme will be run on online platform with robust security measures and will ensure transparency, accountability, efficiency and timely delivery and the poorest SC households will get priority. Only the institutions of higher education, which maintained the laid down academic standards, will be covered under the scheme with the rider that all these institutions will have NAAC/NBA accreditation before 2024, sources in the Education Department said. States will prepare an annual action plan in February every year for the following academic year and scholarship will be disbursed twice a year before January 26 and August 15. The amount of scholarship has been fixed at Rs 13,500 for hostelers and Rs 7,000 for day scholars pursuing degree or professional or post-graduate level degree, Rs 9,500 for hostelers and Rs 6,600 for day scholars for professional courses leading to degree or diploma. A minimum of 75 per cent attendance will be compulsory except under unavoidable circumstances or sickness and annual inspection will be mandatory for all private institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scholarships-to-sc-students-to-be-paid-through-dbt-212615
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Waste dumping on hill slopes opposed||Chamba, February 14While bringing the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Chamba Welfare Association, an NGO, has expressed deep concern over the way the construction waste and other garbage was being dumped in Sarotha nullah slope. As a sequel to this, the trees on the hill slope are being damaged and area stinking.In a statement issued here today, association president AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri lamented that that the debris from the construction sites in upper area of Chamba town from Hardaspura, Surara and other areas was being dumped on the hill slopes of Sarotha nullah near local TB hospital, turning the eco-sensitive zone into a landfill site.Bags full of muck and debris were carried in trucks from the outskirts of Chamba town stretching from Hardaspura to TB Hospital area and were being dumped in the hill slopes of Sarotha nullah near TB hospital, they revealed; pointing out that this construction waste settled down permanently on the slope and affected the ecosystem of the area.Association office-bearers regretted that the green trees were dying. It could also affect fresh growth of plants besides generating unhygienic conditions.The association had so many times brought the matter to the notice of the authorities concerned in black and white but no concrete steps had been initiated so far, the office-bearers stated.They have urged the Chief Minister to direct concerned officials to take stern measures and ensure dumping of the debris at designated places thereby checking this eco-degradation of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-dumping-on-hill-slopes-opposed-212616
15-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Congress mulls Sujan’s son for  Fatehpur bypoll||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 14The death of Congress MLA from Fatehpur Sujan Singh Pathania has set the ball rolling for the byelection in the Fatehpur Assembly constituency. Veteran Congress leader and former minister Pathania had won Fatehpur seven times. He was a tall Congress face and Rajput leader from the politically significant Kangra district.Parmar vs Baldev in BJPThe party will have to look for his replacement from Fatehpur from where Pathania had been dominating for the past about four decades. Sources said the Congress might consider his son Bhawani Singh Pathania as party candidate for the byelection. Bhawani was working as vice-president in a bank but had quit his job.If he joins politics, he could be the top choice for the Congress in the byelection. The party may also try to cash in on the sympathy wave after his death. If none from his family opts to contest, the party will have no choice but to opt for a green horn from the area.The byelection will be prestigious for the BJP. However, it is a divided house in Fatehpur and will face a challenge in bringing together splinter factions. In the 2017 Assembly elections, former BJP MP Kirpal Singh Parmar had lost to Pathania despite the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed a rally for him in the area.Parmar had to face dissidence as another party leader Baldev Thakur had contested as an Independent. Baldev Thakur was a local from Fatehpur and got sympathy for being ignored by the party. He got more votes than the official candidate of the party.Earlier, Fatehpur used to be a Brahmin constituency for the BJP as its leader Rajan Sushant used to contest against Pathania. However, Sushant left the BJP and joined the Aam Aadmi Party. In the last elections, Sushant contested as an Independent and got just 2,787 votes.The sources here said due to bitter feud between Parmer and Baldev Thakur, the BJP also might look to find some neutral candidate who could be acceptable to all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-mulls-sujans-son-for-fatehpur-bypoll-212617
15-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||FIR lodged in Solan ballot paper dumping case||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 14Uncertainty looms over the newly elected Zila Parishad (ZP) chairman in Solan district with a rival candidate exploring legal options after a bundle of 25 stamped ballot papers polled in his favour being found from the garbage of the counting centre at Dharampur yesterday.The aggrieved candidate Rajkumar Sharma was among 15 candidates, including the ZP chairman, who had contested the poll from the Darwa ward. Sharma had secured the third highest number of 1,757 votes as against 2,389 polled by Ramesh Thakur, who had won. Thakur was later elected as the ZP chairman on February 1.Action after probe: DCDeputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said due action would be taken against those found guilty after an enquiry was conducted into this case. A report would also be sent to the state Election Commissioner for further action.Former Doon MLA Ramkumar Chawdhary, while lending support to Sharma, said the Deputy Commissioner, Solan, should annul the Zila Parishad poll of Darwa ward as major irregularities have surfaced with the detection of 25 ballot papers polled in favour of Rajkumar Sharma from the garbage.He said this has put a question mark over the fair and transparent polls and it is being alleged that the bundles of the candidates, who fared at the second and third place, had been displaced during the counting.Since the BJP has elected its chairman from this ward, it seems there was a deliberate attempt to harm the electoral prospects of other candidates. He also demanded suitable action against the assistant returning officer from the State Election Commissioner.The Dharampur police, meanwhile, registered a case under section 158 L of the HP Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, on a complaint made by Rajkumar Sharma last evening. Sharma has alleged that the discovery of 25 stamped ballot papers and two sealed envelops from garbage near the counting centre at Dharampur pointed towards irregularities in the counting process. He also alleged that some more papers had also been found burnt there though the remaining garbage was found intact.The highest number of 15 candidates had contested this poll where out of the 15254 votes, which were polled, 14948 were declared valid. As many as 262 had been declared invalid and 44 had been cast in favour of NOTA. As per the norms, a candidate forfeits his security if he polls less than one-sixth of the votes. All candidates contesting from this ward had forfeited their security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fir-lodged-in-solan-ballot-paper-dumping-case-212618
15-02-2021||Solan||MC elections on party symbol  likely||Urban Development, Town and Country Planning, Housing and Parliamentary Affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj today said the ensuing MC polls for five civic bodies of Solan, Mandi, Palampur, Dharamsala and Shimla would be held before April 8.   Interacting with mediapersons at Mamlig, he said the polls would probably be held on party symbols. “The  government has notified three new MCs — Solan, Palampur and Mandi — and their number has now touched five. Solan was the most deserving MC which required to be upgraded”, said Bhardwaj. When asked whether there would direct elections for the post of mayor, he said, “The Dhumal government had conducted direct elections for the post of mayor in the MCs but the previous government had changed it. Since a majority of the civic body polls have been conducted, it was not possible to do so now and an amendment has to be made in the Act.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-elections-on-party-symbol-likely-212619
15-02-2021||Mandi||Cultural event held at Lahaul||A cultural programme was organised at Shansha village in Lahaul and Spiti as part of the snow festival. DC Pankaj Rai inaugurated the event, which was jointly organised by Shansha Shagpas Ecotourism and Live Sur Sangam.It is believed that Navnag, the local deity of the village who is considered to be a form of Lord Shiva, had a Shobha Yatra from Rualing to Fuda and from Shansha to Tholang, during which grand programmes were organised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cultural-event-held-at-lahaul-212620
15-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Congress gears up for MC poll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 14Not wanting to be seen as lagging behind, the opposition Congress is gearing up for the polls for the four prestigious municipal corporations (MC) of Dharamsala, Mandi, Solan and Palampur as committee of observers has been appointed for each body.AICC in-charge Rajeev Shukla has appointed a committee of observers for each of the four MCs. The committees, comprising senior leaders, has been entrusted with the task of formulating the poll strategy and recommending names of candidates to be fielded.Shukla has also authorised these committees to appoint election committees at the local level, consisting of district Congress committee (DCC) presidents, MLAs and other important leaders.He has also directed that president of the local frontal organisations should also be included in the local committees which will conduct the entire election process.Though it still remains uncertain whether the MC polls will be contested on party symbol or not the Congress seems to be getting into the election mode so as not to be left behind its rival BJP.The ruling BJP is keen to have the MC elections contested on party symbols to encash the charisma of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ensure that no BJP cadre vote goes to any other candidate than the party’s official nominee.While Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Kuldeep Kumar, Chander Kumar and Rajesh Dharmani have been made observers for Dharamsala, Kaul Singh Thakur, Ram Lal Thakur, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal and Jagat Singh Negi have been entrusted the task of looking after Palampur MC.Rajinder Rana, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Mohan Lal Brakta and Kewal Singh Pathania have been made conveners for Solan MC. Former minister GS Bali, Vikramaditya Singh, Sunder Thakur and Vinod Sultanpuri have been assigned the task of looking after the poll management in Mandi.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore and Congress Legislature party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri will coordinate with these four committees of observers. Rajneesh Khimta, general secretary and in-charge Organisation (HPCC) would be assisting Rathore and Agnihotri.While Dharamsala is an old MC created during the previous Congress regime, the rest three will go to the polls for the first time as they have been formed recently. Prior to this, Shimla MC was the lone MC in the state. The Congress is in control of the prestigious Dharamsala MC.Committees of observersDharamsalaPalampurSolanMandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-gears-up-for-mc-poll-212621
15-02-2021||Mandi||Delhi youth drowns in Parbati river||A 20-year-old youth Rohit of Delhi was drowned in the Parbati in the Manikaran valley of Kullu today. The mishap occurred while he was doing rock-climbing.   The police said Rohit, along with his friends, went to a riverbed near Galu Bridge during the day time. He attempted to climb a rock but he lost his balance and fell into the river. Due to the swift flow of the river, he was washed away. Till the filing of the report, the youth could not be traced. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-youth-drowns-in-parbati-river-212622
15-02-2021||Mandi||Manali-Keylong bus  from today||The HRTC will resume bus service on the Manali-Leh highway between Manali and Keylong Monday onwards.Today the HRTC depot at Keylong conducted a trial between Manali and Keylong on the Manali-Leh highway successfully.The HRTC bus service was stopped on the Manali-Leh highway between Manali and Keylong in November last year because of heavy snowfall in the region. Now, the Border Roads Organisation has restored the highway between Manali and Keylong.Mangal Manepa, Regional Manager, HRTC depot, Keylong, said, “Today we have conducted a bus trial between Manali and Keylong successfully. The HRTC will resume bus between Manali and Keylong from Monday.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-keylong-bus-from-today-212623
15-02-2021||---||Mild tremor rocks state||Shimla, February 14A low intensity earthquake rocked parts of Himachal around 3:49 pm today. The tremors, which lasted a few seconds, were felt in several parts of the state.The epicenter of the quake was in Bilaspur district and its intensity was 3.2 on Richter scale. No loss of life or property has been reported from any part of the state, official sources said.Meanwhile, weather remained dry in the region and maximum temperatures dropped marginally and stayed one to two degree above normal.Una was the hottest in the region with maximum temperature at 26.0 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mild-tremor-rocks-state-212624
15-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Illegal mining endangers bridge on Beas near Alampur||Palampur, February 14Large-scale illegal mining upstream of the Beas near Alampur has endangered the bridge over Beas linking Hamirpur with Kangra district. Illegal mining is going on close to the bridge which has become a matter of concern.Despite the fact that state agencies of both the districts are well versed with the situation no steps have been initiated either to check the illegal mining or cancel the mining lease.A visit to the spot revealed that dozen of tractors, tippers and trucks were busy upstream of the Beas in extracting the mining material near the bridge in gross violation of the directions of the NGT. The tribunal had banned mining near the bridges in the state. Five to seven feet deep trenches have been dug by the mining mafia near the bridge. Mining dept A mute spectatorVillagers told The Tribune that local panchayat had also lodged protests against the illegal mining several times but the mining department remained a mute spectator. Villagers also approached the SDM Jaisinghpur in this regard who directed the Mining Officer, Kangra, to initiate action against illegal mining but in vain.The Tribune has procured a copy of the letter from the office of SDM Jaisinghpur written to the Mining Officer, Kangra, on June 27, 2020, number 435 SDJ/MC, highlighting large-scale illegal mining in the Beas close to the bridge at Alampur which had endangered the bridge.The SDM specifically recommended the cancellation of the mining lease in the river on private or government land with immediate effect to protect the bridge. As per letter, the SDM had also visited spot and apprised the mining officer that illegal mining was being carried on on government land outside the leased area near the bridge during broad daylight and it should be stopped. A copy of the letter of SDM is in possession of the Tribune. However, in the past six months the mining department has not taken required steps to check illegal mining and the situation moved from bad to worse.Rajiv Kalia, District Mining Officer, when contacted by The Tribune, said that he had not received any such letter from SDM, Jaisinghpur. He said at present the mining was being carried out on the leased area in private land, a site approved by the state government. He said no government land had been leased by the department. It was private land which had been given on lease with the approval of the state government. He said since matter had come to his notice he would visit the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-endangers-bridge-on-beas-near-alampur-212625
15-02-2021||Hamirpur||Trials for national hockey meet today||Trials for sub-junior national championship will be held at Astroturf hockey ground at Una on February 15. This was stated by Arjuna awardee Romesh Pathania, general Secretary of Himachal hockey association here today.He said that girls and boys players from Himachal Pradesh could participate in the trials for sub junior girls and boys state teams. The selected teams would participate in the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior girls and boys national championship to be held at Simdega in Jharkhand and Narwana and Jind in Haryana.Pathania said the championships would be organized from March 10 to 21 for sub junior girls and March 17 to March 28 for boys.He said the participants should be born after January 01, 2005. It is mandatory for player to be registered on the hockey India portal. Players would also be required to bring age proof, medical and bona fide certificate of Himachal Pradesh, he added.Pathania said that international players Suresh Thakur, Didhar Singh, Ajit Kumar, Anil Khantwal, Sumanpuri, Tawi Chauhan, Sushma Sharma, Ashis Sen and Parkesh Diman would be members of selection committee for men and women teams. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trials-for-national-hockey-meet-today-212626
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur varsity to hold beekeepers’ fair||Palampur, February 14CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University will organise a golden jubilee beekeepers’ fair soon. This was stated by Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, while addressing the trainees on the conclusion of beekeeping training programme here today.Prof Chaudhary said avocations like beekeeping provide an additional source of income and some professional beekeepers were role model to others as they had been utilising rich flora to produce quality honey fetching very good price. He said due to mixed flora like locally ‘bana’ ‘gandla’ ‘basuti’, ‘safeda’, ‘tahli’ and ‘tooni’, honey of Kangra district was unique in taste, quality and medicinal value. He asked the trainees to spread the knowledge gained in the training among other farmers also.The Vice-Chancellor said the university and the State Department of Horticulture would jointly organise a state-level fair of beekeepers to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of HP Statehood at Bee Keeping Research Station, Nagrota Bagwan. He asked them to keep in touch with this research station to solve their all problems related to bee-keeping. The Vice-Chancellor also distributed certificates to 50 trainees.Dr Madhumeet Singh, Director of Extension Education, said the six days training was sponsored by the State Department of Horticulture. After the gradual improvement in the pandemic situation, a large number of trainings had been planned observing all SoPs. He also elaborated about other extension activities.Dr Desh Raj Chaudhary, Professor; Kamalsheel Negi, Deputy Director, Horticulture; Ajay Sangrai, beekeeping development officer, and Neeraj Sharma, horticulture development officer, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-varsity-to-hold-beekeepers-fair-212627
15-02-2021||---||PDS a boon to poor, needy||Shimla, February 14Himachal Pradesh is one of the pioneer states in implementing the Public Distribution System (PDS) to provide social protection by providing food security to the poor and downtrodden. The targeted PDS has been providing subsidised grain through a network of 117 wholesale godowns of HP State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and 5,017 retail fair price shops.In another initiative of the department to provide food supplies at affordable price, state subsidy scheme was introduced in 2007. Later, the scheme was modified to benefit more people. Under this scheme, subsidised sugar, pulses, edible oil and iodised salt are being provided to all ration cardholders, irrespective of the category, by the state government out of its own financial resources. During the last three years, the state government incurred an expenditure of Rs 574.81 crore under the scheme.Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the state government is providing 35 kg foodgrains (20 kg wheat/atta and 15 kg rice) to Antyodaya Anna Yojana families and 3 kg wheat/atta and 2 kg rice to priority household families.To effectively combat malnutrition and increase nutritional values of food supplies, the state government is also providing fortified wheat atta having iron, folic acid and Vitamin B12, fortified edible oil rich in Vitamin A and Vitamin D and double fortified salt rich in iodine and iron to eligible beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pds-a-boon-to-poor-needy-212628
15-02-2021||bika Sharma---||Parwanoo, Baddi toll plaza lessees seek relief in payment||Tribune News Service Solan, February 14 Parwanoo and Baddi toll plaza contractors have demanded relaxation in payment as they have incurred huge losses due to the lockdown. There are  two inter-state barriers in Parwanoo, one at Tipra and another on the   Parwanoo-Kalka highway. Their lease was renewed for Rs 12.96 crore for the financial year. It included a 10 per cent increase in its value and 1 per cent as  renewal fee. In Baddi, the toll barrier lease was renewed for around Rs 16 crore.  With lockdown adversely hitting the inflow of tourists from April to  September, toll lessees have incurred substantial losses. Though the tourism inflow has picked up, it will fail to recover the losses. “A few thousands of rupees was collected from the vehicles carrying essential goods from April to September as against the monthly collection of over a crore rupees.  Though tourist inflow picked up in September, Covid restrictions further acted as a hurdle,” said a lessee. The Parwanoo inter-state barrier  is the gateway to the state, which  leads to popular tourist destinations of Shimla, Kinnaur and Sirmaur districts.  Baddi  is the industrial hub. It, therefore, receives a sizeable inflow of vehicles from other states.  Less than 30 per cent of the expected revenue has been recovered till now from the two units. Officials of the  Excise and Taxation Department were directed not to use coercive tactics with the lessees to recover the dues as they had incurred huge losses. The lessees insisted that they should be charged on  the actual basis till September when the vehicle inflow had been reduced to a trickle. Data from the Police Department could be utilised to estimate the number of vehicles which had entered the state during this period. The government is considering over their representations though a decision is yet to be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parwanoo-baddi-toll-plaza-lessees-seek-relief-in-payment-212629
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Three held for theft||Nurpur, February 14The police yesterday arrested three persons allegedly involved in a theft case at a house in ward number 3 at Indora on January 19.As per police information. the accused have been identified as Shubham Kumar (21), Sahil, alias Labbi (20), and Manjeet Singh, alias Chottu (31). They are all local residents.Following the complaint by Baldev Singh, an FIR has been registered under various Sections of the IPC by the Indora police.The family of the complainant is living in Nagpur, Maharashtra, and his house was locked when the theft took place.The complainant had given names of some drug addicts suspected to be involved in the theft. After conducting preliminary investigations, the police had rounded up the trio who confessed to the crime.They were produced in the court that remanded them to police custody for further investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-held-for-theft-212630
15-02-2021||Dharamsala||Postal services badminton c’ship from Feb 22||The All-India Postal Services Badminton Championship will be held in the indoor stadium of Dharamsala from February 22 to 26.SP Sharma, head postmaster at Dharamsala, in a press release issued here today said hundreds of badminton players from postal services across the country would participate in the event. From Himachal Pradesh, nine players would participate. Covid protocol would be put in place for the tournament. All players would be tested for Covid infection and sanitation facilities would be provided at the entrance of the stadium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/postal-services-badminton-cship-from-feb-22-212631
15-02-2021||Shimla||Union urges state to oppose power Bill||The HP State Electricity Board Employees Union has asked the government to give a dissent note against Electricity (Amendment) Bill. The union said Power Minister RK Singh has scheduled a virtual meeting with all states on February 17 to discuss the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003.  “The amendments seek to open up power distribution for multiple players to ‘provide a choice to consumers’ as already announced in the Union Budget,” said HPSEBL Union secretary HL Verma. He said: “The ministry intends to reintroduce the concept of separation of carriage and content through the new Bill.” The union urged the CM as well as Power Minister of the state to file objections against the amendments as these were neither in the interest of the state, nor its consumers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-urges-state-to-oppose-power-bill-212632
15-02-2021||Mandi||Fagli fest celebrated with fervour in Lahaul-Spiti||Fagli festival was celebrated with traditional fervour in Lahaul Spiti today. The festival will continue for the next two days in Pattan valley of the district.According to the residents of Lahaul valley, this is a New Year festival preceding the beginning of Tibetan or Chinese calendar and is celebrated to mark the end of winter or the beginning of spring. It is celebrated in February in the entire valley on the moonless night or Amavasya.Ramesh Kumar Rulba, a resident of Patan valley, said this festival was locally known as Kus or Kuns and is the most important festival in Pattan valley.“To mark the festivity about a two-feet bamboo stick is fixed on the floor and a white bedsheet is draped around it to signify an angel dressed in white. The figure called Baraza is embellished with jewellery and marigold flowers. The delicacies are placed before it, incense is burnt, oil lamps are lit and the house is fully decorated”, said another resident Mangal Manepa.“As per rituals, the family prepares totu or dough of roasted barley flour and buttermilk. Totu is offered to deities on the rooftop and then it is distributed among the family members. Then they pay their respects to cows and sheep while expressing gratitude,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fagli-fest-celebrated-with-fervour-in-lahaul-spiti-211582
15-02-2021||Dinesh KanwarHamirpur||Nadaun artisan awarded Padma Shri||Artisan Kartar Singh Sonkhle, who created miniatures of historical buildings and celebrities in glass bottles, has been awarded Padma Shri by the Union Government in the category of art, as announced on the evening of January 25.A retired pharmacist from the Health Department, Sonkhle has been awarded Padma Shri for his exceptional skill of making miniatures in bottles with bamboo sticks. Some of them include busts of former President late APJ Abdul Kalam Azad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Eiffel Tower, Shimla Church etc. He is at present living at Nauhangi village in Nadaun subdivision of the district.Sonkhle, while speaking to mediapersons at his residence, said that doing exceptional things was his hobby and he tried to create miniatures of buildings and humans in bottles about 20 years ago. He added that it was quite difficult in the beginning but practice helped him attain perfection. He said a local NGO first acknowledged his art in 2017 and he was conferred with the Hamir Gaurav Award. He was later called to participate in an exhibition orgainsed by the state government at Bentley Castle in Shimla. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur praised his work that he said inspired him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nadaun-artisan-awarded-padma-shri-204382
