16-02-2021||NSS volunteers are helping in practicing social distancing at Government College in Sanjauli. The college reopened on February 8||NSS volunteers ensure Covid safety||SFI pays tributes to martyrsThe SFI held a meeting to pay tributes to the martyrs of the Pulwama attack and to protest in support of farmers' agitation across all colleges in Shimla district. On this occasion, the SFI demanded that all promises made to the families of the Pulwama martyrs be fulfilled, the martyred CRPF soldiers be given the status of martyrs, pension be given to CRPF jawans and farm laws be repealed.Extend last date to fill forms: ABVPThe ABVP has demanded extension in the last date for filling up the examination form for students who could not fill it because of technical reasons or poor network. The ABVP said in the last few days, because of the inclement weather, connection to Internet was disrupted due to which students could not fill up the form. The SFI, too, demanded the extension. Besides, the students' body also urged the HPU to declare pending results as early as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nss-volunteers-ensure-covid-safety-213153
16-02-2021||Garbage dumped in the drain of the main bus stand in Mandi town is blocking the drain water. Due to this||Foul smell at Mandi bus stand||— Rajesh Kumar, MandiParking lot a traffic bottleneckThe largest parking lot in the city, near the lift, has become a traffic bottleneck, especially when the flow of traffic is heavy. A few parking lots here have a single entry and exit, which causes traffic snarls, especially during peak traffic hours.— Pawan Bharadwaj, SHIMLAWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/foul-smell-at-mandi-bus-stand-213152
16-02-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Airlines invited to begin service from Bhuntar||KULLU, FEBRUARY 15To boost air connectivity to the region, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has sent invitations from various airlines to operate smaller aircraft from the Kullu-Manali airport at Bhuntar.Airstrip suitable for smaller aircraftAt present only one flight by Alliance Air operates daily between Delhi and Kullu. The airline is using ATR 72 aircraft having seating capacity of 70 persons but due to load restrictions because of short runway of Bhuntar airport, the aircraft is only allowed to carry around 20 passengers while departing from Kullu. This makes the operations commercially unviable. Ticket prices on the route are exorbitant.Kullu-Manali airport director Neeraj Kumar Srivastava said that invitations have been sent to various airlines to start operations to this tourist destination. He said that the airstrip is suitable for smaller aircraft like ATR 42-600 having 48 seats. The airlines can analyze the commercial viability of flying smaller aircraft, Srivastava said.Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma had raised the matter during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha and appealed to the government to direct various airlines to carry out operations to Kullu. He said that about a decade ago about four flights used to operate daily between Kullu and Delhi but now only one flight is operational.Sharma said that due to load stipulation, the airfare from Kullu to Delhi ranged from Rs 18,000 to Rs 22,000. If aircraft, commercially suitable for smaller runways, are operated here the airfares will be reduced considerably.Aviation experts said that the Delhi-Kullu was a profitable sector and many airlines like Jagson, Archana, MDLR, etc had launched their operations in this sector. They said that bigger airlines like Kingfisher and Air Deccan had also included this sector in their itinerary and reaped profits. They added that airfares from Kullu were amongst the highest for flights of such small duration. Still the seats are not easily available during the peak summer season.Sources in Air India stated that an agreement had been signed with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to procure two Dornier aircraft having 19 seats each. They said that the induction of these aircraft will be done going through a process which was time consuming. Their route plan will be decided later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/airlines-invited-to-begin-service-from-bhuntar-213111
16-02-2021||Subhash Rajta---||Uneducated do better than grads in rural poll||Tribune News Service Shimla, February 15 Uneducated contestants have fared better than postgraduate and graduate contestants in the recently concluded elections for the Panchayati Raj Institutions in the state.  While the uneducated contestants enjoyed an impressive strike rate of 32.32 per cent, the success rate of postgraduates and graduates was 25.1 per cent and 26.3 per cent.  Interestingly, the second best performers behind the uneducated candidates are those who could not complete their matriculation – they secured a strike rate of 29.32. The success rate of matriculates and Class XII is almost the same as that of graduates and postgraduates, around 25-26 per cent.   As per the Election Commission record, 1,553 uneducated candidates threw their hat in the electoral ring, with 502 (32.32 per cent) tasting victory. As for postgraduates, of the total of 3,439 contestants, only 866 ended up victorious (25.1 per cent).  The other figures that point towards voters’ preference for the uneducated is the difference in the percentage of nominations received and candidates elected.  While the uneducated were just 1.6 per cent of the total nominations filed, their number rose to 1.9 per cent among the candidates elected. For postgraduates, graduates, Class XII and matriculate candidates, the percentage of candidates elected was less than nominations received. Just like among the uneducated candidates, the percentage of candidates elected was greater than nominations received for candidates with qualification less than matric.   The saving grace for the highly educated against the uneducated came in the elections for the urban local bodies. Unlike in the PRI elections, voters preferred postgraduates and graduates over the uneducated candidates in the elections. In the ULB elections, as against the strike rate of 20 per cent by the uneducated, the success rate of postgraduates and graduates was 33.6 per cent and 28.4 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uneducated-do-better-than-grads-in-rural-poll-213113
16-02-2021||Kullu||243 missing since July 2019 traced||The Kullu police have been a front-runner in all spheres related to crime and public safety and have scaled many feats in the recent past. The Missing Person Cells of various police stations of Kullu district have traced 243 missing persons, including children, since July 2019. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said in 2021, till date, 13 missing persons had been traced in which all are adults (three males and 10 females).  He said a total of 123 missing persons were traced in 2020, among whom 106 are adults (45 males and 61 females) and 17 are children (seven boys and 10 girls). He added that 107 persons were traced by the police between July to December 2019. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/243-missing-since-july-2019-traced-213115
16-02-2021||Palampur||Gloom in village  over youth’s death in Chamoli||A pall of gloom descended on Bundla village here today as soon as the news of the death  of Rakesh Kapoor,   who was working in the Rishiganga Hydel Project in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand.  He had been missing since February 7. Rakesh’s body was recovered from a tunnel where he was on duty when the tragedy occurred.  Rakesh was working  as Project Manager  in   the Rishiganga project  and had joined duty in November last year. The villagers were  waiting for the body to reach Palampur  from Chamoli.   Rakesh had expertise in the D-Tank technology  in hydroelectric  projects. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family over Rakesh’s death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gloom-in-village-over-youths-death-in-chamoli-213116
16-02-2021||Chamba||Chamba's Government Millennium Polytechnic, Jalandhar NIT sign MoU||Government Millennium Polytechnic, Chamba, and Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, signed an MoU for skill development here last week.The MoU will help the Chamba institute in arranging training, skill development and guest lecturers for students, besides faculty development programmes.The MoU was signed by Dr Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT, Jalandhar, and Puneet Mahajan, Principal, Government Millennium Polytechnic, Chamba. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chambas-government-millennium-polytechnic-jalandhar-nit-sign-mou-213119
16-02-2021||---||African held with heroin||Mandi, February 15 The Kullu police has arrested a drug supplier, an African national, from Delhi along with 35 gm heroin. The accused was supplying drugs in the district. On a tip-off, a police team went to Delhi and nabbed the accused. Gaurav Singh, SP, Kullu, said Daniel (27) was an African national. He was involved in the supply of drugs to Himachal. The accused was living in Delhi without a valid visa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/african-held-with-heroin-213120
16-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Traders rue re-imposition of fee on poultry, agro products||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 15Wholesale traders selling various poultry and agro products such as eggs, milk, sugar, jaggery, pulses, etc, outside the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) are up in arms against the state government for reimposing market fee on them.The government had suspended the implementation of the Himachal Pradesh Agriculture and Horticulture Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2005, which allows the government to collect the market fee, after the enactment of the three Central farm laws last year.At a time when farmers are protesting the enactment of the three farm laws, the traders in the state are feeling aggrieved at the decision to put on hold their implementation. The government earns crores of rupees as market fee every year and it has lost revenue after it was suspended.After the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Central laws on January 12, all state governments were directed by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare to comply with the directions. The market fee has once again been reimposed on these commodities sold by wholesale traders.Mukesh Gupta, president, Solan Beopar Mandal, said, “It is not fair to impose one per cent market fee on essential commodities such as milk, lentil, jaggery and sugar, which are neither produced locally nor sold at the mandis in the state. Traders had heaved a sigh of relief when this fee was suspended after the Central farm laws were enacted but its re-imposition entails an undue monetary burden”.The Solan Beopar Mandal has also made a representation to the Chief Minister to not impose the market fee on various poultry and agro products sold by the wholesale traders operating outside the APMCs.The APMCs have closed check posts erected along the national highways in June 2020, where this fee was collected. All employees posted there have also been directed to report at the APMC offices after the implementation of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Production and Fcailitation) Ordinance, 2020. This arrangement will once again resume.Sanjeev Kashyap, Chairman of Solan APMC, said that since the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the Central laws, the government had re-imposed the market fee on traders operating outside the APMCs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traders-rue-re-imposition-of-fee-on-poultry-agro-products-213122
16-02-2021||Shimla||Power demand picks up, generation falls||Power demand is shooting up in the state. At the moment, the demand for power per day is varying between 325 lakh units (lu) and 335 lu. “This winter, the demand for power is very high. Last year, it was around 310 lu per day around this time. The demand is at least 5 lu to 10 lu more than we had anticipated,” said a senior HPSEBL official.“The fact that demand has peaked during the pandemic is even more surprising. It shows that the impact of Covid is over on the industrial sector in the state,” he said.Even as the demand has peaked, the generation has dropped to 20 per cent. “The power generation has dropped to 20 per cent of the Plant Load Factor,” he said. Even as the drop in generation is on expected lines in winters, the drop has been more as compared to last year. “While the snow-fed water sources have frozen, the rain-fed sources, too, have comparatively less water because of less rain in the last few months,” the official said.The state is forced to buy power from outside to meet the demand. “We are managing around 305 lu per day through our own generation, purchase agreements and banking system. The shortfall of around 15 to 20 lu is managed through exchange buying at current prices,” he said.The official said buying through banking system will continue towards the end of March and the state will start selling power in second half of May. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-demand-picks-up-generation-falls-213123
16-02-2021||---||Recovery of ZP ballot papers to be probed||Solan, February 15Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman today directed the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Solan, Anurag Chander Sharma, to conduct in two days an inquiry into the stamped ballot papers and other poll material relating to the recent Zila Parishad (ZP) elections recovered from garbage outside a counting centre at Dharampur on Saturday.The district administration is mulling action against the erring staff as the case has become a major embarrassment for it. Though the Zila Parishad elections were conducted smoothly, the incident has cast a shadow on the poll process.A passerby had found a bundle of 25 ballot papers polled in favour of one of the candidates Rajkumar Sharma and two envelops dumped in garbage. Sharma had unsuccessfully contested the Zila Parishad elections from Darwa ward.Chaman said that all candidates, who had contested the Zila Parishad poll, were at the centre when the counting took place and no objection was received from any one of them. The results, too, were announced as per the process without any controversy. The inquiry would look into why and how the lapse took place, as it seemed the bundle and other sealed envelops went missing before the entire material was sealed. Due action would be taken against those found responsible and a report would also be sent to the State Election Commissioner, he added.ADC Sharma, who has begun the inquiry, said that two days had been granted to enquire into the incident. All officials concerned, including the Tehsildar, who was the returning officer, Block Development Officer, who was the assistant returning officer, as well as other poll staff were being included in the inquiry to know how the lapse took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recovery-of-zp-ballot-papers-to-be-probed-213126
16-02-2021||---||Crime in virtual world area specific||Shimla, February 15 The categorisation of cyber crime cases reported in cyber police station Shimla has revealed that the crime in the virtual world has become area specific. The location of mobile phones and IP address of online transactions pointed out that criminals from Mewat area of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan are involved in OLX fraud, payments fraud using QR code, blackmailing after recording nude videos of Facebook and Whatsaap, said ASP Cyber crime Narvir Singh Rathore. He said that frauds related to SIM upgradation, e-Sim, token payment and UPI frauds originated from Jharkhand, Bihar and some districts of West Bengal while gangs making and using fake websites, e-commerce and frauds related to government schemes are active in north Rajasthan and south Bihar. Miscreants in the NCR areas like Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad are involved in cyber crimes pertaining to cheating in the name of jobs and insurance.  These gangs are operating call centres, said Rathore adding that the miscreants use bank accounts opened on fake KYC and SIM activated through fake customer application forms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crime-in-virtual-world-area-specific-213128
16-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Cultural items mark Spiti snow festival||Kullu, February 15 Cultural programmes were presented on the 22nd day of the snow festival at Chicham village in the Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district today. Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda was the chief guest on the occasion. Various cultural items were presented by local artistes wearing colourful traditional costumes. Women presented traditional ‘tashi’ dance while men presented ‘gahar’ dance. An archery competition was also organised.  A variety of sculptures crafted from snow such as a statue of the Buddha, red fox, ibex and bule sheep remained the centre of attraction. Traditional utensils of stone were exhibited. These are used by the people of the region even today.   The minister said that the snow festival was aimed at promoting tribal culture and traditions and link it with tourism to strengthen the economy of the locals.  He added, “We do not have to run away from our rich culture and rather promote it to generate employment”.  Markanda announced Rs 10,000 for the Mahila Mandal of Chicham. He said that a multi-purpose building would be constructed at Chicham. The possibility of making water for drinking and irrigation purposes from the Benak Donam drain for Ladarcha Maidan would be explored. Kaza ADM Gyan Sagar Negi, Assistant Commissioner Vikas Mahender Pratap, DSP Sushant Sharma, and DFO Hardev Negi were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cultural-items-mark-spiti-snow-festival-213129
16-02-2021||Shimla||Met predicts rain, snow on Feb 21||The weather remained dry across the state today, the Meteorological department said. The Met office has forecast rain and snowfall in high hills of the state on February 21. The tribal Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in Himachal at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 0.5 degree Celsius.   Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie recorded a low of 1.8, 6.2 and 6.8 degrees Celsius respectively.  Shimla recorded a low of 7.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-rain-snow-on-feb-21-213131
16-02-2021||Shimla||21 new cases, no fatality in Himachal||With 21 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh reached 58,243.There was no Covid death in the last 24 hours in the state, keeping the fatality figure at 981. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/21-new-cases-no-fatality-in-himachal-213132
16-02-2021||---||Schools open with 40% attendance||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 15Around 40 per cent students of winter-closing schools attended classes today as the schools reopened in strict adherence to standard-operating procedures (SOPs) almost after 11 months due to Covid.RESPONSE GOOD IN SHIMLA: OFFICIALThe response was good in Shimla district (60 per cent) while in tribal Kinnaur, the attendance was a mere 14 per cent. — Amarjeet Sharma, director, higher education94.6% attend schools in lahaul & SpitiRegular classes for students of Class V and Class VIII-XII resumed.The response was good in Shimla district (60 per cent) while in tribal Kinnaur, the attendance was mere 14 per cent, said the Director, Higher Education, adding that information from some districts was still awaited. However, the attendance in summer-closing schools, opened on February 1, has increased to 80 per cent and tribal Lahaul and Spiti district witnessed 94.67 per cent attendance.There are 15,591 government schools in the state, including 10,716 primary schools, 2,038 middle schools and 2,729 high and senior secondary schools of which about 65 per cent are summer-closing while 35 per cent are winter-closing schools.Micro plans for the students are made by schools and, besides staggering classes and different timings, sanitising of classrooms, thermal screening of students and crowding at entry and exit points will be avoided.Schools with large number of students opted for double shifts.Meanwhile, following complaints from parents that the hostels are unclean and not sanitised, a team of the HigherEducation Department made a surprise inspection of the hostels of St Bede’s College and found complaints to be true.Some parents had alleged that that the students themselves spruced up the rooms and even the articles left by old students were not removed. The college management has taken the hosteland mess fee but classes are being held twice a week and the parentsare anxious that what the students will do the restof the week.“Officials of the department found that hostel rooms were unclean and the SOPs were not complied with. The management has been warned,” said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.A warning has been issued and further action would follow, he said, adding that the college had charged Rs 55,000as hostel and other fee whereas the classeswould be held twice a week which had norationale. Directions would be issued to hold classes on all working days for hostellers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/schools-open-with-40-attendance-213134
16-02-2021||---||Three months on, HRTC resumes service on Manali-Leh highway||Mandi, February 15The HRTC resumed its bus service between Manali and Keylong via Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway today after a gap of around three months. The opening of the tunnel will provide transportation facility to Manali and the areas beyond to the residents of Lahaul valley during winter season.Trial conducted on SundayThe HRTC had conducted a bus trial on this road on Sunday. As it resumed service on Monday, 23 persons travelled from Manali to Lahaul and an equal number of people travelled from Lahaul to Manali in this bus.“The Border Roads Organisation has restored the highway from the Manali side in Kullu up to Keylong in Lahaul Spiti via Atal Tunnel for the movement of vehicles. The HRTC yesterday conducted a bus trial on the highway. As the trial was successful, it was decided to resume bus service on this route”, Regional Manager, HRTC Depot at Keylong, Mangal Manepa said.“Today 23 persons travelled from Manali to Lahaul and an equal number of people travelled from Lahaul to Manali in this bus. The bus service was suspended on this route last year in November after heavy snowfall. Now, the bus service will continue on this route in the coming days depending on weather conditions”, he remarked.The residents of Lahaul valley are delighted by the decision of the HRTC authorities to resume bus service on the route. This will provide easy movement to tourists as well as local residents living in the Lahaul valley.The residents of the Lahaul valley told The Tribune: “The opening of Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway has transformed our lives and brought happiness. It is the first winter season when bus service has been resumed after a gap of just three months.”Kishan Kumar, Anil Sehgal, Prem Lal and many other residents of Lahaul said: “With the start of bus service, the tourists will be able to reach Lahaul valley from Manali to enjoy the ongoing snow festival. Prior to the construction of Atal Tunnel, the residents of the Lahaul valley used to remain cut off from the rest of the state for more than six months every year because of heavy snowfall on the 13,058 feet high Rohtang Pass, the gateway to Lahaul-Spiti. Due to that the residents of the valley had to depend on helicopter service provided by the state government in emergency cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-months-on-hrtc-resumes-service-on-manali-leh-highway-213135
16-02-2021||Shimla||2K given training by handicrafts corporation||Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation Ltd vice-chairman Sanjeev Katwal said the corporation was implementing about 26 schemes in the state under which more than 2,000 persons were trained for various trades to make them independent. He said around 900 training centres were being operated in the state and 100 were in rural areas. He said special efforts were being made by the corporation to impart training to weavers and artisans in making Chamba rumal, mufflers, gloves, caps, Kangra paintings etc. Katwal said recently, a training camp on weaving was organised in Totu in Shimla. About 20 women were trained in this camp, who were given a daily payment of Rs 300. In this way, during the training period, each woman earned Rs 14,400, along with the training. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2k-given-training-by-handicrafts-corporation-213137
16-02-2021||Hamirpur||Plaints against mining mafia increasing , says minister||The mining authorities must keep an eye on illegal mining activities in the district and the administration should also be vigilant against the menace, asserted Sarveen Chaudhary, Social Justice Minister.  She was addressing a Jan Manch programme at Jhagadiyani village near here.  She said the government had zero tolerance towards mining mafia’s activities but it was unfortunate that complaints pertaining illegal mining were increasing from the district.  Pertinently, there were reports that mining mafia had encroached upon hundreds of kanals of land area and earth excavation machines like JCBs and excavators were being used for mining.  Chaudhary directed the mining department authorities to address public grievances pertaining to the mining mafia. Earlier, the Social Justice Minister addressed public grievances and resolved over 54 issues during the Jan Manch programme. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plaints-against-mining-mafia-increasing-says-minister-213138
16-02-2021||---||Pensioners demand constitution of JCC||Shimla, February 15 Pensioners and family pensioners of the state are up in arms against the government for not fulfilling its promises and forcing the senior citizens to knock the doors of courts. “Such a treatment had never been meted out to pensioners. Instead of implementing the orders of the high court, the government is challenging the pro-pensioner orders in the Supreme Court. It was dragging the pensioners to court, causing them great hardship,” said general secretary of Pensioners Welfare Association, Himachal Pradesh, Hari Chand Gupta. “The office-bearers of the association are under pressure from pensioners to adopt a path of agitation. We hope that the government would not force the pensioners to come to roads to express their resentment”, he added. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced at Sundernagar on All India Pensioners Day on December 17, 2018, to constitute a joint consultative committee (JCC) to address and resolve the demands of pensioners but it seems he has forgotten his assurance as no action has been taken on any demand, he said. The promise to constitute the JCC was made in the presence of 15,000 pensioners, about a dozen MLAs and local MP.  The association requests the CM to fulfill his promise without any further delay, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pensioners-demand-constitution-of-jcc-213139
16-02-2021||ibune News Service---||Illegal mining goes on unabated in Mandi||Mandi, February 15  Illegal mining is rampant in the riverbeds of Beas, Suketi, Kansa, Luhardi and Sone in various parts of the district. It is going on unabated in broad daylight on government as well as private land. The Mining Department has allocated a tract of land for mining in the district.   A few residents of Balh valley said illegal mining had been rampant in the valley for the last one year. Mining mafias have constructed link roads to enter riverbeds. It is posing a threat to the ecology of the area.  Illegal mining is also rampant on private land in the Balh valley. Data availed by The Tribune from the Mining Department revealed that from April 2018 to November 2020, a total of 248 cases of illegal mining were detected in the Balh subdivision of Mandi and Rs 10.19 lakh fine was imposed on offenders.  District mining officer Shailja Chaudhari said, “The authorities are struggling to check illegal mining in the district. In 2020-21, 347 cases of illegal mining were detected in the district, in which the department imposed a fine of Rs 12.55 lakh on offenders.”  She said the role of the common man was important to check the menace. “People who want to do mining on their private land in the district are advised to contact the Mining Department to seek permission. Without legal permission, no person is allowed to do mining on his private land,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-goes-on-unabated-in-mandi-213141
16-02-2021||---||Home Guard jawan dies in hospital||Solan, February 15 A Home Guard sleuth, Surjit, posted at the Behral inter-state barrier in Paonta Sahib subdivision, who was grievously injured when a speeding tractor crushed him on February 2, succumbed to his injuries at the PGI in Chandigarh today. Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said a speeding tractor, which was carrying quarry material, had broken the barrier and Surjit who was standing at its far end was crushed and dragged some distance with it on the night of February 2.  This caused him grievous injuries and he was rushed to the PGI in Chandigarh.  The incident had occurred when the tractor had overtaken a truck which was also crossing the barrier. He hails from the Aanj Bhoj area of Sirmaur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/home-guard-jawan-dies-in-hospital-213142
16-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Manu Dham to be  research institute||Hamirpur, February 15 The research on history of the country is important to bring the fact to the fore and educate people about the rich cultural heritage and traditions. Manu Dham in Manali will be established as advanced research institute.  This was stated by Govind Singh Thakur, Education Minister, while addressing a gathering at the Itihas Shodh Sansthan at Neri near here today. The function was organised to mark the 106th birth anniversary of Thakur Ram Singh, a revolutionary founder member of the RSS.  He said the journey of Thakur Ram Singh was historic and would be remembered forever. Govind said Thakur Ram Singh had researched significantly to bring out the facts of history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manu-dham-to-be-research-institute-213144
16-02-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Uranium deposits found at 2 Himachal Pradesh sites||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 15The Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has confirmed that “small deposits” of uranium were found at Kasha Kaladi in Shimla and Tileli in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh.Also readSC okays diversion of forest land for 138 big projects in HimachalState 10th on list of mines200 tonnes of triuranium octoxide at Kasha Kaladi (Shimla)220 tonnes at Tileli (Mandi)1,95,751 tonnes in top producer Andhra3,45,362 tonnes spread over 11 statesWhile Kasha Kaladi has an estimated 200 tonnes of triuranium octoxide, which is enough to produce 170 tonnes of uranium, Tileli has 220 tonnes of triuranium octoxide (186 tonnes of uranium). The largest deposit in the state (364 tonnes of triuranium octoxide) is at Rajpura in Una district.The size of the find has put Himachal Pradesh at the 10th position among 11 states in the country where uranium has been traced. Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Meghalaya occupy the top three positions, respectively.Earlier, uranium extracts were found during digging operations at Lambehra village in Hamirpur district.Uranium Corporation of India Limited has come up with a plan to meet the target of attaining self-sufficiency in uranium production by 2031-32. It includes maintaining supply from existing facilities, increasing capacity of existing mines and exploring new locations.The Himachal Industry Department claims that uranium deposits had been found at 11 locations, including Hamirpur. There is, however, no mention of the village among the sites listed by Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (Hyderabad), the exploration arm of the DAE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uranium-deposits-found-at-2-himachal-pradesh-sites-212973
16-02-2021||Satya Prakash||SC okays diversion of forest land for 138 big projects in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 15The Supreme Court today gave clearance to 138 projects, including several hydro and one hybrid electric projects, involving diversion of 614 hectares in Himachal Pradesh that had been hanging fire for several years.3-judge bench orderA three-judge Green Bench headed by CJI SA Bobde gave the green signal for 289 other projects involving diversion of 122 hectare forest land subject to certain conditions. Under an earlier verdict of the top court, permission of the Green Bench is needed for diversion of forest land for any other purpose.The order covers diversion of forest land for construction of an Indian Institute of Technology, a degree college, schools, hospitals, roads, community and anganwari centres and other development projects. With regard to 96 other projects, it said,“The DFO concerned is permitted to process, examine and decide the grant of permission and if permission is so granted, such projects can be implemented and allowed to commence and complete.”The Bench, which also included Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian, also gave the go-ahead to Rs 1,337-crore Green Corridor National Highway project of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. It also gave approval for the construction of two-lane NH 20A (new NH 503) at a cost of Rs 61.48 crore.While the first highway project involved a diversion of around 50 hectare forest land the second one would require a diversion of more than seven hectares.The state government had moved five applications praying for various reliefs, including the diversion of forest land to small extents for the purpose of carrying out certain public welfare projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-okays-diversion-of-forest-land-for-138-big-projects-in-himachal-212984
