17-02-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Police arrest two with three leopard hides in Dehra||Dehra police arrested two motorcycle riders on Tuesday with three leopard hides in Kangra district. They had set up a naka at Kundlihaar village, the police informed.The motorcycle was coming from Dehra side when the bikers spotted the police team, and fled, but the police team chased them and nabbed the duo.DSP Dehra Ankit Sharma said three bullet ridden leopard hides were recovered from their possession, and after preliminary investigations the two accused, hailing from Majeen village, had been arrested.The DSP said more people were involved in the crime, but were still at large.A case under section 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act, section 25 of the Indian Arms act and 34 of the IPChad been lodged in this connection.As per information, the international market value of the confiscated leopard hides is stated to Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-arrest-two-with-three-leopard-hides-in-dehra-213768
17-02-2021||Shimla||Mild snow, rain in Shimla, nearby areas, mercury dips||People in Shimla and its surrounding areas had a pleasant surprise as weather changed suddenly and the state capital experienced mild snowfall, accompanied by thunderstorm and rain.The region had a clear day in the morning and chilly winds swept the town but dark clouds overcast the sky, reducing the visibility to a few metres.Vehicular traffic was hit due to poor visibility and vehicles were forced to move at a snail’s pace with headlights on even during the day. Some other districts in the mid hills such as Kullu, Mandi, Sirmaur, Solan, Kangra, Chamba, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur also experienced rains and snow.While the snow did not last long in Shimla town and melted soon, Jakoo hill was covered under thin coating of snow while adjoining tourist destination of Kufri recorded 3 cm snow. The day temperature fell sharply but people braved the cold wave conditions to enjoy the snow.People were seen enjoying the snow at the Ridge and The Mall Road. “We have witnessed snowfall for the first time and it is so beautiful,” said Manish from Punjab who was accompanied by his wife.The local MeT office had predicted dry weather in lower and mid hills for the next six days from February 17 to February 22 and rains and snow in higher hills on February 21 and 22.Meanwhile, the day temperatures rose in lower hills. Una was the hottest with a high of 28.0 degree, five degree above normal, while Nahan and Sundernagar recorded day temperatures at 24.0 degree and 23.9 degree, followed by Solan 23.5 degree, Dharamsala 18.6 degree, Shimla and Manali 16.5 degree, Kalpa 11.6 degree, Kufri 8.5 degree and Keylong 3.9 degree.The state received 52.9 mm average rains from January 1 to February 16 against the normal rainfall of 143.6 mm, a deficit of 63 per cent. All 12 districts received deficit rains ranging between 32 per cent (Solan) and 76 per cent (Bilaspur).The minimum temperatures also dropped marginally. Keylong was coldest during the night with a low of minus 6.0 degree, followed by Kalpa minus 1.5 degree, Manali 1.8 degree Sundernagar 4.1 degree and Shimla 6.6 degree.Snow is considered white manure for apple and low temperatures would provide the required chilling hours while rains in low hills would be beneficial for Rabi crops. The hoteliers are pinning hope that snowfall would increase tourist footfall to the capital city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mild-snow-rain-in-shimla-nearby-areas-mercury-dips-213542
17-02-2021||Kullu||Snow Shivalingam major tourist attraction||A huge snow Shivalingam has become the centre of attraction among tourists at Anjani Mahadev near Solang nullah in the Manali subdivision of the district. Tourists are flocking to see the natural Shivalingam at an altitude of 11,500 ft.The Shivalingam is formed from frozen waterfall and its size increases during winters till the last week of February. People generally visit the holy spot after April, but this year the area witnessed heavy tourist influx.It is believed that during the Treta Yuga, Goddess Anjani did penance to attain a son and Lord Shiva appeared. Since then, there has been a natural snow Shivalingam here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-shivalingam-major-tourist-attraction-213543
17-02-2021||Kullu||Snow sculptures, cultural items mark Kaza festival||Sculptures of Ki Monastery and snow leopard carved from snow were inaugurated by Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda during the snow festival at Kaza in the Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district today.The minister lauded the efforts of artisans Manoj Kumar and his team who had made the sculptures. He said youth of the region could be trained for snow crafting. This would generate employment avenues as these sculptures were fascinating and could become a tourist attraction.The minister said people were getting an opportunity to showcase their skills related to art and culture and handicrafts through the snow festival. He said the festival would prove effective in boosting adventure, cultural and religious tourism in the valley and would be celebrated every year. The ‘utsav’ is mainly held to appease Kartikeya, son of Lord Shiva, and prayers are offered to local deities. The villagers danced to the tunes of traditional instruments along the bonfire during the ‘utsav’. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-sculptures-cultural-items-mark-kaza-festival-213544
17-02-2021||THE drains of new shopping complex near bus stand in Hamirpur are choked. The blocked water||Choked drain irks residents||Erratic power supplylIFE has become very difficult over the past few days because of erratic supply of electricity and over voltage at times. The transformer installed at Bhagwati Nagar bus stop is apparently the root cause of the inconvenience. On February 13, due to short-circuit in the evening followed by a series of malfunctions, there was a significant loss and damage caused to household appliances such as bulbs, tube lights and heaters etc. in the locality. Besides financial losses, people working from home also had a tough time because of erratic power supply. The authorities concerned are requested to look into the issue and take get the needful done immediately. — Kritika Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/choked-drain-irks-residents-213545
17-02-2021||Gurukul International Senior Secondary School celebrated the festival of Basant Panchami. Vice-Principal Sunita Thakur||Basant Panchami celebrated||HPU extends date for EXAM formsHimachal Pradesh University has extended the date for submission of examination forms without late fees in respect of all post graduate degree/courses, both for regular and reappear candidates, till February 26.HPAS main exam result outHimachal Pradesh Public Service Commission on Tuesday declared the result of Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services Combined Competitive (Main) Examination-2019 (HPAS). A total of 546 candidates were declared qualified for main written examination, out of which 440 candidates appeared in the exam held in December last year. A total 50 candidates have qualified the main written examination for personality test. The candidates who have qualified the HPAS Combined Competitive (Main) Examination-2019 will be interviewed from March 3 to March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/basant-panchami-celebrated-213546
17-02-2021||Shimla||SC order will help complete 605 pending projects: CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said 605 projects which had been delayed for want of forest clearances would now be completed following Supreme Court directives.He said the total forest land involved in all these projects was 685.58 hectares and had been pending for want of clearance under the Forest Conservation Act and the Forest Rights Act (FRA). “Several important development projects had been delayed for want of approval from the Union Minister of Forest and Environment,” he stated.Big push for state's development He said two major projects which had been given nod were Rs 1,337-crore Green Corridor National Highway, Sirmaur, and two-lane National Highway 20A (New NH 503), Dharamsala, worth Rs 61.48 crore sanctioned by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The Rs 46.80-crore Dhaulasidh Hydro Electric Project in Hamirpur had also been approved.The Chief Minister said out of these 605 projects, the Supreme Court had permitted FCA clearances to 138 projects which included 20 electric projects, 88 road projects, five each of drinking water projects, three bus stand projects, two degree colleges, treasury office buildings and sewage treatment plants.These approved projects also included IIT-Kamand, schools, car parking lots, sub market yard, police post, gau sadan, ropeway Manali, helipads, bridges and Shiv Dham Mandi project.Thakur said apart from this, the Supreme Court had also permitted 465 projects under the FRA, which include 334 road projects, 53 schools, 20 community centres, 18 drinking water supply and water pipeline projects, 13 tanks, 10 dispensaries and hospitals, seven anganwaris, sixskill upgrade or vocational training centres, minor irrigation channel rain water harvesting structures. The list of projects also approved transmission lines and substation.The Chief Minister thanked the Union Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being considerate towards developmental aspirations of the people of the state and effectively taking up the issue before the apex court. The Chief Minister said all these projects were held up for long and the work could not be taken up on account of directions contained in the court order of March 11, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-order-will-help-complete-605-pending-projects-cm-213547
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Shoolini Chancellor sums up life journey in memoir||Prof Prem Kumar Khosla, Chancellor of Shoolini University, has released his autobiography ‘Trysts with Karma’.“I had apprehensions like why would anyone read my autobiography. But when I started writing, I was able to make sense of it. Right from Partition to the current Covid times, I have tried to sum up my life in 35 chapters,” says Prof Khosla.The octogenarian has steered the university for 11 years since its inception in 2013. He says, “Research plays an important role in everything you do. When I was writing, I studied books like ‘Garuda Purana’ and ‘Shiva Purana’ to do justice to what I wanted to say.”Prof Khosla says he made no efforts to hide facts or incidents that might portray him in poor light. “While I tried to be 100 per cent honest, there are still things I couldn’t talk about openly, like corruption in the education sector. My wife, Saroj, gave me reality checks to tone it down,” says the author.His life has been influenced by Paramahansa Yogananda and his teachings prompted him to follow the science of Kriya Yoga. “This technique keeps me energised even at the age of 82…. It keeps me actively calm and calmly active. So I decided to dedicate this book to the science of Kriya Yoga,” he says.When asked whether he plans to write another book, he says, “Yes. A few days ago, I asked a student to do research on Bhagavad Gita and its interpretation through the ages by various scholars. I would definitely like to co-author it.”The 300-page autobiography was released by Vishnu Prakash, former Indian envoy to Canada and South Korea, at a virtual function last week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-chancellor-sums-up-life-journey-in-memoir-213548
17-02-2021||Mandi||Mandi royal family scion Ashok Pal Sen passes away||Ashok Pal Sen (91), scion of the Mandi royal family, died today at his residence here. He was the son of Late Joginder Pal Sen, king of Mandi state during the British rule.Family sources said he was unwell for the past few days. His condition deteriorated this morning.Congress and BJP leaders expressed condolences to the bereaved family. His funeral will be held tomorrow on the banks of the Beas. He is survived by a son and a daughter.KK Nutan, a prominent writer and historian of Mandi town, said, “Ashok Pal Sen was like a younger brother to me. The Mandi royal family contributed significantly to the development of Mandi town before Independence. Raja Siddhi Sen, the 10th king of Mandi state, made Mandi town ‘Shiva nagri’ (the town of Lord Shiva) by constructing 14 unique temples.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-royal-family-scion-ashok-pal-sen-passes-away-213549
17-02-2021||Shimla||Gender ratio improves in Shimla district||The gender ratio has improved to 999.72 in Shimla, thanks to the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign carried out by the Women and Child Development Department.The programme aims at creating awareness about girl child and an important component of it is “Ananya” under which girls are encouraged and several other events are organised to honour them, said Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, adding that the programme was mainly responsible for improving the gender ratio.Presiding over a function to inaugurate the awareness camp, Negi exhorted the departmental functionaries to consider creating awareness about girl child as their moral duty and focus on far-flung areas.The objective of the additional component was to honour the girls excelling in field of education, sports and other activities so that they emerge as role models and help in changing the obscurant mindset, he said adding that lectures on domestic violence, gender sensitisation, cyber crime, pre-natal sex determination test and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act) were also being organised at awareness camps.Himachal Pradesh University Public Administration Prof Mamta Mokta spoke on gender sensitisation, Judge Vikas Gupta and Advocate Kiran on domestic violence and SP Praveer Thakur talked about the POCSO Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gender-ratio-improves-in-shimla-district-213550
17-02-2021||Shimla||19 new Covid cases in Himachal||With 19 new Covid cases reported today, the total number of cases in Himachal has reached 58,262. No death was reported in the last 24 hours, keeping the fatality figure at 981.The highest seven cases were reported in Sirmaur, five in Kangra, two each in Solan and Kullu and one each in Una, Mandi and Shimla. The total number of active cases in the state is 370. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-213551
17-02-2021||Dinesh KanwarHamirpur||Encroachment on Hamirpur school land||The Education Department has allegedly turned a blind eye towards encroachment on the land of Government Senior Secondary School for Boys in the town. It is alleged that many people had raised buildings on the school land and the department is mum.A property dealer in the town said the value of the encroached land could be over Rs 2 crore.Sources said the principal of the school had urged the revenue authorities for demarcation and brought the matter to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner and the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, but the demarcation process had yet not started.Neena Dogra, Principal of school, said she came to know about the encroachments after she joined here. She said an application for the demarcation of the school land was sent to the tehsildar two months ago, but there was no response from the tehsildar’s office. The education and school authorities would only be able to act after the school’s land was demarcated, she added. Ashok Pathania, tehsildar, said the Revenue Department would conduct the demarcation of the school land at the earliest. The school principal had sent a request for the demarcation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/encroachment-on-hamirpur-school-land-213552
17-02-2021||Mandi||BJP, Cong intensify poll drive in Mandi||The BJP and the Congress have intensified their campaigns in Mandi for the Municipal Corporation poll. The elections are due next month in the state.It is expected that the Municipal Corporation elections would be held on party symbols. It has forced both BJP and the Congress to work hard to ensure victory of party candidates.Party symbolsThe Congress high command has deployed senior leader GS Bali, MLA Vikramaditya Singh and a few other leaders to gear up poll campaign for party candidates in the district.District Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhari has asked the candidates to submit their applications to till February 17. According to party sources, Bali, Vikramaditya Singh, MLA Sunder Singh and a few senior leaders will arrive in Mandi on February 18 to chalk out future strategy for the poll.Chaudhari has claimed that the Congress will win more than 10 seats in the MC poll in the district. He challenged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to conduct the MC polls on party symbols.However, the BJP has also intensified its election campaign with Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh Thakur conducting meetings with people in various wards these days.Sources said feedback about candidates had been taken and a final decision would be taken soon to allocate party tickets in all 15 wards of the district. It is expected that the Chief Minister will also join the election campaign to ensure the win of party candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-cong-intensify-poll-drive-in-mandi-213553
17-02-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||‘Rath yatra’ taken out in Kullu on Basant Panchami||Basant Panchami was celebrated with gaiety and fervour at the historical Dhalpur Maidan here today. A ‘rath yatra’ was taken out after idols of Lord Rama, Sita and Hanuman were brought in a palanquin from Raghunath Temple.Maheshwar Singh, the scion of the erstwhile royal family and also the ‘chharibardar’ (chief caretaker) of Lord Raghunath, participated in the traditional ‘rath yatra’. The chariot was pulled by hundreds of devotees dressed in traditional attires as is done during the famous Kullu Dasehra.The tradition is believed to have started in the mid-17th century. However, it was revived in 2009 after a span of 48 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rath-yatra-taken-out-in-kullu-on-basant-panchami-213554
17-02-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Kullu: Trekkers risk life by not adhering to advisories||Despite repeated warnings and advisories issued by the district administration to regulate trekking in various areas in Kullu, many enthusiasts risk their lives by setting out on trekking without proper equipment or trained guides. Sometimes, the enthusiasts set out for trekking in adverse weather conditions. Many trekkers have lost their lives on various routes in Kullu district.Adventure gone wrongSearch and rescue teams have been formed by locals to provide help to stranded trekkers. Chappe Ram Negi, founder of Negi’s Himalayan Adventure Search Rescue and Investigation at Kasol, has been involved in many search and rescue operations in the area. Besides rescuing many people in the Parbati valley, he has helped in recovering 50 bodies of missing trekkers and other tourists.Three tourists, who had gone for trekking in the Hamta area near Manali, were rescued by the police in the wee hours on January 27. Ayasha from Delhi and Kalol Mukherjee of West Bengal were rescued after two days by the police from the Chanderkhani jungle near Malana village in the valley on June 4, 2019. A group of seven students from Sangrur district of Punjab, who had lost their way during a trekking expedition to the Chanderkhani peak, was rescued after three days with the help of a helicopter on March 13, 2016.Negi said tourists from Israel were equipped with GPS equipment and they could be tracked easily in case of any exigency. The equipment was provided by their insurance companies which was returned by tourists after their tour ended. He said such a system could be developed here as well to ensure safety of trekkers. He said only registered and trained guides should be allowed for trekking expeditions and police should be informed before venturing for trekking.Two Austrian trekkers were rescued as they activated the SOS (Save Our Souls) system provided by the local travel company as the system sent distress signal to their embassy at Delhi after they were lost in the forest while on a trekking expedition in the GHNP region in Banjar subdivision on June 30, 2016.The district administration had launched a website with the state-of-the-art Geo Tracking application on August 22, 2017, to find and rescue stranded tourists. However, the plans of the administration could not fructify and the website was never put to use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-trekkers-risk-life-by-not-adhering-to-advisories-213555
17-02-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Mounting bank liabilities serious matter: Kaul||Thakur Kaul Singh, senior Congress leader and former minister, today alleged that the BJP government had forced the state in debit trap in the past three years as the total bank liabilities of the state had crossed Rs 60,000 crores which was a serious matter. Instead of enhancing own revenue resources and checking the leakage in state taxes, the BJP government preferred to take loans from banks month after month in gross violation of rules, he said.Addressing a news conference here this evening, Kaul Singh said all development activities in the state had come to a standstill in the past three years and no new development projects were being taken up. The Chief Minister inaugurated only those projects which were initiated during the Congress regime.He alleged that at present major budget of the state was being spent only in a few assembly segments like Seraj and Dharampur belonging to CM Jai Ram Thakur and IPH Minister Mohinder Singh, while other areas were starving for funds. Mandi district was worst affected where in the remaining eight constituencies there was no development.He quoted that the foundation stones for Pathankot- Mandi and Kangra-Shimla four lane projects were laid by the Union Minister for Surface Transport Nitin Gadkari in 2017. Even after expiry of four years not even an inch of highway has been constructed. He said despite the fact that the Government of India was ready to release funds and bear the cost of land there was no headway in the acquisition of land in the absence of political will.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mounting-bank-liabilities-serious-matter-kaul-213556
17-02-2021||Our CorrespondentNURPUR||Foundation stone found damaged, restoration begins||The PWD authorities swung into action today and started re-installing the foundation stone that was found damaged yesterday morning at Dehra in Kangra district.The then CM Virbhadra Singh had laid the foundation stone for construction of the proposed new building of the divisional office of the PWD in February, 2015. The foundation stone name plate along with its plaque was found damaged which sparked resentment among local Congress activists.Peeved over the damage to the foundation stone suspected by some miscreants, local Congress supporters met the PWD official and submitted an ultimatum seeking restoration of the damaged foundation stone till February 18.Ajay Sharma, Executive Engineer, PWD division, Dehra, said after receiving information about damage to foundation stone he informed the local police. “The department has started work on the restoration of the damaged foundation stone and new foundation stone name plate will be installed soon at the same site,” he said.The DSP, Dehra Ankit Sharma, when quizzed, said preliminary investigations had been conducted though no police case had been registered by the police yet. He said it seemed that the foundation stone may have broken accidentally.Meanwhile, Hair Om Sharma, president of Dehra Block Congress Committee, and Akshay Dadwal, a spokesperson of the state Youth Congress, have demanded a thorough investigations into the alleged destruction of the foundation stone by unidentified miscreants. “The BJP has launched a drive to destroy foundation stones laid during the Congress regime. The PWD authorities didn’t even care to lift or remove broken foundation stone plate carrying name of former CM Virbhadra Singh even for one-and-a-half day. It remained lying on the spot in the existing office premises of the PWD division,” they alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/foundation-stone-found-damaged-restoration-begins-213557
17-02-2021||---||Special cover on heritage police assistance room released||Shimla, February 16A special cover on the heritage police assistance room popularly known as reporting room housed at the Gaiety Heritage Complex on the Mall Road was released by Chief Post Master General Meera Ranjan today.The special cover of the Postal Department recognises persona and place of significance. The reporting room (eye that never sleeps) came in existence in 1887 and since then served as the first help response for visitors to erstwhile British summer capital as well as its residents. This is the first-ever postal cover dedicated to the Shimla police.“Strategically located in the central part of the town, the reporting room is also referred as the eye of the police that never sleeps. It has been acting as a strong pillar of law by checking crime and ensuring efficient police response,” said SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla.“The reporting room has been serving the people for the last 135 years and we feel happy that the cover has been released at a time when the state is celebrating 50 years of statehood,” he added. On January 2, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, who became the first person to sign the “visitor book” to be placed at the Reporting Room, wrote, “The police reporting room located on the splendid corridors of the picturesque Mall Road, housed in the Gaiety Heritage Complex opened in 1887.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-cover-on-heritage-police-assistance-room-released-213558
17-02-2021||Hamirpur||Tech fest at NIT-Hamirpur from April 9||National Institute of Technology will be organising a two-day national level technical festival ‘NIMBUS’ from April 9 said Saumya Negi, coordinator of the event. He said despite Covid pandemic, the institute had decided to transit the entire fest virtually to ensure safety of students. He said endeavour came with challenges, but these challenges would provide the students with an opportunity to innovate. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tech-fest-at-nit-hamirpur-from-april-9-213559
17-02-2021||Solan||Nearly 2,800 trees to go for Himachal Pradesh 4-laning project||As many as 2,793 trees will be axed for the Paonta Sahib-Hatkoti four-laning project as the apex court has allowed the diversion of forest land for 138 projects in the state.The total road length is 149 km out of which 45-km stretch falls in Uttarakhand. The 104-km stretch of the road that falls in Himachal will be four-laned at a cost of Rs 1,351.62 crore.“As many as 2,793 trees will be axed for four-laning this road. This includes 1,454 trees in non-forest area and 1,339 in Renuka ji and Paonta Sahib forest area. Permission for axing trees in the non-forest area has already been accorded, while the SC verdict has paved the wave for the axing of trees in forest area,” said Ashok Chauhan, Conservator of Forests, Nahan.“The apex court’s nod will enable us to hand over the land to the private firm that has been awarded the project. It is likely to be completed in 30 months after the work begins,” said an official in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.The project is covered under the Green National Highways Corridor Project that aims at enhancing effectiveness of the transport network with cost and natural resource efficiency. The World Bank has provided assistance for the project. This road has key significance for the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nearly-2-800-trees-to-go-for-himachal-pradesh-4-laning-project-213351
