18-02-2021||Dharamsala||BJP president J P Nadda reaches Himachal to attend party meet in Dharamsala||The BJP government in Himachal Pradesh converged at Dharamsala to welcome party president JP Nadda on Thursday.The entire BJP government, including Chief Minister Jairam Thakur, all ministers and MLAs converged at Dharamsala to welcome Nadda.Nadda is here to address the state executive of the BJP at a private hotel in Dharamsala. Earlier, Nadda was welcomed by Thakur at Gaggal airport. Hundreds of BJP workers in traditional dresses gathered at the airport and danced to welcome Nadda.BJP ministers wore saffron masks that were ordered specially for the event, according to state BJP general secretary Trilok Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-president-j-p-nadda-reaches-himachal-to-attend-party-meet-in-dharamsala-214222
18-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||16 Shimla stretches, bifurcations identified as traffic bottlenecks||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 17The shortage of parking in schools, colleges, hospitals, government and private offices, shopping areas located along roads coupled with haphazard parking on narrow roads is mainly responsible for traffic congestion/jams in Shimla town.Sixteen road stretches and bifurcations have been identified as perpetual traffic bottlenecks as per the Shimla city traffic regulation and management plan (SITRAM) prepared by the Shimla police. The plan suggested major remedies like shifting of Subzi Mandi and Grain market from central Shimla to outskirts, relocating Lakkar Bazar Bus stand at Dhalli Workshop, moving mechanic shops, petrol pumps out of the city and construction of parking space by schools, colleges, hotels and offices, besides covering the drainage lines with iron road to widen the roads.Traffic regulation, management planThe police have prepared a traffic management plan, which suggests shifting of Subzi Mandi and Grain market to outskirts, relocating Lakkar Bazar and bus stand, moving mechanic shops, petrol pumps out of the city.They have underlined the need to construct crash barriers/parapets along roadsides, identification of black spots at accidental points, prior intimation and permission for carrying out of channel digging on roadsides.Besides, covering of drainage lines, widening of roads by erecting retaining walls on narrow patches and curves and construction of pedestrian paths and zebra crossing has also been suggestedThe traffic plan has pointed out that the HRTC, which has the largest fleet of vehicles, has no parking facility, the IGMC has almost no parking facility for patients and attendants and the new OPD has parking place for around 20 vehicles, which is little.All petrol pumps situated on the Circular Road have deficient space and causes traffic jams. To add to it petrol pumps at Old Barrier, Lakkar Bazar and Dhalli need to be shifted to some open and convenient place and the grain and vegetable markets need to be shifted to the outskirts.The plan underlined the need to construct crash barriers/ parapets along the road side, identification of black spots at accidental points, prior intimation and permission for carrying out of channel digging on road sides, covering drainage lines ,widening of roads by erecting retaining walls on narrow patches and curves and construction of pedestrian paths and zebra crossing, said SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla.Pointing out that the Shimla Municipal Corporation never applied for sealed/restricted route permits for its public utility vehicles which run on these roads without any reason, the plan suggested identification of specific parking space for MC utility vehicles and stated that yellow line parking should be only for local residents of the areas and no yellow line parking be provided on sealed and restricted roads.It also stressed the need to construct foot over-bridges for pedestrian on various locations such as lift, Chotta Shimla and Sanjauli and over-bridges outside the schools on road sides to reduce occurrences of traffic jams. The traffic plan stressed on conversion of unutilised open space of Railways below the Old Bus Stand and construction of multi-storey parking at ground below Winter Field to reduce parking pressure and providing separate lane for buses to enter the local bus stand and removal of roadside encroachments by Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/16-shimla-stretches-bifurcations-identified-as-traffic-bottlenecks-213902
18-02-2021||Hamirpur||13 HPTU students get placement||As many as 13 students of Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) got jobs in their fifth semester of MCA in multinational companies. Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, handed over the offer letters to the students.  While congratulating the students, he said the technical university was working for the all-round development of students. He told students to show competence and honesty towards their profession and that would convert into their success. Anupam Kumar, Registrar, Prof Kulbhushan Chandel, Professor, Deen Academic, Prof Rajendra Guleria, Deen Student Welfare and Prof Dhirendra Sharma were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-hptu-students-get-placement-213903
18-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Panchayat opposes land lease for mining along Neugal river||Palampur, February 17Residents of the Bathan panchayat (Thural) in the Sulaha constituency have decided not to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) for the allotment of land adjoining the Neugal river for mining and setting up a stone crusher.The government had decided to facilitate the same, subject to the issuance of NOC from the panchayat and local environmental groups.GOVT WANTED NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATEThe government had decided to allot land adjoining the Neugal river for mining and set up a stone crusher, subject to the issuance of an NOC from the panchayat and local environmental groups.During a special meeting of the panchayat on February 23, villagers unanimously rejected the proposal, saying they would not allow environmental degradation in the area.Bathan panchayat pradhan Seema Devi said she had called a special meeting of panchayat on February 23 to discuss the issue and seek public opinion. She said villagers unanimously rejected the proposal and said they would not allow environmental degradation in the area.She said a year ago, the previous panchayat had also rejected the proposal under public pressure. She alleged that the mining mafia was pressuring the mining department and the Dheera SDM to get NOC from panchayat under pressure but she would not succumb to pressure.The panchayat pardhan categorically stated that if villagers allowed mining activities, it would damage water supply schemes, bridges, roads, village paths and cremation ground, besides leading to the outbreak of various diseases.In Jaisinghpur, where mining is underway round the clock, there had been an outbreak of pulmonary diseases and many residents were suffering from chest and lungs ailments. Even children had developed breathing troubles.Villagers threatened to launch a mass agitation if the government tried to overrule the panchayat’s decision allegedly under the pressure of the mining mafia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayat-opposes-land-lease-for-mining-along-neugal-river-213904
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Tribal cuisines presented at snow fest||Kullu, February 17Local cuisines were the centre of attraction on the 24th day of the snow festival at Hull village in the Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district today. Spiti SDM Jeewan Singh Negi, who was the chief guest, lit the lamp to commence the colorful cultural programme. Mahila Mandal of Hull village presented Tashi dance while the Yuvak Mandal performed traditional Gur dance. Pangmo and Kilgon Usang dance by the Mahila Mandal of Pangmo also enthralled the audience. Local artistes presented various cultural items. The chief guest appreciated the structures of red fox and ibex crafted from snow. The pottery exhibition highlighted the traditions and culture of the tribal valley.The SDM said that the snow festival aims at promoting the tribal culture and associating it with tourism to boost the economy of the region. He added that the festival was being celebrated with fanfare in Lahaul and Spiti. He appealed to the people to conserve their culture and teach their children about it. He added that the evidence of a very old civilization had been found in Spiti and the tribal culture of the Himalayan region was very rich. Later, Negi honoured artistes.Gotsi was also celebrated in lower Keylong in the Lahaul valley. People offered prayers to Lord Shiva and the local deity. They swayed to the tunes played on traditional instruments.Meanwhile, the district administration organised a two-day single window clearance special workshop for homestay registration at Keylong today. Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said that the prospects of tourism in the Lahaul valley had increased a lot with the opening of the Atal Tunnel. He added that the valley has the capacity to accommodate 3,000 tourists at present. In view of the expected tourist influx, local people were being motivated to take advantage of the homestay scheme to generate additional income.Rai said that the main objective of celebrating the festival was to promote winter tourism and apprise the world about the rich culture of the valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tribal-cuisines-presented-at-snow-fest-213905
18-02-2021||Shimla||Hostel facility sought for disabled||Expert member of HP State Advisory Board on Disability and chairman of Umang Foundation Ajai Srivastava has urged Education Minister Govind Thakur to ensure college and school hostel accommodation to visually impaired and other students who can’t walk due to disability. In a letter to the minister, he said that freshers were denied hostel accommodation. Educational institutions have opened after 11 months but initially only old students are being given accommodation in the hostels of colleges and schools. He said in this situation the visually impaired students and those who can’t walk due to disability will face hardships. Quoting a case of RKMV College of Shimla where four visually impaired girls, Shalini (Chamba), Monika (Kinnaur), Kiran (Rohru) and Priya (Sarahan) have been admitted in BA, he said that in case they are not given hostel accommodation, they would be deprived of their classes and examinations. The same position prevails in all colleges and schools across the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hostel-facility-sought-for-disabled-213906
18-02-2021||---||3,67,500 doses of Covishield received||Shimla, February 17 The state steering committee meeting for the implementation of Covid -19 vaccination drive was held today under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary Anil Khachi. The Chief Secretary directed the Health Department to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of the health care workers and frontline workers with second dose. NHM Director Nipun Jindal informed that the state has received 3,67,500 doses of Covishield vaccine in three lots. He further informed that till February 16, as many as 63,282 health care workers (HCW) and 20,963 front line workers have been vaccinated, resulting in an achievement of 76 per cent and 41 per cent, respectively against the target. The committee was apprised that 2,907 health care workers have been administered the second dose as well. The vaccine wastage in the state is 3.46 per cent, which is well below the permissible limit of 10 per cent. The AEFI occurrence on application is 0.6 per cent. The committee also deliberated that there are many categories of persons like mediapersons, bus drivers, conductors and teachers etc. who are in direct contact with masses and are considered more vulnerable to catch and spread COVID-19 infection. The committee decided to take up the matter with the Government of India for permission to cover persons with these occupations in the ongoing phase of front line workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-67-500-doses-of-covishield-received-213907
18-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan ---||Pear plants from US arrive in Nurpur||Nurpur, February 17 The state Horticulture Department received the first shipment of US plant material containing 1,261 pear plants with Bartlett and Bronze Beauty. These plants are being grown in the Progeny-cum-Demonstration Orchard (PCDO) at Indpur in Indora subdivision.  As per the Horticulture Department, the state has to procure a total of 24,000 pear plant material under the World Bank-funded HP Horticulture Development Project (HPHDP). These plants will be planted and scientifically observed in the PCDO.   The US pear varieties are the latest in the world which have better quality, yield and size and will be grown in the horticulture clusters identified by the horticulture department across the state. The department’s Subject Matter Specialist (SMS), Hatinder Patial, who is supervising the plantation of the imported pear plant material, said SOPs recommended by the department were being adhered to in growing the plants in post-entry quarantine fully developed in the PCDO at Indpur.   Meanwhile, Hem Chand Sharma, Joint Director, Horticulture Department and incharge of the HPHDP, told The Tribune that after planting imported pear plants in the PCDO, their growth would be monitored for a year. “The horticulture scientists will visit the PCDO frequently to observe plant growth and health. The department will further distribute these plants among the fruit growers in the recommended horticulture clusters”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pear-plants-from-us-arrive-in-nurpur-213908
18-02-2021||Shimla||‘Fasal bima yojana needs reforms’||The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) has been made optional for farmers. Until now, the insurance cover was mandatory for farmers with Kisan Credit Card. “From this December, the scheme has been made optional, but the farmers who don’t want their crop to be insured will have to inform bank to opt out,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma.  An ex-servicemen association working in the field of agriculture in Shimla district feels it’s merely a cosmetic change to the scheme that needs large-scale reforms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fasal-bima-yojana-needs-reforms-213909
18-02-2021||---||Infighting in Dehra BJP to fore again||Dharamsala, February 17Factionalism in the Dehra BJP once again came to the fore during a meeting chaired by in-charge of party affairs in Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna yesterday. Sources said that Khanna had called a meeting of the Dehra BJP unit to iron out differences between various factions.Finger pointed towards RSS leaderSources said BJP workers from Dehra and Jawalamukhi accused a senior RSS leader, who is calling the shots in the state, of fuelling infighting in the partyWhile the meeting was continuing, a former Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader along with his supporters came there. The party office-bearers attending the meeting objected to his presence. They alleged that as the former BJYM leader had contested as an Independent candidate against the official candidate of the BJP in the recently concluded Zila Parishad elections, he should not be allowed to attend the meeting. This led to arguments between the two factions and some of their supporters even abused each other. Seeing the situation aggravating, Khanna left the meeting venue.The sources said that the BJP workers from Dehra and Jawalamukhi accused a senior RSS leader, who is calling the shots in the state, of fuelling infighting in the party. Earlier BJP MLA from Jawalamukhi Ramesh Dhawala had accused this RSS leader of interfering in his Assembly constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infighting-in-dehra-bjp-to-fore-again-213910
18-02-2021||---||‘Volcanic activity’: Samples collected from site in Kullu district||Mandi, February 17A team of officials, led by Tehsildar Daleep Sharma of Ani sub-division under Kullu district, today collected samples from the site at Lafali panchayat in Kullu district, where volcanic activity is suspected.A few days ago, the residents of Lafali panchayat had noticed an uncommon activity close to an electricity iron pole in the area, in which smoke along with some liquid material was spewing out of the earth.The villagers had suspected volcanic activity in the area and recorded the video of the whole incident on mobile and circulated it on social media yesterday. They also approached the local administration Ani to visit the spot for necessary action.Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ani, Chet Singh said, “A team of officials led by Tehsildar Ani visited the spot today and found some liquid substance erupted out of earth, which has been deposited in the area in a solid form.”He said that the geological wing of Shimla has been urged to visit the spot to check the situation to find out the actual reason for this incident. It is not yet confirmed volcanic activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volcanic-activity-samples-collected-from-site-in-kullu-district-213911
18-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||3 leopard hides confiscated, 2 held in Kangra district||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 17 Dehra police in Kangra district arrested two motorcycle riders with three leopard hides last night.  As per the information, police had set up a naka at Kundlihaar village on the Dehra- Jawalaji road. Policemen on duty signalled a motorcycle coming from the Dehra side to stop but bike riders on seeing a police team fled. The police chased them and nabbed the duo. DSP Dehra Ankit Sharma said three bullet-ridden leopard hides were recovered from their possession. Two accused hailing from Majeen village had been arrested. He said more accused involved in the crime were still at large.  A case under section 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act, section 25 of the Indian Arms Act and 34 of the IPC had been registered. As per information, international market value of the confiscated leopard hides is stated to Rs 10 lakh each. The police are suspecting involvement of a local gang engaged in killing leopards and selling their hides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-leopard-hides-confiscated-2-held-in-kangra-district-213912
18-02-2021||---||Rs 1.73 cr tax evasion unearthed in Sirmaur||Solan, February 17A tax evasion of Rs 1.73 crore has been detected by officials of the State Taxes and Excise Department (STED) at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district.Officials have finally woken up to check tax evasion after Central agencies detected evasion worth crores in the industrial areas of Paonta Sahib and Baddi.Officials of the STED said two unregistered Punjab traders were found engaged in trading of iron, bricks, electricity items, etc. in Paonta Sahib since January 2020.“Their premises were raided on December 2 and their record was secured from the local transport union and other sources. A turnover of around Rs 8 crore was detected in which goods had been transported in 400 trucks. A penalty of Rs 1.73 crore was imposed out of which Rs 68 lakh has been recovered. A sum of Rs 10 lakh was recovered today,” said deputy commissioner, State Taxes and Excise, Preetpal Singh, who headed the four-member team.A penalty under the Certain Goods Carried by Road Tax and Additional Goods Tax amounting to Rs 10,50,651 has also been imposed. The traders have been directed to deposit the remaining amount in one month, said Singh.Notably, the laxity of officials in the past has led to evasion of taxes worth Rs 6,000 crore in the Indian Technomac Company Limited in the Paonta Sahib area, whose officials had fled after closing their operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-1-73-cr-tax-evasion-unearthed-in-sirmaur-213913
18-02-2021|| Lalit Mohan||Focus on Himachal Assembly poll as BJP meet begins at Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 17A three-day BJP state executive meeting got under way here today. National president of party JP Nadda would address the meet tomorrow. Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur would join the meeting tomorrow. The executive meeting is scheduled from February 17 to 19.Sources here said the BJP was gearing up for the Assembly election scheduled in the state at the end of 2022. It wanted to galvanise its grass-roots level workers for the polls. The next Assembly elections were crucial for Nadda as Himachal is his home state which would be going to the polls during his stint as the national president.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state BJP incharge Avinash Rai Khanna and state president of BJP Suresh Kayshap joined the executive meeting here.The sources here said in today’s meeting the party first concentrated on training its workers for the forthcoming corporation elections in four corporations of state, Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan. Three corporations at Palampur, Mandi and Solan have been formed recently by the current BJP government and would be going to the polls for the first time.The corporation elections would be crucial for the current BJP government in the state as Assembly elections are scheduled for the next year-end. The CM has already announced that the elections would be held on party symbol and so it would be a direct contest between the ruling BJP and the main opposition Congress.Sources here said byelection of the Fatehpur Assembly constituency in Kangra would also come up for discussion during the meeting. The Assembly seat fell vacant due to the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania.The sources here said though the byelection for the Fatehpur Assembly constituency was likely to be held along with West Bengal Assembly elections a few months from now, probable candidates for byelections would be discussed in executive meeting. Since hardly any mega infrastructure has come to ground during the stint of the present BJP government in last more than three years, the party is harping on the achievements of the Union government to romp home in Himachal. Party workers are being trained to take to voters the achievements of the Modi government as well as doing away of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and Ram Temple construction.The party workers were being trained to counter the issues such as rising prices of petrol and diesel and LPG which have hit the middle class hard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/focus-on-himachal-assembly-poll-as-bjp-meet-begins-at-dharamsala-213914
18-02-2021||---||Shillai MLA’s nephew dies in Paonta Sahib road mishap||Solan, February 17Abhishek Sablaik (26), a resident of Gojar Adan village in Sirmaur district, was killed after his motorcycle was hit by a speeding vehicle in the Rampurghat area of Paonta Sahib last night. The deceased is the nephew of Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan.DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur said that Abhishek was returning from a marriage at a hotel at Paonta Sahib when the mishap occurred. He had left the marriage venue on his motorcycle around 10.30 pm yesterday but when he did not reach home even after an hour, his brother and a friend went out to look for him. They found him lying unconscious at Rampurghat at the left side of the road. They rushed him to a local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.A case under Sections 279, 304-A of the IPC and Section 187 of the Motor Vehicle Act has been registered and a probe is underway. The preliminary inquiry has revealed that he was hit by a speeding vehicle, causing fatal injuries. The headlights of the motorcycle were found damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shillai-mlas-nephew-dies-in-paonta-sahib-road-mishap-213915
18-02-2021||---||34 new cases, no death in Himachal||Shimla, February 17 With 34 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh reached 58,296. There was no death in the last 24 hours, keeping the fatality figure at 981. The highest number of nine positive cases was reported in Kangra, six each in Shimla and Solan, four each in Una and Kullu, three in Bilaspur and one each in Hamirpur and Mandi.  With these cases the total number of active Covid cases in the state today was 354.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/34-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-213916
18-02-2021||Shimla||RERA settles 12 cases, realtor to refund Rs 52 lakh||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has facilitated a compromise between a real estate promoter and complainants, resulting in a refund of Rs 52.31 lakh. According to a RERA official, 12 of the 14 complaints received have been decided in favour of the allottees while the other two are pending against Himalayan Residency, located in the Bharari area of the town.   In the two complaints by Dr Manmohan A. Chandola and Kanta John, a mutual compromise was arrived at. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rera-settles-12-cases-realtor-to-refund-rs-52-lakh-213917
18-02-2021||The NSUI has urged the Governor to take strict action against HPU officials and members of the committees concerned which took the decision to grant admission on the basis of merit rather than through entrance test. While alleging corruption in the appointment of teaching faculty||NSUI, SFI raise demands with Guv||Open HPU at the earliest: ABVPThe ABVP has submitted a memorandum to the Governor demanding the opening of the Himachal Pradesh University at the earliest. ABVP president Vishal Saklani said all educational activities had been put on hold for the last one year in the university and, as a result, students were facing problems. He said students from far-flung areas were facing problems in online classes because of network issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-sfi-raise-demands-with-guv-213921
18-02-2021||Two automatic barricades on the exit points at Niazpur and Court Road in Nurpur town||Barricades lying idle||No hoardings pleaseAt many places in Shimla, including on trees, some people put up hoardings to promote their business interests. Recently, an institute preparing students for competitive exams had put up hoardings of its successful students at various places. The practice must be discouraged. — Ratan Singh, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/barricades-lying-idle-213923
