19-02-2021||---||3 shops gutted in fire in Shimla||Shimla, February 19Three makeshift shops were completely gutted in fire that broke out at Sheel Ghat, near Kharapathar in Rohru subdivision of Shimla district, on Thursday night.No casualty was reported.Fire tenders were rushed from Jubbal and Rohru to douse the fire.The shops reportedly belonged to six persons.The owners have reported losses in lakhs, police sources said.The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-shops-gutted-in-fire-in-shimla-214645
19-02-2021||Shimla||Government nod to religious activities in Himachal||Worship, bhajans, offering prasad, langar and other religious activities which were suspended in the wake of Covid-19 induced lockdown since March 24, have been permitted forthwith and necessary instructions have been issued to the managements and Trusts of temples and other religious places.Necessary directions have been issued to deputy commissioners by Additional Chief Secretary, Art, Culture and Language, for follow up action.“Rituals like marriages, mundan, bhajans, langar, entry to sanctum sanctorum and offering prasad will be permitted and the number of persons to be allowed will be decided by the management of temples,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, adding that performing of “hawans” would also be resumed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-nod-to-religious-activities-in-himachal-214402
19-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Kotkhai grower develops new apple variety with long shelf life||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 18The Central Government has recognised a new variety of apple developed by an orchardist of Kotkhai, a small town about 60 km from Shimla. For Prem Chauhan, the recognition and registration of the variety in his name is the culmination of hard work and perseverance of close to two decades. “The process for getting the patent had started in 2016 and I was confident of becoming the first apple grower to have a variety registered in my name. And when it has finally happened, I don’t have words to describe my joy,” he said.The significant feat achieved by Chauhan on his own has impressed one and all, including former Vice Chancellor of University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Vijay Singh Thakur. “The variety he has developed is very good. It’s a huge achievement for Chauhan and a matter of pride for all orchardists,” he said.Started process for getting patent in 2016The process for getting the patent had started in 2016 and I was confident of becoming the first apple grower to have a variety registered in my name. Now that it has finally happened, I don’t have words to describe my joy. — Prem Chauhan, orchardist from KotkhaiChauhan, who has been into growing apple for two decades now, did not stumble upon the new variety. It’s a result of his intense desire to develop a variety that matched the best in the business. “The variety I have developed is a mutation of Red Delicious. It’s a high colour strain with good size and has a long shelf life. It’s as good as the best varieties you will find anywhere in the world,” he said adding that, “I have named it Aps.”Thakur feels Chauhan’s feat could be the beginning of the end of our dependence on the US and other countries for planting material. “Chauhan’s feat needs be acknowledged and encouraged. The government can order a certain number of plants from him instead of importing everything. This will encourage even other orchardists to try and produce new and better varieties in their orchards,” said Thakur.Apart from developing a new variety, Chauhan has revolutionised the method of growing apple. Using what he calls a nano technique, he has planted a mindboggling 1,000 apple trees in just one bigha. For the benefit of the unversed, one can plant just around 25-35 traditional trees in one bigha. “I have reduced the tree to a single stem, without any branches. And if you ask me about the quality and productivity, I can assure you the yield is world class both in terms of quality as well as quantity,” he said. “Like most farmers, I have a small land holding. So, the only option I had to survive was to enhance my yield and quality. This technique will help all famers to increase their production,” he said.Interestingly, he is all set to apply for patent for it, too. “The method is used nowhere in the world. So, I am confident of getting my second patent as well,” said Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kotkhai-grower-develops-new-apple-variety-with-long-shelf-life-214403
19-02-2021||Mandi||Kullu-Bagipul bus service resumes||The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has resumed bus service between Kullu and Bagipul via the Jalori pass after two months.Due to heavy snowfall at the Jalori pass, residents of Ani and Nirmand were cut off from the main Kullu district headquarters two months ago. It is the shortest route from Kullu to reach Ani and Nirmand.Anshit Sharma, traffic manager, HRTC depot, Kullu, told The Tribune that the HRTC yesterday resumed the bus service on the Kullu-Ani-Niramand-Bagipul and Kullu-Ani-Dalash routes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-bagipul-bus-service-resumes-214404
19-02-2021||Palampur||Palampur varsity scientists reach out to local farmers||CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University today organised a scientific advisory committee (SAC) meeting at village-level with farmers.  Vice-Chancellor Prof HK Chaudhary chaired the SAC of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Berthin (Bilaspur) at Fagog village, Jandhuta block, at the house of a progressive farmer Bharat Bhushan. He said scientists could come close to the farmers by reaching out to them in their farms and not by sitting pretty in their offices. The Vice-Chancellor said to commemorate the golden jubilee of HP statehood, farmer-scientist interactions had been started in villages from Thursday. “It was my dream to discuss all issues of farmers by sitting with them in their farms or homes. I am committed to provide all technological assistance to each and every farmer of the state,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor also elaborated about the new initiatives by the university. He inaugurated an exhibition of farm produce by local farmers and honoured some progressive farmers and called them brand ambassadors of the university for spreading useful farm knowledge among other farmers. Ludhiana Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Director Dr Rajbir Singh assured full technical and financial support for the transfer of technology at district level. Extension Education Director Dr Madhumeet Singh said during the golden jubilee of statehood, more than 3,000 farmers would be trained by the university at Palampur and all KVKs. He also asked the farmers to maintain a live link with the scientists and farm officers for timely advice. Research Director Dr DK Vatsa asked farmers to adopt university developed crop varieties and technologies. Progressive farmers and officers from the state departments of agriculture, animal husbandry, industry, fishery and banks etc also actively participated in the meeting. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-varsity-scientists-reach-out-to-local-farmers-214405
19-02-2021||Chamba||3 shops, 7 bikes gutted in Chamba||Three shops were gutted by fire that abruptly broke out in an automobile workshop at Parel near Chamba town today.  About seven motorcycles, one Scooty, spare parts and other mechanical apparatus were burnt, causing a loss of lakhs of rupees.   District Fire Officer Rajender Choudhary said that they got information about the incident from a passerby quite late but the firefighters along with fire engines swiftly reached the site and doused the flames, thereby saving the adjoining building.  The exact loss was yet to be ascertained. The police have registered a case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-shops-7-bikes-gutted-in-chamba-214406
19-02-2021||Dipender Manta||Endangered snow leopardess with two cubs spotted in Miyar valley||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 18It is good news for the Wildlife and Forest Department that the count of elusive snow leopards has increased in Lahaul and Spiti district in the past few years. Three days ago, the movement of a snow leopardess along with her two cubs was captured in a trap camera in the Miyar valley of Lahaul and Spiti district, delighting forest officials.Amir Jaspa, a wildlife lover in Lahaul and Spiti, captured the movement of the leopardess along with her two cubs. Shiv Kumar, a forest official in Lahaul and Spiti, said, “In the past few years, the count of snow leopards has increased in the region. In 2017, for the first time, the movement of snow leopards was captured in a trap camera by the Wildlife and Forest Department in the Miyar valley. Since then snow leopards have been spotted in the Lahaul valley every year”.“It is a good sign for the Wildlife and Forest Department in Lahaul and Spiti that the strength of the endangered rare species is thriving in the region. The cooperation of local Mahila Mandals of the Lahaul valley is also commendable, which are working relentlessly to protect the wildlife in the region,” he said.“Lahaul Spiti district has become a safe habitat for snow leopards and other endangered species of wildlife and the Forest Department is getting cooperation of the local community. During the winter, due to heavy snowfall in higher reaches, wild animals come down to lower regions. It makes them prone to hunting because poachers are active during the winter,” he added.In December last year, the wildlife wing had captured the movement of Himalayan Serow, a goat antelope, in the Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district. The nearly-threatened Himalayan Serow has almost disappeared from the cold desert. It was spotted at Hurling village in the Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district, delighting wildlife officials.RISE IN NUMBER OF WILD CATS IN PAST YEARS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/endangered-snow-leopardess-with-two-cubs-spotted-in-miyar-valley-214407
19-02-2021||---||BJP leaders rival each other to impress Nadda||Dharamsala, February 18As a show of strength, BJP leaders, accompanied by their supporters, competed with each other to welcome national party president JP Nadda at the Gaggal airport here today.Kirpal Singh Parmar, former MP, came to the airport with hundreds of his supporters, who raised slogans in his favour in front of Nadda. Parmar wants to contest the forthcoming byelections from the Fatehpur Assembly constituency.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania was also accompanied by a large number of supporters, who raised slogans in his favour. At a point of time, the supporters of Parmar and Pathania tried to outdo each other by raising slogans in favour of their leaders.Pathania tried to disperse Parmar’s supporters to make way for Nadda’s vehicles and entourage at the airport but the latter refused to budge. Later, Pathania had to request them to make way for Nadda.A BJP leader from Dharamsala spent over Rs one lakh to decorate his open jeep for Nadda. He got the chance to drive Nadda from the airport arrival point to its main gate but could not interact with him, as security officials took over the jeep.The BJP leaders were attired in traditional dresses to welcome Nadda at the airport. As they danced and welcomed Nadda during morning hours, the entire airport was choked with party workers. Former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal would be attending the BJP state executive meeting on all three days. Sources said that Dhumal is attending the meeting at the request of incharge of party affairs in Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna, who had been trying to iron out differences between various factions of the party.Anurag Thkur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, obliged BJP workers who wanted to have a selfie with him at the meeting venue. Nadda, after addressing the executive meeting, left for his home district Bilaspur by car. He paid obeisance at Kangra Mata temple and the Jawalamukhi temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-leaders-rival-each-other-to-impress-nadda-214408
19-02-2021||Shimla||Guv visits Nathpa Jhakri project||Hydropower generation played an important role in increasing the economic resources of the state, but needed to do more work in hydropower generation keeping in view environmental protection. This was stated by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya who halted at Rampur and visited the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric project while on his way to Kinnaur.He said the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric station of 1,500 MW capacity was the country’s largest hydropower plant which was providing electricity to around nine states. He said the project boasts of the largest and longest headrace tunnel, largest desilting chambers, deepest and largest surge shaft and the largest underground power complex.The project added 1,500 MW capacity to the Indian Northern Grid since the first unit was commissioned in October 2003. He expressed happiness that the Union Power Ministry was reportedly treating this as a benchmark for future hydroelectric projects. Head of Project RC Negi briefed about the project and system of functioning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/guv-visits-nathpa-jhakri-project-214409
19-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Work for Mission Repeat in ’22, Nadda tells party activists||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 18The national president of BJP JP Nadda today virtually launched the election campaign for Assembly elections scheduled in Himachal at the end of 2022 by giving party workers ‘Gram Sabha to Vidhan Sabha’ (from village panchayat to assembly) call.While addressing the state executive meeting of the BJP, Nadda said the party did well by winning the panchayat elections in the state and capturing nine out of 12 zila parishads. It should now aim for Mission Repeat in 2022 Assembly elections, he said.He praised ‘Panna Pramukh’ system adopted by the Himachal BJP. Under Panna Pramukh model, a party worker oversees voters on a single page of voter list (Panna) in their respective areas. Nadda said the Panna Pramukh model has been so successful in Himachal that it was being adopted by the BJP in the entire country now. He urged the party workers to now create panna committees at each polling booth level. He said the BJP was winning elections due to its mass following and scientific working at the booth level.Nadda said all political parties in country were family centric. The BJP was the only party in the country that was worker centric and it makes it unique. The BJP had 18 crore active members in the country, he claimed.Nadda said the BJP aims at opening party office in each district of the country. He urged the state president of Himachal BJP, Suresh Kayshap, to expedite buying of land in all districts of Himachal so that party offices could be established there.Nadda claimed Modi provided leadership to entire world during Covid pandemic and today 16 countries were looking towards India for getting Covid vaccine.The national president of the BJP claimed that the work for the construction of the Atal Tunnel linking Lahaul and Spiti district with all-weather road was expedited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Prime Minister had also restored special category status for Himachal that was terminated by the Congress government, he said.The state president of party Suresh Kashyap while speaking on the occasion said the BJP government had taken landmark decisions such as abolition of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, construction of Ram Temple and abolition of Triple Talak.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, state BJP incharge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon were among other prominent leaders present at the meeting.Sidelights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-for-mission-repeat-in-22-nadda-tells-party-activists-214410
19-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Eyeing 2022 polls, AAP launches membership drive in Chamba district||Chamba, February 18Following the recent announcement made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Himachal unit to contest all 68 seats in the 2022 Assembly elections in the state, its district unit has started party’s membership drive in Chamba district.Addressing a media conference here, AAP district president Upender Thakur said party office-bearers had been given the assignment of membership drive to enrol members by reaching out to them door-to-door, besides online membership.“The AAP is gearing up for the state Assembly elections scheduled for next year as per the directions, guidance and patronage of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and state president Anoop Kesri,” said Thakur.“The party has a dream of establishing a model system like Delhi, where stern measures have been taken to curb corruption,” said Thakur, while looking forward to set up a clean government in Himachal. He said if voted to power next year, AAP would provide free electricity and prioritise education and health.Moreover, the AAP would also remove the tag of backwardness of Chamba, stated Thakur.Meanwhile, the AAP had also launched a crusade against corruption and would expose those involved in such practices, said Thakur.For the purpose, data through RTI was being gathered from concerned departments regarding supply and work orders and purchase of materials, including medical apparatus, during the Covid pandemic period, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eyeing-2022-polls-aap-launches-membership-drive-in-chamba-district-214411
19-02-2021||r Correspondent---||Tourism sector works in Lahaul to be reviewed||Kullu, February 18 The Dashaun ‘utsav’ was celebrated during the snow festival at Tindi village in Lahaul-Spiti district today. A pooja was performed by the residents gathered on the Kuthad temple premises. An archery competition was also held in which the people participated with enthusiasm. Chief Secretary Anil Khachi would witness various events during the snow festival during his two-day visit to the valley on February 19 and 20. Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said the Chief Secretary during his visit would review the work being done in the tourism sector in Lahaul valley and would also guide the officers. He said the Chief Secretary would review the proposed important works such as Sissu, Gondhla Fort renovations and Tandi Ghat construction etc. He added that a cultural evening would be held in his honour on February 19. The Chief Secretary would be the chief guest during the snow festival programme at Khangsar on February 20, he said. A number of cultural and traditional events were being organised in various parts of Lahaul-Spiti under the ‘Festival of festivals’. The DC said the aim of the snow festival was to promote rich tribal culture and link it with tourism to boost the economy of the region. He said public participation was encouraging during the three-day single window clearance special workshop for home stay registration being organised from February 17 to 19 at Keylong.  The DC said the opening of Atal Tunnel had created immense possibilities of tourism and the snow festival was an important initiative to promote tourism in the valley. He said locals were being encouraged to take advantage of the home stay scheme. He said a workshop would be organised by calling experts on the home stay scheme in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourism-sector-works-in-lahaul-to-be-reviewed-214412
19-02-2021||---||Give priority to safety of pedestrians: Dy Speaker||Give priority to safety of pedestrians:   Dy Speaker  Chamba, February 18 Vehicle drivers should always give priority to the safety of pedestrians, appealed Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj while presiding over a function organised at the conclusion of the “road safety month” awareness programme here.   He said it was important for any driver to take care of his life and worry about his family. “When the driver leaves the house, he should always keep it in his mind that if he ignores the rules, misfortune can come anytime,” he added.   He said all rules of road safety should be made a part of drivers’ everyday life, not for fear of paying the penalty, but for fear of losing their lives.   He said in view of the geographical conditions of Chamba, such awareness programmes should also be organised in the tribal and remote areas of the district.    During the “road safety month”, various programmes like ‘’slow Scooty race’’ for women, painting competition etc were also organised for spreading awareness about road safety. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-priority-to-safety-of-pedestrians-dy-speaker-214413
19-02-2021||Solan||Subathu fest in March||A two-day maiden Subathu fest will be organised on March 20-21. Madan Gupta Spatu, a renowned author and astrologer who is the main convener, said it would comprise a get together of old residents who had settled at various places in India and abroad. “Various programmes based would be organised on the occasion,” Spatu said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/subathu-fest-in-march-214415
19-02-2021||Shimla||Himachal Agriculture Department sets target for seed production||The Agriculture Department is now producing wheat and maize seeds, which were earlier brought from outside the state, and distributing these to farmers, said Dr Naresh Kumar, Director, Agriculture.He said the department had prepared an action plan for 2021-22 to produce seeds to meet the requirement of farmers. Keeping in view the demand of farmers, the state has fixed a target to produce 96,855 quintal seeds for 2021-22. “Nine registered farmer groups will produce over 95,000 quintal seeds, which would be purchased by the department and distributed. The department will purchase wheat seeds at 26 per cent higher rate, which will also boost the income of farmer,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-agriculture-department-sets-target-for-seed-production-214416
19-02-2021||Shimla||With 16 new cases, tally reaches 58,312 in Himachal||With 16 new cases being reported today, the total tally of Covid cases in Himachal reached 58,312 in the last 24 hours. There was no death in the last 24 hours, keeping the fatality figure at 981.The highest number of four positive cases was reported in Una, three each in Sirmaur, Mandi and Kullu and one each in Hamirpur, Kangra and Kinnaur. With this the total number of active cases in the state today was 301 out of a total of 58,312 positive cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/with-16-new-cases-tally-reaches-58-312-in-himachal-214418
19-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||10 cows found dead at Rajgarh shelter||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 18More than 10 cows were found dead at Dhanch-Manva gram panchayat in the Rajgarh developmental block of Sirmaur district by a team of officials of the Animal Husbandry Department today.“The cows were housed at Pajhota village by the Him Gau Sarankshan Samiti. After they died, their carcasses were dumped callously in the open and nullahs. This is polluting water sources and can also lead to diseases,” said a villager. As many as 800 persons reside in its vicinity in Kaloha, Shakain, Kotli and Manva villages. Villagers allege the management had treated the cows with cruelty.In a representation to the district administration, director, Animal Husbandry Department; Rajgarh SDM and others, villagers demanded a probe into the mismanagement that was causing large-scale mortality on a daily basis. They have also threatened to file a public interest litigation in court.“The cow shelter has a capacity of around 220 cows, but 100 more were brought from Shimla in December without seeking permission from the Animal Husbandry Department. With lack of fodder, water and space, these animals are kept in inhospitable conditions. At least 50 cows have died till now,” said an official of the Animal Husbandry Department.A team, comprising veterinary officials, rushed to the cow shelter today after receiving complaint from locals. “The team, comprising a microbiologist and a pathologist, has collected samples. Lab reports will ascertain the cause of deaths, though lack of conducive conditions like overcrowding, lack of fodder and water have emerged as a major cause,” said a senior official.Despite receiving a financial assistance of Rs 500 per cattle from the state government since November, the callousness has put a question mark over the management. The grant for January, which was yet to be released, has now been put on hold.Dr RK Pruthi, Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner, said a team of officials from the Animal Husbandry Department was looking into the case and action would be taken against those found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-cows-found-dead-at-rajgarh-shelter-214419
19-02-2021||NSS volunteers are helping in maintaining social distance at Government College||NSS volunteers for Covid protocols||Interview for faculty at HPUHimachal Pradesh University will soon conduct interviews for assistant professor and associate professor in political science shortly. Selection committee chairman Arvind Kalia said the marks obtained by the candidates would be uploaded on www.hpuniv.ac.in within a couple of days. The candidates could make enquiries after their marks are uploaded on February 24, 25 and 26 in the selection department.Seminar at Sunni Govt CollegeThe Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) unit of the Sunni Government College held a seminar on Thursday. Chief guest Ravi, while speaking on the occasion, said the ABVP had been working in the interests of students and society and for the betterment of environment since it was established. Echoing his thoughts, main speaker Sachin said the ABVP shaped and refined the talents of students through various activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nss-volunteers-for-covid-protocols-214421
19-02-2021||---||Poor execution of SC/ST Act alleged||Mandi, February 18The Parvatiye Mahila Adhikar Manch alleged poor implementation of the SC/ST Atrocity Act by the state government. The manch urged the state government to take effective steps to implement the Act in toto.Addressing a press conference here, Vimla Vishavpremi, coordinator of the manch, said: "The Dalits are not allowed in temples in villages even in the modern era and they are humiliated by upper caste people.”“There is a need to educate SC and ST people at the grassroot level about the Act. The government should organise awareness camps in villages,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-execution-of-sc-st-act-alleged-214423
19-02-2021||SHIMLA’S old bus stand is one of the traffic bottlenecks of the city. Despite the deployment of traffic police||Traffic snarls at old bus stand irk commuters||Tell students to follow Covid guidelinesWITH the reopening of schools, students are back to physical classes but one should not forget that the pandemic has not gone. Back with their friends and the fear of Covid receding gradually, the schoolstudents could be seen not taking precautionary measures and following Covid preventive guidelines. Teachers and parents need to educate the students about the seriousness of the issue and be cautious. — Sunita Tegta, KasumptiIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-snarls-at-old-bus-stand-irk-commuters-214426
19-02-2021||---||Normal OPD at Mandi hospital from next week||Mandi, February 18Pre-pandemic services will be restored at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi district from the next week.The college was declared as dedicated Covid hospital and normal OPD service were suspended here after Covid-19 outbreak in March due to which people of the district were suffering huge difficulty in availing medical facilities. Since then this medical college has been providing services to only Covid positive patients in the district. The residents of the district had been urging the state government to resume OPD service at medical college.Service to resume Monday onwardsWe will resume OPD service in the medical college from Monday onwards. Now, the BBMB hospital, Sundernagar, will be a dedicated hospital for Covid patients. — Dr RC Thakur, principal of medical college, MandiThe Tribune had highlighted the plight of people who were suffering because of absence of medical service for general ailments. Finally, the state government has issued an order de-notifying college as a dedicated Covid hospital. The government has asked the medical college authorities at Mandi to restore all pre-pandemic services in this hospital with immediate effect.The residents of the district are delighted with the decision of the state government to resume OPD service at the medical college.Narender Kumar, Dipak Sharma, Suresh Kumar and several other residents of the district said that it was a big relief for the residents as well as the residents of nearby districts. This hospital provides medical service to the residents of neighbouring districts like Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Bilaspur.Doctor R C Thakur, Principal of the Medical College, Mandi, told The Tribune: “We had taken up the matter with the state government and suggested shifting of Covid hospital somewhere else so that normal health services could be restored in the medical college. Thanks to the efforts of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, there is significant downfall in Covid positive cases in the state during the last one month. Now the BBMB hospital Sundernagar will be a dedicated hospital for Covid patients.”“We will resume OPD service on medical college premises from Monday onwards to provide better health care facilities to the residents of district,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/normal-opd-at-mandi-hospital-from-next-week-214428
19-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Banks under lens in HP scholarship scam||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 18The role of bank officials has come under scanner in the Rs 250-crore post-matric scholarship scam being probed by the CBI. Bank officials’ connivance cannot be ruled out as fake accounts of students cannot be opened without their involvement and knowledge, sources in the CBI said. Documents of students taken during counselling and their signatures were also misused, they alleged.Fake accountsOver Rs 28 crore meant for granting post-matric scholarship to SC/ST/OBC students was disbursed to nine fake institutions in Una, Chamba, Sirmaur and Kangra districts of Himachal Pradesh.These institutions, running without affiliation with competent bodies, got funds meant for 8,800 students.Fake accounts were opened in the names of students in six banks in Himachal and Punjab.Three persons, including the wife of then Superintendent (Grade-II), Department of Higher Education, Arvind Rajta, who dealt with disbursement of scholarship, have been arrested by the CBI. Sources said the CBI also raided the houses of these persons and their relatives and seized some documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/banks-under-lens-in-hp-scholarship-scam-214330
