20-02-2021||Dipender Manta||4 dead in Mandi road accident||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 20Four people were killed and five sustained grievous injuries in a road accident under Aut police station in Mandi district on Saturday evening.According to police, nearly 12 people were travelling in a jeep on Kalhani-Thunag link road under Seraj assembly segment of Mandi district, when a landslide occurred at Kashaud. The debris hit the vehicle, pushing it off the road and down the hill.It is believed that all victims were natives of Mandi district.Mandi Additional District Magistrate Shrawan Manta said four bodies have been retrieved from the spot, while five injured victims have been rushed to zonal hospital.He said the search operation is continuing in the area to rescue remaining victims as it is expected that there were more passengers on board. The authorities are trying to find out exact details about the victims.The ADM added that ambulance have been deployed at the spot to transport victims to nearby hospital. Till filing the report, search operation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-dead-in-mandi-road-accident-215244
20-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Decks cleared for Kangra varsity’s satellite campus||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 19Decks have finally been cleared for the construction of the satellite campus of Central University, Kangra, with the Union Ministry of Environment allowing the “land user” tag to be transferred from the state’s Department of Higher Education to the Central University, which is under the HRD Ministry.Functioning from rented buildingSuneet Bhardwaj, Assistant Inspector General of Forest, conveyed to the Additional Chief Secretary (Forest) that state’s request for change in the name of the user of 81 hectares had been accepted.Incidentally, Dehra, where the satellite campus of Central University is proposed, falls in the parliamentary segment represented by Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur. The delay over the satellite campus during the previous Congress regime had remained a sore point. The main campus of the Central University will come up in Dharamsala.There has been considerable delay in the construction of the two split campuses of the Central University at Dharamsala and Dehra. Announced during the UPA regime in 2007, the Central University is still being run from rented accommodation. The notification for the setting up of the university was issued in 2009 and the first Vice Chancellor appointed in 2010.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decks-cleared-for-kangra-varsitys-satellite-campus-215006
20-02-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Resume rural bus routes||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Resume rural bus routesHimachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has still not resumed service on many rural routes that were operated from Shimla before the pandemic struck. It is causing a lot of problems to people travelling to and from Shimla to the surrounding rural areas. The HRTC should resume these routes as early as possible. — Rakesh Thakur, Mashobra Toilet uncleanThe poor condition of a public toilet near the zonal hospital in Mandi has become a cause for concern for shopkeepers of nearby areas as well as patients. The toilet is not clean and a persistent foul smell emanates from it, making the situation worse. The Municipal Corporation of Mandi should ensure proper cleanliness of the toilet. — Suresh Kumar, Mandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resume-rural-bus-routes-214801
20-02-2021||The SFI has apprised the Dean of Studies of the delay in the beginning of the admission process for MP Ed course at the HPU. The SFI demanded that admissions in physical education department be started at the earliest. The students' body said ground tests of applicants had been completed four months back but the admission process was yet to begin.||Start admission process: SFI||ABVP girls' panel chief appointedNeha and Harshita have been appointed the president and secretary, respectively, of the ABVP's girls' college panel. Manisha, chief guest on the occasion, claimed the ABVP was the biggest student organsiation of the world and it was a result of the hard work and struggle of the ABVP activists. Newly elected president Neha said she would carry out the responsibility given to her to the best of her abilities and would work to take the student body ahead.International workshop heldThe School of Physics and Materials Science organised a three-day International workshop on Advanced Characterisation Techniques where Prof Dae-Yong Jeong of Inha University, Korea, elaborated upon "Electric Energy Harvesting from Stray Magnetic Field". Prof RP Dwivedi, Director, International Affairs, Shoolini University, spoke on "Micro/Nano Photonic Devices based on Plasmonic Waveguides". He discussed the challenges remaining in this sector, which gave new ideas and proposals to students interested in research and development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/start-admission-process-sfi-214802
20-02-2021||Shimla||Shun gender bias, says Shimla Deputy Commissioner||There should be no discrimination between a girl and a boy in modern times, said Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi who presided over the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” camp at the remote Kashapat panchayat in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district today.While interacting with local people, Negi appreciated their role in improving the gender ratio and lauded the efforts of girls in narrowing social and educational gaps.He exhorted people to create awareness on welfare schemes for the girl child and oppose female foeticide. He highlighted the importance of the girl child and planted a sapling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shun-gender-bias-says-shimla-deputy-commissioner-214803
20-02-2021||Shimla||Met issues warning for hail, thunderstorm||The local MeT office today issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places in mid hills from February 21 to 23 and in lower hills on February 23 and predicted rains and snow at isolated places in the higher hills from February 21 to 25.A fresh feeble western disturbance was likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from February 20 and another western disturbance was likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from February 22, the MeT office said.Meanwhile, the weather remained dry in the region and chilly winds swept Shimla and surrounding areas under partially overcast sky. There was no significant change in minimum temperature and Keylong and Kalpa in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded a low of -6.6°C and -0.5 °C while Manali shivered at 1.8 °C, followed by Kufri 3.8 °C.The maximum temperatures stayed four to nine degrees above normal and Una was hottest with 27.8 °C. Due to scanty rains and dry weather, the rain deficit has increased to 66 per cent from January 1 to February 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-issues-warning-for-hail-thunderstorm-214804
20-02-2021||---||SMC teachers seek contract policy on analogy of PTA||Dharamsala, February 19A delegation of the Period Basis SMC (School Management Committee) Teachers Association, led by its president Manoj Rongta, met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at Dharamsala today.They urged the Chief Minister to make a provision of preparing a contract policy for them on the analogy of PTA, PARA, PAT, EGS, Period Basis Urdu/Punjabi teachers in the Budget for 2021-22.The CM said that all 2,555 SMC teachers were rendering a commendable service by imparting quality education to students of the state, particularly in remote and hard areas.He assured the delegation that the state government would sympathetically consider their demands.The association also presented a cheque of Rs 5,55,000 to the Chief Minister as a contribution towards the Chief Minister Relief Fund. Thakur thanked the association for their contribution and said it would go a long way in providing relief to the people at the time of distress.Later, another delegation of State Home Guards Welfare Association led by its president Joginder Chauhdiya and senior vice-president Ashok Kumar Rangra also called on the Chief Minister and urged his to prepare a proper policy for volunteers of the Home Guards.The Chief Minister assured the delegation for sympathetic consideration of their demands.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smc-teachers-seek-contract-policy-on-analogy-of-pta-214781
20-02-2021||Hamirpur||Himachal Pradesh Technical University neglected since its inception: ABVP||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) demanded five-fold increase in matching grant to Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) here yesterday. While protesting for their demands at the university campus, students said the state government was providing over Rs 100 crore to other universities in the state, while the HPTU was given only Rs 10 crore and that too was delayed. Avneesh Shukla, coordinator, ABVP, claimed that the HPTU was neglected ever since its inception and it lacked basic facilities following fund constrains. He said the financial aid by the state government must be increased.He said the HPTU was running eight courses since 2018, but the government did not recruit a single regular teacher and non-teaching staff since then. He said in the absence of teaching staff, the students of the university were deprived of quality education.The ABVP also demanded decrease in the fee structure and increase in subsidised seats in the university campus. It said after the technical university moved to the new campus, students were facing transportation problem. Students urged the university to provide transportation facility at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-technical-university-neglected-since-its-inception-abvp-214785
20-02-2021||---||Nauni University, forest institute sign pact to speed up research||Solan, February 19In a bid to accelerate the pace of research and collaboration, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, and Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, at a virtual meeting last evening.The tie-up will pave the way for the exchange of students between the two universities. The Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, is one of the premier institutes under the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education.The MoU was signed between Dr Parvinder Kaushal, UHF Vice-Chancellor, and Dr AS Rawat, Director General, ICFRE. Dr NK Upreti, Group Coordinator (Research), FRI, Dr AK Joshi, Associate Director, RHRTS, Dhaulakuan, Dr PS Rawat, Scientist and Dr Ajay Thakur, Head Genetics and Tree Improvement, FRI. Dr Priyanka Thakur, Principal, Floriculturist, represented the university.“Both institutions will undertake collaborative research, teaching and sharing of scholars for human resource development and to increase the impact of collaborative research, informed Dr Parvinder Kaushal.As per the MoU, the two institutions would work towards the exchange of planting material /germplasm for testing and evaluation at respective locations. They will also include scientists’ faculties as co-guide members in the advisory committees of postgraduate students and also provide specialised trainings to the researchers. They will also share their infrastructure, laboratory, library and other facilities with scientists and faculties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-university-forest-institute-sign-pact-to-speed-up-research-214782
20-02-2021||Palampur||Villagers begin signature drive against govt’s mining lease plan||Residents of the Bathan Panchyat of Thural tehsil today announced to resort to direct action if the state government failed to withdraw its proposal to allow mining activities on the village land. They launched a signature campaign against the proposed move of the government to grant a lease in the village for mining and setting up a stone crusher unit.Seema Devi, panchyat pardhan, along with other members of the panchyat visited door to door and got a memorandum signed in this regard which is to be submitted to Kangra Deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati. Residents of the adjoining Thural area have also joined hands with the Bathan panchayat against the setting up of the stone crusher. Several environmental groups have also come out in support of the villagers.Talking to mediapersons, Seema Devi and other panchyat members urged the state government to withdraw its proposal. She appealed to Sulaha MLA Vipan Singh Parmar, who is Speaker of the Assembly, to support the villagers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-begin-signature-drive-against-govts-mining-lease-plan-214783
20-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Irked over lack of faculty, students shut college||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 19Peeved at the shortage of staff, students of Government Degree College, Haripurdhar, in Sirmaur district, today closed the college gate and demanded immediate posting of adequate staff.Dismal scenarioThough the college has 228 students, the faculty in key subjects like English, Hindi and science stream was not available. The lone faculty member of commerce stream was first deputed to GD College Sangrah for four days and then transferred to Paonta Sahib. Faculty was available only for the streams of political science, history, sociology, music and physical education.Despite sanctioned faculty for science stream there was no one to teach physics, chemistry and mathematics to the students and only arts and commerce stream were operational in the college which was opened in 2011. The college was given a new building in 2017 but little arrangement was made for staff thus making a mockery of the education system.The college does not have a regular principal and the music faculty was officiating for the last several years. “With the college having resumed classes on February 8, students were hopeful of catching up with the lost time but unavailability of staff was acting as a major handicap. To make matters worse, the music and commerce faculty members were deputed to the Sangrah college for a few days and this further dealt a severe blow to the studies”, rued a student.Prof Ravi, acting principal, while confirming the state of affairs said the students today resented the non-availability of adequate staff in the college and key subjects of English and Hindi were also without any faculty since the past several years.It was lamentable that despite the state government having opened colleges in far-flung areas like Sangrah, Ronhat and Haripurdhar in Sirmaur district, the lack of staff has defeated the very purpose of facilitating the rural students. The state government had been running these colleges by merely deputing staff from one college to the other in a make-shift basis.In a representation to the tehsildar, the students said regular staff should be posted at Haripurdhar college. College staff had been deputed to Government College Sangrah and this was adversely affecting the studies of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/irked-over-lack-of-faculty-students-shut-college-214778
20-02-2021||---||Himachal Governor meets first voter Shyam Saran Negi at Kalpa||Shimla, February 19Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya met Shyam Saran Negi, the first voter of Independent India, at the Kalpa Circuit House in Kinnaur district today. Negi (104) is a native of Kalpa and he reached the Circuit House to welcome the Governor.The Governor thanked Negi for spreading awareness amongst voters and his contribution to strengthening democracy. He honoured Negi and said that even at this age he was an active citizen, which is a motivation for others.Negi said that he was a fan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Government was performing well under his leadership. Later, the Governor performed puja at the ancient temple of Kalpa and took a round of apple orchards. He also interacted with local people and listened to their grievances.Dattatreya, who is on a two-day visit to Kinnaur, matched steps with the folk troupe of Kinnaur. He said that his trip to Kinnaur was a unique experience and he felt that coming to Himachal was worthwhile.The Governor said that Kinnaur has its own distinct identity and the local culture was truly exquisite. The affinity seen among the people of the area could not be witnessed in any other part of the country.He said that the future generation should be made aware of its rich culture, so that they could take pride of their culture. He added that a society survives as long as it remains attached to its culture. The mountains, forests and rivers were the identity of the Devbhoomi. Along with culture, special attention should also be given to the conservation of nature and cleanliness.The Governor congratulated the newly elected public representatives of the recent PRI elections.He said that the new responsibility of development was on them, and asked them to contribute significantly to the development of villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-meets-first-voter-shyam-saran-negi-at-kalpa-214779
20-02-2021||---||Honour teachers who taught during Covid: Lahaul residents||Mandi, February 19Residents of the Lahaul valley are advocating to honour those teachers who had provided education to students in the valley during Covid times despite adverse weather conditions in the area.They said Lahaul and Spiti lacked a good Internet connectivity.Due to this, many teachers managed to take offline classes in the absence of Internet facility at their own houses or visited the houses of students to teach them.According to the residents of Lahaul valley, Anita Devi, a lecturer of Hindi at Government Senior Secondary School, Jahlama; Chhering Dolma, a teacher at Government Primary School, Meh, and a few other teachers of the valley had done a commendable job. A few residents of Lahaul valley said the district administration should honour such teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/honour-teachers-who-taught-during-covid-lahaul-residents-214780
20-02-2021||---||Shops, houses gutted in Rohru||Shimla, February 19Six shops and three makeshift houses were completely gutted in a fire that broke out at Sheel Ghat near Kharapathar in Rohru subdivision of Shimla district last night. However, no casualty was reported.Fire tenders were rushed from Jubbal and Rohru to douse the fire which was stopped from spreading further. The shops and houses reportedly belonged to six persons — Shiv Badan, Shiv Naresh, Mohan Singh, Ratan Chand, Narender and Joginder.The loss to property was estimated to be in lakhs, said police sources. They said preliminary investigations pointed out short circuit as the cause of fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shops-houses-gutted-in-rohru-214786
20-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Renuka wildlife sanctuary area to be denotified soon||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 19The denotification of 0.14 sq km area of the wildlife sanctuary at Renukaji in Sirmaur district will facilitate the creation of facilities for pilgrims and the beautification of the Renukaji temple complex. The denotification process is in the advanced stage.RK Pruthi, Deputy Commissioner, SirmaurProblems in creating need-based amenitiesAs it is a sanctuary, the district administration has been facing problems in creating even need-based amenities for the pilgrims. Even funds received from the PWD for the construction of pavements and upgrading stage where cultural events are organised during the the annual Renukaji festival could not be utilised. Established in 1964, the Renuka Wildlife Sanctuary is located in 4.02 sq km comprising the Renukaji lake catchment. Lakhs of devotees pay obeisance at the temples of Goddess Renuka and her son Parshuram here every year. The lake is located in the centre of the sanctuary and there are various temples in its vicinity.“As it is a sanctuary, the district administration has been facing problems in creating even need-based amenities such as toilets, a community hall, etc., for the pilgrims. Even funds received from the Public Works Department for the construction of pavements, upgrading the stage where cultural events are organised during the annual Renukaji festival could not be utilised,” said RK Pruthi, Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur.The decision of the state government to rationalise the boundaries of the protected areas network comprising wildlife sanctuaries has come as a boon. This will enable the denotification of the temple area and its precincts while additional area will be added to the sanctuary to ensure its effective area does not reduce.“A total of 0.63 sq km area of the Renuka Wildlife Sanctuary comprising 0.14 sq km where temples, ashrams, a part of the Renukaji lake, the place used for the annual fair and other infrastructure are to be excluded,” said Chief Wildlife Warden Archana Sharma.“Besides, 0.49 sq km area of the sanctuary will be submerged during the construction of the Renuka dam. This area will also be denotified from the purview of the wildlife sanctuary,” added Sharma.No village is being included or excluded, and only barren 50 hectares are being added. The state government had issued an intension notification in 2010 to include an area of 0.50 sq km, following the approval of the Supreme Court.“The demarcation of the area, which is supposed to be included, is underway and about 40 per cent work has been completed. This will pave the way for the final denotification of 0.14 sq km area of the Renuka Wildlife Sanctuary,” said Krishan Kumar, Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/renuka-wildlife-sanctuary-area-to-be-denotified-soon-214792
20-02-2021||Mandi||GS Bali: It will be dhan shakti vs jan shakti||Congress leader GS Bali alleged that the BJP was misusing its official power to win Municipal Corporation elections in the state due next month. Bali has been deputed as election observer by the Congress high command to ensure victory of party candidates in the elections in Mandi.Targeting the state government, Bali said during panchayati raj elections, the BJP had misused government machinery to emerge victorious. Now in MC elections in the state, BJP is trying to do the same.He said, “It is a fight between dhan shakti and jan shakti (power of money and power of common public). The BJP has power of money, while the Congress has power of common public to win the election. The Congress is hopeful of winning the MC election in Mandi because the three-year regime of the BJP in the state has proved complete failure.”Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur said that “the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has done nothing for the progress of Mandi town. He inaugurated only those development projects in Mandi, which were approved by the Congress during its regime, whether it was a water scheme or bridge constructed over Beas in Mandi.”Kaul Singh stated that “if Congress comes to power in the assembly elections next year, it will exclude those panchayats out of ambit of Mandi MC area, where people are unwilling to merge”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gs-bali-it-will-be-dhan-shakti-vs-jan-shakti-214793
20-02-2021||---||13.8 kg charas, poppy straw seized in Mandi||Mandi, February 19The police today seized 13.8 kg of charas and 47.9 kg of poppy straw in Mandi district in three cases and arrested seven persons under the NDPS Act for possessing the contraband.According to police, three accused Jai Chand, Tara Chand and Mahesh Kumar, all natives of Mandi district, were arrested by police for possessing 7.1 kg charas in Mandi. In another case, police seized 47.9 kg poppy straw from the possession of Jujhar Singh and Pavitar Singh, both natives of Punjab state.In the third case, the police arrested two accused Jai Chand and Tanuj Kumar, both natives of Mandi along with 6.6 kg charas. The accused were traveling in a car under police station Janjeli jurisdiction, when police personnel on patrolling duty stopped the vehicle. During checking police recovered the contraband and arrested them under NDPS act.The Superintendent of Police, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri confirmed the report and said that all accused will be produced before court to seek a police remand. Further investigation was going on.Two held with charasChamba: The police recovered charas weighing 932 gm from the possession of two youths at different locations in Chamba district in the past 24 hours.In an official communiqué issued here today, district police chief Arul Kumar said during a naka laid by the police at Shaluin near Nakrod, Ganesh Kumar (22) was arrested with 628 gm of charas.Likewise, at another naka laid by the police at Koti, Mangat Ali (37) was arrested with 304 gm of charas, the police chief said.Accordingly, cases against the accused have been registered under Section 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and other Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the police said, adding that further investigation in these cases was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-8-kg-charas-poppy-straw-seized-in-mandi-214794
20-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Chief Secretary reviews tourism works at Lahaul||KULLU, FEBRUARY 19Anil Khachi, Chief Secretary, reached Lahaul today on a two-day visit to catch a glimpse of the ‘festival of festivals’. His wife Rajni Khachi was also present with him to witness cultural and traditional events going on during the snow festival.The Chief Secretary was welcomed by the locals at the north portal of the Atal Tunnel, Sissu and Gondhla in a traditional way. Several district officials along with Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai and SP Manav Verma also welcomed Khachi. He paid obeisance at the temple of Raja Ghepan.While observing the works being done in the tourism sector, he reviewed structures crafted from snow and skiing activities in Gondhla. He also tried his hand in archery.Khachi visited the historical Gondhla fort and discussed the possibilities of its renovation. He also interacted with the local people and reviewed the construction of Tandi Ghat. A cultural evening was also organized in his honour at Keylong.‘Dala utsav’ was held during the snow festival in Hansa village in Spiti valley. The ‘utsav’ is celebrated on arrival of Jamlu Devta after the winter. The people organized various programs with pomp.Various colorful cultural programs were presented by local artistes. Tashi dance was performed by Mahila Mandal of Hansa and traditional gar dance was presented by Yuvak Mandal, Hansa. Sculptures crafted from snow remained a major attraction. Traditional stoneware was exhibited depicting the tribal culture. A large display of traditional dishes was put up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chief-secretary-reviews-tourism-works-at-lahaul-214795
20-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Shortage of doctors has hit health services in Tanda Medical College: MLA Ashish Butail||Palampur, February 19Local MLA Ashish Butail yesterday expressed concern over alleged poor health services in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College at Tanda here, causing inconvenience to people. He said that the state government was not concerned with the situation and taking no steps to fill vacant posts of super specialist doctors. Several doctors had resigned from the Tanda medical college (TMC) and joined elsewhere, mainly AIIMS, Bilaspur.Butail, while addressing mediapersons here this evening, said that super specialty departments were the worst affected in the absence of doctors to attend to patients. Kidney patients were suffering as dialysis was not been performed at the TMC because the posts of urologist were lying vacant. Besides, most of the equipment were non-functional. He said the previous Congress government had made efforts to strengthen the health services in the TMC but the present BJP government had completely neglected it, forcing patients to go to other states for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-doctors-has-hit-health-services-in-tanda-medical-college-mla-ashish-butail-214797
20-02-2021||Solan||Chargesheet filed against 3 officials||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau yesterday filed a chargesheet before the Court of Special Judge, Nahan, against a former panchayat assistant, Junior Engineer (JE) and Block Development Officer (BDO) posted at Paonta Sahib for misappropriation of government funds.ADGP, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Anurag Garg said that in a case registered at the bureau’s Nahan office in 2012 it was alleged that the pradhan of Thontha Jakhal gram panchayat had conspired with the panchayat assistant, JE and the BDO at Paonta Sahib to misappropriate government money sanctioned for various development works.The investigation in the matter revealed that the trio forged vouchers, bills and made false entries in the measurement books to embezzle government money meant for development works. The pradhan constructed a protection wall with the help of government funds to protect her own house while on paper it was shown to have been constructed elsewhere. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chargesheet-filed-against-3-officials-214799
20-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||BJP executive backs farm laws, adopts resolution in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 19The state BJP executive today accepted a resolution supporting the farm laws passed by the Union Government.While addressing the BJP workers on the concluding day of the state BJP executive today, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the farmers of Himachal were with the BJP and would benefit from the farm laws. A handful of people were trying to misguide the farmers. The farmers have understood their design and have now returned to their fields.The Chief Minister like national president of party JP Nadda stressed on the Mission Repeat in 2022. He said that it was a blot on state BJP that it has not been able to repeat government in Himachal. However, the party would create history by repeated the government in Himachal, he said.Thakur said that due to Corona pandemic one year of his government had been wasted and he practically had just four years for development. Still foundation stones had been laid and projects worth Rs 3,500 crore had been inaugurated in Himachal Pradesh, he said.He said that he would launch the Swaran Jyanti Rath Yatra in the state on April 15 to mark 50 years of statehood of Himachal. This would also help re-establish mass contact with people in the state. During this Rath Yatra he will travel extensively in all parts of the state.Terming the Jan Manch programme a huge success, Thakur said that most grievances of people had been resolved on their doorsteps through the programme. The Congress was desperate due to the success of the Jan Manch programme.He said that the BJP was winning elections not just due to developmental projects but due to its strong organization. The Himachal model of the BJP was being praised in the entire country. Thakur congratulated party workers for success in recently panchayat and municipal council elections in the state.Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs said that the Central Government was for reforms and performance. He said the reforms being carried out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government would help in making India an economic super power.The NDA government in the past six years has adopted 1991 reforms which would help achieve 5 trillion dollar economy target by 2025 set by the present government. Eliminating middlemen and giving corruption-free government was also a big achievement of PM Modi government, he said.Party incharge for Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon also attended the session of the state BJP executive today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-executive-backs-farm-laws-adopts-resolution-in-himachal-214787
20-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Himachal can borrow additional Rs 800 cr||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 19Himachal Pradesh has become eligible to borrow additional 0.25 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2020-21, thanks to the roll out of the One Nation One Ration Card plan recently. “We have made the plan operational before the deadline and hence become eligible for the incentive. Now, the Finance Department can borrow 0.25 per cent of the GSDP, around Rs 800 crore,” said Abid Hussain, Director of the state Department of Food and Civil Supplies. “With revenue taking a hit because of Covid, the facility of additional borrowing will come handy for the state”.Moreover, the public distribution system (PDS) beneficiaries can now get ration at fair price shops anywhere in the country. Earlier, the department faced many technical hurdles. “The roll out needed seamless synchronisation of the Aadhaar server where the identity of the beneficiary is authenticated, and the server of the Food Ministry where the ration card data is available. We faced some technical hurdles but eventually we managed to get it right,” said Hussain.The Director added that now the beneficiary and his family could divide their entitled ration if they are living at different places. “An individual can take a part of his quota at one place, and his family can take the remaining amount elsewhere. Also, a beneficiary need not take his quota of ration in one go, if he so desires,” said Hussain.In another benefit for the beneficiaries, the department has put the stock at fair price shops online. “Now, a beneficiary can track commodities online, and need not visit a fair price shop to check their availability,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-can-borrow-additional-rs-800-cr-214788
20-02-2021||Hamirpur||BJP to form govts in Himachal, Punjab: JP Nadda||The BJP will perform to form governments in Himachal and Punjab. The days of corruption and dictatorship in West Bengal are over and people have decided to get rid of the Mamata Banerjee government there, said JP Nadda, BJP national president, at Bilaspur today.He said that the way Mamata Banerjee had pushed Bengal into trouble, people want to get rid of her government. He added whether it was politising administration, sheltering the corrupt or criminalising politics, the common man was suffering in West Bengal. The Trinamool Congress had encouraged the mafia, and criminals.Nadda said that Mamata had claimed that she worked for the mothers, daughters and other people of the state but her government only encouraged corruption and the mafia raj. He added that the work on the East-West Metro link was in progress and the Central Government had sanctioned Rs 8,575 crore for it. He said that over 3,665 km of national highways were constructed in West Bengal with assistance from the Central Government. Nadda left for Delhi after meeting his ailing father at his native village Vijaypur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-form-govts-in-himachal-punjab-jp-nadda-214790
20-02-2021||Shimla||Lahaul-Spiti is Covid free||With just two cases being reported in Mandi today, the total number of active Covid cases in the state has dipped to 268. There was no fatality during the day.Lahaul and Spiti has become Covid free with no active case there. Hamirpur, Chamba and Kinnaur, too, are inching closer to becoming corona free. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-spiti-is-covid-free-214791
