22-02-2021||---||Man found dead inside a gunny bag in Nalagarh area||Solan, February 22In a sensational case, the body of a youth was found bundled inside a gunny bag and thrown into the bushes near a cowshed at Handa Khundi village in the Nalagarh industrial area on Monday.The body was detected by a villager who informed the village pradhan’s husband and later the police was called.  A police team rushed to the spot and on examination it was revealed that the victim was  wearing blue jeans and full-sleeved black T-shirt but  had no shoes on his feet. A black cloth  and a yellow colour plastic chain and a red and black handkerchief were found tied around his neck. Injury marks were also visible on the forehead. Ligature marks were also observed on the neck and it appeared the youth had been strangulated, said the police.The deceased was said to be in his mid-20s.The villagers could not identify the body and preliminary probe revealed that the body had been dumped there while the murder had been executed somewhere else, they said.Rajkumar, DSP, Nalagarh, while confirming the news said a gunny bag carrying a body was detected near Kasambhowal cow shed in Handa Khundi village this morning by the villagers who informed the police. A case under section 302 of the IPC for murder has been registered by the police and further probe is underway. The body is being sent for forensic analysis for ascertaining the cause of the death, informed Baddi SP Rohit Malpani.The presence of a dead body bundled in a gunny bag has left the locals shocked. The villagers are appalled at the rising crimes in the bordering industrial belt.The police were yet to arrest the culprits involved in looting cash and valuables worth lakhs from the house of a jeweller at gunpoint in Baddi a few days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-found-dead-inside-a-gunny-bag-in-nalagarh-area-216130
22-02-2021||---||Police seek details of votes polled in Darwa ward||Solan, February 21The police have asked the district administration to provide the details of votes polled in the Darwa ward during the recently concluded Zila Parishad poll. As many as 25 stamped ballot papers, two sealed envelopes and other material pertaining to the ward were found dumped outside a counting centre at Dharampur on February 13.A serial-wise list of the dumped ballot papers has been prepared and it will be tallied with the record to ascertain whether these votes were counted.DSP, Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta said the probe could not be proceeded further till key information such as the total votes polled and those sealed were made available to the police. A request had been made to the Solan Deputy Commissioner to provide the same.“The information will help ascertain whether the ballot papers found dumped were counted in the total votes polled by Rajkumar Sharma in whose favour they were found stamped. It is also yet to be ascertained why these ballot papers were not sealed along with other votes,” said Rolta.Rajkumar Sharma, who had finished third in the Zila Parishad poll from Darwa ward, had lodged an FIR after the recovery of the 25 ballot papers stamped in his favour. Sharma alleged that there was a difference in the total number of votes shown to be polled and the number collected by him from various gram panchayats. The probe is being conducted by the Additional Deputy Commissioner. The statements of staff deputed at the counting centre were being recorded.Complaint was lodged by candidate RajkumarRajkumar Sharma, who had finished third in the Zila Parishad poll in Darwa ward, had lodged an FIR after the recovery of a bundle of 25 ballot papers stamped in his favour. A serial-wise list of the dumped ballot papers has been prepared to be tallied with the record to ascertain whether these votes were counted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-seek-details-of-votes-polled-in-darwa-ward-215710
22-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||81% fall in tourist arrivals in 2020||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 21Hit by the Covid pandemic and lockdowns, the tourism sector in Himachal witnessed an unprecedented fall of 81.4 per cent in tourist arrivals during 2020 as compared to the preceding year (2019).The state received 31,70,714 domestic and 42,665 foreign tourists in 2020 compared to 1,68,29,231 domestic and 3,82,876 foreign tourists in 2019, a drop of 81.6 per cent and 88.86 per cent respectively.Night curfew, closing markets on Sundays blamed The tourist arrival was minimal in the peak tourist season from April to June and the total number of domestic and foreign tourists was 197 and 60. The comparative figures were 53,62,378 and 1,25,399 in 2019.The impact of the lockdown can be gauged from the fact that out of total 31,70,714 domestic and 42,665 foreign tourists who visited the state during 2020, the pre-lockdown months of January, February and March accounted for 21,63,634 domestic and 31,648 foreigners. The figures imply that only 10,07,080 domestic and 11,017 foreigners visited the state from April to December.No foreign tourists visited Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts while only eight foreigners visited Una, followed by Kinnaur (111), Lahaul and Spiti (155), Chamba (192), Mandi (405) and Sirmaur (454). The maximum number of 21,111 foreign tourists visited Shimla district while Kangra, Kullu and Solan districts received 9,921, 7,080 and 3,228 foreign guests.Even after the lockdown and relaxations in Covid pandemic restrictions, only 9,26,444 tourists visited the state in October, November and December against 24,97,715 in the corresponding months in 2019.The tourism associations blame decisions like night curfew and closing markets on Sundays for poor inflow of tourists.However, the inauguration of engineering marvel, Atal Tunnel Rohtang, emerged as a hotspot and 3,58,249 and 10,460 tourists visited Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts from October to December.The tourism and allied industry has suffered a loss of Rs 2,500 crore (approx) in 2020, said president, Manali Hoteliers Association, Anup Thakur. Losses between March and October were over 95 per cent, said president, Federation of Himachal Hotels and Restaurant Associations, Ashwani Bamba.As per the data with the Tourism Department, the state breached the one crore mark in 2009 with 1,14,37,155 tourists visiting the state while the highest number of 1,96,01,533 tourists visited the state in 2017. There was a gradual increase in tourist inflow from 2009 barring 2013 and 2018 when a negative trend was witnessed, but 2020 was the worst.However, the statistics do not reflect the exact number of tourists as tourists visiting more than one place are counted separately while the number of tourists staying in illegal hotels and other accommodations are not accounted for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/81-fall-in-tourist-arrivals-in-2020-215711
22-02-2021||Subhash Rajta||Two girl cyclists on women safety mission||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 21Women safety and their empowerment and environment protection are issues that most people empathise with. Unfortunately, not many follow up their concern with concrete action to bring about a meaningful change.But two young girls — one from Bihar and the other from Uttarakhand — are moved enough by these issues to begin more than 5,000 km Trans Himalayan journey on their cycles to sensitise people on the issues. They started the journey from the Attari border on February 2 and are hopeful to complete it towards April-end at the China border in Arunachal Pradesh after traversing eight states and Nepal.“I am often asked how our journey on cycles will make women safer and more empowered?” says Sabita Mahto (24) from Chhapra in Bihar, adding that, “My answer is, when young girls and women will notice us cycling through hills and forests on our own, they will get the confidence of doing their thing. When they will see two girls from faraway places on the road for nearly three months, they will become less apprehensive about moving out of their homes and even moving to new places to pursue education and for employment opportunities.”The symbolic significance of their journey apart, the two also make direct intervention to drive their message home. “On the way wherever we see schools and colleges, we interact with students to share our message and concerns with them,” said Sabita.While Sabita has women concerns close to her heart, Shruti Rawat (20) is inclined more towards environmental issues. “I come from Uttarkashi, so the environment is close to my heart,” said Shruti, who runs an NGO and has represented Uttarakhand in cricket in North Zone.“In our journey, we urge people to at least refrain from littering plastic. We hope people will stop using cars for small distance and start cycling or walking when they will see us travelling more than 5,000 km on cycle,” said Shruti. Almost 20 days on the road now, the two are glad they took this initiative. “We have had a fantastic journey so far. We interacted with students in a few colleges of the state in the last couple of days,” said Sabita.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-girl-cyclists-on-women-safety-mission-215712
22-02-2021||Kullu||Markanda inspects works at Keylong||Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda participated in the traditional sport ‘chholo’ during the snow festival at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti today. He also tried his hand at traditional archery. During his two-day sojourn here, he also took stock of various development works.The minister inaugurated the district library at the tribal museum building. He also visited the regional hospital, Keylong, and instructed the officials concerned to start the construction of the doctor’s residence soon.Addressing mediapersons, he said all connecting roads in Lahaul were opened for traffic for the first time in winter due to opening of the Atal Tunnel. He said there had been no dependence on helicopter service and the tunnel was a boon in case of medical emergencies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/markanda-inspects-works-at-keylong-215713
22-02-2021||---||Hoteliers want conclave in Manali to promote tourism||Mandi, February 21The Hoteliers Association of Kullu-Manali has urged the state government to organise a conclave in Manali town to promote sustainable tourism.According to the hoteliers, ever since the Covid-19 outbreak in state in March last year, the tourism industry of Kullu-Manali has been on the edge. Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association, Kullu-Manali, told The Tribune, “The tourism industry, especially travel and hospitality sectors, have been affected badly. As a result, the tourism sector has been on the back foot”.“Tourism may take time to gain momentum. To have an encouraging response from tourists during the coming season, we urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to organise a tourism conclave in Manali in the last week of March or the first week of April. Travel agents from all over India and abroad should be invited to the conference,” he said.“To promote sustainable tourism in Manali and other destinations of Himachal Pradesh, we have to encourage people to travel to various tourist destinations. This can happen only by spreading positive information,” he added.“It is seen that a world famous tourist destination like Manali is known only for one spot, Rohtang Pass, though there are several beautiful tourist destinations such as the Bhrigu Lake, Manjnu Kot, Ranisui Lake, Chanderkhani Pass, Bara Garh here. There is need to promote these destinations for tourist activity in Kullu-Manali,” Thakur said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hoteliers-want-conclave-in-manali-to-promote-tourism-215714
22-02-2021||Dipender Manta||Heritage schoolbuilding restored||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 21After the completion of the restoration work of Vijay High School, Mandi, locals are urging the government to inaugurate the heritage building for tourism.This building is situated in the middle of Mandi town, and is a wonderful masterpiece of Kathkuni architecture. The whole structure is made of forest wood.The residents are urging the government to set up a state library and a museum of other historical items related to Mandi’s culture and history in this building to attract tourists and CM Jai Ram Thakur should inaugurate it. The building of Vijay High School was constructed in 1866 by the then ruler of Mandi state, Vijay Sen. It was a middle school then, but in 1921 it was upgraded to a high school. Till 1998, classes were taken in this building. However, in 1998, due to the dilapidated condition of the school building, classes were shifted to another building. Since then, this building has remained deserted.In 2006, the old students union of the school, led by union president Anil Kumar, requested the state government to take up the restoration work. The project has been completed at a cost of about Rs 6 crore, funded by Asian Development Bank.Rakesh Arora, Manager of Asian Development Bank project in Mandi, said the project was completed a month ago and was ready for inauguration.Anil Kumar said residents of the district wanted the building to be inaugurated for tourist activities as soon as possible. “We want this heritage building to be equipped with a state library, museum and some other unique things to attract visitors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heritage-schoolbuilding-restored-215715
22-02-2021||---||Mandi to emerge as new paragliding destination||Mandi, February 21Tourists will now be able to have an exciting experience of paragliding In Mandi district. The Tourism Department has cleared commercial paragliding at Prashar and Spenidhar, two famous tourist destinations in Mandi.Pankaj Sharma, Deputy Director of Tourism and Civil Aviation Department, Mandi, said that Prashar and Spenidhar had become the first notified paragliding destinations of the district. Yunus Khan, Director of the Tourism Department, had issued orders to this effect.Notified destinations“Last year, the technical committee of the Tourism Department had visited the Prashar area of the Drang Assembly segment and Spenidhar in the Saraj assembly segment and inspected the paragliding sites. The committee had recommended paragliding activities there, saying both sites were suitable for paragliding,” he added.“Commercial tandem flights have been allowed at these sites. Pilots registered with the Department of Tourism and Civil Aviation will be able to do paragliding at Prashar and Spenidhar. Adventure tourism and sports activities will be started here in Mandi like at Bir-Billing in Kangra district. Efforts will be made to encourage paragliding here,” he said.“The Tourism Department has trained many youths in paragliding in Mandi. Now, they will stand to benefit from paragliding activities here,” he added.Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, Rugved Thakur said that the commencement of commercial paragliding activities in the district would give an impetus to the tourism industry here. This would also generate self-employment opportunities for the local youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-to-emerge-as-new-paragliding-destination-215716
22-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Despite promises, civil court at Chowari still a pipe dream||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 21Residents of Bhatiyat in Chamba district are feeling neglected as their demand for a civil court has not been met. The issue was also raised during the Virbhadra Singh government (2003-07).Resentment is brewing among people, who have to travel around 130 km to reach Dalhousie for civil court works.With the efforts of former MLA Kuldeep Pathania a revenue subdivision was established at Bhatiyat with its headquarters at Chowari in 1997. He also tried for a civil court here and a High Court team inspected the site.Resentment brewingEnquiries reveal that the proposal was shelved due to opposition from some residents of Dalhousie. “The present government has opened a civil court at Tissa in Churah in 2019, ignoring Bhatiyat,” alleged Pathania.Talking to The Tribune, Pathania said that the successive governments had ignored the interests of Bhatiyat and the local BJP MLA also failed to take up the issue with the government.Underlining the urgent need to set up a civil court at Chowari, Pathania said litigants from Chowari, Sihunta and Kakira face hardships. He appealed to the Jai Ram government to consider the demand urgently.Abhinav Sondhi and Balwinder Kumar, president and general secretary of the Social Welfare Committee, Chowari, said Bhatiyat limits start from Hatli on the one side and Nainikhud on the other with a tough topography. Travelling to Dalhousie was cumbersome. They pleaded that former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal had announced that his government would consider a circuit court of Chief Judicial Magistrate at Chowari but the announcement had never taken shape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-promises-civil-court-at-chowari-still-a-pipe-dream-215717
22-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||‘Sarai’ building at Palampur hospital on verge of collapse||Palampur, February 21The ‘sarai’ building constructed on the local Civil Hospital premises over 10 years ago is on the verge of collapse.Most of the windows and doors of the ‘sarai’, which was constructed for the attendants of the patients, are broken and walls have developed cracks. Despite it being an unsafe building, four of its rooms are in use.Information gathered by The Tribune has revealed that former MP and senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar had given Rs 20 lakh from his MPLAD fund for the construction of a ‘sarai’ a few years ago. However, after the building was constructed, the state government did not notify which department or authority would be responsible for its maintenance. Even minor repairs had not been carried out on the building.Under such circumstances, most of the attendants had to sleep in the corridors of the general ward amid biting cold. Dharmesh Ramotra, Palampur SDM, said he was aware of the situation. “I have spoken to the Public Works Department and the Medical Superintendent of the hospital in this regard. Both have expressed their inability to take over the building, saying they have no funds,” said Ramotra.During a visit to the ‘sarai’, sewage and water supply pipes were found leaking and cracks were visible on walls, causing seepage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sarai-building-at-palampur-hospital-on-verge-of-collapse-215718
22-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||Suspended a year ago, train service yet to be restored||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 21The train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge railway line has been lying suspended for the past about a year now. The railway service on the route, which was made operational by the British in 1929, was suspended in March last year in the wake on the Covid pandemic.Though most of Covid restrictions have been lifted, the authorities have not resumed the train service on the route. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said he had written to the Railways to resume the service in the interest of the people of the region. “However, the service has not been resumed yet. I will take up the issue with the authorities again,” he said.Only public transport for residentsResidents of the Jawali area and people living in the Pong Dam catchment area in Kangra district are suffering due to non-availability of the service. In many areas of Jawali, which fall in the Pong Dam wildlife sanctuary, this narrow gauge railway line was the only mode of public transport. There are no roads to many villages as they come under the wildlife sanctuary area.Raghav, a resident of the Pong Dam area, said seven trains used to ply between Pathankot and Jogindernagar regularly. “It is for the first time that the train service on this historic route has been suspended for such a long time. We have been hearing political leaders raising a demand that a board gauge railway line should be linked to Kangra district. But it is sad that the Railways is not even able to maintain services on this gauge railway line,” he said.Residents rue that while the Kalka-Shimla services have been restored, the Pathankot-Jogindernagar line has not been made operational yet. Before the Covid-induced lockdown, five trains used to ply on the route regularly. The Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line was popular among residents of Kangra as it was cheap and reached far-flung areas of the district.Traversing the Kangra valley, the work on the railway line started in 1926 and completed in 1929. The line has two tunnels, one of which is 250 ft and the other 1,000 ft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/suspended-a-year-ago-train-service-yet-to-be-restored-215719
22-02-2021||Palampur||Landowners threaten to move court over NOC on mining||The confrontation among residents of Bathan panchayat and owners of land to be leased out for mining in the village cannot be ruled out. The owners of the land today threatened to move the High Court against the panchayat and locals if they refused to grant NOC for mining activities to the state government. Bathan panchayat pradhan Seema Devi and other members had already refused to grant the NOC for mining activities in the village keeping in view the environmental degradation.Rajinder Singh, owner of the land, told mediapersons here today that he was being “harassed” by the panchayat and residents of the area for the last two years and failed to get the NOC. He said it was his personal land and the panchayat had no right to refuse the same. He said he would claim damages in the High Court.However, Seema Devi said since the villagers were not ready to allow mining, therefore, the panchayat had refused to grant the NOC. She said the final decision would be taken on February 23, when the General House of the panchayat would meet in the presence of the SDM.She said the state had made a legal provision in law empowering panchayats for granting the final NOC, therefore, the panchayat was following the legal course in rejecting the proposal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landowners-threaten-to-move-court-over-noc-on-mining-215720
22-02-2021||Shimla||Over 75% health workers get jab||Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said yesterday that the state had crossed 75 per cent mark in administering the first dose of the Covid vaccine to healthcare workers. "We are among the nine states and a Union Territory to achieve this mark," he said.Saizal said till date, 28,840 frontline workers had been vaccinated, which was 56 per cent of the target. He added that all frontline workers would be administered the first dose by March 1. He lauded the efforts of the Health Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-75-health-workers-get-jab-215721
22-02-2021||---||Student ends life||Shimla, February 21A 20-year-old student from Arunachal, pursuing law degree at APG Shimla University on the outskirts of the town, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in his room.Identified as Aryan Mantano, he was staying in a rented room along with his friend in Sargeen village in the vicinity of the university. His roommate had gone home few days back, police sources said.The body was found hanging in the room. A police team examined the spot, took the body into possession and sent it for post-mortem examination. No suicide note was found from the room.In another incident, the driver of a heavy vehicle was electrocuted when his vehicle came in contact with live wires on the Shimla-Kalka National Highway near Shoghi this afternoon.The victim has been identified as Gurnam Singh (60), a resident of Nakodar in Jalandhar district of Punjab.The driver was reversing the vehicle near the petrol pump when the incident happened.According to the police sources, the victim was rushed to Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital (IGMC), Shimla, where he succumbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-ends-life-215722
22-02-2021||---||19 new Covid cases, 1 death in Himachal||Shimla, February 21With 19 positive cases being reported today, the total number of active Covid cases in the state dipped to 234.One person died in Kangra taking the fatality figure to 982. With this, the total tally of Covid-positive cases in Himachal reached58,385 today. The highest number of six cases each were reported from Kangra and Shimla, three each in Una and Sirmour and one in Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-himachal-215723
22-02-2021||Mandi||Govt committed to welfare of sericulturists, says CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said the state government was committed to the welfare of sericulturists and opening centres for them in various parts of the district.He was addressing a gathering at a sericulture farming workshop and dialogue programme at Bali Chowki here.Thakur said a sericulture centre was being built at Bali Chowki at a cost of Rs 494 lakh. It would benefit silk weavers. A provision of Rs 50 lakh had been made for imparting training at the centre. Currently, 30 women weavers were being trained at Bali Chowki and being given Rs 300 per day.He said Rs 318 lakh had been released for the construction of a silk seed production centre at Thunag.The state was mulling to launch a vanished Oak Tussar sericulture scheme. The CM said the workshop had given an opportunity to farmers to get information about various schemes launched by the Central and state government for the development of the sericulture industry. Thakur honoured Roshani Devi from Bali Chowki region. He expressed gratitude to Govind Ram for donating 10 biswa for a pest breeding centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-committed-to-welfare-of-sericulturists-says-cm-215724
22-02-2021||Chamba||Repeal  farm laws, DCC urges  Centre||The District Congress Committee (DCC) sought withdrawal of farm laws in the interest of farmers. The DCC sent a memorandum in this respect to the Centre through the DC.DCC president Neeraj Nayar and Block Congress Committee president Kartar Thakur said the Union Government was exploiting farmers by becoming a puppet in the hands of corporate houses.They said farmers had been agitating for nearly three months at various borders along Delhi-NCR, but the Centre was bent on insulting them with their obstinate attitude. The Congress would continue their protest in support of the farmers until the laws were withdrawn, the leaders said. There were many flaws in the Agricultural Reform Amendment Act, and with the laws, the farmers would lose their land, they said. — OCCPM to run campaign Shimla: The district unit of the CPM, in its meeting on Sunday, decided to run a campaign till February 28 against the three farm laws. The CPM also decided to start an agitation from March 1 in Shimla and all blocks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/repeal-farm-laws-dcc-urges-centre-215725
22-02-2021||SOME people need to be taught the basic rules of traffic. Even when there is a huge queue of vehicles lined up ahead of them||Traffic etiquette||Highway cries for attentionTHE National Highway near Kangra town is in a bad shape. It has been damaged and has potholes since the last monsoon. The National Highways Department has not repaired it since then. Even the patchwork on the road has not been done. Commuters travelling in the night have their vehicles damaged due to the potholes. The department should immediately repair the road near Kangra town. — Balbir Singh, KangraWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-etiquette-215726
22-02-2021||St Thomas' School||St Thomas’ School chosen for Toy Fair||Forum to gherao Vidhan SabhaTo put pressure on the government to regulate fee and admission process in private schools and form a regulatory commission, the Student-Parent Forum will gherao Vidhan Sabha on March 5. Vijender Mehra, convener of the forum, said the agitation against the private schools would become more intense. He warned the government that if it did not legislate a law in the Budget session to regulate private schools, the student-teacher forum will launch a decisive agitation.Induction event at Sanjauli collegeGovernment College, Sanjauli, conducted an induction programme for the first year students on Saturday. Principal CB Mehta, while welcoming the freshers to the institute, wished them good future and encouraged them to give their best for the welfare and betterment of society. The induction function for remaining students - only half the students attended the programme due to Covid restrictions - will be held on Monday.Open hostels, demands ABVPWhile welcoming the decision to open all colleges in the state, the ABVP demanded hostels of HPU and all colleges be opened up too at the earliest. The ABVP said students coming from far-flung areas and the poor families would have to rent a place in case hostels were not opened, which would put a huge financial burden on them. The ABVP leaders further said many students were not attending college and university because of the shut hostels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/st-thomas-school-chosen-for-toy-fair-215729
22-02-2021||Arrogance among the party leaders who are calling the shots in the state was the talk among the common BJP workers during the state BJP executive held in Dharamsala this week. Common BJP workers rued that the leaders calling the shots were misbehaving with them. Some videos of BJP workers complaining regarding arrogance of some party leaders also went viral. Even the national president of the party||‘Arrogance’ won’t do||Strong steps for quality eduThe Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) has taken strong steps to ensure quality in education. As a result, eight Vice-Chancellors of private universities in the state not fulfilling the prescribed criteria have resigned. However, a section of academicians are apprehensive that the move is aimed at adjusting BJP-aligned people at the top positions. The initiatives taken by the commission are welcome provided those retain the sanctity of the institution and ensures that there is no compromise when the ball is in your court, commented a retired professor.One man’s loss is another’s gainThe abrupt twists and turns in politics often creates upheaval for the leaders. The elevation of a new face as Zila Parishad (ZP) chairman in Solan had taken many by surprise as senior leaders, who had won as BJP rebels, had failed to bag this post. His elevation, however, appears to be shortlived as the detection of stamped ballot papers of a candidate who had contested against the chairman was all set to jeopardise his electoral victory if the aggrieved candidate takes a legal recourse. The party, which was still celebrating the ZP victory achieved a fortnight ago, is now in a tizzy . Having lost out to the electorate in the ZP poll, the Congress, however, has got a lease of new life with this issue and they were exploiting it to the hilt. How true, one man’s loss is another’s gain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arrogance-wont-do-215730
22-02-2021||Solan||Poppy husk seized||Woman dies weeks after receiving jabShimla: An anganwari worker, who was administered Covid vaccine on January 29, died at the IGMC on Sunday morning after being unwell for about 15 days. The woman hailed from Hamipur. Asked if her death could be considered a case of adverse effect following immunisation, Medical Superintendent, IGMC, Dr Janak Raj said nothing could be said with certainty before the post-mortem examination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poppy-husk-seized-215731
22-02-2021||---||CM announces Rs 4L for kin of mishap victims||Mandi, February 21The bodies of four persons killed in a road mishap at Kishaur on Saturday were brought to Thach village in Mandi district on Sunday.The accident took place on the Kalhani-Thunag link road in theSeraj Assembly segment when the Jeep they were travelling in fell into the gorge after being hit by a landslide.Het Ram (66), Durga Das (52), Tehal Das (72) and Jhabe Ram (54) of Thach village were killed in the accident, while 12 others sustained injuries.Four persons diedEleven injured persons are undergoing treatment at the Mandi zonal hospital. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur visited the hospital today and met the injured. He announced Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased and directed the Mandi district administration to provide every possible help to them. He also asked the health authorities to provide better treatment to the injured. Shrawan Manta, Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, told The Tribune that immediate relief of Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000 each had been given to the families of the deceased and the injured victims, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-announces-rs-4l-for-kin-of-mishap-victims-215732
22-02-2021||---||Thunderstorms likely in 9 districts of Himachal from tomorrow||Shimla, February 21Amid the continuing dry spell in most parts of Himachal, the local meteorological office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightning in nine out of 12 districts from February 23 to 25 and predicted wet spell in mid and higher hills, adding to the worries of farmers and fruit growers.Stormy conditions are harmful for rabi crops and stone fruit crops from mid-February to mid-April as wheat and other rabi crops are maturing in the lower hills and the stone fruit crops are at the flowering stage. Thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightning are likely at isolated places in nine districts barring Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and Solan districts while hailstorm, thunderstorm and lightning are likely in Chamba, Kangra and Kullu districts from February 23 to 25; Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Mandi and Shimla districts on February 25.Lower areas of these districts are major rabi crop-growing areas while stone fruits are grown in the higher hills. The Met office has also predicted rain and snow in the higher hills over the next six days and mid hills for next five days and rain and thundershowers in the lower hills from February 24 onwards as a Western Disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region from the night of February 22.Though the farmers are awaiting a wet spell, hailstorm and thunderstorm are very harmful for the crops and the farmers are keeping their fingers crossed. There was no significant change in minimum temperatures which stayed close to normal. The day temperatures stayed three to four degree above normal and Una, Bhuntar and Sundernagar were 4-8°C above normal at 27.6°C, 26.7°C and 26.4°C. Kalpa in tribal Kinnaur district recorded a high of 19°C, 12 degrees above normal.Avalanches at 2 locations in Lahaul-Spiti districtMandi: Two snow avalanches were triggered off at two different locations at Karpat and Lobar during the day under Udaipur subdivision of tribal district Lahaul-Spiti on Sunday. These blocked the roads leading to Karpat and Lobar villages in the region for hours. According to the Lahaul-Spiti district administration, no loss of life and property was reported in this incident. The district administration engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the roads. In the evening, both routes were restored for traffic movement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunderstorms-likely-in-9-districts-of-himachal-from-tomorrow-215759
