23-02-2021||Shimla||Municipal Corporation elections in Himachal on party symbols||The Cabinet on Tuesday paved the way for holding of Municipal Corporation elections on party symbols.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here today.The Cabinet decided to carry out amendments in Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules, 201 to pave for holding of MC elections on party symbol.These amendments would also pave the way for providing reservation for OBCs, provision of disqualification on grounds of defection and provisions for no-confidence motion.With the government taking a final call on the holding of MC elections on party symbol basis, the Bill for making the necessary amendments in the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules, 201 are likely to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha during the ensuing budget session.The elections for the four municipal corporations of Dharamsala, Mandi, Palampur and Solan and the six newly constituted Nagar Panchayats of Anni and Nirmand (Kullu), Chirgaon and Nerwa (Shimla), Kandaghat (Solan) and Amb (Una) will be held any time before April, later this year. While Dharamsala is an old MC, the other three are newly created.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/municipal-corporation-elections-in-himachal-on-party-symbols-216533
23-02-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary opens for visitors after bird flu outbreak||The Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary opened for visitors and tourists on Tuesday after authorities managed to successfully control the Avian Influenza (H5N1) outbreak that has claimed the lives of thousands of exotic migratory birds during the past two months. The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Chief Wildlife Warden, Archana Sharma, who issued an office order for opening the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary on Monday, told The Tribune that no bird mortality had been reported from the sanctuary area since the past seven to ten days. She said that the bird flu epidemic phase was over and 5,006 birds had died of the disease.  After the sudden outbreak of Avian Influenza in December-end, the Kangra district administration in its order under the Disaster Management Act-2005 had restricted the movement of human and domestic livestock around the one-kilometre periphery of the Pong Wetland, declaring it an alter zone. It had also prohibited catching fish in the wetland, sale or purchase of poultry products, fish and meat within the area of jurisdiction of Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions in Kangra district. The district administration had revoked these bans in a phased manner. The poultry products allied non-vegetarian food ban was lifted on January 28 and after reviewing the mortality status of the migratory birds it also lifted the ban on fishing in the Pong Wetland on February 9.   The Pong Wetland was declared a Wildlife Sanctuary by the Himachal Pradesh government in 1983 and the Government of India had declared it a Wetland of National Importance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pong-wetland-wildlife-sanctuary-opens-for-visitors-after-bird-flu-outbreak-216523
23-02-2021||---||Workman special coach derails at Barog railway station||Solan, February 23Coach of a workman special train, deputed to transport water, derailed at Barog railway station at 11.05 am on Tuesday morning halting rail traffic on the Kalka-Shimla World heritage rail track.Railway officials said no one was injured as it doesnt carry any passenger and has a driver and a guard. Crane was rushed in from Kalka to remove the coach and work was underway to clear the track.Two trains, including one going uphills from Kalka and another coming down hills from Shimla, have been halted. The 04516 down train, which took off from Shimla at 10:30 am was halted at Kandaghat at 12:45 pm for half-and-hour and further at Solan. The Up 04515 train enroute Kalka-Shimla was detained at Dharampur. It had taken off from Kalka at 12:10 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workman-special-coach-derails-at-barog-railway-station-216512
23-02-2021||Manali||Kangana Ranaut opens cafe and restaurant in Manali||Actress Kangana Ranaut has ventured into the food and beverage business by opening a cafe and restaurant in her hometown Manali. On Tuesday, Kangana shared photographs from the location where her cafe will be set up.The actress calls this her dream venture, revealing that apart from cinema she is also passionate about food.Sharing my new venture my dream with you all,something which will bring us closer,other than movies my other passion food, taking baby steps in to FnB industry,building my first cafe and restaurant in Manali, thanks to my terrific team dreaming of something spectacular. Thanks 🙏 pic.twitter.com/AJT0NVPAV2“Sharing my new venture my dream with you all, something which will bring us closer, other than movies my other passion food, taking baby steps into FnB industry, building my first cafe and restaurant in Manali, thanks to my terrific team dreaming of something spectacular. Thanks,” Kangana tweeted.The actress had recently hinted about her “new venture” on social media even though she did not divulge details about the same.After wrapping up a shoot for the Bhopal schedule of her forthcoming spy thriller film “Dhaakad”, Kangana tweeted on Sunday, hinting at her new venture.The actress had written: “Schedule wrap alert.... most wonderful people, thank you chief Razy and my dear friend Sohail, amazing team I had the time of my life. #Dhaakad is going to be something spectacular. Now running to another mission, new venture coming up.”—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangana-ranaut-opens-cafe-and-restaurant-in-manali-216504
23-02-2021||The Nurpur Municipal Council has placed dustbins on the streets and markets to help the residents dispose of waste and garbage. However||Uncovered dustbins irk residents||— Parul, NurpurCivic body must Focus on providing more parking space in shimlaTHE Municipal Corporation should focus on enhancing parking facility in the forthcoming budget. The city needs as many parking lots as possible to facilitate the commuters, residents and tourists. All other facilities prove almost meaningless when a person has to face so much of inconvenience for being unable to find a place to park his vehicle.— Ashwani Sharma, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uncovered-dustbins-irk-residents-216345
23-02-2021||Himachal Pradesh University has postponed the Ph D entrance examination date. The exam was scheduled for February 26 but now it would be conducted on March 10.||Ph D entrance exam postponed||NSUI opposes café at state libraryThe National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) has alleged that the Shimla Municipal Corporation was doing a disservice to the students with its proposal to start a café at the historic state library building on the ridge. NSUI state general secretary Mohit Thakur demanded that the library be converted into an e-library under the Smart City Mission. Thakur asked since there were already a number of cafés running close to the library, what was the need to start a new one at the library?SFI submits memo on hostel feeThe Students Federation of India (SFI) submitted a memorandum to the Registrar, demanding that the students who had deposited the hostel fee from February to July should not be charged continuation fee as the one already paid had not been used anywhere by the administration. The SFI also demanded the opening of hostels at the earliest so that the students do not face any problem.parents protest Closure of schoolThe student-parent forum held a protest against the closing down of Ankur Day Public School on Monday in Chotta Shimla. Representatives of the forum also met the Education Joint Director and submitted a memorandum against the closing of the school. Alleging that the school management had arbitrarily closed the school, forum convener Vijender Mehra said not only it was illegal but also anti-people move. He said the parents had bought books and school uniform for their wards and the school management did not intimate them about its plan to close down the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ph-d-entrance-exam-postponed-216342
23-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Pathankot-Mandi highway widening project hangs fire||Palampur, February 22There is no headway in land acquisition for the Rs 8,000-crore Pathankot-Mandi highway widening project in the last two years. The land acquisition process was suspended in December 2018. The foundation stone of the project was laid by Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2017 and it was to be completed by 2023.May be delayed by five more yearsIn the present scenario, the Pathankot-Mandi road project is likely to be delayed by five years, further escalating the cost of the works from Rs8,000 crore to Rs15,000 crore.In the present scenario, the Pathankot-Mandi road project is likely to be delayed by five years, further escalating the cost of project from Rs 8,000 crore to Rs 15,000 crore.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that as per the original plan, the land acquisition for the project was to be completed before December 2018. However, till date, the state government could acquire land only for the first phase of 40 km of the project between Chakki and 32 Mile. There is no headway in land acquisition for the remaining four phases of 180 km. As a result, the NHAI had not been able to call global bids for the project.The Central Government has already released Rs 300 crore to the state government to meet the cost of land to be acquired for the highway.A senior NHAI official said that as soon as the land was handed over to them, the process to invite global bids for the project would be started. He added that for the first phase between Chakki and 32 Mile, the land acquisition process had been completed and taking possession of the land was in process. However, in the remaining four phases, speedy action was required for land acquisition, he added.Since the alignment of the road has completely been changed between Pathankot and Joginder Nagar, land is needed for the construction of eight bypasses, three tunnels, three railway over-bridges and three flyovers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-mandi-highway-widening-project-hangs-fire-216274
23-02-2021||---||BJP goes digital to verify panna pramukhs||Shimla, February 22Himachal Pradesh has become a pioneer of e-vistarak Yojana undertaken digitally to verify all booth presidents, and panna pramukhs at the base level, said state BJP president Suresh Kashyap here today.He said that there were 23,376 ‘Tridev’ in 7,792 booths in the state while the number of panna pramukhs was 192,318 and all of them had been digitally verified.As per the directions of national BJP president JP Nadda, now the focus was on the panna committee to be formed at the booth level, which would further strengthen the party cadre, he added.Kashyap said that the state executive meeting held in Dharamsala recently was a complete success and as a result the Congress was getting jittery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-goes-digital-to-verify-panna-pramukhs-216275
23-02-2021||---||7-year-old dies as fire breaks out in hutment||7-year-old dies as fire breaks out in hutment  Solan, February 22 A seven-year-old girl died while a seven-month-old girl child suffered grievous injuries when the hutment where they were playing caught fire at Dasomajra village in the Baddi industrial area today. Both girls, who suffered severe burns, were taken to the Community Health Centre at Baddi. The elder girl was declared dead while the younger was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. They are the daughters of migrant labourers from UP said Navdeep Singh, DSP, Baddi.  The seven-month old girl child was saved by the timely intervention of neighbours. Their mother was outside when the incident took place. As per the preliminary probe, the fire which was ignited for cooking food did not get doused may have led to the accident. The Tehsildar, Baddi, visited the spot to take stock of the situation. The deceased has been identified as Gauri, daughter of Roop Singh, while the injured girl is Laxmi who was undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh. The administration has provided an immediate relief of Rs 10,000 to the kin of the deceased and Rs 5,000 to the injured girl. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-year-old-dies-as-fire-breaks-out-in-hutment-216276
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Pathankot-Jogindernagar train service resumes after 11 months||Nurpur, February 22Train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge railway line, which remained suspended for 11 months during the Covid imposed lockdown, resumed on Monday.The Northern Railway started the first passenger train on this route, cheering the commuters for whom it was the only mode of public transport in lower Kangra district.The Railway authorities have also increased the fare with two minimum and maximum fare slabs. The commuters have to either pay a minimum of Rs 30 or a maximum Rs 50 fare for their journey from Pathankot to Jogindernagar for their respective destinations. The sudden hike in fare though dismayed the commuters who used to prefer this economical transport service.The commuters today paid Rs 30 for their travel from Nagrota Surian to Guler whereas the bus fare for the same is Rs 25. Similarly, for the journey from Jawali to Nagrota Surian they paid Rs 30, whereas earlier they had to pay only Rs 10.Some of the passengers, Anil, Sujan, Pooja, Ram Kumar, Sunil, Asha Rani and Subhash, who travelled in the train today have urged the Railway authorities to rationalise the train fare keeping in view the distance mileage so that needy people could take benefit of the service.Only a single train service from Pathankot to Jogindernagar started today. As per official information, another train service would start from Tuesday. The Railway department will resume at least three to four trains on the route, whereas the commuters pleaded to restore all seven trains which were plying between Pathankot and Jogindernagar before the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-jogindernagar-train-service-resumes-after-11-months-216277
23-02-2021||---||Finish road projects in stipulated time, CM urges NHAI||Shimla, February 22 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today asked SS Sandhu,  CMD of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), to ensure time-bound completion of various ongoing projects in the state. Sandhu called on the Chief Minister here. He said that detailed project reports (DPRs) should be prepared in such a way that they minimise  damage to the ecology. He added that special thrust should be laid on the time-bound completion of the Pathankot-Mandi and Kangra-Shimla highway widening projects keeping in view the traffic volume. Adequate funds should be made available for the construction of the Baddi-Pinjore National Highway. Thakur said that the work on the Kaithlighat-Shimla road widening project should also be expedited. He added that focus should be laid on the approval of awards and providing compensation to the affected parties.  He said that adequate compensation should be provided for damage to the buildings and other infrastructure due to the construction of the national highways. He also raised the issue of the non-payment of dues for the works done by the contractors on the Kiratpur-Mandi road project. He said package-wise targets should be given to the construction companies so that the works could be completed at the earliest. The Chief Minister expressed concern over the delay in the construction of the Manali bridge. He said that this bridge was the lifeline of the Atal Tunnel and important from tourism as well was strategic point of view. He added that the maintenance of the national highways, particularly between Mandi-Pandoh-Kullu, should be ensured. Sandhu said that compensation had been released for the Baddi-Pinjore National Highway. The work on the Baddi-Kurali National Highway project would be taken up soon. He added that the issue regarding the maintenance of the national highways would be resolved soon, as funds would either be provided to the state PWD or would be maintained by the NHAI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finish-road-projects-in-stipulated-time-cm-urges-nhai-216278
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Gear up for MC elections, CM asks BJP workers in Mandi||Kullu, February 22Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today asked BJP workers in Mandi to gear up for the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections. He said that BJP office-bearers and workers should ensure victory in the Municipal Corporation elections. He called upon them to work unitedly and continue the victory campaign, as most of the BJP-supported candidates had won the municipal committee and panchayati raj elections in the state. He was presiding over the closing ceremony of the two-day BJP’s Prashikshan Varg of Mandi parliamentary constituency.Thakur took a dig at Mandi Sadar MLA Anil Sharma and said that the MLAs of the three new municipal corporations of Mandi, Palampur and Solan were not from the BJP and it was necessary to win where the party had lost. He added that Sharma should attend the Prashikshan Varg.The Chief Minister said that no government had two consecutive terms in Himachal for long and the BJP would make history by again winning the Assembly elections in 2022. He said that he was confident that the mission repeat would be successful with the unified efforts of the BJP members.Thakur said the functioning of the BJP was different from other political parties because it works on an ideology while the other parties compromise with their ideologies for power. He added that discipline, traditions and sacrifice comprised the identity of the BJP and that was why it had emerged as the largest political party in the world today.The Chief Minister later presided over a meeting of the Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal. He said that traders made an important contribution to the state’s economy and the government was ready to protect their interests. He added that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) had been simplified, as per the suggestions of the traders. The government was sensitive to the problems of the Beopar Mandal.He said the construction work of the Shivdham in Mandi would commence soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gear-up-for-mc-elections-cm-asks-bjp-workers-in-mandi-216279
23-02-2021||Palampur||HPSEBL to fill 1,900 tech staff posts by Feb-end||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) will fill vacant posts of the technical staff by the end of this month. In the first phase, 1,900 posts of technical staff and 243 posts of junior engineer will be filled. Sukh Ram Chaudhry, Power Minister, while addressing mediapersons here today, said that the government was well aware of the shortage of the field staff in the HPSEBL and the process to fill all vacant posts had been started. He added that in a phased manner, all posts would be filled. His top priority was to fill the posts of field staff such as linemen and foremen. He said that the government had taken a major policy decision to discard wooden poles  used in transmission lines in the next six months and replace these with steel poles.  The minister said the recent decision of the Supreme Court granting environment clearance for  power projects in the state would boost the execution of small and major hydropower projects.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-to-fill-1-900-tech-staff-posts-by-feb-end-216280
23-02-2021||Legal Correspondent||HC to resume physical hearing from today||Shimla, February 22After nearly a year, the HP High Court will resume its complete physical functioning from tomorrow (February 23).The High Court has decided to start its regular functioning from tomorrow. From Tuesday, all division and single Benches of the High Court will begin physical hearing of cases.As per the notification it is ordered that cases, which have been filed through e-mail, either decided or pending, the hard copy of the cases along with the court fees be filed/deposited within a period of 30 days from today. The filing of the cases through the e-mail mode is now ordered to be discontinued.All subordinate courts in the state had already started regular functioning on February, 15. In its previous notification regarding resuming of physical hearing in all subordinate courts of the state, the High Court had directed all the District Judges that all stakeholders, including lawyers, should follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health.The High Court along with the district courts had on March 25 last year restricted its physical functioning. However, the HC had resumed physical hearings in a limited manner in September 2020. Due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the High Court was holding only virtual courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-to-resume-physical-hearing-from-today-216281
23-02-2021||---||IGMC rules out death due to Covid shot||Shimla, February 22An anganwari worker died at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) here on Sunday morning. Did she die of adverse effect following Covid immunisation? The IGMC administration doesn’t think so. “On the basis of preliminary evidence and documents, it will be irrational to call it a death caused by the Covid vaccine,” said IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj.As per the guidelines, a pathological autopsy of the deceased has been ordered to ascertain the exact cause of death. “Reports will come in two to three weeks, and it’s only then we will be able to say something with certainty,” said Dr Janak Raj. At the moment, though, the IGMC thinks she died of complications caused by Gullian Barre syndrome, a neurological syndrome. “She took the Covid jab on January 29 and was fine for a week. It was on February 6 that she reported weakness in her legs and got herself checked at Hamirpur where she was suspected of suffering from Gullian Barre syndrome,” said Dr Janak Raj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-rules-out-death-due-to-covid-shot-216282
23-02-2021||---||MC poll on party symbols: Cabinet may take call today||Shimla, February 22The Cabinet is likely to take a call on the issue of holding the municipal corporation elections on party symbols and bring them under the ambit of the Anti-Defection law.BJP for decision, wants definite winThe BJP is keen that the elections to the urban local bodies are held on the party symbols so that it could claim definite win and not let the Congress take the benefit of doubt.The issue will be placed before the Cabinet at its meeting scheduled for tomorrow. The Cabinet will also approve the Governor’s address for the forthcoming Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha, commencing on February 26.The BJP is keen that the elections to the urban local bodies are held on the party symbols so that it could claim definite win and not let the Congress take the benefit of doubt. However, the necessary legal provisions need be put in place to pave the way for the MC poll to be held on party symbols.The elections to the four municipal corporations and six newly constituted nagar panchayats of Anni and Nirmand (Kullu), Chirgaon and Nerwa (Shimla), Kandaghat (Solan) and Amb (Una) will be held before April when the term of the Dharamsala MC expires. All other urban bodies will go to the polls for the first time.The number of the nagar panchayats in the state has gone up to 28 while the number of municipal corporations, too, has increased from two (Shimla and Dharamsala) to five. This has also resulted in the number of municipal councils coming down from 31 to 28.Besides, making a provision for the elections on party symbols, the BJP government also wants to put in place the Anti-Defection law so as to prevent any possible horse trading post-election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-poll-on-party-symbols-cabinet-may-take-call-today-216283
23-02-2021||---||18 fresh Covid cases; tally reaches 58,403 in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, February 22As many as 18 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 58,403. However, no death due to the virus was recorded in the past 24 hours and the fatality figure stayed at 982.The highest number of eight cases was reported in Kangra, followed by three each in Bilaspur and Mandi, two in Una and one each in Solan and Kullu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-fresh-covid-cases-tally-reaches-58-403-in-himachal-pradesh-216284
23-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal Pradesh excels among hilly areas in execution of PM-Kisan scheme||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 22Himachal Pradesh has topped among hilly and North-East (NE) states in the effective implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM-Kisan scheme), which completes two years on February 24.Award to be given in delhi tomorrow Help desk for farmers’ grievance redressA help desk/grievance redress module was created under the farmers’ corner in the scheme’s portal last year where farmers could register their complaints pertaining to this scheme. — RK Pruthi, Sirmaur DCThe centrally sponsored scheme provides Rs 6,000 per annum to farmers for meeting the expenditure related to agriculture and allied activities. An eligible beneficiary receives the sum after his Aadhaar Card validation.The state has topped in physical verification and grievance redressal parameters with 75 per cent and 56 per cent achievement, respectively, among NE and hilly terrain states nationally. The state will be awarded on the occasion of the successful completion of the scheme’s two years at Delhi on February 24. Parameters like the correction of date, redress of farmers’ grievances, timely physical verification etc. have been taken into account for measuring the implementation.Three districts from Himachal have excelled in various categories. Lahaul and Spiti topped in Aadhaar authentication and the number of farmers paid among North-East and hilly areas while Kangra district has topped in physical verification of farmers in the same category.Sirmaur district has secured the second place in grievance redressal of farmers. Nainital district of Uttarakhand has secured the top slot in this category.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi said as many as 59,430 farmers have been benefitted under this scheme. A sum of over Rs 35 crore has been disbursed in seven instalments under this scheme.“A help desk/grievance redressal module was created under the farmers’ corner in the scheme’s portal last year where farmers could register their complaints pertaining to this scheme. As many as 97 complaints have been registered by the farmers on this portal in the last one year and all of them have been resolved,” said the DC.He said, “A grievance is redressed within three days in the district though the government has allotted a maximum time of seven days under this scheme on its portal. This achievement has helped the district achieve the second slot nationally under the NE and hilly area category.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-excels-among-hilly-areas-in-execution-of-pm-kisan-scheme-216285
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Traditional yatra at snow fest at Shashur||Kullu, February 22Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda offered prayers at the Shashur monastery in Lahaul and Spiti district today.He also participated in the traditional yatra held during the snow festival at Shashur, where a folk dance was performed by a team from Keylong. Various cultural programmes were also held at the event.The minister said several events and festivals were being held at various places and these were being integrated with each other through the ‘festival of festivals’. He said the entire expenditure of the festival had been borne by the people with community support and the administration had only provided the logistic support to the people. The minister said the snow festival would prove effective to promote religious and cultural tourism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traditional-yatra-at-snow-fest-at-shashur-216286
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||CSIR-IHBT,  Chamba DC sign agreement for tech projects||Palampur, February 22The CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, and Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana through the coordination of various line departments, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to take up various new technology projects in the district.Earlier, the major challenges faced by the Chamba region were discussed at a meeting headed by Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, and the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csir-ihbt-chamba-dc-sign-agreement-for-tech-projects-216287
23-02-2021||Shimla||Mercury continues to rise in Himachal Pradesh, Una hottest at 29.6°C||Notwithstanding the MeT office warning of hailstorm, thunderstorm and lightning at several places in mid and lower hills of the state, the minimum and maximum temperature continued to rise and stayed four to eleven degree above normal.The MeT office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightning in Chamba and Kangra district from February 24 to 26, Bilaspur and Kullu districts on February 25 and 26, Hamirpur on February 24 and 26, Una and Sirmaur districts on February 26 and Solan district on February 24 and also predicted rain and snow at isolated places in mid and higher hills for next six days from February 23 to 28.The day temperature rose to 29.6 degree Celsius at Una, six degree above normal, while Kalpa and Shimla and Bhuntar recorded a high of 17.5 degree, 20.9 degree and 26.2 degree eleven, nine degree and eight degree above normal.The minimum temperature rose by few notches and Shimla recorded the night temperature at 11.5 degree, eight degree above normal, while Nahan was hottest during the night with 15.3 degree, seven degree above normal. Keylong was coldest at night with a low of 0.2 degree. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mercury-continues-to-rise-in-himachal-pradesh-una-hottest-at-29-6%C2%B0c-216288
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Projects worth Rs 2.9-crore inaugurated in Una district||Una, February 22Satpal Singh Satti, chairman of the State Finance Commission, today inaugurated public works worth Rs 2.9 crore in the Una Assembly segment.After inaugurating a lift irrigation scheme in Lower Dehlan village, he declared open four village link roads built at a cost of Rs 2.31 crore. He also inaugurated two classrooms in Senior Secondary School, Lower Dehlan.He said a sports stadium was being constructed in the village at a cost of Rs 1 crore, which would be completed by June. He appealed to the newly elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions to ensure that the benefits of government projects reached people at the grassroots level.Satti honoured Sarandeep Kaur, a student of Senior Secondary School, Dehlan, and distributed uniforms to 423 students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/projects-worth-rs-2-9-crore-inaugurated-in-una-district-216289
23-02-2021||Solan||Youth’s body found in gunny bag||The body of a youth was found in a gunny bag dumped in bushes at Handa Khundi village near a cowshed in the Nalagarh industrial area around 8 am today.A villager noticed the body and informed the village pradhan’s husband, who informed the police. A police team reached there and found that the youth was wearing blue jeans and a full-sleeve black T-shirt but no shoes. A black cloth and a yellow plastic chain and a red and black handkerchief were found tied around his neck. Injury marks were also visible on the forehead. Ligature marks of cloth and a plastic chain were visible on the neck and it appears the youth had been strangulated.The police examination of the body revealed that the deceased was perhaps in his mid 20s. The body was dumped there while the murder might have been executed somewhere else. Villagers could not identify him. DSP, Nalagarh, Rajkumar said that a villager found the youth’s body packed in a gunny bag near the Kasambhowal cowshed at Handa Khundi village this morning and the police were informed.A case has been registered and a probe is on, said Baddi SP Rohit Malpani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youths-body-found-in-gunny-bag-216290
23-02-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla film director earns recognition post death||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 22“A Man and His Shoes”, a short film written and directed by Abhishek Sharma of Shimla, has entered the semifinals of the Lisbon film Rendezvous to be held between June 17 and 20.Movie enters Lisbon fest“A Man and His Shoes”, a short film written and directed by Abhishek Sharma of Shimla, has entered the semifinals of the Lisbon film Rendezvous to be held between June 17 and 20Acted in 3 Bollywood movies, 50 plays, 30 serialsAbhishek Sharma forayed into the field of performing arts with acting and gradually learnt lightening, sound and direction. Besides three Bollywood films, he acted in 50 plays, over 30 serials telecast on various channels.Abhishek, who had just started riding the crest of popularity, passed away on January 7 at the age of 40, a day before he was scheduled to fly to Mumbai to act in a Netflix web series. It took him two years to complete the film shoot in Dalhousie, Shimla and Dharamsala.The 15-minute film is a story of a schoolteacher, played by Dharmender from Arki in Solan district, whose shoes are stolen and the misery that follows. Through the film, the director gives out a message that small things make a big difference and can lead to emotional and mental trauma.The film bagged a certificate of excellence at the 8th Indian Cine Film Festival-20 and Kolkata Shorts International Film Festival. It was also selected for Lift-Off Global Network Film Festival, London, and Indo-American International Festival of World Cinema, 2020.“Abhishek was always passionate about theatre, acting and direction and would often participate in plays at Gaiety Theatre,” says his father Rajendra Rajan.He forayed into the field of performing arts with acting and gradually learnt lightening, sound and direction. Besides three Bollywood films, he acted in 50 plays, over 30 serials telecast on various channels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-film-director-earns-recognition-post-death-216291
23-02-2021||---||Probe ordered into minor boy’s thrashing by cops at Nalagarh police station||Solan, February 22A minor boy, who was driving a car but did not stop when the police signalled him to stop, was allegedly beaten up at Nalagarh police station today.According to the boy’s mother, Renu Sharma, her son, aged 16, had gone to get his car refuelled on the Dattowal road when the SHO and an ASI signalled him to stop. The boy got scared on seeing the policemen and drove away.She claimed that the policemen later came to their shop and took her son to the police station while humiliating them in front of other people. She submitted a complaint to the SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal.The SDM said a complaint had been received from Renu Sharma, and the Nalagarh DSP had been directed to inquire into the incident within three days. He added that the boy’s medical check up was also being conducted to know the nature of injuries. Action would be taken against the policemen, as per the report findings.He said that the policemen had signalled the boy to stop, as he was driving the car in a rash manner, which could have led to an accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-ordered-into-minor-boys-thrashing-by-cops-at-nalagarh-police-station-216292
