24-02-2021||Shimla||Shimla institute fined Rs 7 lakh for delay in issuing degrees||The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) today imposed a penalty of Rs 7 lakh on Heritage Institute of Hotel and Tourism (HIHT) at Sanjauli in Shimla for the delay in the issuance of provisional degrees and detailed mark certificates (DMC) to students.In September 2020, more than 100 students had approached the commission and represented their case alleging they had not been given DMCs and provisional degrees for the past three years. Following the intervention of the commission, 592 students were awarded degrees over the past three months.HPPEIRC Chairman Major Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd) said a fine of Rs 7 lakh was imposed to set an example for other erring institutes to mend their ways. The HIHT management had made a declaration that there would be no irregularities in future, he added.Sources in the commission said the institute was earlier affiliated with Madurai Kamaraj University and there were some issues due to which the degrees were delayed. It was affiliated with Himachal Pradesh University in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-institute-fined-rs-7-lakh-for-delay-in-issuing-degrees-216736
24-02-2021||---||Municipal Corporation poll now on party symbols||Shimla, February 23The forthcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in the state will be fought on party symbols. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.The Cabinet decided to carry out amendments to the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules to enable the holding of the MC elections on party symbols. These amendments would also pave the way for reservation for OBCs, a provision of disqualification on the ground of defection and a provision of no-confidence motion. It also approved the Governor’s Address to be delivered during the Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha commencing on February 26.The Cabinet decided to extend the services of 2,555 teachers engaged under the SMC Teachers Policy in the elementary and higher education departments for the academic session 2021-22.The Bill for necessary amendments to the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules for holding the MC elections on the party symbols is likely to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha during the forthcoming Budget session. The elections to the four MCs can be held any time before April.The Cabinet also gave approval to providing government land measuring 122.08 bighas on lease at Mauja Dhaulakuan in Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district to Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry at Nauni, Dhaulakuan, for the establishment of a regional horticulture research and training station. It approved the construction of additional accommodation at the rest house at Sundernagar in Mandi district at a cost of Rs 3.90 crore.The Cabinet also gave nod to the modification of penalties/fines under Section 210A of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. It gave its consent to renaming Government Senior Secondary School at Manoh in Hamirpur district as Shaheed Ankush Thakur Government Senior Secondary School as a mark of respect to the Galwan martyr.It decided to implement the Mukhya Mantri Krishi Kosh Scheme for Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs)-2020 for providing incentives, concessions and facilities to the eligible beneficiaries in the state. Under the scheme, the FPOs could avail of seed money up to 30 per cent of the total project cost with the maximum ceiling of Rs 6 lakh or one and a half times of the equity raised by them, whichever is less. The scheme would also ensure a credit guarantee cover for bank loan, interest subsidy etc.It approved an amendment to the Mukhya Mantri Swavlambhan Yojana 2019 to reduce the burden of loan on entrepreneurs. The subsidy would now be deposited in the term loan accounts of the borrowers and would be adjusted only after three years.Hamirpur school to be renamed after Galwan martyr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/municipal-corporation-poll-now-on-party-symbols-216639
24-02-2021||Shimla||AAP to contest MC elections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will field its candidates in the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections in the state. The Municipal Corporations of Dharamsala, Mandi, Palampur and Solan will go to the polls next month.“A committee will be formed soon to select candidates for the elections,” said AAP spokesperson SS Zogta. He added that the party would release a manifesto after considering the issues of the MCs. “We will raise issues such as corruption, unemployment, inflation, costly electricity, water, health services, etc., during the campaign.Zogta said that both Congress and BJP had made false promises to the people in the past but now a viable option in the form of AAP was available to the voters. “AAP has given a credible option to the people. The performance of our government in Delhi is for everyone to consider,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aap-to-contest-mc-elections-216640
24-02-2021||---||Expedite clearance for CUHP campus: Anurag||Dharamsala, February 23Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur today directed forest and district administration officials to expedite the clearance process for bringing up the Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) campus. He chaired the DISHA committee meeting for Kangra district in Dharamsala.Anurag that the Union Ministry for Finance had already allocated Rs 500 crore for the CUHP. The funds would be released to the CUHP authorities the day formalities for land transfer for the campus were completed. He directed the officials to transfer the Dehra land in the name of CUHP at the earliest as all clearances for it had already been granted by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests.The CUHP permanent campus has been hanging fire for the past 11 years as the successive state government failed to allot land for the project. Though now decks have been cleared for the transfer of Dehra land in the name of the CUHP, permission for land earmarked for CUHP campus in Jadrangal area of Dharamsala was still awaited.The Union Minister said officials of Kangra should make efforts to make the district first in the country to eradicate TB, malnutrition and leprosy. The officials and elected representative should work in tandem to achieve the target, he said.He said the district offered immense opportunities of horticulture. Horticulture and food processing industries could provide a large number of jobs to the unemployed youth in Kangra. He directed the district officials to formulate schemes for promotion of horticulture in the district so that they could be implemented in a time-bound manner.Anurag also directed health officials to implement the Ayushman Bharat and the Him Care scheme effectively in Kangra district. The schemes are meant for the welfare of the poor and no poor person should be left out of the ambit of scheme, he said.Kishan Kapoor, BJP MP from Kangra, participated in the meeting online from Delhi. He also directed district officials to timely implement government schemes. He said officials should review the progress of all Central schemes quarterly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expedite-clearance-for-cuhp-campus-anurag-216641
24-02-2021||---||Workman special coach derails at Barog station||Solan, February 23 A coach of a workman special train deputed to transport water derailed at the Barog railway station at 11.05 am today, halting rail traffic on the Kalka-Shimla World heritage track. Railway officials said that no one was injured as it did not carry any passenger and had a driver and a guard. A crane was rushed in from Kalka to remove the coach and it took five hours to restore rail traffic around 4 pm. Two trains, including one going to Shimla from Kalka and another coming down from Shimla, have been halted. The 04516 down train, which took off from Shimla at 10.30 am was halted at Kandaghat at 12.45 pm for half an hour and further at Solan. The Up 04515 train en route to Kalka-Shimla was detained at Dharampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workman-special-coach-derails-at-barog-station-216642
24-02-2021||---||CM launches water sports at Tattapani||Shimla, February 23The state government is planning to open a floating restaurant at Tattapani in Mandi district to make it a favourite tourist destination, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while virtually inaugurating water sports activities at Tattapani from here today.He said that the government was committed to developing lesser known tourist places under the Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein programme. This would not only lessen the burden on already crowded tourist places but would also provide an opportunity to tourists to explore virgin destinations, he added. The initiative would also go a long way in providing employment and self-employment opportunities to the local youth.Thakur said that the government had notified the HP Miscellaneous Adventure Activities ‘Amendment’ Rules to make sports activities safe for sports lovers. The government would start new water sports activities such as speed boat, water skiing, jet skiing, ski boarding, water scooter, cruise etc. in various water bodies, he added.The Chief Minister said that the government would also explore the possibility of water transport in the Kol Dam area. He added that events such as Satluj Aarti and the preparation of 1,995 kg of ‘khichari’ in one utensil, which also got entry into the Guinness Book of World Records, had promoted Tattapani from tourism point of view.Thakur said that the Karsog area had several popular destinations such as the Mahunag Temple and the Kamaksha Temple, which would be developed for religious tourism.The Chief Minister also launched the e-Service portal of the Tourism Department which would ensure time-bound services related to various project approvals to entrepreneurs in the hospitality sector. He said that this would facilitate registration, renewal, project approval and the grant of essentiality certificates to the seekers.Thakur also started an online facility for the bookings in Himachal Bhawans in New Delhi and Chandigarh and the Himachal Sadan in Delhi.Online booking of Himachal Bhawans starts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-launches-water-sports-at-tattapani-216643
24-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan---||Shut over avian flu, Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary opens for tourists||Nurpur, February 23 The Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary was reopened for tourists on Tuesday. It was closed last month following an outbreak of bird flu that killed thousands of exotic migratory birds. The wetland was declared a wildlife sanctuary by the Himachal Pradesh Government in 1983. The Central Government has declared it a ‘Wetland of National Importance’. Archana Sharma, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Chief Wildlife Warden, told The Tribune that no bird mortality had been reported in the sanctuary for the past seven to 10 days. She said the avian flu was already over. As many as 5,006 birds died of the flu, she added. After the outbreak of bird flu in December, the Kangra district administration had restricted the movement of people and domestic livestock around the Pong wetland. It had also prohibited fishing in the wetland and the sale and purchase of poultry products, fish and meat in Dehra, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions of Kangra district. The ban was revoked in a phased manner while the ban on fishing in the wetland was lifted on February 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shut-over-avian-flu-pong-wetland-wildlife-sanctuary-opens-for-tourists-216644
24-02-2021||Shimla||HPU to open departments by month-end||Regular classroom teaching at Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), which was suspended following the lockdown, will be resumed after the winter vacation. Departments will be opened in a phased manner positively by the end of this week.The departments of science where practicals are compulsory will be opened on priority, while Covid protocols will be followed strictly for opening boys’ and girls’ hostels and the consent of their parents will be mandatory.Vice-Chancellor Sikender Kumar held a meeting with the Deans, Heads of Departments, directors and officers today. He said that the departments would be opened in a phased manner and the departments of science would be opened first.Regarding opening hostels, Covid protocols would be followed and besides wearing masks, sanitisation, maintaining social distance and thermal screening, consent of parents would be mandatory, he said. Both online and offline teaching would continue and smart classrooms would be set up at all departments so that students do not face inconvenience, he added.The Vice-Chancellor directed the departments to roll out academic plans and compile the data for NAAC and NIRF grading and prepare a detailed report of academic development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-to-open-departments-by-month-end-216645
24-02-2021||Kullu||Cultural events mark snow fest||Various cultural programmes were organised in different parts of Lahaul and Spiti district during the snow festival on the 30th day today. The ‘Yor’ utsav was being celebrated for the past three days during the snow festival in Urgos village of Udaipur subdivision. A Shivlingam made of snow was worshipped to appease the nature for a good harvest. Traditional sports such as Popun jagdang, shashin and gompathang namlangs were held in Keylong.  Tseshu Lachang was celebrated in the Tod valley and traditional archery events were held in various villages. A cultural programme was organised at Kayato village in Losar panchayat in the Spiti valley where handwritten Buddhist texts were exhibited. Former Zila Parishad vice-chairperson Rigzin Semphel Heyreppa said that the ‘Poona’ festival was celebrated at Sissu. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cultural-events-mark-snow-fest-216646
24-02-2021||Ravinder Sood---||Palampur panchayat refuses NoC for mining||Palampur, February 23 Bathan panchayat in the Sulaha Assembly constituency today unanimously rejected the proposal of the state government for mining activities and to install a stone crusher in the area. Led by the panchayat members, hundreds of villagers assembled at the Panchayat Bhavan to lodge their protest against the proposal of the government. Vikas Jamwal, Dheera SDM, also conducted a vote to reach a decision, in which 110 of 120 villagers rejected the proposal. Under the HP Panchayati Raj Act, the government has given powers to the panchayats to issue no-objection certificates for mining activities in their jurisdictions. In case of refusal by the panchayat, no land could be leased for mining. Seema Devi, pradhan, told mediapersons that the panchayat had taken the decision keeping in view the public sentiment. She said that it was the third time the local authorities had tried to obtain a no-objection certificate from the panchayat. “Residents of the area will not succumb to pressure,” she said. Seema said that the panchayat was committed to keeping the area clean and saving themselves from dreaded diseases caused due to pollution. “The area to be allotted for mining is adjoining a bridge, water supply tanks and a cremation ground. Therefore, the villagers opposed the government proposal,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-panchayat-refuses-noc-for-mining-216647
24-02-2021||---||Picture of Nati on liquor brand withdrawn||Shimla, February 23 The Taxes and Excise Department has with immediate effect withdrawn the approval given to a picture of Nati on the label of a country liquor brand being sold in the state. A spokesperson for the department said here today that on February 19, it was highlighted in the media that the sentiments of some sections of society had been hurt by the use of the picture of Nati on the label of the liquor brand.  He said that the department approves a brand of liquor taking into consideration the sentiments of all religions and castes in the state. This brand was also approved after the completion of all legal formalities.  In Punjab, liquor brands depicting the pictures of “Bhangra dhol” and having the name of “Punjabi Heer” are quite prevalent. Similarly in Rajasthan, liquor is being sold in the market under the brand names of “Ghumar” and “Dhola Maru”, which are significant for the cultural heritage of that state. He said that this brand was approved after considering all legal aspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/picture-of-nati-on-liquor-brand-withdrawn-216648
24-02-2021||---||Congress holds padyatra against farm laws||Shimla, February 23  Hundreds of Congress workers led by state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore today staged a padyatra from Gumma to Chaila against the farm laws passed by the Central Government. Rathore along with Rohru MLA Mohan Lal Brakta and Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh, former MLA Rohit Thakur and party office-bearers undertook the padyatra.  The Congress workers raised slogans against the alleged ant-farmer decisions taken by the Central Government. State Mahila Congress president Janeb Chandel, Youth Congress president Nigam Bhandari, NSUI president Chatar Singh and Shimla (Urban) president Jitender Chaudhary, besides party workers from Rampur, Chopal, Jubbal-Kotkhai, Theog, Rohru, Kasumpti, Shimla (Rural) and Shimla (Urban) also took part in the padyatra.  Rathore said that the Central Government was unconcerned about the issues concerning the farmers. “The Central Government cannot crush the voice of the farmers or the people of the country. The entire nation is supporting the farmers,” he added. He said that the Central Government had failed to tackle the price rise, and unemployment.  Vikramaditya Singh accused the BJP government of discriminating against the people of Shimla. “We have to ensure that we fight back the BJP in the manner in which we did by capturing the Zila Parishad by majority,” her said. Brakta urged the party workers to unitedly take on the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-holds-padyatra-against-farm-laws-216649
24-02-2021||Dalhousie||Chamba village opens for paragliding||To boost tourism activities in Chamba district, the Himachal Pradesh Tourism and Civil Aviation Department today granted permission for conducting commercial paragliding activities in Raina village near Nainikhud. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-village-opens-for-paragliding-216650
24-02-2021||A water pipe near the official residence of the Chief Minister is leaking for the past few days. Everyone except those responsible for its upkeep has noticed it. If drinking water is being wasted near places like the CM’s residence||Water leakage near CM’s residence in Shimla||Pick-up vehicles pose threat to commutersA number of pick-up vans could be seen carrying construction material such as metal poles, protruding out of the vehicle. Such vehicles pose a huge threat to other vehicles and those walking on the roadside, especially on the New Shimla road which has sharp curves. The police should ensure that such material is carried in appropriate vehicles without posing a risk to the lives of commuters.— Naveen Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-leakage-near-cms-residence-in-shimla-216653
24-02-2021||An annual training camp for NCC cadets has started at Indus International University at Bathu in Una district. About 150 cadets from five colleges and three senior secondary schools are participating in the 10-day camp. The cadets presented a march past on the inaugural day. Commanding Officer of 6 HP (I) COY NCC Una||NCC annual training camp||Webinar on science, tech, innovationThe Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, is organising a webinar under its distinguished lecture series. Prof K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, will deliver a lecture on “Science, technology and innovation in India” on February 25 at 3 pm. The webinar will be conducted via Cisco WebEx.Enrolment for student parliamentThe Himachal Pradesh Student Parliament has started online enrolment of new members. The Student Parliament, a non-political and non-profit organisation, was formed in 2018 with an objective to support the government and develop leadership qualities, personality development and discipline among students. Students from any part of the state can join the organisation.ABVP welcomes Jeet SinghThe Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarathi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday accorded a warm welcome to Jeet Singh, who came to the HPU first time after becoming a ‘rashtriya mantri’. Jeet Singh, who hails from Pangi, said the dream of nation building could come true only when we respect ancient civilization and culture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ncc-annual-training-camp-216655
