26-02-2021||Manali||Kartik Aaryan gets a haircut in Manali, shares photo with a quirky caption; see post||Bollywood heartthrob Kartik Aaryan got a haircut while in Manali, and shared a picture on Instagram of the experience.The actor is in the scenic hill town to shoot for his upcoming film, Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2.In the image, Kartik gets a snip against the backdrop of snow-capped mountains. “Manali mein katega,” Kartik wrote as the caption.A post shared by KARTIK AARYAN (@kartikaaryan)  The horror comedy Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2 is all set to hit theatres on November 19. The film also stars Kiara Advani and Tabu.The Anees Bazmee directorial film follows the 2007 horror comedy Bhool Bhulaiyaa, which starred Akshay Kumar, Shiney Ahuja, Vidya Balan and Ameesha Patel. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kartik-aaryan-gets-a-haircut-in-manali-shares-photo-with-a-quirky-caption-see-post-217833
26-02-2021||Shimla||19 Himachal groups extend support to protesting farmers||Nineteen social organisations, women’s bodies and farmer groups in Himachal Pradesh on Friday issued a joint statement in solidarity with the three-month-long farmers’ agitation in the country.Demanding that the three Central farm laws be repealed, the statement called for strengthening the minimum support price (MSP) system and extending it to different crops, especially the fruits and vegetables grown in the state.The statement was critical of the ‘non-democratic’ manner in which the farm Bills were passed in the Parliament in a hurry in the middle of the Covid-induced lockdown.The organisations, comprising the All India Democratic Women’s Association, the Bhumiheen Bhumi Adhikar Manch and the Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, condemned the laws, saying they were designed to benefit the corporate houses.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act of 2020 has the potential of destroying the government led-APMCs, they said.The second law on contract farming puts the farmers in the dock by not just exposing them to risks when getting into contracts with companies, but also by closing the door of the courts for redressal for farmers.In the third law—the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- the corporates are allowed to buy, store and sell agri produce minus regulation and accountability of any sort.It also seeks to restrict the powers of the government with respect to production, supply and distribution of certain key commodities, the statement said.They also condemned the manner in which the state and Central governments tried to ‘defame’ the peaceful protests using various tactics.The repression of those coming out in support of the farmers’ movement, be it activists or journalists reporting on the developments, is utterly shameful and against the principles of democracy, the statement said.The statement will be sent to the President of India, demanding repeal of the three farm laws. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-himachal-groups-extend-support-to-protesting-farmers-217824
26-02-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Ruckus outside Himachal Assembly as Congress MLAs manhandled by BJP ministers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 26A high-voltage drama was witnessed outside the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha on Friday as Congress legislators were allegedly pushed and manhandled by the BJP ministers as Opposition members blocked the Governor’s vehicle while he was leaving after delivering his address on the opening day of the Budget session.While the Governor was still reading his address, CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri stood up and said the address had no mention of price rise, unemployment and other important issues.As Congress legislators tried to disrupt the Governor’s address, Bandaru Dattatraya abruptly ended his speech and said it may be considered as read.Following this, the Governor and the ministers went to have tea, while the Congress legislators went and sat outside the gate from where Dattatraya had to leave. The Congress MLAs led by CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri blocked the vehicle of the Governor as Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and ministers looked helplessly.Finally, the ministers and the police pushed away the Congress legislators even as Agnihotri lay on the bonnet of the Governor’s vehicle.Agnihotri said it was for the first time in the history of Himachal Vidhan Sabha that the Governor allegedly ran away after reading two pages of his address. “The address is a bundle of lies, with no mention of corruption in Covid management, unemployment, price rise and back-door entries,” said Agnihotri. He said the government must explain why the Governor read only two pages and left. We were not invited when the Governor came, so we wanted to ask him why he chose not read the 65-page Governor address, said Agnohotri.The CLP Leader claimed the Governor did not even read half the address and left in six-seven minutes. “The monsoon session could not be held and since it is being held almost after a year, at least the Governor should have read the entire address, even if it is a bundle of lies and false claims,” said Agnihotri.“We were all manhandled even though we were raising slogans and did not touch the Governor, CM or ministers, yet the police and BJP MLAs and ministers dragged and pushed us,” he alleged. "We wanted to talk to the Governor but we were pushed and now we will give notice for privilege over the manner we were manhandled," he added.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the governor was manhandled when he was going to his vehicle after the session, and moved a motion to suspend five Congress MLAs -- Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Sunder Singh Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar.The Assembly, which was adjourned till 2 pm on Monday earlier in the day, was reconvened at 1 pm on Friday to consider the motion moved by Bhardwaj.Five Congress MLAs suspendedFive Congress legislators, including Mukesh Agnihotri, have been suspended for the entire session, which will conclude on March 20.Speaker Vipin Parmar said the five Congress MLAs --Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, MLAs Harsh Varhan Chauhan, Sunder Singh Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar--have been suspended for the entire session. He said action was taken as per rules, adding that “nobody was above the law”. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Governor’s ADC was manhandled by CLP leader. This was against the traditions of Himachal assembly, said the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ruckus-outside-himachal-assembly-as-congress-mlas-manhandled-by-bjp-ministers-217772
26-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||BJP horse-trading shameful: Former Himachal CM Shanta in his book||Palampur, February 25Veteran BJP leader and two-time former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Shanta Kumar has said he felt ashamed to see his party allegedly getting involved in the sale and purchase of MLAs to bring down elected governments.Unprincipled politics won’t doThe BJP has become power-hungry. Governments can be toppled fraudulently with money power, but it won’t bring about the desired social change. — Shanta Kumar, HP Ex-CMStrict laws neededIf the political scenario has to be changed, the PM must bring in stringent laws to curb the use of black money in elections. — Shanta Kumar, HP Ex-CMCautioning the BJP against adopting “unprincipled” politics, he says, “The people made the BJP the world’s largest party due to its idealism, but now it has become power-hungry.” Shanta, a member of the BJP’s sidelined “Marg Darshak Mandal”, has made the observations in his autobiography “Nij Path ka Avichal Panthi”, released two days ago.“We all join politics to change the society, not governments. ‘Chal kapat ki rajneeti se sarkarein toh badli ja sakti hain, par samajh nahin’ (Governments can be toppled fraudulently with money power, but it won’t bring about the desired social change), he writes, attributing the remarks to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He says he has always sworn by the politics of principles and wished his party, “which has the capacity to change Indian politics”, doesn’t deviate from the politics of principles.Incidentally, Shanta’s remarks on the “BJP’s horse-trading” have come at a time when the Congress has been accusing the saffron party of toppling its government in Puducherry. Known for speaking his mind even if it meant paying a heavy price, Shanta’s autobiography has kicked up a political storm with the Congress demanding a probe.A writer and a poet with several books to his credit, he claims he has paid a heavy price for calling a spade a spade, but “had no regrets about it”.If the political scenario has to be changed, writes Shanta, Prime Minister Narendra Modi must bring in stringent laws to curb the use of black money in elections and keep criminals out of politics.Shanta’s book was expected to unravel several truths, one being “he lost his chair in the Union Cabinet in 2003 for unearthing a Rs 300 crore scam when he was the Rural Development Minister”. “I brought the facts to the notice of the then PM Vajpayee…. instead of initiating action against the culprits, I was forced to step down,” he writes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-horse-trading-shameful-former-himachal-cm-shanta-in-his-book-217599
26-02-2021||Solan||Couple, Moga man held for youth murder||The police today arrested three persons for the murder of 21-year-old Narender, aka Vicky, whose body was found in a bag dumped at Handa Khundi village in Nalagarh two days ago.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said Narender worked in a factory at Kala Amb and had come to meet a woman, Homdai, at her residence at Bagvania village where he was killed by her husband and his friend. The arrested persons would be produced before court tomorrow.Those arrested are Homdai and her husband Sanjay Sharma, residents of Bagvania village, and their accomplice Mandeep Singh, a resident of Moga district in Punjab. They were arrested from Kaasombowal village. Narender’s body was found near an industrial unit where Sanjay Sharma and Mandeep both work.Sanjay roped in his friend Mandeep Singh to kill Narender for having an illicit relationship with his wife.Narender’s brother identified the body as the police had circulated his picture to nearby police stations for identification.Narender is a resident of Chamba district. Sanjay and Homdai also hail from Chamba. The deceased and the accused are 21 years of age. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/couple-moga-man-held-for-youth-murder-217464
26-02-2021||---||All-party meet convened as budget session begins today||Shimla, February 25Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar today held an all-party meeting to seek cooperation of all for smooth conduct of the budget session, commencing tomorrow.Parmar held a meeting with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, CPM legislator Rakesh Singha and Independent MLA Hoshiyar Singh. The budget session of the Vidhan Sabha will commence tomorrow with the Governor’s address.Parmar said the budget session will conclude on March 20 and there will be 17 sittings. There will be two private members days and the budget will be presented by the chief minister on March 6. He added that the monsoon session of the assembly could not be convened because of surge in Covid cases.Budget on March 6The budget session will end on March 20 and there will be 17 sittings. There will be two private members days and the Chief Minister will present the budget on March 6. The monsoon session of the Assembly could not be convened because of the surge in Covid cases. —Vipin Parmar, Vidhan Sabha SpeakerParmar urged the members to raise issues concerning the public within the house rules so as to ensure smooth conduct of the session. “It is a big challenge to hold the session amidst corona pandemic but then it is a must in a democracy,” he stated.He assured that health staff, including doctors and nurses, will remain present on the Vidhan Sabha campus during the entire session period. He added that the entire campus will be sanitised and all necessary precautions will be taken. A testing van will also remain present on the campus during the session period.The Speaker said instead of 1,200 passes, only 400 passes are being issued for the session due to Covid. “To ensure social distancing, a poly carbonated sheet has been fixed between the seat of two M LAs to ensure six-feet distance,” he said.The Speaker informed that till now a total of 650 starred questions have been received out of which 426 were received online. Besides, 230- unstarred questions have also been filed by the legislators. Till now four notices under Rule 101 and two under rule 130 had been received which had been sent to the government, he added.He said majority of the questions filed by the MLAs pertain to price rise, unemployment, poor road conditions, vacancies in health and educational institutions, tourism, rising drug addiction and the law and order situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-party-meet-convened-as-budget-session-begins-today-217465
26-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||In a first, Gucchi mushroom artificially cultivated in DMR||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 25The Indian Council of Agriculture Research-run Directorate of Mushroom Research (DMR), Solan, has for the first time successfully cultivated the world’s costliest Morchella mushroom, commonly known as gucchi.The DMR had made several unsuccessful attempts to cultivate gucchi mushroom since its inception. Given its potential, Dr VP Sharma, Director, DMR, assigned the challenge to Dr Anil Kumar in 2019, who prepared a project “Standardisation of cultivation technique for Morchella mushroom”.The fresh morel mushroom season is limited to barely a few weeks during the spring. It is collected from wild habitats in north-western Himalayas by locals and primarily exported to Europe and the USA.It is sold for prices ranging from Rs 10,000 per kg to Rs 30,000 per kg. Owing to difficulties in its artificial cultivation, gucchi yields huge profits.Anil Kumar said, “Five species were selected for the experiment and after much deliberation, the substrate preparation technique was standardised for its cultivation. Under continuous rigorous in vitro trials on the induction of fruit bodies in gucchi, three small ascomata of 0.5 to 1 cm were obtained. In the first seasonal cultivation trial started in October 2019, conidial stage and a mature ascomata of 13 cm length was recorded under greenhouse conditions on April 13, 2020”.“I was treading in the positive direction and with continuous efforts, I again succeeded and induced 12 ascomata in the second research trial under greenhouse conditions on February 23,” he said.Since the experiment is still in progress, he is hopeful that fruit bodies of gucchi would keep on appearing at his experimental site till April. The gucchi crop is in an advanced stage to produce fruit bodies.“This is for the first time that the ICAR-DMR, Solan, has succeeded in producing fruit bodies of gucchi mushroom. As a result, India has entered the list of select countries such as the USA, China, France etc. that have successfully attempted to cultivate Gucchi mushroom under artificial conditions,” said Dr VP Sharma, Director, DMR.“There is need to improvise our technology before it is transferred to farmers, hopefully in the next two to three years. It will revolutionise the Indian mushroom industry and help in the economic uplift of farmers,” added Sharma.Valued for treatment of arthritis, anaemiaGlobally acclaimed for its unique favour and aroma, Gucchi mushroom is a culinary delicacy and gastronomical delight. It is highly valued for the treatment of arthritis, anaemia, tumor etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-a-first-gucchi-mushroom-artificially-cultivated-in-dmr-217466
26-02-2021||---||Separate policy sought for small hydropower projects||Shimla, February 25Small hydropower developers are pushing for a separate policy for projects up to 25 MW capacity. They have taken up the matter with the Union Ministry of Power and the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. “The scale, dimensions and issues of small hydropower projects are totally different from large hydropower projects. So, it is important to have a separate policy governing and regulating small hydropower projects,” said Arun Kumar, vice-president of the Federation of Indian Small Hydropower developers.The federation, a representative body of small hydropower developers from across the country, was formed last year to voice their concerns at the highest level. Big hydropower players already have an association called the Forum of Hydropower Producers. “The objective of the forum is to make hydropower development sustainable and ensure the economic growth of the state in the long run,” said forum’s secretary-general CM Walia.Level-playing fieldWe are demanding a separate policy to address a host of issues stalling the growth of the SHPs and create a level-paying filed vis-à-vis other renewable sources of energy such as wind and solar. —Rajesh Sharma, Member of gederation of indian small hydropower developersThe federation has seven member associations — three in Shimla and one each in Bengaluru, Pune, Dehradun and Srinagar. Besides pushing for the formulation of a separate policy for small hydropower projects, the federation’s objectives are to promote commercial harnessing of small hydropower projects (SHP) and other renewable energy sources, develop and promote SHPs, develop a data bank, raise funds, create, upgrade and share field laboratories, and organise seminars and workshops etc.“We are demanding a separate policy to address a host of issues stalling the growth of the SHPs and create a level-paying filed vis-à-vis other renewable sources of energy such as wind and solar,” said Rajesh Sharma, executive member of the federation.He claimed that the SHPs had become financially unviable because of high cost and taxes and the federation was demanding fixing of royalty at 12 per cent for 40 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/separate-policy-sought-for-small-hydropower-projects-217467
26-02-2021||mandi||Weeklong Shivratri fair from March 11||The district administration is gearing up for the mega celebration of the Shivratri fair in the district, which will kick-start on March 11. The administration has invited 216 deities from the district to take part in the weeklong festival. The first Jaleb (procession of deities) of the fair would be organised on March 12, the second on March 15, and the third one on March 18. Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur asked the residents of Mandi to wear traditional dresses while taking part in Jaleb of Madho Rai, the chief deity of this event. He said it would make the Jaleb attractive for tourists and also give them an opportunity to have a glimpse of the rich culture and traditions of Mandi district. “The theme of the festival will be focused on the 50-year journey of Himachal’s statehood. Efforts will be made to showcase the golden era of the ancient hill life and Himachali art, culture and history,” said the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weeklong-shivratri-fair-from-march-11-217468
26-02-2021||Kullu||DC: Waste mgmt must to preserve Lahaul ecology||Pankaj Rai, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, said there was a dire need to separate the wet and dry waste so that tourism could be integrated with cleanliness and sustainable tourism plan could be strengthened.Presiding over a workshop on solid waste management for school principals and teachers at DIET Institute, Tandi, he said to preserve the ecology of the Lahaul valley, it was important that the waste be managed and disposed of properly.The DC said this subject was also being taught in school curriculum through educative videos and sessions. He said sensitisation of schoolchildren and public on solid waste management was the only way to keep the district garbage-free in future.He added that the purpose of this workshop was to communicate this message regarding solid waste management to every household through schoolchildren so that a model of sanitation and sustainable tourism could be developed for the district.Rai said various awareness programmes were being held during the snow festiva. He added that this becomes more important as the valley was witnessing heavy tourist influx after the opening of the Atal Tunnel.— OCAwareness mandatory for cleanlinessSensitisation of schoolchildren and public on solid waste management is the only way to keep the district garbage-free||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-waste-mgmt-must-to-preserve-lahaul-ecology-217469
26-02-2021||Shimla||Rabies expert on snakebite panel of WHO||Omesh Kumar Bharti, a Padma Shree awardee for his path-breaking research on rabies, has been included in the WHO’s panel of experts for strategic plan for the control and prevention of snakebite envenoming.  Bharti is an epidemiologist with the Himachal Pradesh Institute of Health and Family Welfare. A communique from the Department for the Control of Neglected Tropical Diseases of the WHO to Bharti on Wednesday stated, “Your expertise and knowledge are highly valuable to the WHO. As the WHO operationalises and rolls out strategic plans from time to time, we may request your technical support and assistance for projects”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rabies-expert-on-snakebite-panel-of-who-217470
26-02-2021||---||Shimla MC presents budget of Rs 222.4 cr||Shimla, February 25Shimla Municipal Corporation has proposed to enhance electricity cess from 10 paise per unit to 20 paise per unit and raise the cess on liquor bottle from Rs 2 to Rs 5 in its annual budget presented here today.Stating that corporation’s financial health was not satisfactory and it needed to find ways to increase its revenue, Mayor Satya Kaundal presented a budget of Rs 222.41 crore, around Rs 3 crore less than last year’s budget. The estimated expenditure is Rs 24.46 lakh less compared to the estimated income.Levying green tax on vehicles entering Shimla from other states, seeking a grant of Rs 16 crore from the government as compensation for letting go the income from water and sewerage, resumption of stamp duty on the registration of real estate and review of rent and lease of its properties are some of the other measures proposed in the budget to enhance its revenue.“Many projects could not be executed because of the pandemic last year. Effort has been made in this budget to get those going,” said the Mayor.For development works like maintenance of roads, pathways, railing, parkings, toilets and the construction of parks, playgrounds and houses under Rajeev Awas Yojna and works under AMRUT Mission, Rs 112 crore has been earmarked.The councillors affiliated to the Congress, however, felt that the budget was a classic case of old wine in new bottle. “There’s nothing new in this budget, all the projects proposed are old plans. There’s hardly any provision in the budget to address the burning issues like parking and traffic,” said councillor Divakar Sharma. Simi Nanda, another councillor, resented the proposed hike in electricity cess and the imposition of courier tax.The CPM, too, slammed the budget, saying that the MC had failed to enhance its actual revenue despite 10 per cent increase in property tax.“By including the earnings from government’s AMRUT and solid waste management schemes, the budget doesn’t provide a clear picture,” said former Mayor Sanjay Chauhan.Other steps to generate revenueLevying green tax on vehicles entering Shimla from other states, seeking a grant of Rs16 crore from the government as compensation for letting go the income from water and sewerage, resumption of stamp duty on the registration of real estate and review of rent and lease of its properties are some of the other measures proposed in the budget to enhance its revenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-presents-budget-of-rs-222-4-cr-217471
26-02-2021||  Our Correspondent---||Incentive for snow fest artistes||KULLU, FEBRUARY 25 Various events and cultural programs were organized during the snow festival in Jobrang village in Lahaul and Spiti district today. Principal Secretary Tribal Development Onkar Sharma was the chief guest. He was welcomed by the locals in a traditional way. The chief guest offered prayers at the ancient Satyanarayana temple and participated in the yatra to reach the venue. The Principal Secretary witnessed beautiful structures carved from snow and also visited the exhibition of traditional artistic and heritage items. He also tried his hand at traditional archery. Flute presentation by Manisha, ‘ghure’ songs by Ramdev Kapoor, cultural presentations by troupe of Fada and folk dance and short play on Covid awareness by mahila mandal were appreciated by the audience. Tug-of-war event was also held. The chief guest congratulated the district administration and all the people for organizing this event. He mentioned the important role played by Eklavya Vidyalaya in the field of education of the tribal people which was currently functioning in Kukumseri. He said that another such school would be built in Baring. He announced to give Rs 20,000 as an incentive to each troupe who performed cultural programs. Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said that through the snow festival, an attempt was bring made to revive the extinct cultural genres of the tribal region. He said that in future the ‘festival of festivals’ would be organized in a better way. He said that the festival was held on zero budget with community participation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/incentive-for-snow-fest-artistes-217472
26-02-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Drinking water pipes run through sewage in Nurpur, locals worried||Nurpur, February 25The residents of Nurpur town are living under a constant threat of waterborne diseases as they have to consume piped water that is suspected to be contaminated. Around 80 per cent of the water supply pipes lie in filthy street drains of the local Municipal Council (MC).The Jal Shakti Department supplies piped water to consumers in the town. The pipes can be seen submerged under the flowing or stagnated sewage of the MC streets pointing towards the alleged carelessness of the authorities.The department has given water supply connections to domestic users from the main supply lines but pipelines of half inch diameter have been laid in civic body drains along streets.Contamination riskEven a small breach in these distributing lines may cause an outbreak of waterborne diseases in the town. Residents have been increasingly expressing their resentment over the matter.Promod Gupta, president, Nurpur Sudhar Sabha, and PD Sahotra, general secretary, Nurpur Welfare Committee, have pleaded that consumers had the right to have potable water and the Jal Shakti Department should redress this long-standing problem in the town.The department has been enhancing 10 per cent water supply charges with each passing year but it has never considered removing pipelines from the filthy drains, they lamented.Residents have demanded resolution of the problem. They said a number of main water supply pipes could be seen leaking and the department should plug the punctured pipelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drinking-water-pipes-run-through-sewage-in-nurpur-locals-worried-217473
26-02-2021||---||Teach yoga in edu institutes: Assn||Shimla, February 25The Himachal Pradesh Yogasana Sports Association (HPYSA) has urged the state government to include yoga as a compulsory subject at school level and also teach the subject in colleges.Inclusion of yoga as a subject at schools and college level would open new career avenues for the youth, said HPYSA Chairman GD Sharma while addressing mediapersons here.The HPYSA is all set to organise first online state-level yogasana contest in March and the winners of the contest would participate in the national championship to be held from March 24 to 26, he said.Affiliated to the National Yogasana Sports Association, HPYSA is a body recognised by the central Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and has also launched a statewide drive to connect hill youth with yoga.Yoga had been recognised as a sport by the Government of India recently and sports quota in jobs will now be applicable to sportspersons practising yoga and new employment opportunities would be carved, he said and added that HPYSA would make efforts to create job opportunities for youth through yoga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teach-yoga-in-edu-institutes-assn-217474
26-02-2021||Shimla||Golden card issued to 74.2% families||The state government has issued golden cards to 74.2 per cent families, as part of a special campaign under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.Secretary Health Amitabh Awasthi said under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, camps had been organised to issue cards and the department was also issuing cards by visiting the houses of the eligible candidates.He said under the campaign started from November 19, 2020, golden cards had been issued to 29,660 families (67,520 persons). “Golden cards have been issued to 74.2 per cent families whereas in India this figure is 49.6 per cent. The Health Department has set a target to issue golden cards to the remaining families by March 31,” said Awasthi.He said the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana was launched by the Central Government on September 23, 2018. This ambitious scheme was also being implemented in Himachal Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/golden-card-issued-to-74-2-families-217475
26-02-2021||Kullu||BSNL launches BBO Wi-Fi service in Kullu||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has started broadband over Wi-Fi (BBO Wi-Fi) service in Kullu.  Sudarshan Kumar, DGM, BSNL, Kullu, said this modernised service was totally wireless and it was installed with the help of antennae and modem. He said Internet speed up to 30 mbps was available on a monthly plan of Rs 500 having unlimited data.  Kullu BSNL Divisional Engineer Anil Mahant said residents of Kullu town and its suburbs like Puid, Peej, Bhekali, Badah, Mohal, Babeli and Seobagh were being benefitted by the BBO Wi-Fi services. He said the service was also available in Bhuntar, Shamshi, Tegubehar, Haat, Hathithan, Jia, Sarabai, Chhoyal, Seribehar, Pirdi, Gadouri, Kalheli, Bhatgran, Bajaura, Piplage, Jarad, Hurla and Kahudhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bsnl-launches-bbo-wi-fi-service-in-kullu-217476
26-02-2021||Chamba||Fire mock drill held at Chamba college||A mock drill to tackle fire incidents was organised at the Covid centre set up near the TB ward of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College and Hospital (PJNGMC&H) on the outskirts of Chamba town today.During the drill, the fire department staff gave tips to health workers on how to overcome fire and precautions to be taken so as to avoid any major damage. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fire-mock-drill-held-at-chamba-college-217477
26-02-2021||---||Ignoring ruckus Anurag’s way||Dharamsala, February 25 The social media has gone abuzz with an incident involving Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur that happened on Monday night in Circuit House here. Some youths were staying and partying, causing disturbance there. The minister, staying in the house, came down from the top floor and enquired about it from workers. They reportedly expressed helplessness as son of a VVIP was among them. When, despite the request of the minister, the partying youths failed to relent, he shifted to a Himachal Tourism hotel in early morning hours. When officials came to know about the incident, they visited the minister to assuage him. Sources said the minister also decided to ignore it as the son of a VVIP was involved in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ignoring-ruckus-anurags-way-217478
26-02-2021||Legal Correspondent---||Hearing on BBN association’s plea deferred||Shimla, February 25 The HP High Court has deferred to March 9 the hearing on a petition filed by the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh Industrial Association (BBNIA) for the smooth functioning of transport activities in their area. During the course of hearing, the court was informed on behalf of the Deputy Commissioner, Solan, that the status report had been filed before the registry but the same was not on the court record. The counsel for the state informed the court that in compliance with the directions the police and the local administration had taken action against the violators.  After hearing the matter for some time, a Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua listed the matter for further hearing on March 9. The court ordered that in the meantime the parties were at liberty to file any objections to the status report filed by the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hearing-on-bbn-associations-plea-deferred-217479
26-02-2021||dharamsala||Investigate Shanta’s allegations: Cong||Shanta Kumar’s autobiography that was released in Delhi this week has given the Congress ammunition to hit out at ruling BJP. Senior Congress leader GS Bali said that the Shanta Kumar was a leader with principles and has often gone beyond party line for speaking out truth. He said that allegation leveled by Shanta Kumar against the then minister in Atal Behari Vajpayee and now the Vice President Venkaiah Naidu were very serious.  Shanta has alleged that he was removed from the Cabinet as he had exposed Rs 300 crore scandal committed during the then NDA government were very serious. The government should constitute an inquiry into the allegation. Bali said the exposures by Shanta Kumar in his autobiography have also shown dissatisfaction at the stance of senior BJP leaders against corruption. Since the allegations were coming from a leader who was one of the founding members of BJP, the party has lost moral ground to talk over issues like corruption. The BJP should come clean over the allegations, demanded Bali. Ram Lal Thakur, former Congress minister, in a press release issued here today, said Shanta Kumar has said that it was sad that senior BJP leadership including current national president of BJP, JP Nadda chose to stay away from the event of launching Shanta’s autobiography. He said Shanta Kumar has made allegations of corruption in the BJP government at the Centre and state in his autobiography. Thakur also said that senior leader has also expressed strong resentment at the way the BJP was buying MLAs of other parties to form state governments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/investigate-shantas-allegations-cong-217480
26-02-2021||---||MC poll: Congress panel to meet in Kasauli tomorrow||Shimla, February 25Getting into the poll mode, the Congress Political Affairs and Election Strategy Committee will hold its first meeting at Kasauli on February 27 to chalk out a strategy for the ensuing Municipal Corporation (MC) elections.Rajiv Shukla, AICC in charge and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member, will preside over the meeting. It is for the first time since the committee has been constituted that the top party leadership will be meeting to chalk out a strategy to take on the BJP in the MC elections.Fatehpur byelectionThe Political Affairs and Election Strategy Committee is expected to discuss the party’s strategy for the Fatehpur Assembly byelection at the Kasauli meeting. As the elections have to be held within six months, the Congress can deliberate on the candidate.The election for the MCs of Dharamsala, Mandi, Palampur and Solan are likely to be held any time before April. The Congress leadership is making efforts to ensure the party performs well in the MC poll, so as to set the stage for taking on the saffron party in the 2022 Assembly elections. With the elections likely to be held on party symbols, it becomes all the more important for the Congress to perform well.The meeting is expected to discuss the party’s strategy for the Fatehpur Assembly bypoll. As the seat fell vacant on the demise of Congress MLA Sujan Sungh Pathania earlier this month, the Congress could deliberate on the candidate.A section of party workers are advocating fielding Pathania’s son Bhawani Singh for the bypoll. Since the BJP will put all its might to wrest the Fatehpur seat, the Congress leadership is keen that a decision on its official candidate is taken at the earliest. This, party leaders point out, will give time for the candidate to establish a rapport with the electorate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-poll-congress-panel-to-meet-in-kasauli-tomorrow-217481
26-02-2021||KULLU||9 families homeless as house gutted in Sainj||Nine families were rendered homeless as a three-storey house was gutted in Raila village in Sainj valley of this district yesterday.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said  Ved Ram and his brother Kadshi Ram resided with their families in the building. Their cousins Moti Ram, Ram Das and Uttam Ram also lived with their families there. Sunder Singh, Hem Raj, Bhumi Devi and Sher Singh lived with their families in another part of the house. The SP said that the regulator and the LPG cyclinder pipe caught fire during cooking in the kitchen on the top floor of the house. The fire soon spread to the entire wooden structure, which was reduced to ashes. Fire engines from Largi fire station and the firefighters were able to control the fire.  The district administration said Rs 5,000 each had been given as immediate relief to the affected families. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-families-homeless-as-house-gutted-in-sainj-217482
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Hubby among 6 booked for dowry||NURPUR, FEBRUARY 25 The police booked six persons, including the husband of the complainant, in a dowry harassment case at Indora on Thursday.  The police said Aarti Devi of Mohtali lodged a complaint against her husband Deepak Kumar of Sarna in Pathankot district and five members of her in-laws Urmila Devi, Neetu, Ranjana, Hans Raj and Mangal.  She alleged that the accused had been torturing her for the past few months. She got married to Deepak last year and after a few months. After a few weeks, the family members started torturing her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hubby-among-6-booked-for-dowry-217483
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Man held for thrashing SDO, JE in Hamirpur||Hamirpur, February 25The police today arrested the miscreant, who allegedly thrashed a Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) and a Junior Engineer (JE) of the Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Department yesterday while they were supervising the work of laying sewerage in the town.The accused, Deepkumar, reportedly objected to the laying of the sewerage on ‘his land’. Both officers received serious injuries and were admitted to a medical college and hospital. The IPH officials have demanded a case to be registered under Section 307 of the IPC. They said that they would not resume the work if the accused was not booked under the desired sections of the IPC.SP Karthkeyan Gokalachandran said the police had registered a case. He added that the accused would be produced before court to obtain his custody. The accused had allegedly created hindrances in the government work and also thrashed government officials on duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-for-thrashing-sdo-je-in-hamirpur-217485
26-02-2021||Shimla||CM flags off 6  ambulances from Shimla's IGMC||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today flagged off six new Advanced Life Support ambulances, ‘Jeevandayini’, from the IGMC, Shimla. These would be attached with each of the six government medical colleges of the state.The Chief Minister said these ambulances had been equipped with life support equipment such as transport-cum-ICU ventilator, vital sign monitor, automatic external defibrillator, suction pump, emergency resuscitation kit, head immobiliser, vacuum splint kit, mouth to mouth respirator, manual resuscitation bag, syringe infusion pump etc.These would be stationed in each government hospital and would be under the control of the Medical Superintendent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-flags-off-6-ambulances-from-shimlas-igmc-217486
26-02-2021||Shimla||Building gutted in Rampur||As many as 12 families were  rendered without shelter, as a palatial building having over 40 rooms were  completely gutted by a devastating  fire that broke out at Addu  village in Rampur late evening. A temple  adjacent to the building was also damaged, police said. The loss  is estimated at Rs 1.50 crore and fire engines were still dousing the  fire. The affected families have been given a relief of Rs 48,000,   besides tarpauline, utensils and other essential goods. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/building-gutted-in-rampur-217487
26-02-2021||Shimla||42 Covid cases, no fatality in Himachal||With 42 positive cases being reported today, the total number of Covid cases in the state reached 58,499. There was no coronavirus fatality in the last 24 hours.The highest number of 18 cases was reported in Kangra, eight in Una, six in Solan and five each in Una and Hamirpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/42-covid-cases-no-fatality-in-himachal-217488
26-02-2021||The fragile Kalidhar hill slope between Lahru and Chuwari link road stretch in Chamba district has become a major challenge for commuters||Road stretch a challege for commuters||Resume HRTC serviceWith the winter season almost gone, residents of the Pangi tribal valley have urged the HRTC authorities to resume bus service on some routes in the interior parts of the valley. In the absence of bus services, residents have to hire taxis and shell out a lot of money for travelling. — KC Rana, PangiWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-stretch-a-challege-for-commuters-217489
26-02-2021||A delegation of Shodh Aayam of the state ABVP called on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at his official residence to offer its suggestions for the state Budget. Organising secretary of the state unit Gaurav Attri said the organisation held talks with academicians||ABVP offers budget suggestions||Protest at Central UniversityThe ABVP's Dharamsala unit staged a protest at the Central University. ABVP's Shimla district convener Mayank Kumar said no work of students could be done for the second day after the university was closed following an order from the Registrar. Mayank said they request the Union Government to find a solution to the students' problem and sack the Registrar.Reduce syllabus for exams: NSUIThe NSUI has urged the HPU to reduce the syllabus for exams. During a meeting of the NSUI at the RKMV College, NSUI state secretary Sonia Bhagta said online classes during the lockdown were a mere formality as many students could not even join these classes due to network issues, especially in remote areas. She said many did not have access to smart phones. The university should reduce the syllabus by 50 per cent, she said.Cultural event promotes unityThe Government College of Sanjauli and Devgiri College organised an online cultural event under the 'Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat' programme. The programme, being held across the country, aims at promoting national unity through cultural activities. Under this programme, two states have been paired for cultural exchanges. Himachal has been paired with Kerala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-offers-budget-suggestions-217492
26-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||First time in India, world's costliest mushroom cultivated artificially||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 25Indian Council of Agriculture Research-run-Directorate of Mushroom Research (DMR) here has achieved a rare feat of successfully cultivating world’s costliest edible fungi – Morchella mushroom, commonly known as Gucchi.After making several unsuccessful attempts to cultivate Gucchi mushroom, Dr VP Sharma, Director, DMR assigned the challenge to Dr Anil Kumar in 2019 who prepared a project “Standardization of cultivation technique for Morchella mushroom” to achieve the objective.Globally acclaimed for its unique flavour and aroma, Morchella mushroom is a culinary delicacy and a gastronomical delight. It is highly valued for treating arthritis, anemia, tumor, etc.The fresh morel mushroom season is limited to a barely few weeks in the spring. It is collected from the wild habitats in northwestern Himalayas by the locals and primarily exported to Europe and United State of America.It is sold for price ranging from Rs 10,000 to 30,000 per kg. Owing to difficulties in its artificial cultivation, the wild morels yield huge profits.Elaborating on the experiment, Dr Anil informed, “Five species were selected for the experiment and after much deliberation substrate preparation technique was standardized for its cultivation.”“Under continuous rigorous in vitro trials on induction of ascoma (fruit bodies) in Morchellaspp (Gucchi), 3 small ascomata of 0.5 to 1cm were obtained. In the first seasonal cultivation trial started in the month of October 2019, conidial stage (asexual stage) and a mature ascomata of total 13cm length was recorded under green house conditions on April 13, 2020.”Seeing lesser ascomata and uncertainties about repeatability of the experimental data initially left him disheartened but he was motivated by the director as a valuable breakthrough had been achieved in the history Indian mushroom science.“I was treading in the positive direction and with continuous efforts I again succeeded and induced 12 ascomata in the second research trial under greenhouse on February 23,” informed Dr Anil.Since the experiment is still in progress, he is hopeful that fruit bodies of Gucchi will keep on appearing at his experimental site till April. The Gucchi crop is in an advanced stage to produce fruit bodies.“This is for the first time in the history that ICAR-DMR, Solan, has succeeded in producing fruit bodies of Gucchi mushroom. As a result of this achievement, India has entered the list of select few countries like USA, China, France, etc. who have successfully attempted to cultivate Gucchi mushroom under artificial conditions,” said Dr VP Sharma, Director, DMR.“There is a need to improvise our technology before it is transferred to the farm communities, hopefully in the next 2-3 years. It will revolutionise the Indian mushroom industry and help in economic uplift of the farmers,” Dr Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-time-in-india-worlds-costliest-mushroom-cultivated-artificially-217432
26-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||BJP should not indulge in horse trading: Shanta in his autobiography||Palampur, February 25Remarks by veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar on BJP’s indulgence in horse trading to grab power in his autobiography couldn’t have come at a more inappropriate time as the party faces flak for toppling duly elected governments.Shanta Kumar, a two time Chief Minister who now forms part of the side-lined marg darshak mandal of the saffron party, has done what comes naturally to him – speaking his heart even if it means paying a heavy price for it.His autobiography “Nij Path ka Avichal Panthi”, with a picture of his with his wife on the cover, released on Tuesday has kicked off a political storm with Congress leaders demanding a probe into his claims in the book.The veteran leasder, who lost his wife to covid last month, has maintained a low profile ever since as he too is recovering from the infection.Shanta, a writer and poet who has authored several books, has always maintained that he has paid a heavy price for calling spade a spade but he had no regrets about it.Shanta Kumar’s book, as expected only unravelled many more truths. One being that he lost his chair in the Union Cabinet in 2003 after he unearthed Rs 300-crore scam when he was Union Minister for Rural Development.He has stated that he brought the facts to the notice of the then Prime Minister AB Vajpayee. Shanta Kumar claimed that instead of initiating action against the culprits, he was forced to step down, a heavy price for his honesty. Earlier there were presumptions that Shanta Kumar was removed from Vajpayee cabinet for his remarks on Gujarat riots.In the second part of his book, the veteran leader has gone to the extent of saying that he feels “ashamed” to see his party getting involved in “sale and purchase” of MLAs.“People made the BJP the world’s largest party due to its value and idealism, but now it has become power-hungry,” he wrote in his new book.In one of the paragraphs, titled, ‘Neej Path Ka Avichal Panthi’, Kumar also cautioned the BJP against adopting “unprincipled politics”. Referring to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Kumar wrote, “We all have joined politics to change society and not the government.”“Chal-kapat ki rajneeti se sarkarein toh badli ja sakti hain, par samajh nahin,” he attributes these remarks to Vajpayee.He claimed that he had always adopted the politics of principle and wished that his party which has the capacity to change Indian politics doesn’t deviate from politics of principle.In one of the chapters “Role of Jana Sangh and BJP”, Shanta wrote that the BJP should not compromise with its principles and values. “When we worship Swami Vivekananda, we should also follow the path of Vivekananda,” he writes.Shanta Kumar also wrote that Prime Minister Narendera Modi should bring stringent laws to curb the use of black money in elections and keep criminals out of politics, which is the need of Indian politics in present political scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-should-not-indulge-in-horse-trading-shanta-in-his-autobiography-217417
