27-02-2021||Solan||Congress says BJP muzzling voices of dissent||Congress’ state in-charge Rajeev Shukla said on Saturday the BJP was trying to muzzle the   voice of dissent  and those raising voice against them were being victimised, be it the media or the Opposition. He said Chief Minister was following this new narrative given by the Prime Minister and sedition cases were slapped against those opposing the BJP government.Shukla was addressing the press near Kasauli after convening the meeting of the political affairs and coordination committee of the party. He termed the suspension of five MLAs from the remaining period of the Vidhan Sabha contrary to parliamentary norms.“I‘ve been the Parliamentary Affairs minister of the nation. The house can’t take action on an act that  has happened  outside the House and that too after  it has been adjourned till Monday and  without issuing any notice.” He said: “It is the duty of the State government to take the  Opposition into confidence to dispel their resentment. Safety of the Governor is the responsibility of the State Government and they have failed to ensure it.  It has never happened that Deputy Speaker and minister were seen  pushing the Opposition MLAs ”.  “Opposition has the right to raise voice against the State government but BJP merely wants all to eulogize them. Government has to be accountable for its deeds and one can’t expect all  praise in a  democracy.” Shukla urged the party leaders to work in unison and ensure the party’s victory in the Vidhan Sabha polls. He said the atmosphere was positive for the Congress in the region comprising Punjab, Himachal, Haryana and Uttarakhand. He came down heavily on the BJP government and said the common man was unnerved by the high fuel prices and anti-farmer policies.Shukla recalled the contribution of the Congress leaders like Indira Gandhi and the state’s first CM YS Parmar for the formation of Himachal and said they would hold block level functions on April 15 across the State.He said the BJP had done little for the State apart from organizing rath yatras that too on State’s expenditure which was appalling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-says-bjp-muzzling-voices-of-dissent-218278
27-02-2021||Lalit Mohan||20 monks test positive for Covid in Dharamsala's Gyuto monastery||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, February 27After a considerable drop in Covid cases, there has been a sudden surge of infections in Kangra district. What was more worrying for administration bulk of new cases have been reported from Gyuto Tantric Monastery of Karmapa in Sidhpur area of Dharamsala.It is for the first time since the Covid pandemic outbreak that considerable number of monks, living in a monastery in Dharamsala, have tested positive for the infection. Since the coronavirus outbreak most of the Tibetan monasteries were lying closed as the authorities governing these institutions were observing extra caution to prevent spread of virus.As per Kangra CMO GD Gupta today 24 new cases of coronavirus infection were reported in the district, including 20 from Gyuto Tantric Monastery in Sidhpur. The CMO when contacted said there were about 400 monks staying in Gyuto monastery. Out of them today 70 were tested today and 20 were tested positive. Only one monk had symptoms and has been shifted to Corona hospital in Tanda medical college.The remaining who tested positive were asymptomatic and have been asked to stay under self isolation. All monks who are staying in Gyuto monastery would be tested for Covid, the CMO said.The CMO said the monks who have been tested positive had no travel history.Gyuto tantric monastery in Sidhbari was the headquarters of 17th Karmapa Ogyen Trinley Dorje in Dharamsala. However, Karmapa who left India in May 2017 on a tourist visa to US has not returned to India. Karmapa has now taken up the citizenship of Dominica a Caribbean island nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-monks-test-positive-for-covid-in-dharamsalas-gyuto-monastery-218269
27-02-2021||Vijay Mohan||Rain in February sorely deficient over north India||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 27Some parts of the region received intermittent showers and snow over the past 24 hours, but rains over the northern states during the month of February this year remained sorely deficient.Punjab has been the worst hit, experiencing a deficiency of 90 per cent. From February 1 to February 27, the agrarian state received 2.7 mm rain against the normal of 26.6 mm for this period, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Against the normal of 97.2 mm, the neighbouring hill state of Himachal Pradesh received 17.4 mm rain during the aforementioned period, accounting for a deficiency of 82 percent.Haryana fared a bit better with a deficiency of 68 per cent having received 5 mm rain against the normal of 17.7 mm, according to the IMD. While all districts in Himachal had experienced some amount of rain this month, several districts in south western Punjab and the adjoining district of Sirsa in Haryana remained totally dry.According to weather experts, a western disturbance and induced cyclonic circulation is prevailing over North Pakistan and adjoining areas, which could bring varying amount of snow and rain over parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh.Another western disturbance is expected to develop mid next week, which would affect the weather over the western Himalayas and adjoining plains and bear the possibility of intermittent precipitation.Minimum temperatures are above normal by 2 to 6 degree Celsius over many parts of north-west India though no significant change in minimum temperature is expected over the next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-in-february-sorely-deficient-over-north-india-218257
27-02-2021||---||HP Governor ‘manhandled’||Shimla, February 26There was chaos outside the office of the HP Speaker with Opposition MLAs trying to block the vehicle of Governor Bandaru Dattatreya as he was leaving for Raj Bhavan after cutting short his Address following a ruckus inside the House. Subsequently, five MLAs were suspended.Led by Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, the Congress MLAs tried to block the Governor’s way while he was being seen off by CM Jai Ram Thakur, Speaker Vipin Parmar and ministers. The Congress MLAs and Deputy Speaker Hans Raj nearly came to blows. The ministers and the police pushed away the Congress legislators even as Agnihotri lay on the bonnet of the Governor’s vehicle.Earlier inside the House, as the Governor began his speech, he was interrupted by Congress MLAs, who asked him as to why there was no mention of price rise, unemployment and hike in fuel rates. Within 15 minutes, the Governor announced that the Address may be “considered as read” and left amid the din.“The session being held after almost a year, the Governor should have read out the entire speech. We (Congress MLAs) were manhandled even though we were only raising slogans. We did not touch the Governor, Chief Minister or ministers,” the CLP Leader claimed. But Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj claimed the Governor was manhandled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-governor-manhandled-218003
27-02-2021||Dharamsala||Income Rs 5 cr, Dharamsala MC passes Rs149 cr budget||The Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (DMC) yesterday passed an interim budget of Rs 149 crores. However, the budget had glaring difference between the income and expenditure of the corporation. Sources here said that the DMC has an income of just about Rs 5 cores. Even this income has gone down in the current financial year due to corona lockdown.Sources said the income of the corporation was just enough to pay the salaries and pensions of its employees.Mayor of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation Davinder Jaggi, when asked as to how the local body aims to spend Rs 149 crores when it has an income of just Rs 5 crores, said, “Most of the projects we are proposing in the city would either be funded by the state government or the union government. The corporation in its budget also proposes to bring up some projects in partnership mode with local citizens. In case residents of the city want to bring up some public infrastructure such as community hall or parking on their land the corporation would fund 50 per cent of the total cost of the project,” he said.The commissioner of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation, Pradeep Thakur, said that the local body was aiming to increase its income. He said at present property tax was being charged from people residing in old Dharamsala area only. However, the corporation was in the process of geo tagging the buildings so that property tax can be charged from a larger number of people.Besides, the corporation had given about land or buildings on lease to private people. “Some people, who have taken buildings or land on lease, were paying paltry rent per month. We aim to revise the lease deeds so that market rent could be charged from such people”.The present gap between the income and expenditure of Dharamsala city is too huge to be bridged through increase in income sources. The proposed expenditure of the MC is 30 times more than its income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/income-rs-5-cr-dharamsala-mc-passes-rs149-cr-budget-217891
27-02-2021||Dharamsala||Protest at CUHP over cases filed against students||Students of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) staged a protest on their campus in Dharamsala today. The students are now protesting against the closure of their classes by the university administration and registration of cases against 11 students.Students affiliated with the ABVP on Wednesday had protested outside the residence of the Registrar of the university. The ABVP activists had heated exchanges with the Registrar at his residence following which the university administration decided to file complaint against 11 ABVP activists. Following the complaint of the university administration, the police had registered cases against them.Heated exchanges with RegistrarNow the students have intensified their agitation and are demanding that cases registered against them should be withdrawn. The students claimed that they were protesting against the lack of infrastructure and failure of the university administration and the state government to bring up permanent campus of the university.While the protests of the ABVP activists are going on, students affiliated with the NSUI has added another dimension to the controversy. The NSUI activists are alleging large-scale bungling in recruitments carried out in CUHP in the recent past. They are alleging that many candidates affiliated with the ABVP and the RSS have been recruited in the university in violation of rules and regulations. The NSUI activists alleged that an inquiry had been initiated by the Union Ministry of HRD into recruitments carried out in the university. The students affiliated with the ABVP were exerting pressure on the registrar so that matter of recruitments in violation of rules could be hushed up, they alleged.The VC of CUHP, Kuldeep Agnihotri could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protest-at-cuhp-over-cases-filed-against-students-217892
27-02-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Doctor couple of Hamirpur  awarded||A doctor couple of the town has received the Himachal Achiever Award for their outstanding work during the pandemic in the district. The award was presented by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to Dr Abhishek Thakur and Dr Anandita Thakur at Shimla on Thursday. Significantly, the couple had provided their accommodation for setting up a Covid dedicated care centre to the government for free. The couple runs Sai Hospital in the town and is known for their social service.Dr Abhishek said such recognitions boosted their morale and encourage them to serve the society more passionately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctor-couple-of-hamirpur-awarded-217893
27-02-2021||Solan||Cong's state-level rally to support farmers on March 2||The Congress will hold a state-level rally in support of farmers’ protest against three Central farm laws on March 2 in the Baddi industrial area.Congress general secretary and in-charge for Solan district Kewal Pathania who addressed mediapersons today at Baddi said the party was supporting the 85-day farmer agitation where more than 250 farmers have lost their lives. He said endeavour would be made to rope in maximum farmers from across the state in this rally.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore will address the rally among other senior leaders.He termed the Prime Minister a “dictator who had failed to talk to the farmers exposing their anti-farmer stance”. He said the policies of the BJP government were “inimical” to farmers and the common man was suffering. The party would fight against the farm laws till they were rolled back.The Congress leader said the BJP candidates lost their security in the Malwa area of Punjab in the civic body polls indicating the resentment of the common man against the farm laws.The party demanded a white paper on youth unemployed during the Covid pandemic. Issues like price rise and “conspiracy” to close the fair price shops would be highlighted by the Congress.Doon MLA Ramkumar Chawdhary said this rally would pave the way for the ouster of the BJP government in 2022 as people were fed up of their policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congs-state-level-rally-to-support-farmers-on-march-2-217894
27-02-2021||Shimla||HPSEBL accused of illegal supply from water scheme transformers||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEBL) Ltd has allegedly given power connections to its consumers illegally from transformers set up exclusively for the lift water supply schemes of the Jal Shakti Department.Sunil Dutt Chandla, a government-appointed consultant with the Jal Shakti Department, said that the illegal practice came to his notice during visits to the lift water supply schemes in areas around Shimla. “We have several water schemes running from Sarog and Barog in Theog tehsil that cater to several nearby areas. However, when I visited a site yesterday, I saw several consumers have been given power connections from the transformer set up for the water schemes,” said Chandla. “As a result, the pumping stations don’t get the required voltage to pump water. When I pointed out this to the Executive Engineer, the illegal connections were removed and the voltage at the pumping station improved immediately”.Chandla said that giving power connections from transformers meant for water schemes was a violation of the agreement between the HPSEBL and the Jal Shakti Department. “As per the agreement, the HPSEBL is required to provide an independent feeder of 380 to 410 Volts for the water schemes,” he added.Besides, he said that he noticed lapses on the part of the HPSEBL at the Giri water scheme, too, from where Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited draws around 20 ML of water for the city every day. “Here, the transformer has been installed around 4 km from the pumping station. It results in transmission and distribution losses running into lakhs of rupees for the Jal Shakti Department,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-accused-of-illegal-supply-from-water-scheme-transformers-217895
27-02-2021||NURPUR||Power staff seek probe into purchase of  ‘poor-quality items’||The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSBL) Employees Union has demanded an inquiry and action against the officials, who had allegedly misused their powers in purchasing poor-quality electricity material worth lakhs of rupees.Kuldeep Kharwara, state president of the union, in a press note issued here, said some board officials had compromised the quality and purchased high and low-tension wires and some implements without any requirements.AllegationsKharwara said the cables purchased in 2018 were yet to be put to use and had been lying in the HPSEBL divisional stores. He alleged that gang-operated (GO) switches, being supplied to the field technical employees, were of poor quality and not fit for use whereas the safety of the employees and uninterrupted power supply was depend on the quality of the switches.He said the staff were facing the acute shortage of electricity tools like chainpuli blocks, meggers, hand gloves, safety belts, safety fuse, snow kits and rain suits but the board management had failed to provide these. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-staff-seek-probe-into-purchase-of-poor-quality-items-217896
27-02-2021||Mandi||Inflation cause for concern: Congress||Congress spokesperson Akash Sharma said increasing inflation had become a cause for concern for the common man in Himachal Pradesh. He said prices of essential commodities were quite high, which was affecting the lives of people. The prices of pulses, edible oil and LPG cylinder were increasing day by day, he said.He said the rising unemployment in the state was a major setback for the youth of the state. The state government should create job opportunities to reduce the unemployment rate.He said campaigning was underway for the Municipal Corporation elections in Mandi. Both the Congress and the BJP have put up their posters in the town but BJP workers have torn the posters of the Congress, which is an undemocratic act, he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inflation-cause-for-concern-congress-217897
27-02-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Homestay registration camp inaugurated in Lahaul||Principal Secretary Tribal Development Onkar Sharma participated in ‘yor’ utsav during the snow festival in Jobrang at Lahaul and Spiti district today.Speaking on the occasion, the Principal Secretary said the culture of Lahaul was very ancient and the ‘yor’ utsav was almost 300 years old. He said that the main objective of celebrating the snow festival was to promote winter tourism and bring rich culture of the valley to India and the world map.The official said the snow festival was a very important initiative to promote tourism in Lahaul. “To properly exploit the immense potential of winter sports and cultural tourism, people should pay special attention to homestay scheme so that balanced and sustainable development of tourism can be ensured”, he said.He inaugurated a three-day single window camp for homestay registration in Udaipur. He said that all facilities had been provided under one roof for homestay registration. He added that this was a very good facility under which, in a similar camp earlier in Keylong during the snow festival, more than 300 persons had registered for homestay. He added that the people will get financial benefits by registering homestays.Sharma said that with the opening of Atal Tunnel, the possibilities of tourism in Lahaul valley had increased immensely. At present the valley has the capacity to accommodate only 3,000 tourists, whereas more than 10,000 tourists were expected to enter the valley everyday during summer. He added that the people were being motivated for homestay registration as this would provide them additional sources of income along with farming.The Principal Secretary also emphasized on the need to generate awareness on sanitation for sustainable tourism and ensure proper execution of solid waste to conserve the pristine ecology of the region.He also visited the Eklavya Vidyalaya in Kukumseri and inspected the hostel and educational complex. He later chaired a review meeting on tribal sub-plan with district officials in Keylong.Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai welcomed the chief guest and other guests accompanying him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/homestay-registration-camp-inaugurated-in-lahaul-217898
27-02-2021||Despite public opposition||Public pressurised by Mining Dept||Speed up construction work of Kuned schoolResidents of Kuned in Bharmour are urging the government to speed up the construction of the Kuned government high school, which has been hanging fire for the past few years. The school was upgraded from middle to high school about three years ago and needs adequate accommodation. However, because of the slow pace of work, students are suffering. — Kuned (Bharmour) residentsIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/public-pressurised-by-mining-dept-217899
27-02-2021||The ABVP on Friday demonstrated outside the DC office in Shimla against the Central University Registrar's order to close the university. ABVP's Vikrant Chauhan said the university was without a permanent campus for the last 11 years and||ABVP protests Registrar’s order||SFI holds silent protestThe SFI on Friday staged a silent protest at the HPU by tying a black ribbon over their mouth. The SFI alleged that the administration was ignoring the demands of the students and was behaving in an arbitrary manner. The SFI demanded that 30 per cent of the state budget should be spent on education.Gurukul school ex-student felicitatedGurukul International Senior Secondary School, Solan, felicitated former student Naman Malpani for attaining 45th rank in the Chartered Accountant exam. He completed his Class XII in commerce stream with 93 per cent marks in the 2015-16 academic session. School principal Praveena Jha presented him a memento.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-protests-registrars-order-217900
27-02-2021||Shimla||Agnihotri, 4 other Cong MLAs suspended||The state Assembly today suspended five Congress legislators, including Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri for insulting the Governor and behaving in an unbecoming manner.Even though the Assembly had been adjourned after the Governor’s address till March 1 after the scuffle between ministers and opposition members while the Governor was leaving after his address, the Speaker re-convened the house.Speaker Vipin Parmar re-convened the house under Rule 346 under extraordinary situation. He said the five MLAs had been suspended under Rule 319 where the Governor cannot be disrupted in his address or while leaving.A resolution suspending five Congress MLAs Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur for the entire session till March 20 was passed unanimously in the absence of the Congress legislators.Condemning the behaviour of the Congress, the Chief Minister said the manner in which the opposition members behaved was highly condemnable. “It is neither the culture of Himachal nor the tradition of this house to behave in such an unruly manner,” he said. He added that it is not for the first time that the entire Governor’s address was not read and some people had behaved in a similar fashion when Vishnukant Shastri was the Governor of the state.“We urge you to take whatever action you feel is appropriate as this kind of behaviour is totally unacceptable,” the Chief Minister said. Both Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj and the Chief Minister said there was a virtual threat to the life of the Governor as the Congress MLAs tried to harm Dattatreya.Bhardwaj said the Himachal Assembly is known for its high traditions and the people of the state will disapprove of the behaviour of the Congress MLAs. Different ministers in the Jai Ram Cabinet also condemned the behaviour of the Congress MLAs in an effort to prevent the Governor from leaving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agnihotri-4-other-cong-mlas-suspended-217902
27-02-2021||Shimla||Governor cuts short 64-page address||Governor Bandaru Dttatareya addressed the Vidhan Sabha on the opening day of the Budget session here today. However, he read only a few pages of the 64-page address in English and stopped abruptly stating that the speech should be treated as read. This happened amid disruption by Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, who said that the speech was a “bundle of lies” with no mention of issues such as price rise, unemployment, deteriorating law and order situation and irregularities in Covid-related purchases in the Health Department.The Governor’s address detailed the steps taken by the Jai Ram government to tackle the pandemic, including a complete lockdown and assistance given to people in travelling to and fro the state. The details of makeshift Covid hospitals and all steps taken by the Health Department to ensure that patients were well taken care of also found mention.He spoke of the steps initiated as per the recommendations of the Cabinet sub-committee for economic revival, post-Covid, besides the Rohtang Tunnel’s inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, 2020.The Governor’s address also mentioned at length various welfare schemes such as the Jan Manch, Him Care, Grahini Suvidha Yojana, CM Helpline, Jal Se Krishi Ko Bal, Integrated Horticulture Development Programme, Nai Raahein, Nai Manzilien scheme and the Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojana. The details of the welfare schemes in education, health, agriculture, horticulture, housing, road construction and digitisation in the past three years were also depicted.Besides, the address also mentioned the schemes for women, girl child, OBCs, tribals and other weaker sections of society and the Mukhya Mantri Shahari Ajeevika Gaurantee Yojana to provide jobs to the youth in urban areas, post-Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-cuts-short-64-page-address-217903
27-02-2021||Shimla||FIR against 5 Congress MLAs||The police today registered an FIR against five Congress MLAs, accusing them of obstructing Governor Bandaru Dattatreya while he was returning after delivering his address in the Vidhan Sabha.The police remained tight-lipped about the FIR and refused to share any details. It is reliably learnt that the FIR against CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, MLAs Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur has been filed on the complaint of the Chief Marshall of the Vidhan Sabha in Boileauganj police station. He made the complaint to Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar, who forwarded it to the police.It was also learnt that an SIT would be constituted to hold an inquiry into the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fir-against-5-congress-mlas-217904
27-02-2021||Shimla||Congress behaviour shameful: CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the manner in which the Congress legislators had misbehaved with the Governor was very shameful and highly condemnable.“In a democracy it is justified to raise slogans but then trying to obstruct the Governor, who is here merely to perform his constitutional duty, is highly objectionable and totally unacceptable,” he remarked.He said such behaviour by the Congress only reflected their frustration at being rejected by people.“The people of Himachal do not approve of such unruly and rowdy behaviour and the people will show them their place,” he said. Thakur said the Congress had been totally rejected by the people of the state in the recently held panchayati raj and Zila Parishad elections and now it was evident that the party was on its way out across the country.Thakur said the unfortunate part was that there was lack of leadership in the Congress. “The absence of a mature and seasoned leadership in the Congress is so evident and can be seen by today’s turn of events,” he said.Thakur said that there was a virtual threat to the life of the Governor. “The CLP leader even caught hold of the ADC to the Governor as he was trying to make way for Dattatreya to leave,” he said. He added that such behaviour was not the culture of Dev Bhoomi and if the Congress had any issues, they could have blocked my way or dealt with us but not the Governor who was insulted.Later, Thakur along with his ministerial colleagues went and met the Governor at Raj Bhawan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-behaviour-shameful-cm-217905
27-02-2021||Shimla||44 Covid cases, tally up to 58,543 in Himachal||As many as 44 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 58,543. However, there was no death due to the virus in the past 24 hours. The highest number of 16 cases was reported in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/44-covid-cases-tally-up-to-58-543-in-himachal-217906
27-02-2021||Mandi||Residents fear spike in Covid cases during Shivratri festival||Residents of the district are apprehensive that the mega Shivratri festival celebrations scheduled to start on March 11 may lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The district administration has decided to organise the week-long fair on the directions of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.Surender Kumar, a resident of Mandi, said, “The threat of Covid resurgence is high during the mega celebrations of the Shivratri festival because it is not possible for the district authorities to ensure social distancing among people”.“The festival witnesses a huge gathering of people every year. Over 200 deities along with their followers arrive in Mandi town to take part in the week-long festival. Besides, businessmen from different parts of the country come here to set up their stalls,” he said.OP Kapoor, president of the Citizen Council Mandi, and Inder Singh, president of the Rajput Sabha Mandi, said, “It is true that the people of the district are apprehensive that the mega celebrations of the Shivratri fair may lead to a spike in Covid cases. There is need to consult medical experts to minimise the threat. A fresh outbreak of Covid in some other states is also a cause for concern”.Harmeet Singh Bittu, district president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad Mandi, said, “There has been a sharp decline in Covid cases in the state in the recent past. So, there is no need for panic. We are in favour of organising the festival in a grand way with strict adherence to precautionary measures”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-fear-spike-in-covid-cases-during-shivratri-festival-217908
27-02-2021||Solan||Three jailed for raping minor||Parveen Chauhan, Additional Sessions Judge, Special Court, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO), today sentenced three youths to imprisonment in a rape case.Reshav and Karan were sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 while third accused Lokesh was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 for the offence under the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-jailed-for-raping-minor-217909
27-02-2021||Solan||Man gets 7-year jail in rape case||The Additional Sessions Judge, Nahan, Jaswant Singh, today sentenced, Jeet Singh, a resident of Kuffar village in Sirmaur district, to seven years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 22,000 for rape and criminal intimidation of two women.The public prosecutor said during the 2011 panchayat polls, the first woman victim, who was travelling with him in his car with her children, was taken to an isolated place and raped near Jamta. He committed the offence several times later and in September 2013 video-recorded it.In the second case, Jeet Singh offered lift to another woman in 2007 from Kafota where she had gone to attend a meeting and took the vehicle towards an isolated place at Kamrau and raped her. He repeated the offence several times and also recorded it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-gets-7-year-jail-in-rape-case-217910
27-02-2021||Solan||Valuables stolen from housing board colony in Baddi||Valuables worth lakhs were stolen from the phase one of the housing board colony at Baddi in broad daylight today.Bhagirath, who resides in house number 102, phase 1, of the housing colony, said his wife and daughter had left the house around 10.30 am. They had come to his stationary shop on the Sai Road and when they returned around 1.30 pm, they found that the locks were broken and articles from the almirahs scattered around. Cash and valuables worth Rs 5 lakh have been stolen, according to the family.A police team, led by Baddi DSP, visited the spot and officials from the forensic science lab also collected evidence, said Baddi SP Rohit Malpani.Sanjeev Kaushal, president of the housing society, said it was shocking how theft after theft was occurring in the colony despite hundreds of close circuit cameras having been installed by the police in this industrial belt.This was the second theft in this week in this colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/valuables-stolen-from-housing-board-colony-in-baddi-217922
27-02-2021||Our CorrespondentNurpur||Four-lane affected protest over land acquisition relief rate||Up in arms against the prevailing uncertainty in the land acquisition compensation rate to be disbursed to the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project-affected residents in the Nurpur section from Kandwal to Mao, hundreds of protesters today staged a dharna against the government. Holding placards, the protesters took out a march and raised slogans in support of their demands. The protest march started from the Chogan ground and after passing through local markets culminated on the premises of the mini-secretariat.Led by Four–Lane Sangarsh Samiti president Darbari Singh, senior vice-president Sudarshan Sharma and general secretary Vijay Heer, the affected residents gave a memorandum to the SDM-cum-competent authority land acquisition designated by the NHAI.In the memorandum, the samiti has expressed anxiety over the disbursal of land acquisition compensation and further rehabilitation of the four-lane affected people. It lamented that till date the affected people had no information that what compensation rates were being given to them. “The District Collector, Kangra, had approved circle rates in 2018-19 that were recommended by the SDM-cum-land acquisition authority. But now the state government is backing out from the circle rates,” samiti said.It demanded to render already approved rates to the four-lane affected people so that they could rehabilitate themselves after their displacement.Talking to mediapersons, samiti president Darbari Singh said no land was available on roadsides in the Nurpur section below Rs 3 lakh per marla and in that condition how the displaced families would get themselves rehabilitated if they didn’t get sufficient compensation rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-lane-affected-protest-over-land-acquisition-relief-rate-217928
27-02-2021||Solan||Nalagarh SHO shifted in boy thrashing case||Taking note of the beating incident of a 16-year-old boy by policemen on Monday, the Superintendent of Police (SP), Baddi, today transferred the SHO, Nalagarh, to the Police Lines and sent the erring Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) on a long leave.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said SHO, Nalagarh, Nirmal Thind had been transferred to the Police Lines and ASI Harjeet had been sent on a long leave. The charge of the Nalagarh police station had been entrusted to the additional SHO.The DSP, Nalagarh, had inquired into a complaint where 16-year old boy’s mother had alleged that her son was thrashed mercilessly for not stopping his car when signaled to do so on Monday at Nalagarh. His son had suffered injuries and was under trauma after the incident, she alleged.The family had demanded action against the SHO and the ASI whom the family alleged had thrashed the boy. The family had later complained that the erring cops were threatening the family to take back the complaint and a complaint had also been made to the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nalagarh-sho-shifted-in-boy-thrashing-case-217929
27-02-2021||Shimla||Five Congress MLAs booked for blocking Guv’s vehicle on day one of Budget session||Himachal Pradesh Police booked five legislators from the Congress for having blocked Governor Bandaru Dattatraya's path out of the Vidhan Sabha after his speech on Friday.READ: Ruckus outside Himachal Assembly as Congress MLAs manhandled by BJP ministersPolice sources said that the FIR names CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri and Members of Legislative Assembly Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur. Police remained tight-lipped about the entire incident, but sources said that the Fir came on the basis of a complaint by the Chief Marshall of the Vidhan Sabha.  The complaint, sources said, was made to the speaker of the assembly, who sent it forward to the police.Sources also said a special investigation team will investigate the allegations. The Congress had interrupted the Governor's speech earlier in the day saying it made no mention of price rise and unemployment. At the interruption, the governor abandoned his speech and went off to tea with ministers of the state government, further enraging the opposition Congress. It was when he was leaving that more chaos broke out, with the Congress blocking his way out of the Vidhan Sabha.   Read the full account of the day's proceedings here. The budget session of the Himachal session began on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-congress-mlas-booked-for-blocking-guvs-vehicle-on-day-one-of-budget-session-217828
