28-02-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Displacement from Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project leaves families worried over rehabilitation, spend sleepless nights||Hundreds of families have had sleepless nights over the land acquisition for the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project. Their lands and building papers were acquired by the NHAI. As per the official information gathered by The Tribune, 3,781 people are going to be affected in the 31 revenue mohals, in which 933 private building are physically being acquired in the Nurpur section from Kandwal to Mao.Elderly people suffering from chronic diseases, and retired people who have spent their lives’ savings in building their homes will have to bear the burden. Their plight has failed to move the ruling party, and the administrative setup. Future rehabilitation has become a major cause of concern. Despite this, several affected Pong Dam Oustees are settled along the existing Pathankot-Mandi National Highway-154; they are going to face another displacement after five decades.  Hari Singh, an 84-year-old, Pong Dam Oustee, and a resident of Nagni near, here—have a small confectionery kiosk—had built his house 15 years ago after marrying off his three daughters, is now facing acute ageing health problems and is going to lose his house in the land acquisition. He wondered that in this age where he could seek a roof. Parkash ChandMy whole house is being acquired by the NHAI, and I have no land to raise another roof.Parkash Chand, a 70-year-old resident, who had also married off his all three daughters, said that he had built his house 30 years ago, and was earning his livelihood by running a small tea shop. “My whole house is being acquired by the NHAI, and I have no land to raise another roof,” he added. Madan Mohan, a 72-year-old from Nagni suffering from a serious health condition is also losing his whole house, which he built in 2014, is also unable to re-construct a new home. J.K. Mahajan, a 71-year-old from Bagni, who is a retired official of an insurance company, had undergone a bypass surgery in 2010 when he was diagnosed with a heart condition. He pleased that he was in no position to rebuild a new one after losing his home. Surinder Jamwal, a 70-year-old from Baghni, an ex-army man, who had been granted disability pension in1997, had purchased two canals of land, and built his double-storey house in 2015. He revealed that his whole land, and his home were being acquired by the NHAI.Meanwhile, Darbari Singh, the president of Four Lane Sangharsh Samiti (Nurpur section) has appealed to the Chief Justice of Himachal High Court for intervening, and saving the lives of the affected people as the state government had adopted an insensitive approach in acquiring their lands and buildings. He underlined the need to ensure minimum displacement of the people in the four-lane construction, and reduce its width from 45 meters to 32 meters keeping in view the topography, and minimum environment degradation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/displacement-from-pathankot-mandi-four-lane-project-leaves-families-worried-over-rehabilitation-spend-sleepless-nights-218676
28-02-2021||Solan||Vehicles seized for illegal mining in Solan||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicles-seized-for-illegal-mining-in-solan-218433
28-02-2021||Shimla||Justice Malimath is HPSLSA Executive Chairman||The Governor has nominated the senior-most Judge of the HP High Court, Justice Ravi Malimath, as the Executive Chairman of the HP state Legal Services Authority (HPSLSA). The notification issued states that the Governor in consultation with the Chief Justice has nominated Justice Malimath as the Executive Chairman of the HPSLSA. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-malimath-is-hpslsa-executive-chairman-218434
28-02-2021||New Delhi||GS Bali’s son Raghuvir Singh Bali appointed Congress secretary for West Bengal||Raghuvir Singh Bali, son of former Himachal Cabinet minister GS Bali, was today appointed the AICC secretary in-charge of election-bound West Bengal. He will be attached with AICC in-charge of Bengal Jitin Prasada.The appointment order was issued by AICC general secretary, organisation, KC Venugopal. Raghuvir will assume charge with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gs-balis-son-raghuvir-singh-bali-appointed-congress-secretary-for-west-bengal-218435
28-02-2021||---||Nihang comes to blows with cop, video viral||Solan, February 27A Nihang got into an altercation with a traffic policeman at Badripur Chowk in Paonta Sahib this afternoon when he was stopped for repeatedly honking the horn of the vehicle bearing Punjab registration number that he was travelling in.The policeman’s admonishment angered the Nihang, who got out of the vehicle and not only got into an altercation but also used fisticuffs to prevail upon the former, who was performing his duty.The incident went viral on social media within no time. The Nihang even got into an altercation with locals who were filming the incident.Additional Superintendent of Police Babita Rana said a case had been registered against the Nihang.He said an investigation was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nihang-comes-to-blows-with-cop-video-viral-218436
28-02-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor remembers social reformer Nanaji Deshmukh||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya said Nanaji Deshmukh’s stellar contribution towards rural development showed the way forward for a new paradigm of empowering those living in our villages. “He personifies humility, compassion and commitment to the downtrodden. He is a Bharat Ratna in the truest sense,” said the Governor.While interacting on a virtual platform in a programme organised by “Towards Better India” on the occasion of the death anniversary of Nanaji Deshmukh, the Governor said Nanaji was a social reformer and a statesman par excellence. He did excellent work in the fields of education, health and rural self-reliance. He was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan in 1999 and Bharat Ratna, posthumously, in 2019.He said Nanaji always shared good relations not only with his party colleagues but also with his opponents.“His life and work is an example of how technology and tradition can be synchronised for the welfare and empowerment of people. Nanaji was someone who rose above party politics. The message of Nanaji’s life is that of nurturing nobility of leadership and perseverance through constant innovation in his mission of achieving socio-economic development,” said the Governor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-remembers-social-reformer-nanaji-deshmukh-218437
28-02-2021||---||IIT-Mandi to design packaging for transport of fruits, vegetables||Shimla, February 27The IIT-Mandi has agreed to design the packaging material for transporting fruits and vegetables to markets. The Himachal Pradesh State Agricultural Marketing Board had sought the institute’s help in designing a more appropriate packaging material to ensure minimum damage to the produce on the way to the market.“IIT-Mandi has given its consent and has submitted a proposal of Rs 18 lakh for carrying out the research for designing the material. The institute has sought a time period of 18 months to finalise the design,” said board’s Managing Director Naresh Thakur.The proposal will now come up in the Board of Directors meeting of the marketing board for final approval. “The meeting was scheduled for March 2, but has been postponed for a while,” said Thakur.He said the IIT-designed material would be beneficial, particularly for the vegetables transported in sacks over long distances. “Potatoes and peas, for example, are transported in sacks. A part of the produce gets damaged while being transported to markets. The scientifically designed packaging material will minimise the damage,” said Thakur.Apple, too, would benefit from the initiative. As it is, the packaging material for the fruit is a matter of intense debate among the growers. While many want to continue with telescopic cartons that can accommodate anywhere between 20 kg and 35 kg, many want a shift to universal cartons that accommodate 20 kg.Besides, the marketing board is hopeful of floating the tender for its ambitious Parala project comprising a CA store, processing units etc, by the end of the next month. “We have received most clearances. The only one left is from the pollution board,” said Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-mandi-to-design-packaging-for-transport-of-fruits-vegetables-218418
28-02-2021||Ravinder Sood||Jaisinghpur Bachat Bhavan in a shambles||Palampur, February 27The double-storey Bachat Bhavan building at Jaisinghpur, 40 km from Palampur, is crying for attention. Despite the state government being aware of the situation, no efforts have been made to repair the building in the past five years.The building was constructed by the state government 10 years ago for organising official and private functions. However, in the absence of proper upkeep, the building in a shambles and on the verge of collapse.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that the building remained vacant for a long time. Later, it was leased out to a private party. On the directions of then Kangra Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sandeep Kumar, the private occupant was asked to vacate the building. The DC had also directed the Lambagaon block development officer to submit an estimate for funds needed for repair work. However, no estimate has been sent to the DC office till date. Windows and doors are in a poor condition, water supply and sewerage pipes are leaking and there are big cracks in the walls. There are no tube lights and fans.Local residents said the government should immediately repair the building, so that it could be used for marriage and other functions.Jaisinghpur SDM Pawan Sharma said he was aware of the situation and an estimate for the repair and renovation of building was being prepared. He said the building would be repaired soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaisinghpur-bachat-bhavan-in-a-shambles-218419
28-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister celebrates ‘Yor’ with locals in Lahaul||Kullu, February 27Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda participated in the ‘Yor’ utsav during the snow festival at Jobrang village in Lahaul and Spiti district today. Locals welcomed him in a traditional way. He, too, performed some rituals with the people. An eight-foot-high ‘Shivling’ made of snow was worshipped while wearing special ‘mukhota’ (masks) and traditional dresses to pray for good harvest and prosperity. He also participated in the traditional folk dance.The minister said the ‘Yor’ utsav used to be celebrated for centuries in all villages along the left bank of the river but over the years, this festival had become confined to a few villages. He said the cultural heritage would be conserved and revived through the snow festival.He said information about these festivals would be collected by the Tribal Development Department and published in a book so that the cultural history could be preserved.Locals said villagers stopped celebrating the ‘Yor’ utsav here some years ago. They said after that, many houses were buried due to the glacial movement due to the fury of nature. The locals then again began to celebrate the festival to appease nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-celebrates-yor-with-locals-in-lahaul-218439
28-02-2021||Mandi||Snow blocks Manali-Leh highway||Mild snowfall near then Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway today blocked traffic movement for hours between Manali in Kullu district and Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district.According to official sources, due to strong winds, a large signage fell on the road near the Atal Tunnel towards the Sissu side at the north portal, disrupting traffic movement.However, the Border Roads Organisation and the local police at Sissu in Lahaul and Spiti soon engaged the workforce and the machinery to clear the highway for traffic movement.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said that the highway had been restored for traffic between Manali and Keylong. He advised people to drive cautiously on the road, because it was prone for snow avalanches at several places.There were reports of fresh snowfall in high altitude areas of Lahaul and Spiti, while in Kullu and Mandi districts rain occurred during the day time, leading to a slight fall in temperatures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-blocks-manali-leh-highway-218415
28-02-2021||---||Thunderstorm, rain lash Himachal; 57 roads blocked||Shimla, February 27A severe thunderstorm accompanied by intermittent rain lashed several parts of Himachal, including Shimla and its surrounding areas, disrupting normal life and leading to a drop in day temperatures.Snow in high hillsHigh-altitude tribal areas received another spell of snowfall and Gondla and Keylong received 10 cm and 6 cm of snow, respectively. Widespread moderate rain occurred at many places and Dalhousie was the wettest in the region with 15 mm of rain, followed by Manali 12 mm; Shimla, Kotkhai, Solan, Rajgarh and Kharapathhar 7 mm; Chamba, Bhuntar, Nahan and Shillaro 6 mm; Rohru, Saloni, Dharamsala and Jubbarhatti 4 mm; and Jubbarhatti, Kasauli, Narkanda, Kandaghat and Khadrala 3 mm.Meanwhile, the Rohtang Pass has been closed for traffic and 57 roads, including 54 in Lahaul and Spiti district, are blocked in the state due to bad weather, sources in the Public Works Department said.The day temperatures dropped by a few notches in mid and higher hills but stayed four to seven degrees above normal. Una with a high of 33°C was the hottest in the state. The minimum temperatures also dropped by two to three degrees and Keylong was the coldest in the region with a low of minus 1.5°C, followed by Kalpa 3°C and Kufri 4.5°C.The MeT office has forecast a dry weather in mid and lower hills over the next six days and rain or snowfall in higher hills on March 3 as a Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over Pakistan and neighbourhood now lies over north Pakistan and neighbourhood. A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from the night of March 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunderstorm-rain-lash-himachal-57-roads-blocked-218411
28-02-2021||---||Govt trying to gag Opposition: Youth Congress||Dharamsala/Una, February 27Members of the Youth Congress today staged a protest against the suspension of five Congress MLAs, including CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, from the Assembly yesterday for the Budget session for obstructing the path of the Governor.The protesters gathered at the Kachehri crossing this afternoon and raised slogans against the state government. They also burned an effigy of the government and said that the suspension of the Congress MLAs from the Assembly should be taken back. They also had a minor scuffle with the policemen, who tried to stop them from burning the effigy.The Youth Congress leaders alleged that the government was trying the muzzle the voice of the Opposition by not allowing them entry to the House. People were reeling under the price rise and unemployment and the government was using force to silence the Opposition, they added.Meanwhile, the Una district Congress unit today burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to protest the suspension of five party MLAs, including Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, from the proceedings of the Budget session. The other four MLAs are Harshwardhan Chauhan, Surinder Singh Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar.District Congress president Ranjit Rana, who led the protesters, termed the suspension as the highhandedness of the state government. He said the MLAs only wanted the Governor to give his complete Address and wanted to know why public issues such as the rise in fuel and LPG rates, corruption in government offices during the pandemic and the failure of the government to fulfil the promise of employment to the youth were not included in the speech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-trying-to-gag-opposition-youth-congress-218412
28-02-2021||---||Congress leaderless, directionless, says Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Mandi, February 27Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today criticised Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and other Congress MLAs for their alleged misbehaviour with the Governor outside the Vidhan Sabha in Shimla.Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterCompetition to impress central leaders: ThakurThe behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition and other Congress MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday was indeed condemnable... There is competition among Congress leaders to exhibit their supremacy to impress their central party leaders.Thakur, while addressing a huge gathering here, said, “The behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition and other Congress MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha yesterday was indeed condemnable and against the rich traditions and culture of the state. This shows that the Congress today is a leaderless, directionless and issueless party”.“There is competition between Congress leaders to exhibit their supremacy to impress their central party leaders,” he said.The CM said that such misconduct would not be tolerated and action would be taken accordingly. “Kaul Singh was targeting me saying that I am the Chief Minister of Seraj alone. If Kaul Singh was so popular among people, why he lost the Assembly elections from his own Assembly segment of Darang in Mandi”.He also lambasted BJP legislator of Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma and said, “Anil won the Assembly elections on the BJP ticket but later parted ways when his son Ashray Sharma was not given the party ticket to contest the Lok Sabha elections from Mandi”.He laid the foundation stone of Shiv Dham at Mandi. He said that Shiv Dham to be constructed at a cost of over Rs 150 crore would be an added attraction for tourists visiting Mandi. He also laid the foundation stone of a multi-storey parking near the U-block to be constructed at an estimated cost of about Rs 100 crore on the public private partnership (PPP) mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-leaderless-directionless-says-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-218423
28-02-2021||Shimla||‘Conduct of Congress MLAs shameful’||BJP state president Suresh Kashyap has termed the behaviour of Congress leaders in the Vidhan Sabha yesterday as shameful. He said that the Congress had lost its base in the state and was indulging in such acts for cheap publicity, which is unfortunate.He said that this was for the first time when the Leader of the Opposition interrupted the Governor’s Address in the Vidhan Sabha and the vehicle of the Governor was stopped and his ADC was pushed aside. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/conduct-of-congress-mlas-shameful-218440
28-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||BJP trying to muzzle dissent: Rajiv Shukla||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 27Rajiv Shukla, in-charge of Congress affairs in Himachal, today said that the BJP was trying to muzzle the voice of dissent. Those raising their voice against the party were being victimised, be it the media or the Opposition.He said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was following this new narrative and sedition cases were being slapped against those opposing the BJP government. Shukla was addressing mediapersons near Kasauli after convening the meeting of the Political Affairs and Coordination Committee of the party.He termed the suspension of five MLAs from the remaining period of the Vidhan Sabha Assembly session as contrary to the parliamentary norms. “I‘ve been the Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister. The House can’t take action on an act that happened outside and that, too, after it has been adjourned till Monday and without issuing a notice”.Shukla said, “It is the duty of the state government to take the Opposition into confidence to dispel their resentment. The safety of the Governor is the responsibility of the government and it has failed to ensure it. It has never happened that the Deputy Speaker and a minister were seen pushing Opposition MLAs.The Opposition has the right to raise its voice against the government but the BJP merely wants everyone to eulogize it. The government has to be accountable for its deeds and one can’t expect praise alone in a democracy”.Shukla urged the Congress leaders to work in unison and ensure the party’s victory in the next Vidhan Sabha elections. He denied there was factionalism in the party. He said the atmosphere for the Congress was positive in Punjab, Himachal, Haryana and Uttarakhand. He added that the common man was upset at the high fuel prices and anti-farmer policies.Shukla recalled the contributions of the Congress leaders such as Indira Gandhi and Himachal’s first Chief Minister YS Parmar to the formation of the state. He said that block-level functions would be held on April 15. He added that the BJP had done precious little for the state except organising rath yatras that, too, by spending public money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-trying-to-muzzle-dissent-rajiv-shukla-218420
28-02-2021||Ambika Sharma||Kaul Singh Thakur, Harsh Mahajan conspicuous by their absence||Tribune News ServiceSolan, February 27The absence of senior Congress leaders, including former PCC president Kaul Singh Thakur, former Cabinet minister Harsh Mahajan and former minister and in-charge of Punjab Asha Kumari, from the key Political Affairs and Election Strategy committee meeting near Kasauli today raised many an eyebrow. This was the first such meeting convened by Rajiv Shukla, in-charge of party affairs in Himachal.The members pondered upon the strategy for the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections to Solan, Mandi, Palampur and Dharamsala as well as the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections at the meeting. The absence of senior leaders remained a topic of hot discussion, hinting that not all was well in the party that was trying to put a united front. Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, too, did not attend the meeting owing to his poor health.The suspension of the five MLAs from the Vidhan Sabha session and the line of action for Monday were also discussed.Several leaders were in favour of fixing the criteria for the Vidhan Sabha ticket aspirants such as doing away with those candidates who lost the successive elections or had forfeited security as well as fixing an upper age of the candidates. The need to make relevant changes in the block and district level bodies to promote younger leaders well in time and not at the eleventh hour was also suggested. Other issues such as strengthening the social media platform for optimum electoral gains were also discussed. The members also raised the issue of the lack of resources that Shukla acknowledged.Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore, Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Sukhwinder Singh Sukku, Rajinder Rana, Viplove Thakur, DR Shandil, GS Bali, Sudhir Sharma, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Ramlal Thakur, Jagat Singh Negi, Pawan Kajal, Kuldeep Kumar, and Rajesh Dharmani attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaul-singh-thakur-harsh-mahajan-conspicuous-by-their-absence-218421
28-02-2021||---||Paragliding site comes up at Junga||Shimla, February 27The first government-approved paragliding site, The Glide Inn, has come up at Junga, 15 km from here, adding another dimension to tourism in the suburbs of Shimla town.The project has come up over about five acres, with a vertical elevation of 1 km and the gliding time between 10 to 12 minutes, depending on the speed and direction of the wind. The venture, which has become functional, also endorses the ‘Nai Manzil, Nai Rahain’ policy of the state government.The idea is to promote the lesser-known beautiful Junga on the tourist map, as there are several other tourist attractions such as the heritage Junga palace, Kaushalya river and waterfalls. Besides, the initiative will go a long way in increasing the stay time of tourists in Shimla.“There will be no compromise on passenger safety, and The Glide Inn has recruited its own paragliders operated by a team of highly experienced and professional pilots,” said CEO Arun Rawat. He added that it took two years to start the project and proper standard operating procedures are in place in the wake of Covid-19.“Projects like the indoor ski park and paragliding in the periphery of Shimla town will give a boost to tourism activities in and around the state capital. We are also exploring new activities like bird watching and wildlife photography in Shoghi and Junga areas,” said MK Seth, president, Tourism Industry Stake Holders Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paragliding-site-comes-up-at-junga-218422
28-02-2021||Shimla/Dharamsala||20 monks test Covid +ve in Dharamsala||As many as 55 Covid cases, including 20 in the Gyuto Tantric Monastery of Karmapa at Sidhpur in Dharamsala, were reported in the state on Saturday, raising the tally to 58,598. However, there was no death from the virus.The highest number of 24 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 16 in Shimla, six in Sirmaur, five in Una, two in Mandi and one each in Hamirpur and Solan.GD Gupta, CMO, Kangra, said that around 400 monks stay in the Gyuto monastery. Twenty of 70 monks tested for the virus today were found to be infected. However, only one monk displayed symptoms and was shifted to the Covid ward at Tanda medical college. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-monks-test-covid-ve-in-dharamsala-218438
28-02-2021||---||Deputy Speaker, DGP call on Governor over security||Shimla, February 27Deputy Speaker of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha Hans Raj and Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu, along with other senior officers of the Police Department, today called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan.In view of the developments on the premises of the Legislative Assembly on Friday, the Governor reviewed security arrangements with the DGP.The DGP expressed concern over the inconvenience caused to the Governor and said it was unexpected and unfortunate. He said as a first citizen of the state, the police administration had decided to take extra precaution and provide high security to the Governor in their future activities.He said he would be provided professional advice and a road clearing system would be developed. At present, there is only one Personnel Security Officer (PSO) deputed during the movement of the Governor but now, the system would be changed and a “close protection team” would be deployed in which more professional police commandos would be engaged. He said advanced security would be provided during important programmes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deputy-speaker-dgp-call-on-governor-over-security-218410
