01-07-2021||Jalandhar||Keep phone on, DEOs told||Bima YojanaJalandhar: The district ranked first in state by covering 88.08 per cent beneficiaries under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. DC Ghanshyam Thori said eligible beneficiaries were entitled for cashless health benefits up to Rs5 lakh. “The district has targeted family group of 2.62 lakh of which 2.30 lakh have already been covered, while 5.30 lakh cards have been generated so far,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keep-phone-on-deos-told-276689
01-07-2021||Police officials in Nawanshahr have been directed to carry out special checking of ghats and canal bridges on the Sutlej River||No more dips in Sutlej, Bist Doab canal||Don’t erect gates on govt landDistrict Magistrate Dr Shena Aggarwal, exercising her powers under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (Act-2 of 1974), has issued orders that no person /institution shall erect any gate on government premises in the district. If any such memorial gate is to be constructed, the approval of the office of the District Magistrate should be sought only after obtaining the approval of the department concerned. Notably, the issue came to the notice of administration that the people in the villages have set up a memorial gate in the memory of a close relative on panchayat land without getting approval from any department. The Magistrate said there was always a risk of the gates getting collapsed, thus causing the risk of life or property. Therefore, it is necessary to ban the construction of such gates in the district. These orders will remain in force till August 16.Polio drops administered to 5,737On the third day of the Migrant Pulse Polio Campaign, a total of 1,492 children in the district were given polio drops. As per the information, 183 in Nawanshahr block, 10 in Banga, in Balachaur Urban 120, 36 in Rahon, 460 in Muzaffarpur block, 118 in Mukandpur Block, 140 in Sujjo, 70 in Saroya and 354 in rural Balachaur. As many as 354 children were administered polio drops. On the first day of the campaign, 2,201 children and on the second day, 2,044 children were given polio drops. - TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-more-dips-in-sutlej-bist-doab-canal-276687
01-07-2021||Jalandhar||DIPS Suranussi organises social science activity||Amar Jyoti function held onlineAs many as 1,000 students of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya were accorded traditional farewell during the 135th pious Amar-Jyoti function online to mark the culmination of the academic session 2020-21. The chief guest for the occasion was Neerja Chander Mohan, member, KMV managing committee. Also present to grace the occasion were Dr Sushma Chawla, vice-president, KMV managing committee, Alok Sondhi, general secretary, KMV managing committee, Dhruv Mittal, joint treasurer, KMV managing committee. Making the gathering aware of the importance of Amar Jyoti, Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that it was an age-old tradition at KMV since its inception to gave warm send-off to the outgoing students by blessing them with an exemplary and bright future. She said the college was going to introduce BA in vocational studies and would also be introducing NCC as elective subject at undergraduate level.Virtual alumni talkThe department of information technology of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised a virtual alumni talk over the Zoom platform. Nidhi Chopra, head of IT department, congratulated the coordinator students, and assured that more alumni talks would be conducted in the future to maintain a good rapport with the alumni. The resource persons for the same were Madhav Bansal, director of Bansal Infosys (web designer and developer), and Muskaan Kashyap (sales force engineer at Grazitti Interactive). Bansal shared his journey with the students starting from college days till the present and shared his experiences with the students and told them how they can crack any interview and become successful as well in IT sector. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dips-suranussi-organises-social-science-activity-276686
01-07-2021||---||Punjab constitutes improvement trust for Sultanpur Lodhi||Kapurthala, June 30 The Punjab Government has constituted an improvement trust in Sultanpur Lodhi for futuristic and planned development and strengthening of basic infrastructure to further facilitate lakhs of pilgrims visiting this holy city.  A notification has been issued by the Local Bodies Department in this regard which came into effect immediately. The city had received heavy footfall of pilgrims on all religious occasions after the 550th Parkash Purb celebrations by the Punjab Government which brings it to the international tourist circuit.  Terming it a historic day, MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said, “It is another gift from Capt Amarinder Singh after ensuring the development of city with Rs 400 crore to mark the 550th Parkash Purb.  MLA Cheema had called on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh a few days back in this regard and working on the directions of Chief Minister and finding it most suitable case, the Local Bodies Department has issued notification. He also said the appointment of the chairman of the Improvement Trust under the leadership of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would be made soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-constitutes-improvement-trust-for-sultanpur-lodhi-276629
01-07-2021||---||Sports canteen to come up at Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 30Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri on Wednesday sanctioned a grant of Rs 5 lakh for setting up of a sports canteen in Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium.Former national player and member of interim committee Ritin Khanna on Wednesday met Rajinder Beri. During the meeting, Khanna told MLA about the importance of nutritious diet for the players to improve their game. He said there was immediate need of a sport canteen for the players so that they could get healthy and nutrient-rich food easily following which Beri approved Rs 5 lakh.Move to benefit 500 playersFormer national player and member of the interim committee Ritin Khanna on Wednesday met Rajinder Beri. During the meeting, Khanna told the MLA about the importance of nutritious diet for the players to improve their game. He said there was an immediate need of a sports canteen for players so that they could get healthy and nutrient-rich food easily following which Beri approved Rs 5 lakh for the same. He said with sports canteen, 500 players practising at the stadium would be greatly benefitted. He said with this canteen, the players would be able to get meal for three times in a day, including breakfast, lunch and dinner.He said with sports canteen, 500 players practising at the stadium would be greatly benefitted. He said with this canteen, the players would be able to get meal for three times in a day, including breakfast, lunch and dinner.He stated that the players, who usually come to participate in the tournaments here, would be able to enjoy the food in this canteen as earlier they had to go outside for food. The MLA also appreciated the work of interim committee of the District Badminton Association.Khanna said the interim committee had taken several measures for upgrading of the stadium and brought new facility of five new synthetic courts, gyms, yoga and aerobic centre and opened academy of Olympian Deepankar Bhattacharya. Earlier, MP Naresh Gujral and Speaker Rana KP Singh had provided a grant of Rs 15 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-canteen-to-come-up-at-raizada-hansraj-badminton-stadium-in-jalandhar-276631
01-07-2021||---||Kapurthala-based Ahluwalia brothers take to the skies||Kapurthala, June 30It is a proud moment for the Ahluwalia family as both their sons have been selected in the Indian Armed Forces. While Lieutenant Arjunbir Singh Ahluwalia had cleared NDA and has been serving as a pilot in the Indian Navy since May 2017, his younger brother Flying Officer Ajaybir Singh Ahluwalia passed out from the Indian Air Force Academy, Hyderabad, on June 19 and has been picked as a fighter pilot.Sharing the information, their father Gurdeep Singh Jaspal Ahluwalia said Ajaybir had even lifted the ‘Best in Tactical Formation Flying Trophy’ at the completion of his training. He said both his sons had studied at Lawrence School, Sanawar.Serving as a Development Officer in the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), Kapurthala, Gurdeep said both his sons had fulfilled the desire that he had nurtured for his sons since their childhood, “I had cleared my CDS exam, but could not qualify the medical examination. My sister Col (Dr) PK Jaspal is serving in the Army. My father Ranjit Singh Jaspal was in the IAF and the boys have fulfilled his wish. Sadly, he passed away just a few weeks before Ajaybir was to passout.”Arjunbir and Ajaybir’s mother Ranbir Ahluwalia has served as a teacher at Sanawar. The family said not just their relatives, but residents from the city and Congress MLAs Rana Gurjeet Singh and Navtej Singh Cheema had extended their good wishes to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-based-ahluwalia-brothers-take-to-the-skies-276620
01-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Doctors too not immune: Sleepless nights or anxiety, Covid-19 drained one & all||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 30The pandemic not only took a toll on the mental health of people in general but doctors suffered a lot as well. Whenever someone suffers from a disease, they immediately pin their hopes on doctors. This time, too, the same thing happened, but the only difference was that Covid was detected for the first time, so, it was as new for them as for others. But still, doctors did it all. It was a year of emotional disturbances in their personal and professional lives. They saw people dying in front of them, they saw separations, young people losing lives, and what not. The doctors here spent sleepless nights and whenever they would see patients suffering because of low oxygen, and dying, they would spend their days in gloom.Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said in his 30 years of service, these two years remained the toughest. It made him anxious, he felt more sorrowful, started caring more and his belief in God became firm.“There were several days when I couldn’t sleep. I saw young people dying. There were times, when I felt so helpless. People would call me at nights and complain about less oxygen levels and when next day I was told about their death, I would feel so upset that I cannot describe it in words,” he said.“The pandemic has made me more sensitive towards others. Now, I call elders and my relatives often because I know what people have lost. Also, I have become more spiritual. Whenever I would see patients recovering from Covid, that would give me immense happiness and a ray of hope,” the doctor said. He said he started spending more time at home with his loved ones than ever before.Civil Hospital Paediatric Specialist Dr Sahil Vikas said everything changed suddenly last year. “There was a lot of anticipation regarding the disease and it was very challenging how we would deal with the virus. In the beginning, doctors also remained away from their family members. Even I maintained distance with my parents and a child. It was tough,” the doctor shared.As he deals with kids, he said since last year he has seen that parents no longer come with their wards, but mostly do consulting over phone. “One thing I believe that since students aren’t going to their schools for two years now, it is going to affect their psychology. There will be behavioural changes, kids will become more rigid and they will have problems in adjusting with others,” the specialist said.Dr Shubhang Aggarwal, Orthopaedic and Joint Replacement Surgeon, NHS Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “I would first appreciate the hard work put in by all doctors and healthcare workers across the country in this pandemic. The third-wave is being spoken of and people must understand that staff and doctors are now getting exhausted. I appeal to all to ensure that they follow all social distancing norms and other precautions and get their vaccination done, so that we can avoid the third wave together.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-too-not-immune-sleepless-nights-or-anxiety-covid-19-drained-one-all-276622
01-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Vaccine drive hit by shortage of doses in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 30The inoculation of people against Covid-19 in the 18-44 age group has been hit by the shortage of the vaccine doses. The drives, which were being held at around 150-200 vaccination centres in the district, have been curtailed with only a handful centres organizing vaccination drives.As per the Health Department, there are at present 2-5 vaccination centres. In addition, the shortage of vaccine has disappointed not only those falling in the 18+ age group but also those above 45 years who were to receive their second dose of CovidshieldThe doses of Covaxin are being administered by workers of the Health Department. The department has been running out of stock of Covishield for the past four days.A large number of residents, mostly those belonging to the 18-44 age group, have been turned away from the centres in the past week, thanks to the shortage of vaccines for the deadly disease.With the reduction in mobile units, the vaccination drive has also recorded a slump continuously for four days in a row.District Immunisation Officer (DIO) Rakesh Chopra said, “At present, 4-8 mobile teams of the Health Department were operational in the district to vaccinate beneficiaries. On Wednesday, as many as 902 doses of vaccine were administered followed by 538 on Tuesday and 518 on Monday and 954 on Sunday.”After the second phase of the vaccination drive, this was the third time when acute shortage of Covidshield is being reported in the district. People who have to meet the mandatory two doses of Covidshield criteria to fly to abroad are among the most affected group, apart from 45 above age group beneficiaries waiting to get jabbed with the second dose of Covishield. On the condition of anonymity, a health department worker said the vaccination drive has slowed down due to the demand for Covishield.People, mostly in rural areas were reluctant to get jabbed with Covaxin.Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the supply of stock had completely run out due to the inconvenience to the beneficiaries, besides fuelling the growing impatience among them. “We are hopeful of receiving nealy to receive nearly 50,000 doses of Covidshield in the next three days, which will ramp up the vaccination drive.”Dist reports 1 death, 23 new cases Jalandhar: The district on Wednesday reported only 23 fresh cases. Apart from that, only one death was reported. With this, the district tally of total positive cases and total deaths has reached 62,727 and 1,478, respectively. Moreover, the active cases have also dropped to 247, lowest in three digits in the last four months. As many as 61,002 patients have recovered for the deadly virus. TNSNo death in Nawanshahr, 4 test +veNawanshahr district Muzaffarpur block and Sujjon reported four new Covid cases on Wednesday, while no death was reported. While three cases were reported from Muzaffarpur, one case was from Sujjon. At present, there are 24 active cases, while 15 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,391 (4.53 per cent), while the recovery rate is 96.68 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 356 (3.12 per cent). At present, six persons are seeking treatment at level-II Covid care facility and two at level-III Covid care facility. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-drive-hit-by-shortage-of-doses-in-jalandhar-276623
01-07-2021||---||As mercury soars, here comes power cuts in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 30While farmers across the state have already been complaining of not getting eight hours of power supply, even domestic consumers in the city are irked for the past two days owing to long power cuts being imposed by the PSPCL.City residents have been facing three to five hours of power cut since Tuesday. There were no power cuts since the onset of summer season but as paddy cultivation started and the demand of power went up, the cuts surprisingly came back to haunt them. Residents said they were not used to power cuts for the last nearly three years or so and sudden imposition of power snaps and those, too, for long hours had become quite irritating.The maximum day temperature, too, has been touching 44°C since Tuesday and the humidity, too, has become quite unbearable. Though the monsoon season has set in, it has been a completely dry spell for the last 10 days. While the power cut was imposed last evening also, two cuts were imposed in the afternoon on Wednesday and again at night.Meanwhile, raising their demands including those of pay scales and other issues, the engineering wing of the PSPCL has been working from 9 am to 5 pm, even keeping their phones off for the rest of the day. They are protesting for more than three weeks now.The PSPCL officials said the cuts were being imposed across the state owing to sudden increase of load and meetings were on at the higher levels to sort out the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-mercury-soars-here-comes-power-cuts-in-jalandhar-276624
01-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Dr Amarjit Singh Sehgal offered free tele-consultation to patients during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 30When the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak, a city-based doctor was quietly working from his private OPD at Chhoti Baradari locality here. Nearly 125 patients from across the country took free tele-consultation from him. The patients, who got connected with him through word of mouth, call him a God’s messiah and have even written poems to acknowledge his support and saving their lives in the trying times.Even Dr Amarjit Singh Sehgal (54), MD general medicine, says that this time of his career was most satisfying time. Dr Sehgal said he happily took all calls and replied to messages of unidentified patients even in the midnight. He told them how to use oxygen at home, gave valuable advice to those with co-morbidities who could not find beds and suggested them lung exercises. “This kind of unique, charitable work which I did, gave me immense strength and peace of mind which I never had throughout my career,” says the doctor who earlier served at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital and was the chief consultant at SGL Charitable Hospital.Dr Sehgal, whose wife Gurmeet Kaur is a gynaecologist at the Civil Hospital here, says, “It all started with one of my relatives in the NCR contracting Covid-19 and not being able to find a bed. I took video calls and provided him consultation on phone till he fully recovered. Then it was his friends who approached me, and then their friends and relatives and the endless chain started. I decided not to say ‘no’ to anyone and not to miss any calls, which kept ringing even at odd hours. I used to take 40-50 calls each day and provided consultation to everyone. I was psychologist to some patients and even physiotherapist for many. There were many who had uncontrolled diabetes and were hypertensive as well. There were those wanting guidance on the use of oxygen cylinders and concentrators at home. There were some who after being discharged lost contact with doctors and still needed medical advice and tips on using incentive spirometer during home isolation.”Dr Sehgal added, “There were some really tough cases wherein a family member had expired, two members were admitted in hospital and two were fighting for their lives at home. I had to lighten their grief and lift their morale so that they could continue to fight for their lives. But once the cases began to fall and most of my patients started showing signs of recovery, I started receiving their gratitude messages. A patient, Puja Mittal, even wrote a poem titled ‘Salute’ to thank me. This was the time when I felt so accomplished and dutiful.”Vishnupriya, an ex-DU lecturer from Gurgaon, who consulted Dr Sehgal for her husband, said she got to know about him through a friend. “For me, he was God-sent and will remain indebted to him for life. I will definitely visit him in Jalandhar whenever I can come.My husband remained admitted for 15 days and he needed medical help even after discharge. He remained on steroids and his sugar level went uncontrolled. He needed oxygen support even at home. Dr Sehgal guided us for full one month till my husband had recovered. He used to check all his reports on phone and was always prompt with his replies. If I got late in calling him, he would himself call me and ask me about my husband’s health. I am 50 years old and have consulted so many doctors but I have never seen such a selfless doctor. He was like an angel for our family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-amarjit-singh-sehgal-offered-free-tele-consultation-to-patients-during-pandemic-276627
01-07-2021||Kapurthala||Robbers’ gang busted in Kapurthala; 4 held||The police today arrested four members of a robbers’ gang and seized a cache of arms and ammunition smuggled from Madhya Pradesh from their possession. They were planning to loot fuel stations and farmers.The accused have been identified as Yadwinder Singh (21) of Lakh Varian village; Harsimranjeet Singh (26) of Chakpatti Bal Bahadur village; Gurjit Singh (29) of Chodriwal Mand village and Tajinder Singh (26) of Kaimpura village. Their two accomplices, Lakhwinder Singh of Bahui village in Kapurthala and Sweety Singh of Balvadi village (MP), are absconding.SSP, Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the gang had been active in the district for the past couple of months. As many as 10 pistols, a modified .315 bore rifle, six magazines and 11 live cartridges were recovered from their possession. Earlier, a team of the Fattu Dhinga police station received a tip-off that some miscreants armed with deadly weapons had gathered in the Mand Begowal area on the banks of the Beas and planning to strike in the district.Acting swiftly, teams were formed under the supervision of DSP, Sultanpur Lodhi, Sarwan Singh Bal to arrest the criminals. The police cordoned off the area and arrested four of the accused. During the preliminary investigation, the accused revealed that the gang was headed by Harsimranjit Singh Simar and all of them had gathered to hatch a conspiracy to loot a fuel pump and farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/robbers-gang-busted-in-kapurthala-4-held-276442
