02-07-2021||---||6th pay panel report: Docs continue to protest in Jalandhar, patients face hardships||Jalandhar, July 1As hundreds of doctors of the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association held a protest for the fourth consecutive day against delinking of non-practise allowance (NPA) from basic pay, OPD and emergency services (barring rape cases and post-mortems) remained totally suspended.After the authorities gave a nod to resume OPD services, which were suspended during the second wave, the Civil Hospital has been witnessing a footfall of around 1000 patients and the ESI Hospital nearly 400 patients daily. Due to the strike, patients had to return without any check up.On Wednesday, doctors had burnt an effigy of the state government. Transfer of doctors in Bathinda also irked their counterparts.As many as 70 doctors sat on a dharna and raised slogans against the state government at the ESI Hospital till 2 pm today.Dr Harish Bhardwaj, chief, PCMS Association, said, “We are demanding at least 33 per cent NPA linked with basic pay and special salary for the work done by frontliners during the pandemic.”Dr Vaninder Singh Riar condemned transfer of Dr Ankhi in Bathinda and said, “Clearly, the doctor has been singled out due to the protests. First our NPA was brought down from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and then it was delinked from our basic pay. Our house rent allowance and rural area allowance has also been reduced from 5 per cent to 4 per cent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6th-pay-panel-report-docs-continue-to-protest-in-jalandhar-patients-face-hardships-276990
02-07-2021||To add to their woes||Water shortage adds to woes of Jalandhar residents||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/water-shortage-adds-to-woes-of-jalandhar-residents-276993
02-07-2021||Garhshankar||Garhshankar: Two held with 500-gm heroin||Body recovered from Kandi canalGarhshankar: The body of a 67-year-old man was recovered from the Kandi canal’s dry bed, near Shahpur Ghatta on the Nangal Road in Garhshankar. The victim has been identified as Balveer Singh, a resident of Shahpur village. Victim’s son Jaswant Singh told that his father went on his motorcycle in the afternoon on Wednesday, but when he did not return home till late night the family members informed the police and started looking for him. His motorcycle was found parked near the bridge of Kandi canal late at night. On searching around, his body was found from the canal. Jaswant Singh told the police that his father had injury marks on his head. He expressed suspicion that after killing his father, the body was thrown into the canal by the murderers. SHO, inspector Iqbal Singh, said the police were investigating the matter. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-two-held-with-500-gm-heroin-276994
02-07-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 22 fresh cases, two deaths||Jalandhar, July 1With 22 fresh cases, total number of Covid cases in the district reached 62,749 today. With two more deaths, the number of deceased persons in Jalandhar reached 1,480. The number of active cases in district is 233 now. As many as 61,037 persons have recovered from Covid in Jalandhar so far.8 +ve cases in KapurthalaKapurthala district saw eight fresh cases today, which pushed the district tally to 17,604. One person died at Kapurthala from Covid today. The deceased has been identified as a 50-year-old woman from Jabbowal village.No death in HoshiarpurThe district reported no Covid fatality on Thursday, while 16 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 30,459. As many as 2,676 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were collected on Thursday. The total number of samples taken in the district so far has reached 6,64,519. According to the reports received, 6,34,746 have been found to be Covid-negative, while the report of 2,259 samples is awaited and 877 samples were found invalid.Nawanshahr sees 1 deathNawanshahr district on Thursday saw three fresh cases. The cases have been reported from Urban Nawanshahr, Balachaur and Sariya, and one fatality has been reported in the district. At present, there are 25 active cases, while 16 are under home isolation. The number of deaths now stands at 358 (3.14 per cent). At present, two persons are seeking treatment at Level-II Covid care facility and three at Level-III Covid care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-22-fresh-cases-two-deaths-276997
02-07-2021||Our Correspondent||50K doses to be given in mega vax drive tomorrow in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 1The district administration is all set to organise mega vaccination camps on July 3 to ensure maximum inoculation of eligible beneficiaries of both first and second dose by setting a target of administering 50,000 doses on Saturday.While apprising the people of the current Covid situation in the district during her weekly Facebook live session, DC Apneet Riyait exhorted people to get them inoculated at these camps to be held in rural as well as urban areas on Saturday. She said the details of session sites would be shared with the public through various media platforms by Thursday evening and the people should make mega vaccination camps a great success to contain the Covid in the district. She said adequate number of doses of Covishield would be available during the camps so that the maximum number of people could be jabbed.206 Hoshiarpur villages achieve 100% targetExpressing satisfaction over the decline in the number of Covid cases as the positivity percentage is 0.5 percent, Apneet Riyait also appealed to people to take all precautions without any fail so that this infection could effectively be contained. She said there were four hotspots in the district, including Chakk Khela, Kapahat, Khiala Bulanda, and Pandori Soomlan.The DC also said skill development centres and universities were allowed to open with at least one dose of Covid to all staff and students besides adhering to all protocols. The bars, pubs and ahatas shall also be allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity with strict compliance of necessary protocols, including social distancing and at least one dose of vaccine to all staff members, waiters and other employees. Action will be taken under Sections 51 to 60 of The Disaster Management Act, 2005 in case of any violations of these directives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/50k-doses-to-be-given-in-mega-vax-drive-tomorrow-in-hoshiarpur-276998
02-07-2021||---||No power, residents hold protest in Jalandhar's in Maqsudan till 2 am||Jalandhar, July 1The unscheduled power cuts which are being imposed in the city for the past three days have angered the domestic consumers to the extent that they chose to walk out of their homes past midnight to lodge a protest outside the PSPCL complaint office in Maqsudan till 2 am today.Their plan to gherao the PSPCL complaint office failed as no one was present in the office to redress their grievance. The residents also alleged that the repeated calls made to the complaint offices last night also went unattended. This left them with the only option to wait endlessly for the power supply to be restored.In the peak summer season, when the maximum day time temperature is hovering around 45°C and even the night temperature is around 30°C, the residents said the power outages for two to three consecutive hours had made their lives miserable.The residents have begun venting out their ire against frequent unscheduled power cuts on social media. They have been using hashtags like Punjab Power Cuts, Punjab Electricity Surplus, Bijli ka Waar and others kept on trending on social media on Thursday. Nikhil Kumar, a resident on his social media post rued: “The city is already in the grip of heat wave, therefore, something serious needs to be done about these intermittent power cuts during such a hot weather, especially during nights. He further said: “Due to the poor power supply, even generators aren’t working properly.”FARMERS ANGRYAs paddy season is on and farmers are not getting adequate supply of power, they have begun ruing that their recently sown paddy crop is getting destroyed. The farmers said since they were not able to water their crop well, they could be facing a big financial loss if the situation does not improve fast.The farmers in some villages said the power supply that came yesterday started at 12 midnight to 3 am and they missed this time and hence their crop was getting dried. They alleged that if the government was not fully prepared to give power to them, it should not have advised them to transplant paddy from June 10 onwards. Interestingly, some big farmers as in Sansarpur village have hired high power generators to check damage of their paddy crop.INDUSTRIALISTS SUFFERTo cater to the farmers demand in the residential areas, the PSPCL has today decided to impose a power cut of 48 hours in industries having over 100 kW consumption (category 2 feeders). The local industrialists said the orders came unannounced. “In fact, we got the orders to shut down power from 8 am today at 8:20 am. We were warned against power usage saying that we could face penalties for violation of the order. We had already got our furnaces switched on before that to start the casting works but it all went waste.Our workers come from far off places like Dasuya, Tanda etc and we could not convey them about holiday well in time. On their insistence, we had to pay them all 50 per cent of their day’s wages without getting the work done. The exporters of hand tool items said they had their orders to be delivered which got stuck up near the end product stage. The mismanagement led to so many issues which the PSPCL officials cannot understand. The officials of the Power Department which led to so much of mess need to be punished for causing us so much harassment”, said Narinder Sagoo, President of Focal Point Extension Association.PSPCL ADVISORYWhile the district is reeling under long power cuts, Harjinder Singh, deputy chief engineer, Jalandhar circle, advised residents to not to leave their heavy load electricity appliances open when power goes off. When left open, the sudden restoration of powers could not only damage the appliances, but also the area transformers. Hence, wait for at least five minutes to switch on the heavy load appliances. In the past few days, many incidents of transformer and feeder damage cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-power-residents-hold-protest-in-jalandhars-in-maqsudan-till-2-am-277000
