03-07-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi Gatka coach Gurvinder Kaur has made it to the “Shining Sikh Youth of India” book dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Penned by Dr Prabhleen Singh of Punjabi University||Balbir Singh Seechewal launches Dr Prabhleen Singh's book 'Shining Sikh Youth of India'||Sikhs luminaries from the field of education, sports, business, medicine, entertainment, civil services, judiciary, media, social services, IAS, IFS and IRS etc have been featured in the book. The book was dedicated to the Sikh Sangat at an event held at the Gurdrwara Gursar Sahib at Saiflabad on Friday.The book was launched by Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal and others. Speaking on the occasion, Seechewal said the feats achieved by the youth of the community were a matter of pride that was brining laurels to the community across the world.Free training for police job aspirantsIn a significant move to facilitate the youth who want to join the Punjab Police, the Kapurthala police under SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh started a free physical training for aspirants at police lines. The first batch was started by the Kapurthala SSP under which 50 boys and girls are being imparted training as per the requirement for the competition at Kapurthala police lines. Visiting the police lines to review of the training process, SSP Kapurthala said the motive of free training was to assist the youth to join the police force by providing physical and technical guidance on 1,600 meter race, long jump and high jump etc. He especially urged girls to come forward for training as 33 per cent vacancies had been reserved for them. The department will fill 4,362 posts of constables, which includes 2,016 in district police cadre and 2,346 in Punjab Armed Police. Some helpline numbers were also issued by the Kapurthala police for training related queries- 98148-35465, 98140-22252, 94635-41523 and 97799-07910.Encroachment by village sarpanch, report soughtPunjab State Scheduled Caste Commission member Raj Kumar Hans visited Khassan village in Bholath to look into the complaints of some members associated with the SC community regarding encroachment by village sarpanch Satwinder Singh and others on a village street. The commission member said during investigation, it emerged that the village panchayat passed a wrong resolution by which they violated the Panchayati Raj Act. He also said the incumbent sarpanch misused his powers to provide profit to his nieces. The officer directed the Kapurthala District Development and Panchayat Officer to formulate a report on the issue by August 6 and submit it to the Director, Rural Development and Pachayat for further action. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balbir-singh-seechewal-launches-dr-prabhleen-singhs-book-shining-sikh-youth-of-india-277598
03-07-2021||Jalandhar||Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya students shine in Guru Nanak Dev University exams||Virtual farewell Party organisedKamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, organised a virtual farewell party on Google Meet for the outgoing students of BA and BSc economics. Party began with the welcome address by HoD home science Dr Priyanka Aeri. Principal Savinder Pal was the chief guest. All teachers from department of economics and humanities, students of BA and BSc economics of IVth and VIth semester attended the virtual party. It was hosted by Sukhpreet Kaur. Various online performances like shabad, songs, dance and games were the main attractions of the party. It was very a well organised function. Students fully enjoyed this virtual show and participated with full enthusiasm. Sukhmani proposed vote of thanks. Principal Savinder Pal gave her best wishes and blessings to students for their bright future and congratulated the organisers of the party.Course on Pedagogical PracticesThe human resource development centre (HRDC) at Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised a five-day AICTE approved short term course on ‘Innovative Pedagogical Practices in Higher Education’. This innovative dissemination in virtual learning mode saw 100+ participants from various higher education domains of the country. Eminent resource panel from LPU comprised Prof Sanjay Modi, executive dean at faculty of business and arts; Prof Lovi Raj Gupta, executive dean at faculty of technology and sciences; Prof Dharam Buddhi, executive dean, division of innovation and entrepreneurship; Prof Rajesh Verma, dean at Mittal School of Business; Prof Sunaina Ahuja, associate dean at HRDC; Prof Savita Gupta, HoD at faculty development department; Prof Mridula Mishra; head, academic operations; Dr Rahul Sharma; and Prof Parteek Bhatia from the department of CSE, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology.Vanshika Dutta 1st in MAStudents of Apeejay College of Fine Arts of MA (fine arts) Sem 1 have garnered glory in results of Guru Nanak Dev University by bagging top positions. College Principal Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to work hard in future too. She appreciated Dr Jeevan Kumari, HoD, department of fine arts and Dr Rimpy Aggarwal, department of fine arts for guiding the students to success. Vanshika Dutta stood first with 376 marks out of 400. Prince Prabhakar and Divya Arora stood second and third.Leader’s award for PrincipalSanskriti KMV School Principal Rachna Monga has been awarded the Leader's Award for Community Engagement 2021 by The School Eduexcellence Awards, IIT Delhi. The award stands high to mark the school leader's incessant determination and contribution towards providing education excellence through community engagement. Through a continuous decade-long mentorship of an institution, Monga holds this recognition that has earned valuable trust of the society by providing wholesome and morally strong education evolving it nationally as well as globally. The school management and staff, complimented Monga for her achievement.Doctor’s Day observedStudents of all five branches of Innocent Hearts School - GMT, Loharan, Cantt-Jandiala Road, Nurpur Road and Kapurthala Road, took part in various activities and expressed their gratitude to the doctors for their selfless contribution towards the society. The students of college and school presented their poems and speeches through online mode and presented their thanks to the doctors for their services amid the Covid pandemic. The students explained how doctors take care of each and every member of the society. They work day in and day out and even sacrifice their personal life. The students of Grade 3 made beautiful badges for their family doctors and shared the pictures on the school’s Facebook page.Webinar on research questionnaireGNA University organised a webinar on Research Questionnaire Development on a virtual platform Blackboard. The resource person for the session was Dr Sonia Chawla, Associate Professor, and Head, Department of Humanities and Management, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology. The main objective behind organising this webinar was to acquaint the students with the skills of creating and designing a questionnaire for the purpose of research. The FDP was mainly based upon enhancing research paper writing skills of faculty members and covered different areas of the same.DHRUV TANGRI EXCELS IN TENNISDhruv Tangri, an A-Level (Cambridge Assessment International Education - CAIE) pass out of Cambridge International School, Phagwara, has brought laurels to his institution. He has marked his presence in the field of tennis, with rank one in the state and third in the nation. A medalist in ‘Khelo India’ under-16 championship, he has won over 30 domestic and five international titles. His story to success goes on with his entry into ‘The University of New Orleans, Louisiana’ with a 100 per cent scholarship. School chairman KS Bassi, MD KS Bains, Chairman Vasal Education Group Sanjeev Vasal and Principal Jorawar Singh congratulated Dhruv and extended their wishes for his bright future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hans-raj-mahila-maha-vidyalaya-students-shine-in-guru-nanak-dev-university-exams-277596
03-07-2021||---||Mega vaccination camp today in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2The administration is all set to administer 50,000 doses of anti-Covid vaccine in a single day by organising a mega vaccination camp on Saturday. This includes 140 locations across the district along with deployment of 80 mobile teams.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said fresh vaccine stock had arrived and a large number of camps will be held on Saturday.The DC said directions had been issued to all officials to organise inoculation camps in almost every area of the district for maximum coverage of beneficiaries. He said vaccine was the only way to return to normalcy and the district administration would leave no stone unturned by vaccinating every eligible person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mega-vaccination-camp-today-in-jalandhar-277594
03-07-2021||Jalandhar||Illicit liquor factory case: BJP leader Rajan Angural surrenders in Jalandhar||BJP leader Rajan Angural, who was wanted in the illicit liquor factory case in Jalandhar, surrendered before the police on Tuesday. As per the sources, the bail plea of Rajan and his brother Sheetal Angural was also rejected by the court, after which he surrendered. However, the police did not release any official statement in the matter so far.According to the information, earlier, the officials of the Excise Department from Chandigarh and the local police team had raided a liquor factory of the BJP leader situated in the industrial zone near Dhogdi road. After the raid, conducted around two weeks ago, machines for preparing illicit liquor were found installed in the factory. Liquor preparation material was also recovered from there. During the raid in the factory, a dispute also occurred between the teams of the Excise Department and the people of Rajan Angural.The team of the Excise Department had also raided a house in Shiv Vihar of Nagra. Six sacks of liquor bottles were confiscated. The department had seized about 42,000 caps of liquor bottles. Police have recovered 11,000 empty bottles from the factory. Apart from this, 3,400 cardboard boxes have been recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-factory-case-bjp-leader-rajan-angural-surrenders-in-jalandhar-277592
03-07-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district sees 19 +ve cases, 1 fatality||Jalandhar, July 2With 19 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally reached to 62,768. Of these, six cases are from other districts. One Covid death has been reported today. With this, the toll in the district has risen to 1,481. As many as 61,080 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 207.1 succumbs in KapurthalaKapurthala today saw four fresh cases, with which the district tally has increased to 17,606. One Covid death has been reported in the district today. The deceased includes an 80-year-old woman from Phagwara.Hoshiarpur reports 1 deathWith 13 fresh cases, the district Covid tally rose to 30,472 in Hoshiarpur on Friday. With one more death, the toll reached 966.Health authorities said with the acquisition of 2,675 new samples, the total number of samples collected in the district till date has reached 6,67,194. As per the reports received from the lab, 6,37,485 were negative, while 2,174 reports were still awaited and 889 were invalid. Of the 2,760 samples received today, nine new cases were traced, while the remaining four are from other districts.The number of active cases is 134, while the number of patients who have recovered is 29,372.Nawanshahr sees 6 casesNawanshahr district on Friday saw six fresh cases. The cases have been reported from Balachaur, Muzaffarpur, Sujjon and Banga, and no fatality was reported in the district today.At present, there are 30 active cases, while 22 are under home isolation. The district toll is 358 (3.14 per cent), while the tally stands at 11,400 (4.50 per cent). At present, three persons are seeking treatment at Level-II Covid care facility and two at Level-III Covid care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-sees-19-ve-cases-1-fatality-277591
03-07-2021||---||Illegal gates at colonies’ entrance irk Jalandhar residents||Jalandhar, July 2Residents have been annoyed over illegal gates installed at the entrance of numerous colonies. Residents said since many such roads are thoroughfares and act as shortcuts to adjoining areas, closed gates were causing an undue hindrance in commuting.Mandhir Singh, a residentSuch gates have also been installed near Football Chowk, backside of Ghai Hospital and other areas. Residents have taken up the matter with the authorities a number of times, but to no avail.In colonies, including New Jawahar Nagar, Cheema Nagar and Urban Estate-Phase 2, vehicles pass through gates during the day, but closed in the evening. However, there have been some localities in Model Town where gate remains permanently shut. Residents alleged that some influential families living close to Geeta Mandir have got their road permanently closed from one side and no councillor or the MC official dared to get the gate removed.This road from the Model Town side connected Johal Market Road to Model Town and was frequently used by residents to take a shorter detour and avoid traffic lights to reach their destination quickly.The installation of any such structure (gate) on roads for private use or causing any obstruction in public passage can be termed a blatant violation of the MC bylaws.Mandhir Singh, a resident, said, “Such gates have also been installed near Football Chowk, backside of Ghai Hospital and other areas. Residents have taken up the matter with the authorities a number of times, but to no avail.”Mayor Jagdish Raja said, “Installation of gates to close any road is illegal. Some colonies have installed them after getting consensus from residents. Still, if some people approach us with complaints on inconvenience caused to them, we will have to get the gates removed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-gates-at-colonies-entrance-irk-jalandhar-residents-277590
03-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||National Lok Adalat on July 10 in Hoshiarpur district court complex||Wadwa XI wins cricket tourneyHoshiarpur: A cricket tournament was organised by Nandan village youths in collaboration with Sukhraj Super Cricket Academy (SSCA). The final match was played between Wadwa XI and the SSCA. Wadwa XI won the toss and decided to bowl. Displaying fine bowling, Wadwa restricted Sukhraj Super at 119 runs. Chasing the target, Amit of Wadwa team scored 45 runs in 35 balls. Wadwa team won the match. Shubham of SSCA was declared the man of the match, he took 4 wickets and scored 30 runs in 10 balls and Kapil Rana of SSCA was declared man of the series. OCThieves decamp with gold, cashHoshiarpur: Thieves entered into a house and decamped with gold and cash on Thursday. Gurmesh Singh, a resident of Kakkon village, in his complaint to the police said that he, along with his family, had gone to attend wedding of a relative on Thursday. When in the evening, he returned home, he found that the locks and almirahs were broken and gold ornaments and cash were missing. The Model Town police have lodged an FIR under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC. OCBatteries stolen from Jio towerHoshiarpur: The Hariana police on Thursday lodged an FIR after more than two months of theft of batteries from a telecom tower of Reliance Jio. The company's legal manager, Sachin Kumar, had complained to the police on April 25 that technician Mohammad Irshad informed him that unidentified thieves had stolen three batteries from the company's tower installed near the Handa two-wheeler agency in Hariana. On the basis of said complaint, the police registered an FIR under Section 379 of the IPC against unidentified thieves. OCSewa Kendra timings changedHoshiarpur: DC Apneet Riyait on Friday said that the working hours of the Sewa Kendras in the district have been changed by the Administrative Reforms Department. She said till July 10, all service centres in the district would be open from 8 am to 2 pm. She said air conditioners would not be used in the Sewa Kendras during this period. OCEight booked for attacking policeHoshiarpur: Cops at Garhdiwala police station booked eight persons, including three women, for allegedly manhandling and stopping a police party that was on the way to the police station arresting a smuggler. According to information, ASI Nirmal Singh of the Garhdiwala police station said in his complaint that after secret information, the police had arrested Arun Kumar, alias Doctor, and seized sedative pills from him. When cops were bringing him to the police station, his relative Surekha Devi, Arvind, Anmol Kumar, Anjala Devi, Ashok Pal, and his wife, all residents of Dadiana Kalan and Sonu, a resident of Mastiwal village stopped the police jeep and got into a scuffle with the police personnel. The police have registered a case against the said accused under Sections 323, 341, 353,186, 148 and 149 of the IPC. OCDC reviews flood control measuresNawanshahr: In the wake of the coming rainy season, Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal on Thursday reviewed the arrangements at Dhusi Bandh along with the river Sutlej in the district. The DC visited the villages near Dhusi Bandh and inspected the arrangements in place for flood control. She directed the officials to strengthen flood prone sensitive places to minimize damage in the rainy season. The DC asked the officers to ensure that the residents of villages did not have to face any sort of problem and also interacted with the villagers and assured fulsome support and cooperation to them from the district administration. She said that in case of floods, the evacuation plan has already been finalised and the sensitive places have been identified. TNSOne arrested with sedativesHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have arrested Hussain Gujjar, a resident of Sakruli village from near Harbans Gate. The police party had laid a naka there when a youth tried to flee seeing the police party. He was nabbed by the police and on search 20 sedative injections were seized from him. An FIR under the NDPS Act has been registered against him. OCThree arrested with narcoticsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested three persons and seized narcotics from them. According to information, the Mahilpur police arrested Jagjit Singh, alias Jassi, of Morawali village and Tajinder Bhanot, a resident of Kittna village, and seized sedative capsules from them. Meanwhile, the Dasuya police arrested Bodal village resident Iqbal Singh and seized 25 gm of intoxicating powder from him. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. OCVisually-impaired given laptopsJalandhar: On the occasion of 141th birth anniversary of Helen Keller, Saksham Punjab, an NGO dedicated for the visually-impaired students, distributed laptops to blind students from Class X to Class XII. The task was accomplished with the support of Neerza Mayor, Namrata Sethi, Parveen Bhatti and VK Sud. Deepika Sood, who runs the NGO, said the main objective of giving laptops was to make the visually-impaired students independent in reading and writing with the help of screen-reading software. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-lok-adalat-on-july-10-in-hoshiarpur-district-court-complex-277583
03-07-2021||---||Congress ups the ante against fuel price hike to counter power crisis protests in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 2To counter the protests organised across the state over the prevailing power crisis, the leaders of the ruling Congress today attempted to negate it by holding agitations on fuel price hike.The Congress leaders held protests in almost every Assembly constituency. The women wing of the Congress, too, raised their voices riding on a cart from Tehsil Complex Chowk to BMC Chowk as a symbolic protest against the rising prices of cooking oils, petrol, diesel and the LPG. While Mahila Morcha chief Dr Jasleen Sethi rode the cart, her team members walked along carrying banners, placards and raising slogans against the Centre on a mike.The women then sat on a dharna at BMC Chowk and alleged that the uncontrolled fuel price hike had shaken the monthly budget of all families that too in the pandemic times when incomes had fallen to an all-time low. They blamed the PM Narendra Modi-led government for benefiting the big corporates and not paying a hoot about the average families across the country.Phagwara: Congress leaders led by former minister and chairman Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Friday rode a horse cart to oppose the frequent hike in petroleum products by the Centre.“Regressive policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government aims at taking back people to medieval times by stalling economic growth and breaking the backbone of residents,” said Mann.He said unprecedented hike in petroleum products has put an extra burden on the pocket of a common man. He said instead of reducing or controlling the prices, the Centre has been on a continuous spree to enhance prices just to corner the benefit to their blue-eyed private petroleum firms.Mann said hike in petrol, diesel and LPG has escalated cost of every essential commodity thereby ruining a common man.The chairman of the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation said the Congress would oppose this draconian move of the Central Government tooth and nail. He said this was open loot of general public and the Congress would not remain a mute spectator.Mann also urged people to support the Congress in this fight against the Modi government’s oppression so that unprecedented hike could be rolled back. “If this is ‘acche din’ of Modi sahib, then I wonder what will be the situation otherwise,” he said.Congress district coordinator Daljeet Singh Raju and youth wing leader Harji Mann also slammed the Centre for putting tremendous burden on the pocket of masses.Phillaur: Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Friday organised a protest against the Central Government over the rising prices of essential commodities here.He said the people of the country are suffering from GDP contraction in last one year, and on the other, the prices of petrol, diesel, edible oils, LPG cylinders, pulses, milk, etc have increased significantly severely impacting the budget of every household.Referring to the RBI’s recent notification allowing banks to raise charges on using ATMs, the Congress leader said under Modi government, not only the burden on people’s wallets has increased, but now they would have to pay more to keep their own money in banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-ups-the-ante-against-fuel-price-hike-to-counter-power-crisis-protests-in-jalandhar-277577
03-07-2021||---||Shiromani Akali Dal slams Punjab govt over looming power shortage in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 2Taking on the ruling Congress over the looming power shortage in the state, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today held protests at various locations across the district.Ex-MLA Sarabjit Makkar and District Youth Congress chief Sukhminder Rajpal held a protest outside the PSPCL office. The leaders slammed the government for failing to pre-empt the power shortage in the state during the peak summer time and not being able to take any adequate measures in time.The leaders said farmers, industrialists and domestic consumers were all suffering due to power shortage. “There was not enough water being supplied through irrigation canals. The Power Ministry is vested with CM Capt Amarinder Singh who is busy with fire fighting within his own party and did not attend any meetings with the PSPCL officials to check the power situation,” said Makkar.Likewise, ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia led a protest outside the PSPCL office at Adarsh Nagar and slammed the state government for not doing anything to increase power generation. Party leader Kimti Bhagat led a protest at Abadpura power sub-station. SAD leaders, including Chandan Grewal, handed over a demand letter to PSPCL engineer Jaspal Singh for being forwarded to the Governor. They said that the Governor should press upon the state government to do the needful.BJP holds dharna outside PSPCL officeBJP activists today held a dharna, against power cuts, outside the office of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) here. BJP district president Sushil Sharma while taking a dig at the Congress government claimed the previous state government had made the state power surplus but the present government has created a black out situation. Former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia, former MLAs KD Bhandari and Mohinder Bhagat, former Mayor Sunil Jyoti among others were present on the occasion.Kalia said the state government should be committed to provide power to the populace. A government which can’t do so has no right to remain in power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiromani-akali-dal-slams-punjab-govt-over-looming-power-shortage-in-jalandhar-277576
03-07-2021||---||Double whammy for industrialists in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 2Industrialists have expressed anger against the decision of the state government to shut down their establishments for 48 hours due to power outages.They said earlier the units were allowed to operate on July 3, but now the order has been extended till July 4.“It has happened for the first time in the history of the state that a message was delivered to a few industrialists regarding the power cut. On July 1 we came to know that large scale industries cannot operate from 8 am onwards,” said Balram Kapur of JMP Industries.He said the message reached industrialists by 9 am and by then opeartions had already commenced, but they had to close their units.Irate traders said adequate arrangements were not made in advance by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to meet demand during the peak season.Another industrialist, Ravinder Dhir, said it was a sudden and shocking announcement. “The Covid-19 induced lockdown has hit us financially and now when some relaxations were given, this order proved a double whammy. I don’t understand, how industries will survive,” rued Dhir. He said power demand increases every year, but the PSPCL has failed on this front.Tajinder Bhasin, a businessman, said the government believes that by not allowing large scale units to operate, there would be a lot of impact on small and medium scale units. “If ancillary units stop production, remaining industries will also suffer,” he said.He said almost a decade ago, such blackout had happened for the entire week. “Large scale units, including induction furnaces produce basic raw materials, which are required by ancillary units, and if these units stop production, from where will other units get material,” he said.Bhasin also highlighted the consequences of this order. He said as operations have been shut due to power outages, labour, which was about to return, would not come from their native places.Gursharan Singh, another industrialist, said, “If this continues, industrialists will also be left with no option, but to hit the streets,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-whammy-for-industrialists-in-jalandhar-277573
03-07-2021||---||Farmers block highway in protest against power cuts in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 2Fed up with unscheduled power cuts in the state, farmers blocked the Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway for five hours here on Friday.The farmers gave an ultimatum to the state government that if proper power supply was not resumed by July 5, they would gherao Moti Mahal (the state CM’s residence) on July 6.Members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) along with various farm organisations held a protest against power cuts in the state. They blocked the road for five hours holding a chakka jam.Areas like Rama Mandi, Chugitti Chowk, Lamma Pind among others witnessed jams as the main highway was blocked by the farmers holding a protest under a tent. Traffic was diverted by the police through villages near the Club Cabana resort on the highway or from other link roads to avoid traffic bottlenecks. However, the busy intersection of Rama Mandi witnessed traffic bottlenecks until late in the evening.While speaking on the occasion, district president of the BKU (Rajewal) Mandeep Singh Samra and key speaker Jathedar Kashmir Singh Jandiala said while the state government had promised an uninterrupted electricity supply of eight hours for the farm sector and 24 hours for residential areas, but none of these were fulfilled. The farmers blocked the national highway from 10 am to 3 pm in the scorching heat.On the occasion, the Chief Engineer, Electricity Board, said they were holding meetings with the government and power supply would soon be resumed. They issued an ultimatum that if power supply was not resumed till July 5, they would gherao the Moti Mahal on July 6. Farmers raised slogans against the state government and said in villages not just power cuts but burnt transformers were a huge problem.They said villages were waiting for the fixing of their burnt transformers.On the occasion, secretary Avinder Singh Sansarpur, district youth president Amarjot Singh Jandiala, Tehsil Nakodar president Balvir Singh Sehem among others were present.A delegation of members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also met PSPCL Chief Engineer Jainender Dania submitting a demand letter against unscheduled power cuts in the district. The delegation led by district president Salwinder Singh Jania and district general secretary Gurmail Singh Rehrwan met the official with the demand letter. Members also threatened that if power cuts did not end soon and 8-hour electricity to motors not restored then the organisation would hold a huge dharna on July 8. Shahkot general Secretary Jarnail Singh Rame, Rajinder Singh Nangal Ambian, Sandeep Kumar among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-highway-in-protest-against-power-cuts-in-jalandhar-277570
