04-07-2021||---||Former Olympian inspires budding players at Phillaur||Jalandhar, July 3 Budding hockey players from villages will soon get a chance to play on AstroTurf. Newly appointed chief hockey coach Punjab Olympian Rajinder Singh on Saturday visited the hockey academy at Lasara village in Phillaur tehsil of the district to promote the game in villages. Olympian and Dronacharya Awardee Rajinder Singh (Junior), Chief Coach Hockey, Punjab, after visiting Lasara Hockey Academy today stated that a large number of budding players under-16 age group, playing in the field of Lasara Hockey Academy is a sign of the golden future of hockey in Punjab. The support of their parents was also commendable.  Addressing the players, the Olympian said, “Villages like Lasara, Tehing, Atta, Roorkee, Nagar, etc. in Phillaur tehsil have been famous for the game of hockey but due to the lack of opportunity to play on AstroTurfs and to play against experienced teams keeps the on the back foot. Therefore, after the installation of new AstroTurf in Jalandhar, the players of these villages will be invited in Surjit Hockey Academy here and the Sports Department of Punjab would give them a chance to play with renowned teams on the artificial turf”.  He also appealed to the players and parents to work together for the betterment of hockey in the village and keep the game of hockey away from politics. Iqbal Singh Sandhu, secretary, Surjit Hockey Society; Gurmeet Singh, Davinder Singh (coach) and Dr Shivinder Singh Aujla were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-olympian-inspires-budding-players-at-phillaur-278067
04-07-2021||---||Safe City project: Cops arrest four snatchers in two separate cases||Jalandhar, July 3  The Kapurthala police solved two cases of snatching and arrested four criminals and recovered the looted money, Activa and bikes used by them.  At least two of the snatchers are college students, one of them from Delhi University.  The accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh and Karanpreet Singh, residents of Maqsudan, Jalandhar and Harsh and Sandeep Kumar of Khalwara Gate, Phagwara. At a press conference here, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said: “On Saturday, two boys chased an Activa-borne Vishnu of Thanesar Kurukshetra on their bike on the highway near Haveli restaurant in Jalandhar and snatched the two-wheeler from him. Vishnu claimed that he had kept Rs2 lakh in the Activa’s cabinet.” The SSP said as soon as the information was received, the newly launched highway patrol party reached the spot and started tracking the criminals by scanning the CCTV footage from nearby establishments.  He said the police teams tracked down criminals and arrested both Amandeep Singh and Karanpreet Singh and recovered the looted money, the Activa and the bike used to commit the crime, when they tried to escape on spotting the police party. Karanpreet is a student of Sports College, Jalandhar. Police said the duo banged their bike against Vishnu’s scooter after which he fell. They then took his money and the Activa and fled.  The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, the accused revealed that the money was handed over to Vishnu by Kamdeva, who has a grocery store in Qazi Mandi Jalandhar and Kamdeva’s daughter Anjali was Amandeep’s friend. She provided the information to him and they committed the crime, he said.  The SSP said the first clues in the case were taken from CCTVs and different police teams were formed under the supervision of SP Phagwara Sarbjit Singh and DSP Paramjit Singh and sent towards the possible routes, where miscreants fled. That is how the police succeeded in cracking the case. An FIR under Section 379 B (forceful snatching) and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sadar police station against the duo on June 30.  Similarly, Khakh said, in the second case, two bikers stole a purse from Dr Renu Bala’s Activa, when she returned to her home and went to open the main gate of the house at Mastnagar, Phagwara. SSP Khakh said the police teams identified the thieves from the CCTV footage. Accused Harsh and Sandeep Kumar were nabbed and the stolen purse and the bike used to commit the crime as well as 22 unauthorised injections were recovered from them.  Harsh is a BCom first year student at the Delhi University and Sandeep is a resident of Khalwara Gate. FIRs under Section 379 B of the IPC and 22 of the NDPS Act was lodged against the duo at the Satnampura police station on June 30 and July 2, respectively.  The SSP said police teams would produce the accused before the magistrate and seek their police remand for further investigation. The SSP said with encouraging results in the Safe City Project, soon this project will also be launched in the remaining subdivisions in the upcoming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/safe-city-project-cops-arrest-four-snatchers-in-two-separate-cases-278068
04-07-2021||Jalandhar||Police remand of BJP leader extended||The police remand of BJP leader Rajan Angural, who was wanted in the illicit liquor factory case in Jalandhar and had surrendered before the police on Friday, was extended by two days here on Saturday. Angural was produced before the Judicial Magistrate, who remanded him in two-day police custody for interrogation. The bail pleas of Rajan and his brother Sheetal Angural were earlier rejected by the court, after which he surrendered. However, the police still could not trace the whereabouts of Sheetal and two others involved in the case. Earlier, officials of the Excise Department from Chandigarh and the police had raided his liquor factory in the industrial zone near Dhogdi Road. After the raid conducted around two weeks ago, the machines for preparing illicit liquor were found installed in the factory. Liquor preparation material was also recovered. The team of Excise Department had also raided a house in Shiv Vihar of Nagra. Six sacks of liquor bottles were seized. Each sack was filled with 7,500 liquor bottles. The police recovered 11,000 empty bottles from the factory. Apart from this, 3,400 cardboard boxes were also recovered. Rajan said the liquor was not being made in the factory. “I had bought the factory only a week ago. The manufacturing of masks and sanitisers was to be started. I am being framed,” he said . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-remand-of-bjp-leader-extended-278069
04-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Make way for Manjeet Kaur — state’s first woman ambulance driver||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3Her contribution to serve people during the pandemic is unmatched. Meet a woman of fortitude — Punjab’s first woman ambulance driver — Manjeet Kaur (48) whose contribution amid the pandemic has been no less than a frontline worker.In her personal life, she has been through a lot. Mother to a 25-year-old, Kaur is divorced and earlier used to work as a house help. It was in 2007 that she entered into this profession which has been dominated by males only, and ensured that her patients reach safely to their destination.“After my divorce, I would accompany my mother for her treatment to the hospital in the ambulance. That was the time when I felt the need to learn to drive the ambulance. I learnt it from the same driver who would take my mother to the hospital,” she shared.Now, for the past few years, she is associated with a private hospital. She shared that she came to terms with several bitter truths during the pandemic. Ferrying Covid patients to the hospitals, she realized how people hardly care for their loved ones. “I, along with others, have cremated so many people dying of Covid. I saw kin abandoning their close relatives,” Kaur said.Manjeet used to drive ambulance even upto Delhi and UP to bring patients to the hospitals during the peak of Covid. “Seeing the patients recover and go back home safely brings a lot of satisfaction to me.” she said.Opening up about her personal life, she says, “Initially, I began to drive ambulance just to feed my son, but now more than money, it is about the sentiments attached to it,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-way-for-manjeet-kaur-%E2%80%94-states-first-woman-ambulance-driver-278071
04-07-2021||---||Over 60,000 inoculated in mega drive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 3As many as 62,000 people were vaccinated during the mega vaccination campaign held in the district on Saturday. The Health Department exceeded the set target of 50,000 vaccines to be administered in the district as various centres witnessed a huge rush.At the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, patients thronged the registration windows as a queue began forming right since 8 in the morning and a big crowd accumulated till the afternoon. There was jostling and some people complained they had been waiting for hours.A total of 8,16,000 people have been vaccinated so far in the district, out of these 62,000 were vaccinated today. The vaccination drive resumed after Saturday due to shortage of vaccines during the week.The drive was held at as many as 207 vaccination centres in the district. Of the 62,000 people, only about 300 received Covaxin jab. Of the 207 sites, at least 40 were set up at private establishments.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “The Civil Hospital centre always witnesses a high footfall. Also, the centre is largely visited by those wishing to go abroad. Owing to the record vaccines, the centre was much in demand. However, the drive has seen a rousing response and 62,000 people have been vaccinated until now. Two of the late night centres still continue to vaccinate people.” The DIO said additional 20,000 vaccines had also been received which would be administered during camps tomorrow.16K jabbed in KapurthalaMeanwhile, Kapurthala crossed the target of 15,000 vaccination in a single day under the mass vaccination drive. The district administered more than 16,000 vaccine doses against the target of 15,000. The district also crossed the 2 lakh mark for vaccination by targeting the priority population like shopkeepers, elected representatives, drivers, etc.District Immunisation Officer Dr Randeep Singh said the 91 session sites were established for mass vaccination, besides mobile teams for far-off areas.Over 76,000 vax doses administered in Hoshiarpur districtHoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Saturday said that the mega vaccination camp to administer doses of Covid vaccine was a big hit as more than 76,000 doses were administered in a single day across the district. The Deputy Commissioner reached local Services Club at 8 am to get herself inoculated, besides launching the mega vaccination drive in the district. She also interacted with the medical teams and beneficiaries gathered for vaccination followed by visits to Chaggran village in Chabbewal, where a vaccination camp was going on. Apneet Riyait stated that the population in the age group of above 18 years was 11.90 lakh of which 6.75 lakh had been covered by inoculating Covid vaccine. The district administration had set a target to make all the 1,400 villages 100 per cent vaccinated with more than 206 villages already achieved the target of 100 per cent vaccination. She said with the overwhelming response of people in rural areas all the villages would be vaccinated shortly. The enthusiasm of people for getting themselves inoculated in special camps were showing that they had become more aware for vaccination, said Riyait, adding the state government had given a target of 50,000 doses but the district administration administered more than 76,000 doses in one day. These camps were held under the supervision of election registration officers with support and cooperation of the police department, said Riyait. OCCovid1 dies, 24 +ve in distJalandhar: With 24 new Covid cases reported on Saturday, the district tally reached 62,792 cases. Of these, five cases are from other districts. One Covid death was also reported today. With this, the toll reached 1,482. As many as 61,114 people have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has come down to 196.2 deaths in KapurthalaFive persons tested positive in Kapurthala district on Saturday taking the tally of positive cases to 17,611. As many as two Covid deaths were reported in the district today. The deceased include a 44-year-old woman of Sidhpur Dona village and a 67-year-old woman of Kapurthala.Two die in HoshiarpurWith seven persons testing positive for Covid, the district tally reached 30,479 on Saturday. Not only this, two deaths were also reported in the district, with which the toll went up to 968. Health authorities said the number of active cases was 121, while the number of patients who have recovered was 29,390. The patients reported today included six from Hoshiarpur, while one was from other district. The deceased have been identified as a 52-year-old Nandachaur village resident and a 50-year-old Nila Naloa village resident, who died at various Jalandhar hospitals. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-60-000-inoculated-in-mega-drive-in-jalandhar-district-278072
04-07-2021||---||Mission Red Sky: A walk against drug menace||Jalandhar, July 3 With an aim to motivate people, especially the youth against the use of drugs, a 3-km long walkathon was organised by the district administration on Saturday.  Starting from the iconic Sainik School, the walkathon witnessed great participation by the Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, besides several youth and NGOs.  Addressing the participants, the DC said the district administration, in collaboration with the police and other departments, has launched various programmes such as ‘Mission Red Sky’ for rehabilitation of drug addicts.  She said the district administration would also facilitate the youth for jobs and self employment who are winning the war against drugs.  SSP Kapurthala also urged the youth to play the role of a torch-bearer in war against drugs as only they can build a healthy society by leading the way. He also said the Punjab Police had started a free-of-cost physical training at the Police Lines, Kapurthala, for applicants of police recruitments. A pledge to fight against drugs was also taken on the occasion and certificates were also distributed to the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mission-red-sky-a-walk-against-drug-menace-278074
04-07-2021||---||AAP comes out in docs’ support||Jalandhar, July 3Supporting the demands of doctors, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday strongly opposed the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government’s move of reducing the non-practising allowance (NPA) of government medical and veterinary doctors, terming it as a terrible joke of the government.AAP’s medical wing state co-president Dr Sanjeev Sharma said the decision of the Congress government to reduce the NPA of doctors from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, who risked their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic, was a blow to the doctors. He said the government should have ideally added Covid allowance to the doctors, who saved the lives of people during the Covid period risking their own lives. But on the contrary, the government has decided to reduce the salary already being paid to them, he rued.Dr Sharma said the Punjab Government had abolished most of the allowances in the Sixth Pay Commission report under a big conspiracy and had also abolished the allowances recommended by the Commission.He alleged that the abolition of doctors’ allowance by the government would result in huge financial loss to the doctors. Sharma said every section was in a state of despair with the decisions of the government and the government had not fulfilled its promises made to the people in the 2017 Assembly polls. “With just a few months left, the government is implementing decisions that are sure to cause great harm to the general public and employees,” he added.Dr Sanjeev Sharma said the government was hiring medical staff on contractual basis, so that they did not have to pay all these allowances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-comes-out-in-docs-support-278075
04-07-2021||---||167 GOGs felicitated for Covid relief works||Jalandhar, July 3 DC Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday felicitated 167 Guardians of Governance (GoGs) for performing their duty diligently during the Covid relief works and the entire wheat procurement operations in grain markets and purchase centres of the district. While interacting with GOGs, the DC handed over certificates of appreciation to the district head of the GOGs Major General Balwinder Singh (retd) along with his team for their contribution in ensuring smooth and hassle-free procurement operations in the grain markets and purchase centres of the district. The DC said to ensure obeying of all medical protocols, including social distancing, mask wearing by farmers and labourers, availability of water, soaps and others, in grain markets was a Herculean task but due to concerted efforts of the GOGs, it was completed smoothly.  Maj Gen Balwinder Singh said two GoGs supervised the lifting operation in each mandi across the district. He said there was not a single case of Covid reported from grain markets of the Jalandhar and GOGs had worked hard to complete the operations without any issue. Lauding the role of his teammates, he said they had even helped the state government in proper implementation of 26 government schemes, including MGNREGA, Atta Dal scheme and those related to village development and road works. “Since almost every village has one GoG, they ensured that every penny from the government funds was properly utilised and the quality of material used was good. They even helped restore faith among the NRIs willing to donate for school buildings, sewage works etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/167-gogs-felicitated-for-covid-relief-works-278076
04-07-2021||---||Goraya-based tailor achieves rare feat, makes record again||Jalandhar, July 3A Goraya-based tailor, Pawan Kumar Kailey has always marvelled people through his innovative works and has been aspiring for more recognition through his unique stitching techniques. This time as well, he has come up with ones such great achievement.Already having several records in his name for his rare feat of designing a set of 35 jackets that can be worn in 9,800 different ways, Pawan Kumar has this time won accolades for designing a unique trouser design with detachable parts that can be worn in 22 different ways.He recently entered the World Book of Records for this innovation. Pawan Kumar Kailey showed how a trouser could even be used as a shirt, jacket or even a coat.Now, wear a trouser in 22 waysAlready having several records in his name for his rare feat of designing a set of 35 jackets in the past that can be worn in 9,800 different ways, Artist Pawan Kumar Kailey (in pic) has this time again won accolades for designing a unique and innovative trouser design with detachable parts that can be worn in 22 different ways. He recently entered the World Book of Records for this innovation. He showed how a trouser could even be used as a shirt, jacket or even a coat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goraya-based-tailor-achieves-rare-feat-makes-record-again-278077
04-07-2021||---||PWD outsourced workers seek decent minimum salary||Jalandhar, July 3Nearly 20 workers under the banner of the Public Works Department (PWD) Electrical Outsourcing Employees’ Union on Saturday protested against the government for not covering them under the Sixth Pay Commission.Finding it difficult to make ends meet with meagre salaries, the union workers said the PWD Department had been outsourcing employees in the electrical wing of Punjab for the last 10-15 years, but the workers’ salary had not been revised.In a joint meeting of the workers, union president Jaspreet Singh Gagan stated that despite the inflation touching the sky, they were getting a meagre salary of Rs 7,000-8,000 per month. “While on the one hand, the Sixth Pay Commission of the Punjab Government is being given to all employees, but on the other, a small increase in the salary of these outsourced workers every year has been stopped by the government from May 2019,” said Gagan.“These days, employees are finding it difficult to maintain their families and pay for the fees of their children,” said general secretary Pramod Kumar, who demanded from the state government that the outsourced employees should be paid at least Rs 18,000 as per month salary without any condition. And considering the sky-rocketing inflation, the outsourced employees should be given DA every year, he said.From July 1 onwards, the PWD workers union started sending demand letters to all the MLAs and MPs across the state. And it would continue for the next seven days, added union members.Besides, between July 11 and 20, demand letters would be given to all superintendent engineers and all executive engineers of all three circles of Punjab. In a meeting, district head Parvinder Singh and other members Jatinder Kumar, Gurpreet Singh, Harjeet Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Baljinder Singh, Avtar Singh, Varamjit Singh, Gurmukh Singh and Resham Singh threatened to intensify their protest if their demands were not met.Getting only Rs 7,000-Rs 8,000Finding it difficult to make ends meet with meagre salaries, the union workers said the PWD Department had been outsourcing employees in the electrical wing of Punjab for the last 10-15 years, but the workers' salary had not been revised. In a joint meeting of the workers, union president Jaspreet Singh Gagan stated that despite the inflation touching the sky, they were getting a meagre salary of Rs 7,000-8,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pwd-outsourced-workers-seek-decent-minimum-salary-278078
04-07-2021||Chaman Singh||‘A scared mind can lower down immunity’||After my typhoid test came negative, I got my RT-PCR done, and it was then I came to know that I had Covid. I decided to take the test because of persistent fever. I had no other symptoms and was quite healthy during the 14 days of home isolation. But still, I ensured to take healthy food that increased my immunity. During that time I read newspapers, books and magazines and kept on watching cultural programmes on television.I was given the kit along with other eatables. The administration and the Health Department remained very helpful. However, I asked the administration to instead give it to those who are needy and cannot afford any good and nutritious food during this disease.But one thing I have felt is that even after a year, the stigma has not gone away and even though I have recovered a long time back, people still ask me, if I am alright or not. I can see a fear in their eyes which is not right. Apart from this, there is some fear for vaccines too, I keep on telling those who come to our centres to vaccinate themselves, as it is very important to not pay attention to the rumours at all. I actually feel that because I had already received one dose of the vaccination, I did not go through or experienced major symptoms; it was just a fever that went away in a few days. I did not feel any kind of weakness or any pain. I would like to give a message that please doesn’t get scared even if you contract the virus. A frightened mind can lower the immunity. Even if you are sick, just keep telling your mind that nothing is wrong and everything eventually will be fine.(As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-scared-mind-can-lower-down-immunity-278082
04-07-2021||---||Teachers protest cut in allowances||Jalandhar, July 3Members of the Elementary Teachers’ Union Punjab burnt copies of the pay commission during a protest before the district administrative complex (DAC) on Thursday.Scores of employees gathered at the protest site and raised slogans against the government. The employees said the state government had betrayed them by cutting on their allowances. “If we were getting six per cent of the allowance earlier, now we will get only four per cent,” said Pawan Kumar, president of the union.Rishi Kumar, another employee, said this would affect the elementary school teachers. “We will fight against this and on July 10, we will also gherao the residence of the Education Minister in Sangrur,” he said.The employees handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner in the name of the Education Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-protest-cut-in-allowances-278083
04-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man killed in road mishap||Fraud by travel agent, bookedHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have registered an FIR against a travel agent for allegedly duping a man of Rs 95,000 on the pretext of sending him abroad. According to information, Hardeep Singh, a resident of Model Town, told the police that Vikram Singh, a resident of Ghasipur village took Rs 95,000 from him for sending abroad. But the accused neither sent him abroad nor returned his money. After investigating the complaint, the police have registered a case against the accused. OCThree held with drugs, liquorHoshiarpur: The district police arrested three persons from different places and seized narcotics from them in the last 24 hours. According to information, the Mehtiana police arrested a man near the turn of Kahari Sahari village and seized 22 gm of heroin from him, while the Sadar police arrested Ashok Kumar, alias Sunny, a resident of Aslamabad, and seized a huge quantity of sedative pills from him. Meanwhile, the city police seized 8,750 ml of liquor from Pradeep Kumar, alias Kala, a resident Marwaha Mohalla. Cases have been registered against the accused. OCMC acts against illegal coloniesJalandhar: Acting tough against 29 illegal colonies coming up in the city, the Municipal Corporation officials have written to the Commissioner of Police, seeking penal action against their developers under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA) Act. The officials of the town planning wing of the MC have also written to Chief Engineer of PSPCL not to issue any connection for these colonies. The officials have also handed over the list to the O&M wing of the MC, asking the staff not to install any water connection. Further, even the sub-registrars in the tehsil complex have been apprised of these colonies and have been told not to register any plots in these localities. These illegal colonies where plotting had just begun are located near Aman Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Mohan Vihar, Patel Nagar, Dhaliwal Qadian, Subhana, Ram Nagar Birring, Salempur Musalmana, Khurla Kingra, Sheikhe Pind and Nandanpur areas. TNSFoundation day of SBI observedJalandhar: On the occasion of 66th Foundation Day of State Bank of India, the Regional Business Office of the bank here started a large scale plantation of 5,000 saplings. The drive would continue till July 31. The drive was started from the Jalandhar ESI Hospital campus where Mayor Jagdish Raja was the chief guest. ESI Hospital Medical Superintendent Dr Sudha Sharma appreciated the initiative of the bank officials. Dr Gagandeep Singh and Regional Manager of State Bank of India Pradeep Kumar, Chief Manager Jatinder Mohan Kalia, Chief Manager Sanjeev Choudhary, Chief Manager Anand Vir Singh Bhalla, Deputy Manager Pawan Bassi and Sanjay Pandey from SBI Wealth were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-killed-in-road-mishap-278084
04-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Amid power cuts in Punjab, farmers reduce area under paddy cultivation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3Delayed monsoon, water shortage and poor power supply have added to the woes of farmers. Many have even reduced the area under paddy cultivation to avoid crisis.Sukhdev Singh Atwal (65), a farmer from Charke village in Bhogpur, has sown paddy in just 10 acres this year against 15-20 acres in the past.Charanjit Singh, FarmerHigh input cost a worryThe cost of running the generator is Rs 300 per hour. How would I have managed to irrigate all my fields? Reducing the area seemed to be the only option.“Our fields have started developing cracks. There isn’t enough water for irrigation. So, instead of increasing the area under paddy, I preferred to reduce it. Even the saplings already sown are on the risk of getting damaged if there isn’t enough water,” he said.He isn’t the only one to do so. The entire district has seen a dip in paddy plantation this year. As per the Agriculture Department, around this time last year, 1.75 lakh hectares were covered under paddy (including 22,000 basmati). However, due to electricity shortage, the area has been reduced to 1,31,800 lakh hectares.Sukhdev fears if he doesn’t get enough power to operate motor pumps, his crop may get damaged. “Since the beginning of the sowing season, we have been getting electricity for just four hours. It’s just for the past two days that we are receiving uninterrupted supply of six hours,” he said.Charanjit Singh (80) from Jandusingha has been farming for the past 40 years. He said: “This is for the first time that we are facing shortage of water to this extent.”Having brought down the paddy cultivation area to 20 acres from 25 acres, he said similar water deficiency was faced around five years ago. “The cost of running generator is also Rs 300 per hour. How would I have managed to irrigate all my fields? Reducing the area seemed to be the only option,” Charanjit said.Malkiat Singh (50) from Daulatpur village has also reduced the area to 25 acres. Last year, he sowed paddy in 40 acres. “The fields have already developed cracks. I fear that my 5-7 quintals of produce will either get damaged or will be of poor quality. Due to the fungus in the fields, there is high possibility of discolouration of the produce. We don’t even have enough water to irrigate maize and sugarcane,” he rued. Agriculture officer Naresh Gulati said most of the farmers were waiting for monsoon to sow the remaining paddy saplings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-power-cuts-in-punjab-farmers-reduce-area-under-paddy-cultivation-277854
