05-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Inoculated, but no certificate received||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 4Abhishek Kumar (30), a resident of Maqsudan here, got himself vaccinated with the first dose of Covishield in the first week of May this year from a private hospital. However, when he recently again went to the same hospital for the second dose of the vaccine, he was sent back as he failed to show the registration certificate of the first dose. Like him, a large number of beneficiaries have been left in the lurch both at government and private vaccination centres.Apart from getting inoculated, a large number of residents are thronging the Civil Hospital these days to register their complaints against non-issuance of registration certificates for their first doses.Pradeep Singh, a data entry operator at the Civil Hospital’s flu corner, said on a daily basis, nearly two dozen people visited the hospital with complaints of non-issuance of the vaccination certificate. “The complainants include mostly youngsters, who are seeking to go abroad for study and other priority groups,” added Pradeep.Rajiv Khanna, a city resident, also took to the city-based Facebook group Noticeboard by Tinu Luthra highlighting the same. He mentioned in his post that “while hundreds of people have been vaccinated, but there is not any official record of their registration. Owing to this, beneficiaries have to go to vaccination centres to start the registration process afresh”.Similarly, Sanvir Singh (28), who was vaccinated in the 18-plus age category, said, “It has been over a week now, but he has not received his vaccination confirmation text, though he had given his mobile number for the same. Even after checking on the COVA and Aarogya Setu apps, I could not get my certificate,” added Sanvir.A health official of a mobile unit of the vaccination drive on condition of anonymity said, “Owing to the rush of beneficiaries, sometimes the credentials are fed wrongly. The staff crunch is also affecting the registration process.”Meanwhile, the vaccination camps organised by NGOs and different societies also fail to register people correctly.District Health Officer (DHO) Arun Verma confirmed that many people were complaining of not receiving the vaccination certificate. However, the problem was arising due to technical glitches, which would be resolved soon. Those who could not get the certificate, could approach the nodal officers for the same at the Civil Hospital and re-apply for the certification of their doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inoculated-but-no-certificate-received-278465
05-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Car washing turned into revenue generation||Hoshiarpur, July 4The district administration has come up with a ‘Mr Clean’ project, which would ensure handsome earnings for youngsters. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said youngsters included in the Mr Clean initiative would offer affordable car washing services at doorsteps in Hoshiarpur and Garhshankar.She said under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ misson, the District Employment Bureau, offered opportunity to less educated youngsters.Riyait handed over washing kits and training certificates to 20 youngsters at the premises of the District Employment Bureau.She said youngsters would wash cars in every ward of Hoshiarpur and Garhshankar. On the one hand, these youngster would get work opportunity and on the other hand, residents could avail the services at a nominal rate of Rs 450 per month, she added.Lauding a significant role played by Sonalika Group to make this project a reality, the Deputy Commissioner thanked Amrit Sagar Mittal, vice chairman, Sonalika, and its managing director Deepak Mittal for their support.She also thanked of Hoshiarpur Automobiles’s managing director Ajwinder Singh for ensuring proper training to these youngsters.She said the under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the Sonalika Group provided a high-tech washing kit to youngsters. Apart from kits and training, the administration has also given clients to them.The Deputy Commissioner appreciated efforts of District Employment Officer Gurmail Singh and his team, including placement officer Mangesh Sood and career counsellor Aditya Rana.This project will be replicated in the other cities of the district in time to come, said the Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Riyait.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/car-washing-turned-into-revenue-generation-278466
05-07-2021||Jalandhar||Sukhbir behind mafia culture in state: Khaira||In response to Sukhbir Badal’s recent statements on the mining mafia, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, MLA and former leader of opposition, on Sunday said it was Sukhbir who first introduced different types of mafias in the state during his last 10 years of misrule.Khaira said the word mafia was unknown and unheard in Punjab until Sukhbir Badal took over the reins of Punjab as de facto chief minister (Dy CM in 2009). Khaira said being a mafia himself, he introduced different cartels to control the trades of liquor, mining, transport, land, etc.Terming Sukhbir as the kingpin of mafia, Khaira said his wealth had grown multifold from being an ordinary transporter with a few buses and ancestral agricultural land holding like other farmers of Malwa until the ’70s and ’80s.Khaira said today Sukhbir was one of the richest politicians of the country, besides being one of the richest Sikhs worldwide. Khaira said known assets and wealth of the Badal clan ran into thousands of crores.Making these allegations, Khaira listed The Trident and Oberoi hotels at Gurgaon, The Sukh Villas at New Chandigarh, 12 kanals (two plots) in Sector 9, Chandigarh, 250 luxury AC buses — including Indo Canadian and farm houses at Badal village, Ranian and Rajasthan as Sukhbir’s properties.Khaira said corruption to the tune of thousands of crores done by scamsters like Gurinder, alias Bhapa, and Gurinder Pehalwan of GMADA could not have been possible without the blessings and share holding of junior Badal.Khaira said Sukhbir arm-twisted old liquor companies like Gheo Mal of Amritsar out of business to replace them with his cronies. Similarly, there was blatant and rampant illegal mining during Badal’s “10-year misrule”. Khaira said the junior Badal while in power created a well-knit land mafia in the state controlled by him, that would purchase all lands planned to be acquired by the state at a throwaway price for various development works like road construction, acquisition for Mohali airport, acquisition for the creation of new Chandigarh, sewerage projects, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-behind-mafia-culture-in-state-khaira-278467
05-07-2021||---||Youth held for sharing obscene pictures of minor girl||Jalandhar, July 4The police have arraested a 20-year-old youth for harassing a minor girl and curculating her pictures on social media without her consent.The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Wadala village.He had been stalking his 17-year-old schoolmate and blackmailed her by circulating her objectionable pictures and video on WhatsApp.The Lambra police have booked Gurpreet under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC, 67 of the IT Act and Sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act.Lambra police station SHO Sukhdev Singh said, “An FIR was resgistered by the girl and her family yesterday and she also gave a detailed statement. Gurpeet was nabbed within an hour of the complaint. They were both classmates and he had been following the girl for a long time. He was balckmailing her by threatening her that he would post her morphed videos on WhatsApp. He also called the victim to his home and made objectionable videos and clicked photographs of her. When the girl asked him not to do this, he posted these on social media. Whne the girl’s family got to know of the incident, the victim and her father registered a complaint. Gurpreet has been arrested and remanded to two-day police custody.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-held-for-sharing-obscene-pictures-of-minor-girl-278468
05-07-2021||Jalandhar||KMV Associate Prof honoured||Lyallpur college Students shineHarpreet Kaur, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, secured 5th position in the university exams of Bachelors of Physiotherapy (BPT) – (1) by getting 781 marks out of 1,100, whereas Simranjit Kaur, of the same class bagged 11th position by getting 764 marks. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the college Gurpinder Singh Samra. The president of the college congratulated the students and wished them success in life.B Voc students bring laurelsB Voc (Web Technology and Multimedia) semester-I students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th positions in Guru Nanak Dev University exams. Samya Sodhi stood 1st in the university with 330 marks, Randeep Kaur stood 2nd with 329 marks, Khushpreet Kaur stood 3rd with 310 marks and Srishti stood 5th with 300 marks out of 400. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-associate-prof-honoured-278469
05-07-2021||---||1 succumbs, 8 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 4The district on Sunday reported eight Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 62,800. Of the new cases, five cases were reported from other districts. Besides, the district recorded one death due to the virus.With this death, the toll rose to 1,483. As many as 61,143 people have recovered from the virus in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has come down to 174.3 fresh cases in KapurthalaThree persons contracted the virus in the district, taking the tally of positive cases to 17,614. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district.Nawanshahr logs 2 casesThe district on Sunday reported two new cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 11,402. Besides, 11,018 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. At present, the active cases are 27. No new Covid death was reported in the district.Jalandhar round-upNew cases: 8Total cases: 62,800New deaths: 1Total deaths: 1,483Total recovery: 61,143Active: 174Helpline number of ambulance: 108Emergency Helpline: 104Jalandhar helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Distt Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-succumbs-8-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-278470
05-07-2021||Strap||Now, free cancer detection available at your doorstep||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, July 4 The Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, today launched a cancer detection van which shall go from village to village to boost cancer-related medical healthcare. Called mobile mammography unit, the van has been launched in association with the Rotary Club of the Sudbury District in Canada. This van shall go from village to village for the detection of breast cancer and cervical cancer and shall be holding weekly or monthly camps on demand for patients as required. The van shall also provide free vaccination for affected patients. MLA Pargat Singh inaugurated the van today. An initiative of the Rotary Club, the van shall be maintained by Dr KSG Memorial Charitable Society.Dr SPS Grover said, “We had been working on the project for the past two years and it is good to see it coming to fruition. The van is equipped with a mammography unit and PAP smear equipment to detect cervical cancer. It shall have a nurse, driver, a technician and two doctors. It shall go to various villages, urban areas and also hospitals which call for the service. The society or panchayat calling the van will have to pay some nominal diesel or technician expenses to the tune of Rs 5,000 or so for a camp. But none of the patients shall be charged for the tests or diagnosis. In addition to the tests, as many as 1,000 cervical cancer prevention vaccines will also be administered to the willing girls in the age group from 8 to 14 to prevent the disease. For the coming some months, these vaccines shall also be administered absolutely for free. We plan weekly visits and at least two to three camps a month. The rest will depend on the demand of the panchayats and associations calling us.”Dr Grover said one cervical cancer prevention vaccine costs Rs 4,000. The van has been sponsored by both the Rotary Club Jalandhar West as well as Rotary Club Sudbury Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-free-cancer-detection-available-at-your-doorstep-278472
05-07-2021||---||2 U’khand youths held with 1.20-kg marijuana||Jalandhar, July 4As part of the campaign launched by the city police against drug smugglers, the police on Sunday succeeded in arresting two drug smugglers here. The police recovered 1.20 kg of marijuana from the possession of the two Uttarakhand-based peddlers. Giving more information, DSP Gurmeet Singh said a naka was laid on the Cool Road under Sub-Inspector Harminder Singh, head of the Special Operations Unit. During the check, two youths were seen carrying a black bag. When the youths saw the police, they stopped there and started moving to an adjoining street. When the police stopped them and interrogated them, they revealed their names as Lalit Mohan and Girish Joshi.Suspecting that the bag contained narcotics, the police informed ACP, Model Town, Harinder Singh Gill who immediately reached the spot. When the bag was searched in his presence, the marijuana was recovered from it, on which both were arrested. A case has been registered against the accused under the NDPS Act at Police Station-6.During interrogation, both the accused revealed that they brought the cannabis from Uttarakhand for Rs 70,000 per kg and sold it at different places in Punjab for Rs 1,40,000 per kg. The DSP said both were produced in a court which remanded them in two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-ukhand-youths-held-with-1-20-kg-marijuana-278473
05-07-2021||---||24K fresh admissions in govt schools||Jalandhar, July 4As many as 24,150 new students have taken admission in government schools in the district this year.There has been a 14 per cent increase in students across 1,374 schools during the session. While primary classes saw rise of 14.26 per cent, secondary witnessed an increase of 14.05 per cent in students’ strength.In secondary schools in the district, there has been an increase of 12,675 students. From 90,100 students enrolled last year, the strength of students has shot up to 1,02,775 this year.In 939 primary schools, 11, 475 more students have been enrolled.Apart from 939 primary schools, the district has 152 senior secondary schools, 121 high schools and 162 middle schools.Of the senior secondary schools, which put up an impressive perfromance, include the Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, has seen an increase of 554 students this session. The school had 2,764 students last year, which increased to 3,318. Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Phillaur, strength increased from 1,191 last year to 1,503 this year. Similarly, Governement Senior Secondary School for Girls, Phillaur, saw an increase from 1,360 last year to 1,560 this year.At Government Senior Secondary School, Randhawa Masandan, students’ strength shot up from 908 to 1,195.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said, “In as many as 435 government secondary, middle and high schools of the district, there has been an additon of 12,675 students. The infrastrsucture of government schools is much better than before. There are LED screens, well-equipped libraries and computer rooms.”Gurinderjit Kaur, Principal, Nehru Garden Girls Senior Secondary School, said, “After 850 Class XII students completed their studies, we were left with 1,900 students. Now, the strength has increased to 3,318. Parents have started showing immense faith in government schools. Ever since the pandemic, we are depositing money for mid-day meals in students’ account as well as providing wheat and rice grains to students. For students whose parents leave for work in the morning, teachers have been taking classes as early as 7 am so that they dont miss out.”A total of 2,11,184 students from private schools got themselves enrolled in the government schools across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24k-fresh-admissions-in-govt-schools-278474
05-07-2021||Jalandhar||2 students held for Rs 2L robbery||Scooterist dies in road accidentHoshiarpur: A scooterist was killed in a road accident when the vehicle he was riding on hit by a tempo near Mukerian on Saturday. After the accident, the tempo driver fled the spot leaving behind his vehicle. According to information, Jagir Singh told the police that his brother Surinder Singh was riding a scooter when a tempo hit him near Kala Manjh village and Surinder Singh died on the spot, while the tempo driver, Nanu Pandey, a resident of Mukerian left his tempo there and fled. The Mukerian police have registered a case against the accused driver. OC7-yr-old girl dies of snake biteTalwara: A seven-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer, who had been living for a long time in the slums near the old railway station located in Sector 1 Khokha market, was bitten by a poisonous snake on Saturday. Later, she was admitted to BBMB hospital for treatment. According to Dr Gloria Masih of BBMB Hospital, Kajal after a snake bite was brought by her family members to BBMB Hospital on late Saturday night and died during treatment around 3 pm on Sunday. OCPool opens at services clubHoshiarpur: DC-cum-president of the District Olympic Association, Apneet Riyait, dedicated the new baby pool and renovated old swimming pool at the Services Club here to the city dwellers and players. The DC said at present the swimming pool has been opened only for the practice of the players as per the directions of the government. Whenever the orders were received from the government, it would also be opened for residents of the city. Riyait said, “Now the swimming pool has been designed according to the state and national players so that they can practice well.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-students-held-for-rs-2l-robbery-278476
05-07-2021||HOW SHOULD DIST ADMN PREPARE ITSELF TO PREVENT the ANTICIPATED thirD COVID WAVE?||Need to streamline health infra to tackle sudden load||Prevention is always better than cureThe Union and the state government have left no stone unturned to deal with the second wave of Covid. Similarly, the governments will make all efforts to deal with the anticipated third wave too. The vaccination drive is being carried out at a good pace, availability of stocks is also not an issue these days and people are also much aware of the need to get vaccinated soon. When the masses are being made aware by the media and the government, we need not worry much about the third wave as people are educated enough and know the harms of flouting norms and taking the pandemic lightly. Even after getting inoculated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is issuing guidelines among people to prevent themselves from contracting Covid. They should strictly follow the guidelines to keep themselves safe. Also, to bring normalcy and boost the economy, the Centre should restore all trains, buses and road transport. The government should advice masses to practice yoga, do exercises, go for morning walk and have balanced and nutritious diet etc to keep their immune system strong. As vaccination reduces the risk of getting severe infection and complications, the government should ensure that most of the population is vaccinated. The Union and the state government should strictly check inflation in the prices of essential commodities and other items of daily use.Rajat Kumar MohindruRapid vaccination of residents mustIt is heartening that second wave has started receding and the situation is returning to normal but not without grim anticipation of emerging third wave which is feared to be affecting children more. To encounter onslaught, the district administrations are supposed to play both pre-emptive and dynamic roles on continuous basis. The foremost step is ensuring rapid vaccination programmes among all eligible groups in a time bound manner by maximising coverage. Secondly, Covid appropriate behaviour has to be earmarked for public compliance on regular basis. In this direction, public gatherings of any nature have to be regulated and deadlines should be strictly enforced. Opening of educational institutions should be kept pending and made conditional to further substantial containment of the present wave. Thirdly, the health infrastructure in general and child health care in particular, needs to be streamlined and augmented to face sudden or extra loads in future. Fourthly, the supply lines of medical oxygen, requisite medicines and equipment to deal with emergencies has to be strengthened in a way that there is no shortage both in public as well as private medical centres.Jagdish ChanderCovid appropriate behaviour mustThough scientists and epidemiologists have predicted that the third wave, which is likely to hit the nation in August, may be less lethal and contagious, we should be wary and careful about the same. With the second wave receding, the unlocking process has begun as weekend curfew has been lifted but even when the Covid cases and fatalities are declining, it doesn’t guarantee about the seriousness of the third wave. People are still crowding the markets, not observing social distancing, not wearing masks, the dangerous situation stares us in the face. Though the government has rightly opened the hotels, bars and gyms with 50 per cent capacity, Covid appropriate behaviour must be observed. Another important aspect to avoid the third wave is to expedite the vaccination programme so that people develop antibodies. Vacations should be announced in schools so that children stay at home. Oxygen supply should also be incremented in case there is third wave. Most of all, people should be made aware and educated about the precautions to be taken to prevent and be safe from the third wave.Dr JS WadhwaLaxity among masses can prove fatalCovid cases are decreasing and life is returning back to normal. There is no weekend lockdown and all shops and malls are reopened with curbs being relaxed. It is speculated that the third wave could strike anytime and would affect children more. However, a national lockdown cannot be a solution, keeping economic conditions of the people in mind. Major reason behind lacking in the preparedness to tackle the anticipated third wave is that we don’t have vaccines for children. Now that the government is planning to reopen schools, it could prove to be disastrous as it is very difficult for kids to wear mask for six to eight hours and maintain required distance. It’s better to postpone the opening of schools. Number of beds and children wards should be increased in every hospital and more pediatricians should be appointed. Arrangements should also be made to address the problem of shortage of medical oxygen. Looking at the past, we need to realise that we have to be disciplined and tread with caution. People should not show laxity by not wearing mask and violating social distancing norms.Shashi KiranCentre, state must work in tandemThere is a sigh of relief as the Covid trajectory is flattening. Both, the number of cases and fatalities, are reported to be on the decline. Consequent upon the lifting of the weekend curfew, unlocking process has begun as many restrictions imposed earlier under stringent protocols have been relaxed. Further, the government is making comprehensive review to reopen schools and colleges too for which vaccination of teachers and the taught is to be carried on priority. With the recent approval to Sputnik V, in addition to Covishield and Covaxin doses being already administered, vaccine availability is likely to improve substantially. Accordingly, people living even in remote areas hesitant to get the jab, are also being exhorted to take a shot. This all is mandated to protect people and gear up our preparedness to face any eventuality, as many experts and epidemiologists have predicted the inevitability of the third wave in coming months. During the intense second wave, some unscrupulous elements, taking undue mileage of lack of health infra and the misery of infected people, resorted to black marketing and fleeced innocent beneficiaries by charging exorbitantly. While short supply of oxygen and inadequacy of beds in hospitals created a mess, unavailability of doses hit the inoculation drive severely. It is, therefore, essential to be vigilant against the recurrence of the misdeeds of the past. Unlike the past stalemate, the Centre and states must coordinate and devise common strategy to save lives and livelihood from adverse affects of the pandemic.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathUpdate rickety public health infrastructureAs the nation is still combating the second wave, there are apprehensions about the potential third wave hitting the country in the last quarter of the year. With the number of positive cases and fatalities plateauing in major towns and cities, the state governments are gradually planning to end all lockdown measures despite experts supporting curbs till December owing to usual laxity in adherence to Covid protocols. It is the collective responsibility of the government and public to take adequate precautions; otherwise, it will be an open invitation to a potential third wave. Along with availability of doses, medical staff, including doctors, nurses and technicians, and other facilities, the Health Department should ensure sufficient supply of doses, increased daily vaccination, testing, tracking and treatment. At present, the government might not succeed in staving off the spread of the deadly Delta virus because it lacks the capacity for genetic sequencing in order to achieve herd immunity. In the given situation, people should shed vaccine hesitancy, adopt Covid appropriate behaviour and avoid indoor gatherings and crowded places. A responsive and responsible human race will ultimately learn to live safely with the virus in the foreseeable future.Tajpreet S KangGovt must rectify its past mistakesAt a time when several states are relaxing norms after witnessing a significant decline in the positivity and mortality rates, the fear psychosis created by an anticipated third wave has raised serious concerns. According to eminent epidemiologists and virologists, the new Delta variant is decidedly more aggressive and transmissible. Though its exact magnitude is not finally ascertained yet, there is pressing need to be fully alert. Due to the earlier rampaging Covid strains, we have already paid a heavy price in terms of human lives and economy; our fragile healthcare system has been completely overwhelmed. Confronted with equally important twin issues of public safety and economic revival, the government finds itself trapped in a Catch-22 situation. Prudence demands the formulation of a well-thought out and well-orchestrated strategy to be fully prepared to effectively handle the impending health crisis. The government must rectify its past mistakes such as shortage of vaccines, oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators, medical staff and other facilities to strengthen public healthcare infrastructure. We need to have an efficient surveillance, testing, tracing and treatment system to manage fresh Covid cases in future. The district authorities must educate the public about the efficacy of vaccines and need to adopt Covid appropriate behaviour.DS KangMinimise transmission of virus at every costQUESTIONThe sustained campaign against drugs and illicit trade has been continuing since long but the menace is still far from being over. What should be done to ensure a drug-free society? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 8).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-streamline-health-infra-to-tackle-sudden-load-278479
