06-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Behind the scenes : The unseen forces holding farmers’ movement together||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, July 5Behind a mass movement of farmers against the three controversial agri laws, there are teams, which work quietly and dedicatedly at the ground level. Their work is as difficult as managing the centre stage at the Singhu border. Members of various teams constantly make strategies and start working early in the morning.In Nawanshahr, teams have been divided into four zones Nawanshahr, Banga, Aur and Balachaur block.Members sensitise youngsters and masses to visit Singhu border to keep the movement alive. Apart from holding protests, press conferences and meets, the teams look after every aspect of giving momentum to the cause.Showing black flags to Congress MP Manish Tewari on his recent visit to Nawanshahr to burning copies of the agri laws, the farm unions have proved their strength and presence in remote areas as well.Bhupinder Singh Waraich, coordinator, Kirti Kisan Union (Nawanshahr), said there’s no stopping now. “We raise issues that affect general public. Recently, we protested against the state government for not providing electricity for 8 hours during the paddy season. Now, we have planned to hold a huge protest on July 8 against increase in prices of petrol and diesel. In the same manner, we follow orders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and act accordingly,” he said.Waraich said despite farmers being busy during transplantation of paddy, they ensure that morale of their counterparts at Singhu, Tikri and Ghaziabad borders, stays high. He said a bus full of farmers and their supporters heads to Delhi every week.Women have been contributing equally. Groups of women had started awareness campaigns in Nawanshahr villages months ago. They have been going to every household and organising meetings to make people aware of the agri laws. “We talk to women and tell them that the fight can be won only if they support farmers and do their bit,” said a member of a women team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/behind-the-scenes-the-unseen-forces-holding-farmers-movement-together-279011
06-07-2021||---||Vaccination at doorstep for bedridden, specially abled in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5Days after the Kapurthala administration began an initiative to reach out to the differently abled, the Jalandhar district administration on Monday announced that it will be reaching out to the differently abled and bed-ridden at their homes to vaccinate them against Covid-19.The administration is learnt to have taken lists of the pensioners and Unique Disability ID (UDID) card holders from the Department of Social Security and the mobile vaccination teams will soon start visiting them for vaccination at their doorstep.Alternatively, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said such beneficiaries could even seek inoculation facilities at their doorstep by dialling control room number 0181-2224417. Thori said the registration process would be carried out for a week and vaccination would begin when there would be sufficient numbers of registration.A dedicated mobile team would be deployed to provide these facilities near their home, adding persons with only genuine mobility issues would be covered by the team, he added. Wherever possible, at least 10 disabled persons would be brought to a common location as one vial has 10 doses.The DC said the specially abled persons are the integral part of society and the administration would leave no stone unturned to serve them amid this unprecedented health crisis. He appealed to all such persons to get themselves inocilated by registering through this number so that the Covid-19 doses could be administered to them near their homes.Notably, at vaccination camps for the disability sector being held by the NGO Channan Association, 1,250 persons with disablities as well as care givers had been vaccinated so far. But the recent announcement will allow the disabled to get jabs just by registering through the helpline.Disability activist and president of the Channan Association, Amarjit Singh Anand, said: “It is a huge relief and welcome step. Not every PwD could afford to get to the vaccination centre by themselves. The helpline is going to make things very easy. I am thankful for the district administration for taking the initiative.”The Tribune had highlighted the plight of PWDs in a new report in these pages on June 20. While out of 18,000 people with disabilities (PwDs) in the district, only 750, had been vaccinated at four camps until June 20, these had been organised by non-governmental organisations (NGOs).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-at-doorstep-for-bedridden-specially-abled-in-jalandhar-279012
06-07-2021||Jalandhar||Lawyer hurt in brawl at Jalandhar district courts complex||A verbal spat between two parties of advocates turned ugly at the district courts complex here on Monday. While one of the advocates received injuries on his nose and face, a woman constable, who tried to intervene, was also injured. After reaching the Civil Hospital, the two parties again got into a fight and hit each other in the presence of policemen.The victim, lawyer Sarabjit Kashyap, said he had come to the court in connection with a divorce case of one of his clients. However, after he came outside the court, Mukhtiar Mohammad, Liaquat Mohammad, Asif Akhtar and others attacked him with sharp-edged weapons.The victim told the police that he and his associates were being pressured to withdraw the case against them and they also threatened to kill my whole family. “A bomb was also planted in our house a few years ago and a case in this regard was registered with the CGM court,” added Sarabjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lawyer-hurt-in-brawl-at-jalandhar-district-courts-complex-279013
06-07-2021||---||Hoshiarpur girl Pratishtha wins Diana Award||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur, July 5Pratishtha Deveshwar (22) from Hoshiarpur, studying at the University of Oxford, has been recognised with the highest accolade a young person can achieve for social work or humanitarian efforts in Britain – the Diana Award — established in memory of Princess Diana.The award is given out by the charity of the same name and has the support of both her sons — Duke of Cambridge and the Duke of Sussex.Pratishtha Deveshwar is the first ever Indian girl in a wheelchair to enter Oxford. After sustaining a spinal cord injury at the age of 13, Pratishtha became wheelchair-bound and herself experienced how little support existed for persons with disabilities (PwDs) and decided to go vocal for the rights of PwDs. She raised the voice of PwDs from the streets of New Delhi to international United Nations events and is now one of the youngest and most vocal PwD rights activists in India. Becoming the first-ever wheelchair user from India to study at the University of Oxford, Pratishtha is on a mission to build a more inclusive world.She is currently pursuing masters in the Public Policy at Oxford. She is the elected house chair of Somerville College at Oxford and is one of the top 50 postgraduates selected for the Oxford Global Leadership initiative by the Oxford character project. Her father Munish Sharma is the Deputy Superintendent of Police posted in Dasuya and her mother is a schoolteacher.Tessy Ojo, CEO of the Diana Award, wrote in his email: “We congratulate all our new Diana Award recipients from the UK and all over the globe who are change-makers for their generation. We know by receiving this honour, they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens. For over 20 years, the Diana Award has acknowledged the young, encouraging them to continue making positive change in their communities and lives of others.”The selection processAward recipients have been put forward by adults who know the young people in a professional capacity and recognised their efforts as a positive contribution to society. Through a rigorous nomination process, these nominators had to demonstrate the nominee’s impact in five key areas — vision, social impact, inspiring others, youth leadership, and service journey. There are 12 Diana Award judging panels representing each the UK region and another three panels representing countries outside of the UK. Each panel consists of three judges. The panels determine which nominations from each UK region/nation/ country will receive the Diana Award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-girl-pratishtha-wins-diana-award-279014
06-07-2021||---||Kapurthala: 28 Sainik School students clear NDA written exam||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, July 5As many as 28 students of Sainik School, Kapurthala, have cleared the National Defence Academy exam (written) conducted by the Union Public Service Commission recently.Among the students who have cleared the exam include Akarshit, Avinash, Dayanand, Prabhat Kumar, Vishal Yadav, Jatinder Singh, Navdeep, Ayush, Manjesh, Shaurya, Prabhnoor Singh, Shivam Singh Sr, Shivam Singh, Agamandeep, Jashandeep, Vinesh Thapa, Saurav Singh, Suraj, Jassimran Singh, Saurav Singh, Vivek, Ajay, Sangharsh, Shubham, Parul, Gaurav, Nishant and Akash.Sharing the information, Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, said it was a matter of pride for the school as this was the best result in the last four years. “The best result that I had seen in my tenure was of 25 students. We may have touched 30, but Covid hampered our training and we could not follow up with many modules and sessions, which were possible only if students got training on the campus,” he said.Col Saxena said, “Despite challenging circumstances, we are happy that the students have outperformed previous batches.”The principal shared that three of the Saikapians have climbed the penultimate rung of the ladder in the Army. “Besides Lt Gen Manjinder Singh Boparai, who is currently posted as Chief of Staff in HQ Western Command, Maj Gen Manjit Kumar Arora and Maj Gen Samir Gupta have been approved for promotion to the rank of Lieutenant General, as per the result declared on Sunday evening,” he said. Gen Gupta’s father Col RL Gupta, who’s former principal of Sainik School, Kapurthala, expressed his delight saying, “I served as a principal here for 2.5 years between 1980 and 1983. That time, my son was also a student here. He is in the Artillery Division. Gen Manjit Kumar was his batchmate. Gen Manjinder was their junior, but in the same NDA batch. This is so satisfying to know that of the five Maj Generals approved for promotion this time, three are my students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-28-sainik-school-students-clear-nda-written-exam-279015
06-07-2021||---||Relish freshly plucked mangoes from this verdant home garden||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5Rupinder Singh Kanwar, a toxicologist, has inherited the love for gardening from his agronomist and sugarcane researcher father Dr Ranbir Singh Kanwar. His wife Anjleen Kanwar, an English teacher, also assists him in maintaining a verdant garden.At the entrance, one is greeted by two huge Alstonia trees and a towering Araucaria (Christmas tree).The garden is lined with palms and during spring, a host of violet, pink and red marbled petunias leave the garden blooming with a rainbow of colours. Out on the front porch, a delightfully pink Rangoon creeper presents a resplendent view.The couple grew more close to their green space at their home during the pandemic. They also host a variety of veggies. A huge canopy of green creepers also presents a refreshing view.Dr Rupinder Kanwar says, “Our mangos and lemons were all sourced from Patiala. I dream of creating my own poly house on our village land in Hajipur. But until that, we are nurturing our garden here.”The two lemon trees, which are now being developed as a hedge, yield basketful of lemons, so does the mango tree at the back — which yields sumptuous mangoes.Anjleen Kanwar says, “We started off with ornamental plants and now we are doing a mix of both the veggie produce and other plants. Areca palms are my favourites. So we have got loads of them. Apart from that, we also have bottled palms, Calcutta palms, ashokas, monsteras, fig tree, and my loved front wall ornamented with green creepers. We keep adding more varieties. I also have a lot of succulents which are great as they are quite low maintenance during the summer and survive the sun.”The couple keenly looks forward to planting their own farm at their village land in Hajipur as the pandemic eases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relish-freshly-plucked-mangoes-from-this-verdant-home-garden-279016
06-07-2021||---||Covid: No death reported in Jalandhar dist, 19 more contract virus||Jalandhar, July 5The district on Monday reported 19 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 62,819. Of the new cases, two are from other districts. However, no death due to the virus took place today. As many as 61,167 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has come down to 169.20 cases, 1 death in K’thalaThe district on Friday reported 20 fresh cases due to Covid-19 here, pushing the tally to 17,614. One person died of Covid-19. A 54-year-old woman from Shahjahanpur died of Covid-19 today.2 test +ve in NawanshahrThe district reported two fresh cases in Sujjon and Mukandpur blocks here on Monday. However, no death was reported. At present, there are 24 active cases while 19 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,404 (4.48 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.65 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 358 (3.13 per cent). At present, three persons are seeking treatment in the Level-II Covid-care facility and one in the Level-III Covid-Care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-no-death-reported-in-jalandhar-dist-19-more-contract-virus-279017
06-07-2021||---||Rising diesel prices pushed transport biz to brink: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar July 5Upset with the rising fuel prices, farmers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Monday, announced to hold a state-level protest on July 8. The protest will be organised for two hours from 10 am to 12 pm.Farmers, while addressing the media persons, said, the protest would be organised against the Modi Government and its policies. Apart from petrol and diesel, they would also display resentment against rising domestic cooking gas prices.Morcha leaders Manjit Singh Rai and Satnam Singh Sahni said the way the prices of diesel and petrol were rising on a daily basis, was affecting the agriculture sector the most. “Rising diesel prices have also brought the transport business to the brink. This has pushed up the price of essential freight rates. Since June 20 till today, the diesel prices have hiked 15 times,” added Manjeet Singh.He said while the international crude oil prices were in the normal range, no relief was given to them despite the sharp fall in prices. Farmer leader Sahni said: “The agriculture sector plays a major role in saving the economy of the country. When the Modi government came to power in 2014, the excise duty on diesel was Rs 3.56 per liter and the excise duty on petrol was 9.48 paise per litre. Whereas the same government has hiked diesel and excise duty on petrol by Rs 28.24 per litre to Rs 31.80 per litre, respectively. The excise duty on petrol in the state has been increased from Rs 23.41 per litre to Rs 32.90 per litre, whereas excise duty on diesel, which is widely used for agriculture and industry, has been hiked by Rs 4.93 per litre.”Jagjit Singh Kamboj, district president, All India Motor Transport Congress said the hike in diesel prices has hit the transport business hard. State president of Petrol Pump Dealers Association Paramjit Singh Doaba, who is getting subsidy of only Rs 12 to 15 per cylinder, said due to low oil prices in neighboring states, Punjab’s subsidy has been abolished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rising-diesel-prices-pushed-transport-biz-to-brink-sanyukt-kisan-morcha-279018
06-07-2021||Jalandhar||Activists condemn Centre on human rights activist Stan Swamy’s death||The Indian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) New Democracy on Monday said the Modi government was responsible for the death of human rights activist and fierce advocate for the rights of tribals and adivasis Father Stan Swamy. The party announced protests across the state on Tuesday against the death of the human rights stalwart.Party leaders Comrade Ajmer Singh Samra and Kulwinder Singh Warraich said 84-year-old Father Swamy was arrested by the NIA last year in the Bima Koregaon case. They said the lawyers of Father Swamy, who was suffering from Parkinson’s disease, had sought for his bail many times. But they added that far from granting bail to him, his requests for a straw and sipper weren’t even granted even though he was facing difficulty in holding glass.Activists said lack of timely treatment was the reason why Father Swamy died. They said the Modi government and Home Minister Amit Shah were responsible for his Swamy’s death. They also demanded that an FIR be lodged against the Home Minister for Father Swami’s murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/activists-condemn-centre-on-human-rights-activist-stan-swamys-death-279019
06-07-2021||To avoid further transmission of Covid-19||Phagwara Diary: Admn advices to get jabbed at the earliest||Surprise check at government officesFollowing the guidelines on rescheduled office hours, a surprise check was carried out in the office of Tehsildar, Block Development and Panchayat Office, Seva Kendra and Fard Kendra Tehsil Complex Phagwara etc, by Rajiv Verma, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Phagwara. In view of the power crisis in the state, the officers and employees present during the checking were instructed to prevent misuse of power in the offices. Giving orders for a complete ban on its use, Verma also said the staff of the offices should ensure a strict compliance with the orders given by the government from time to time.Extending A helping hand to the disabledAs part of its 40th monthly ration distribution service, the All India Anti Corruption Forum, Phagwara, distributed food packets among the needy at its New Mandi Road office. SP Sarabjit Singh was invited as the chief guest. Forum president Gurdeep Singh Kang distributed food packets among 20 families. Door-to-door ration was also supplied among the needy. Atul Jain, Sunil Dhingra, Ashu, Vinay Kumar Bittu, Jugal Baweza were among the others present during the function. The minister’s wife distributed tricycles among the persons with disability. Anita Kainth, a social worker and wife of Som Prakash Kainth provided tricycles to three physically-disabled. Application forms of 50 other PwDs were also received to provide them tricycles and wheelchairs. Anita assured that wheelchairs and tricycles would also be distributed among the needy. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-admn-advices-to-get-jabbed-at-the-earliest-279021
06-07-2021||Jalandhar||A message to Save electricity by St. Soldier Divine Public School, Mann Nagar||B Tech in Cyber SecurityCT Institute of Technology and Research, Maqsudan, has started new courses titled Bachelor of Technology in Cyber Security and Bachelor of Technology in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. Bachelor of Technology in Cyber Security is a four year duration undergraduate degree which emphasizes on comprehensive knowledge of cyber crime, network security, data structures, design and analysis of algorithms, cryptography, intrusion detection and prevention systems etc. The Bachelor of Technology in Artificial Intelligence & Data Science is also a four-year undergraduate degree programme, which is offered under the engineering stream. Director of CT Group of Institutions said, “Cyber Security course is designed to understand the process, practices, and gain knowledge regarding unauthorised access, protection of networks, computers, programmes, and data from unknown attacks.Counselling sessionInnocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a counselling session under the theme, “Young Minds and Future” for Class XII students of session 2020-21 under Disha- an initiative being run by Bowry Memorial Trust. Dr. Gagan and Chef Gagan Humpal introduced different vocational courses and more than one entry to make the students familiar with the various avenues available after class XII. He informed the students that modern education is a mixture of activities and education; it has been taken care of very well in Innocent Hearts. Dr Gagandeep invited the students to come to the campus and said that they must visit the campus to understand the whole system better. During the webinar, it was also explained to the students through Power Point presentations that adopting which vocational course increases the job prospects in the future.Abheyjeet Singh 1st in M.VocStudents of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, performed well in Guru Nanak Dev University exams. In a press release, the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra informed that Abheyjeet Singh, a student has bagged 1st position in the M.Voc. (Web Technology & Multimedia) - III Semester by getting 486 marks out of 500, whereas Simran Preet Kaur of the same class bagged 4th position by getting 472 marks, Jaskaran Duggal bagged 6th position by getting 466 marks, Mohammed Farooq bagged 7th position by getting 465 marks, Reetika bagged 8th position by getting 459 marks and Karamjit Kaur bagged 9th position by getting 457 marks. He also said that meritorious students are awarded fee concession and scholarship to encourage and reward them for better performance. The president of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Webinar on Concepts of MATLABDAV University, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on “Basic Concepts of MATLAB and their Applications” under the aegis of the Department of Physics. Dr Ram Jiwari, Associate Professor from Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, was the resource person. The lecture was attended by more than 250 participants from all over India. Dr Jasbir Rishi, Vice Chancellor, DAV University blessed the attendees and organisers. Registrar of the university Dr. K N Kaul praised the organizers for contributing a new topic for the webinar. Dr RK Seth, Dean (Academics) of the university introduced and welcomed the resource person. Dr Jiwari started the webinar with the basic concepts of MATLAB. Then, some of its applications such as solving linear system of equations, differentiation and integration, ordinary differential equations (ODEs), Partial differential equations (PDEs) were discussed by him.World UFO Day celebratedEklavya School celebrated World UFO Day for creating awareness among people about Unidentified Flying Object. The students were told that the first World UFO Day was celebrated in 2001 by UFO researchers Haktan Akdogan. The day is also used to encourage governments across the world to declassify their knowledge of UFO sightings throughout history. The celebrations began with an online webinar, followed up by debate by senior school students, middle and primary school students showcased their talent with different activities like poster-making, clay modeling related with the topic and an online fancy dress competition was held related with the topic. Chairman JK Gupta said,” You see a lot of UFOs with closed eyes and opened mind. Director of the school Seema Handa said,” If you want to be sure of unusual thing such as Aliens or UFOs, then you have to think about it from an unusual way of thinking”.Students bag top PositionsThe students of M.Voc (Cosmetology and Wellness) Sem-III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got university positions. Anjali got 1st position with 352 marks, Trisha and Disha got 2nd position with 345 marks and Inderjit got 3rd position with 343 marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and Head of Department Mukti Arora. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-message-to-save-electricity-by-st-soldier-divine-public-school-mann-nagar-279022
06-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district gets new sports officer||Rahon MC passes resolutionsNawanshahr: The Rahon municipal council on Monday passed several resolutions during the General House meet. From now, no water bills will be sent to people living in households less than 5 marla. Apart from it, cleaning of main drains within the limits of the council, beautification of Dr BR Ambedkar park, deployment of six safai sewaks for one year through outsourcing, supervision of revenue and development works of the council and redeployment of former patwaris, will be done. Technical branch also passed an estimate of Rs4.20 crore for the development works. MLA Angad Singh urged that overall development of the city should be given top priority. TNSOrganic farm class heldNawanshahr: To promote organic farming and provide information about various techniques to farmers in the district, the Chief Agriculture Officer organised an organic farm school class at Dr Baldev Singh Bika’s Kutia Natural Farm at Bika village in Banga. In this farm school, Block Agriculture Officer Dr Darshan Lal along encouraged farmers to practice organic farming. Satwinder Singh, district supervisor, Punjab Agri Export Corp, said this organisation provides free registration of organic produce. TNSplan to gherao FM’s residenceJalandhar: The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Office Employees’ Union will gherao the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal in Bathinda on July 10. Notably, the union has been demanding regularisation of their services. Ashish Julaha, a member of the union, said years have passed since they have been asking the government to make them regular, but to no avail. “No one is paying heed to our problems. We will keep on fighting for our rights,” he said. TNSreaching out to ex-servicemenHoshiarpur: The Vajra Corps has taken an initiative and made an endeavour to reach out to all the ECHS in their area of responsibility to ensure better facilities for their ex-servicemen. The programme commenced with the ECHS, Hoshiarpur, on Monday. On behalf of Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC Vajra Corps, Brig Atulya Bamzai, Brig EME, kick started this unique initiative. There are 28 ECHS in the area of responsibility of the Corps. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-gets-new-sports-officer-279023
