07-07-2021||Jalandhar||Community College of HMV initiates start-up named Parwaaz – Nari Ki Udaan||Incredible India activity organisedDIPS Urban Estate pre-wing organised incredible India activity to acquaint the students of India’s beautiful culture. In this activity, Prisha, Prachi, Bhavika, Siya, Manya, Honey, Brahm Pratap, Aman Kumar, Jasmeet, Anirudh, Sarveen, Jasmeet Kaur, Ritika and Arshpreet wore costumes of various states and exhibited in a unique way the culture and tradition of Indian states. They spoke about each states costumes, culture, tradition, food, art, dance, language etc. Teachers told about the rich cultural heritage of India and also that it is a wonderful tourist destination in the world. It is enriched with beautiful mountains, seas and historical temples and monuments churches, forts places etc. India is the seventh largest country in the world therefore it has a unique identity. Principal Neelu Bawa remarked that the main aim of this activity is to make the students know about the rich and the vast cultural heritage of India. It is essential that this incredible culture is preserved for the coming generation. The youth must step forward and take interest in the unique culture of India. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/community-college-of-hmv-initiates-start-up-named-parwaaz-%E2%80%93-nari-ki-udaan-279381
07-07-2021||Jalandhar||Teachers seek old pension scheme, hold protest in Jalandhar||Remove illegal occupants: PanelKapurthala: Punjab State Minorities Commission chairman Prof Emanual Nahar directed the district administration to remove illegal occupants from cemeteries belonging to the minority communities. During a hearing at a circuit house on Tuesday, Prof Nahar said the commission had noticed that Christian and Muslim communities, were not getting adequate space for cemeteries. Thus, the district administration should submit a report within 10 days, he said. He asked officials of the Panchayat Department and municipal councils to immediately start the process of removing all encroachments from graveyards. TNSNow, better services at ECHSJalandhar: Vajra Corps has taken an initiative and made an endeavour to reach out to all Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) clinics in their area to ensure better facilities. The programme commenced with ECHS Hoshiarpur on Monday. As per the programme, a mobile repair or in situ repair vehicle has been launched which shall repair equipment at ECHS poly clinics. There are 28 poly clinics which have got medical equipment across the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-seek-old-pension-scheme-hold-protest-in-jalandhar-279383
07-07-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Naushehra Pannuan: Marginal farmer’s son makes it to IAF as Flying Officer||Tarn Taran, July 6Son of a marginal farmer from Chaudhariwala village (Naushehra Pannuan) in Tarn Taran district has been commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force.Adesh Parkash Singh Pannu is a student of NDA preparatory academy Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran. He belongs to a marginal farming family. His father Amarbeer Singh Pannu serves in the SGPC and mother is a government schoolteacher. He got his primary education from a private school in the village. The proud father said: “My son is quite mature and had the zeal to serve the nation at a very young age. I have been proud of him and will always be.”Colonel Kulbir Singh Puri, a retired group officer of the academy, said Adesh, apart from clearing his Class XII, was trained at Nishan-e-Sikhi Institute of Science and Training (NDA preparatory wing).The 19-year-old boy was commissioned as a Flying Officer in the Indian Air Force during the combined graduation parade held at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on June 19.Adesh cleared the NDA exam in March 2017 for the Air Force and joined the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune, in May 2017 as course batch 138. The passing-out parade was held on May 30, 2020, after the completion of the three-year training.He joined the Indian Air Force Academy, Dundigal, Hyderabad, Telangana, in June 2020, for further training, where he was commissioned as a Flying Officer. Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib is being run under International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect.UPSC guidance at Nishan-e-Sikhi soonNishan-e-Sikhi, under the chairmanship of International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, is going to start a preparatory centre for the civil services at Khadoor Sahib village with an aim to prepare students for the Union Public Service Commission-related exams.Avtar Singh Bajwa, secretary of the institute, said the sect has been working in the field of education since 1970 with several educational institutions. Admissions to the course is going on and final date for the registration is July 11. Nishan-e-Sikhi also runs an NDA wing, from where 19 students were selected in the armed forces as officers. With the new initiative, the civil services aspirants will get the much-needed study material at their doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/naushehra-pannuan-marginal-farmers-son-makes-it-to-iaf-as-flying-officer-279375
07-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Hopes of earning extra bucks dashed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 6Moti Rehman (50), a native of Arhardi district in Bihar, arrived here on June 12, last month, hoping that he’ll earn a few extra bucks in the paddy season. However, the delayed monsoon and shortage of water due to the power crisis thwarted all his hopes.In the last one month, he couldn’t get enough work to send money back home. Expert in sowing paddy, this is the second consecutive year, when Rehman couldn’t find sufficient work. Last year, he was among the thousands of migrant labourers who left for their home states due to the lockdown.“I returned last month with a hope of getting work as paddy season always offers both money and work, but to my surprise, there isn’t enough work this year. While farmers have reduced their area under paddy cultivation, we don’t have many fields to be sown with the crop. In the last 26 days, I could sow only 4-5 acres. Whereas, I have the record of sowing nearly 100 fields with paddy in the Kharif season,” said Rehman.Interestingly, the previous year, farmers in the state faced an acute shortage of labourers ahead of paddy transplantation. However, while labour is in abundance this time there isn’t enough work. Along with Moti, around four groups of farmers also came to the district on the insistence of farmers, but are sitting idle. Despite reducing wages, migrant workers aren’t getting work. Compared to Rs5,000 to Rs4,500 per acre cost of sowing, last year, workers reduced their cost to Rs3,000 to Rs3,500 this year.Another migrant worker, Mohammad Javed, a native of Uttar Pradesh, said he couldn’t go to his village last year during the lockdown and sowed around 95 fields in just 15 days. However, this year, in the last 25 days, he has sown paddy in only 50 fields. While both paddy and wheat are considered a golden time for migrant workers to earn more, Javed, who earns a living for a family of five, couldn’t make enough money this year.The cost of feeding and providing shelter to migrant workers brought specially for paddy season has also overburdened farmers. “Owing to the delay in monsoon, farmers have to keep workers to complete the sowing. Most of our fields are still dry due to the shortage of water,” said a farmer from Charke village.Since a majority of paddy growers opt for transplantation of paddy through the conventional and labour-intensive method of sowing the crop, farmers need lots of manpower besides water for irrigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hopes-of-earning-extra-bucks-dashed-279377
07-07-2021||---||Father Stan Swamy's death: Left parties seek action against those ‘responsible’, stage protest in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 6The CPI (ML) New Democracy and Punjab’s public and democratic organisations on Monday called for ‘accountability’ on the death of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy.A massive protest was staged in the city blaming the Modi government for the death of Swamy. The agitators during the protest demanded for support from human rights activists and advocates against the custodial death of Swamy.CPI (ML) leaders demanded a case of murder to be registered against Home Minister Amit Shah, who was responsible for the political assassination of Stan Swamy. Demanding his arrest the leaders also sought immediate release of intellectual activists lodged in jails. Earlier, a rally was held at Desh Bhagat Memorial Hall.Speaking on the occasion, comrade Ajmer Singh, senior state leader of CPI (ML) New Democracy, said last year the NIA had arrested 84-year-old Stan Swami in the Elgar Parishad Bhima Koregaon case. He was denied bail.“The main reason for Stan Swamy’s death was his untimely treatment. The Modi government, especially Amit Shah, was directly responsible for Stan Swamy’s death, who was suffering from Parkinson’s disease”, said Ajmer.He said the Modi government was on the path of selling the water and forest lands of the country for the benefit of some rich corporate houses. Those who oppose it are being imprisoned on false charges. Human rights intellectuals, writers and democratic activists were being jailed for filing pamphlets like false treason and UAPA. All public activists should be released immediately.Tarsem Peter, state president, Rural Workers Union Punjab Kashmir Singh Ghughshor, state press secretary and others were present in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-stan-swamys-death-left-parties-seek-action-against-those-responsible-stage-protest-in-jalandhar-279378
07-07-2021||Jalandhar||10-kg ovarian cyst removed from 60-yr-old patient||In this time of pandemic when people are avoiding to go to hospitals, the department of obstetrics and gynaecology of Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has once again made the institute proud by performing rare and complex surgery and removed ovarian cyst of 10-kg from a patient. Dr HK Cheema, professor, said that patient Manjit Kaur, 60, a native of Kapurthala, came to PIMS with pain abdomen and breathing difficulty, after scan and other investigations it was found that she has an ovarian cyst of 10-kg. Patient was really weak and even after prolonged treatment there was no sign of relief. When patient reached PIMS, she was in acute pain and size of her stomach was also enlarged. Finally, a team of doctors decided to operate and remove the cyst immediately. As it was a high risk surgery as patient had increased levels of thyroid, sugar and blood pressure. So initially thyroid levels were controlled then operation was performed.  Dr Cheema and his team removed the cyst in a two-hour surgery.  Dr Cheema said women should not ignore their health and should consult doctor immediately if any problem occurs. Like in this case, if cyst wasn’t removed it might have converted into cancer. Operation was complex but yet successfully performed by the doctors. Condition of patient was stable after surgery and she will be discharged in three-four days.  Amit Singh, Resident Director, PIMS, and Dr Kulbir Kaur, Director Principal, congratulated the team that made this surgery successful. “We would expand in other fields of healthcare and remain committed for betterment of healthy society,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-kg-ovarian-cyst-removed-from-60-yr-old-patient-279380
07-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Wheelchair-bound education provider seeks pay parity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 6Karamveer (36), a wheelchair-bound education provider, who teaches in a government school in Shahkot block, earns meager Rs 8,000 per month. He has done postgraduation in history, political science, MSc IT and BEd.Despite being physically challenged, Karamveer goes to Chandigarh to protest against the state government and seek hike in salary. On Tuesday, he led the protest, where he claimed to have suffered an injury during a tussle between the police and education providers.“Asi jo salary vadhaun layi kehne haan, oh ameer hon layi nai kehnde, te na hi car, kothi lain layi kehnde haan, asi sirf eh chahne haan ki saade ghar de kharche chalan (We don’t ask to increase our salaries because we want to become rich, or want to buy cars and bungalows, we want our basic necessities to get fulfilled),” he said.Karamveer’s tale puts light on the sufferings and lives of other education providers, who have been seeking hike in their salaries.Education providers earn Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 per month. “I have octogenarian parents and siblings to look after. I am a sole earning member in my family. Can you imagine my ordeal?” he said.Karamveer said because of this paltry salary, no one wants to marry off their daughter to him. “They say that I don’t earn much and already have a big family to feed,” he said.He asked where is democracy? “Edda di zillat di zindagi nalo, maut vadiya hai. (If we protest, they attack us. This is what the government does to its citizens,” Karamveer rued. “Just look at the inflation. Everything is costly. How is someone supposed to survive on Rs8,000 per month,” he said.The education providers’ struggle for regularisation of jobs seems unending as they have been protesting for several years. Kuldeep Singh, president of the union, said they teach students like permanent teachers, but were paid paltry sum when compared to the latter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheelchair-bound-education-provider-seeks-pay-parity-279369
07-07-2021||---||Fake currency racket busted in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, July 6 In a major crackdown against the illegal counterfeit currency trade going on in the city, the district police arrested six persons and seized Rs1.47 lakh fake notes in denominations  of Rs2,000 and Rs500. The team also seized 30 packets of chemically treated paper used as raw material for making fake currency, bottles filled with chemical and dyes and packets of chemical powder as well as three vehicles used to transport the currency. The accused have been identified as Pargat Singh of Rajewal in Khanna; Harpreet Kaur of Mullanpur Sirhind; Charnjit Singh and Mohinder Kumar, both of Bhandal Bet; Pawan Kumar Sethi and Gurwinder Singh Guri of Khanna town. SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said a police team of Subhanpur police station got information from a reliable source that a Skoda car (PB10-DS-3700) driven by Pargat Singh, son of Bhajan Singh, in which a woman named Harpreet Kaur is also present, is distributing fake notes to gullible people by luring them with a scheme of doubling their money. Acting swiftly, special police teams were formed under the supervision of ASP Bholath Ajay Gandhi, including SHO Subhanpur and other staff, to curb the illegal business of distribution of counterfeit notes and to arrest the accused involved in this racket. The SSP said one police team made a special check-post on Nadala to Subhanpur road and stopped the vehicle for checking, during the search, the police found fake notes of Rs 2,000, Rs 7,500 of genuine Indian currency along with a bottle filled with chemical, one packet containing powder weighing 20 gm, four packets of 400 chemically treated papers used to make 500x500 notes and eight packets of 800 white papers used to make 2,000x 2,000 rupee notes. The SSP said, “Preliminary interrogation of the arrested accused has revealed that they are involved in this illegal business to earn easy money and some more members of their gang are distributing fake notes to people in different vehicles. A huge quantity of raw material is also present in their vehicles, from which counterfeit notes are made.  Police teams immediately moved to the suspected area of presence of their other associates and apprehended Charnjit Singh Channa and Mahinder Kumar from Mahindra Mexico vehicle and seized three packets of 300 chemically treated papers used to make 500x500 notes and two packets of 200 white papers used to make 2,000x 2,000 rupee notes”. Similarly, the police party also intercepted a Verna car (PB41FS8819) near Dyalpur flyover and arrested Pawan Kumar and Gurvinder Singh Guri and confiscated 60 fake notes of Rs 2,000 denomination of Rs 1.2 lakh and 50 fake notes of Rs 25,000 of 500 denomination along with three packets of 300 chemically treated papers used to make 500x500 notes and 10 packets of 1,000 white papers used to make 2,000x2,000 rupee fake notes.  The SSP said during interrogation the involvement of 11 more members of this racket has come to notice and police teams are moved to arrest these members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-kapurthala-279370
07-07-2021||---||Health Dept runs out of Covishield||Jalandhar, July 6Three days after thousands of Covishield doses were administered to the beneficiaries in the district, the Health Department ran out of vaccine stock on Tuesday.Consequently, the 18-plus category seeking to get jabbed with the first or second dose of Covishield had to return from vaccination centres. Health officials said masses administered only Covaxin today.At present, the district has more than 150 vaccination centres. The vaccine shortage has not only impacted the 18+ age group, but also those above 45 years who were due to receive their second dose of Covishield. The Health Department was out of stock of Covishield for around 15 days last month as well. A large number of residents mostly 18 plus left disappointed. They said information should be provided in advance so that they do not reach vaccination centres.With reduction in mobile units, the vaccination drive recorded a slump last month.Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said more doses of Covishield would arrive here in the midnight and vaccination would resume in the morning.The district administration said they would inoculate around 20,000 persons on Wednesday. The administration has begun covering persons with disabilities under vaccination drive through door to door visits. One mobile vaccination team has been deployed for each sub division, which would ensure doorstep inoculation of such beneficiaries.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had ordered doorstep inoculation drive for specially-abled beneficiaries. Further, a helpline number 0181-222-4417 has been issued by the administration for such beneficiaries to get jabs at their home.In addition, the district administration would visit PwD pensioners and UDID card holders.One dies, 8 test positive in districtJalandhar: The health authorities on Tuesday reported eight fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the district tally of positive cases has reached 62,827. The authorities reported only one Covid-related death in the district today. The toll has increased to 1,484, respectively. Moreover, the active cases have dropped to 165, lowest in the last four months. As many as 61,178 patients have recovered in the district so far.Nawanshahr reports 1 caseThe district reported one Covid-19 case from Balachaur on Tuesday and no death. At present there are 23 active cases, while 19 persons are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,405 (4.46 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.66 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 358 (3.13 per cent). At present, two persons are seeking treatment in the Level-II Covid-care facility and one in the Level-III Covid-care facility. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-dept-runs-out-of-covishield-279371
07-07-2021||---||Kapurthala: Gang of two-wheeler thieves busted, 2 held||Kapurthala, July 6The district police on Tuesday busted a gang, involved in stealing of bikes, and arrested two of its members, besides recovering 14 stolen vehicles hidden in the forest area of Jhall Lai Wala in Sultanpur Lodhi.The accused have been identified as Labha (26) and Sarabjit Singh (24), alias Sabbo, alias Bhangi. Both the accused are residents of Lattianwa village, known for drug peddling activities.SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the SHOs had been directed to keep a close watch on the activities of anti-social elements in areas prone to vehicle thefts so that petty crimes were eliminated from the city. The SSP said some complaints of vehicle theft were received from Gurdwara Ber Sahib and other establishments in Sultanpur Lodhi subdivision. Under the supervision of DSP Sarwan Singh Bal and SHO Sultanpur Lodhi, teams of police conducted round-the-clock surveillance.During patrolling, the police team received a tip-off regarding the presence of accused Labha and Sabbo who were habitual criminals and were waiting for customers to sell motorcycles and their parts.Police team immediately raided the spot and arrested both of them from the spot and recovered two stolen bikes from their possession when they tried to escape after seeing the police party.The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, they revealed that both are addicted to drugs and were facing cases registered under the NDPS Act. The SSP said the accused revealed that they had stolen several bikes from the area and had hidden these bikes in the forests of Jhai Lai Wala. They also revealed that they dismantled the parts of some motorcycles and sold them to their customers in order to arrange money for purchasing drugs.Khakh said police parties immediately moved to search the forest area and recovered 12 more bikes from there. He said the accused had been booked under Sections 379,482 and 201 of the IPC. The accused would be produced in court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-gang-of-two-wheeler-thieves-busted-2-held-279372
07-07-2021||---||Power outage: Bizmen suffering Rs 500 cr loss per day||Jalandhar, July 6The decision of the state government to extend the power shutdown for large-scale industries for three more days has come as a rude shock for the industrialists of the region.Members of the Focal Point Extension Association on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and MLA Jalandhar North Bawa Henry apprising him of the huge losses due to power outages in industry.As the power situation continues to remain grim in Punjab, large-scale industries have been asked to shut down operations for another three days till July 10. The orders for extending the power restrictions on large-scale industries, using over 100 KW of load, in Central, North and West zones were issued by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) late Monday night. The power shutdown in the industry had already been imposed for the past three days.President of the association Narinder Sagoo, said, “Industry and trade of Punjab is going through very tough times from a very long time. This is very crucial time for the survival of the industry. In this crucial time which was to be used for survival, power cuts are creating panic in the Industry.”He added, “Industry needs power to be able to manufacture and give employment to workers and daily wage earners. Also industry has to supply their products as per their contracts and any delay would incur penalties. Even in the absence of power, industry needs to pay all their expenses for manufacturing. But due to power cuts, the Industry overall had to bear loss of more than Rs 500 crores per day. All this would impact the revenue model of Punjab also.”He has further mentioned, “As per the data, power is abundantly available in the neighbouring states. The government needs to urgently consider getting electricity from them to provide electricity to the industry for its survival. Also, small industries have electricity connection of less than or equal to 500 KVA should be allowed to run at every expense for survival in this tough environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-outage-bizmen-suffering-rs-500-cr-loss-per-day-279374
07-07-2021||---||Punjab Police nabs 2 Army men for leaking info to ISI||Jalandhar, July 6The Punjab Police today busted a major cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two Army personnel on charges of spying and providing classified documents to the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan.Those arrested have been identified as Sepoy Harpreet Singh (23) from Cheecha village in Amritsar and Sepoy Gurbhej Singh (23), a native of Punian village in Tarn Taran.Harpreet, who was posted in Anantnag, joined the Army in 2017 and belonged to 19 Rashtriya Rifles, while Gurbhej belonged to 18 Sikh Light Infantry and was working as a clerk in Kargil. He had joined the Army in 2015.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Jalandhar (Rural) police led by SSP Naveen Singla, while investigating an NDPS case, recovered confidential documents related to the functioning and deployment of the Army from cross-border drug smuggler Ranvir Singh, who was arrested with 70 gm heroin on May 24.He said during interrogation, Ranvir disclosed that he got the documents from Sepoy Harpreet Singh, a friend, as they both belonged to the same village. “Ranvir lured Harpreet with financial benefits for sharing defence documents, following which the latter induced his friend Gurbhej into spying activities,” he said, adding since Gurbhej was working as a clerk in 121 Infantry Brigade Headquarters in Kargil, he could get easy access to the classified documents containing both strategic and tactical information relating to the Army.He said the two had already shared photos of over 900 classified documents — pertaining to defence and national security — to Ranvir over a period of four months between February and May. Ranvir had further passed those on to Pakistan intelligence officers.The DGP said Ranvir used to send classified documents to either Pakistan ISI operatives directly or through Gopi, the main drug smuggler from Dauke village in Amritsar having links with Pakistan-based drug-smuggling syndicates and ISI officials.Following Ranvir’s disclosures, the police have arrested Gopi, who has confessed to having transferred classified documents to Pakistan drug smuggler, identified as Kothar and an alleged Pak ISI operative, Sikander, in lieu of supply of heroin and financial benefits, said the DGP.SSP Naveen Singla said the Army authorities had handed over both Army men to the Jalandhar (Rural) police.The drug connection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-police-nabs-2-army-men-for-leaking-info-to-isi-279193
