08-07-2021||Jalandhar||Enhance your maths skills||Badhed resident killed in accidentHoshiarpur: The Talwara police on Tuesday registered a case against a bus driver for hitting a man when he was crossing the road on Tuesday. According to information, Manoj Kumar, a resident of Badhed village in Una district of Himachal Pradesh, in his complaint to the police said that his brother, Mastan Singh, was working as driver with a private company. Last evening his brother came to Talwara by bus from Ludhiana. After parking his bus at the bus stand he was crossing the road when a bus of Himachal Road Transport Corporation hit him. He immediately took his brother to BBMB hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have registered a case against HRTC bus driver Lekh Raj. OCSeven arrested with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested seven persons and seized narcotics from them during the last 24 hours. During the search of a car near Narayan Nagar, the police seized 405 gm of intoxicating powder, 15 gm of heroin and arrested Om Prakash, alias Omi, a resident of Satobar village in Una district and Shah Nawaz, alias Sanu, of Neel Kanth Mohalla Hoshiarpur. The Sadar police arrested Manish Sharma, alias Bagga, and seized sedative pills from him, while the Mehtiana police arrested two persons and seized sedative injections, syringes and intoxicants from them. OC78,000 ml liquor seized, two heldHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police on Tuesday arrested Kuldeep Singh of Bahga village and seized 18,000 ml of liquor from him. Meanwhile, the Mukerian police, after a secret information, raided Tanda Ram Sahai village and seized 60,000-ml liquor and arrested a man identified as Sumittar Singh. Separate cases under the Excise Act have been registered against the accused. OCMan booked for harassing womanHoshiarpur: On the complaint of a woman, the Sadar police have booked a man on the charge of harassing a woman over phone. Kanchan, a resident of Adamwal, told the police that Amanpreet Singh, a resident of Roop Nagar, was harassing her over phone. After investigating the complaint, the police have registered a case against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enhance-your-maths-skills-279985
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya scholar selected for training||Workshop on IPRsThe Department of Management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus conducted the workshop on intellectual property rights. Advocate Amit Vinayak was the resource person for the workshop. Vinayak helped the students in understanding the core concepts of IPR and various practical aspects involved in filling of IPR. The resource person highlighted the importance of IPR usually give the creator an exclusive right over the use of his/her creation for a certain period of time. With the rapid increase in the globalisation and opening up of the new vistas in India, intellectual capital has become one of the key wealth drivers in the present era. There are different country specific legislations, as well international laws and treaties that govern IP rights. The resource person has imparted the practical aspects how to fill the patent and copyrights.Tech Students of st soldier shineMultimedia students of St. Soldier Institute of Engineering and Technology have excelled in B.Sc Multimedia results declared by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University.Chairman of St Soldier Group, Anil Chopra, College Principal Dr Gurpreet Singh Saini briefed that students Manav Sharma, Nancy scored 8.77 SGPA, Gursimran Kaur, Pratham Sharma got 8.73 SGPA, Sachin Saini 8.68 SGPA, Dishant Sharma,Gurbanit Singh, Harshdeep Sharma got 8.64 SGPA, Rimpi 8.64 SGPA, Mehakpreet Kaur 8.55 SGPA, Himanshu Singh, Jasmeet Singh, Bharti got 8.5 SGPA, Deepak, Harman, Parmeet, Priya, Vinay Kumar got 8.41 SGPA, Gautam Kumar got 8.27 SGPA, Lavish got 8.27 SGPA and Sachin got 8.05 SGPA.Tulsi Devi 1st in M.Sc BiotechnologyTulsi Devi of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged 1st position in the University exams of M.Sc Biotechnology (Sem-I) by getting 462 marks out of 575 whereas Karan Kaushik bagged 2nd position by getting 417 marks in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the college Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. Balbir Kaur, president, College Governing Council, also congratulated the students and reiterated the commitment of the college to quality education and productive research. Dr Arun Dev Sharma, Head Department of Biotechnology was also present on the occasion.Webinar on Financial LiteracyThe PG Department of Commerce and Management of PCM SD College for Women organised a webinar on Financial Literacy. The webinar was conducted as a part of the awareness sessions being conducted by the BSE for the students who are currently learners but will eventually became earners. The resource person for the webinar was Kanwaljit Singh, who is the Branch Head, SS Financial Services Private Limited, Panchkula. He has been managing portfolios of high end clients giving investment advisories to them. The session provided the required information to the young students as to how they can manage their finances in the right way from the very beginning and live a good life. Thus making them good citizens as well who can contribute towards the growth of India's economy.Activity on traffic rules organisedDIPS School, Karol Bagh, organised activity on traffic rules for prep class. During the activity, Vaneet, Samiara, Ananya, Fateh, Jasraj, Bhavik, Rehan, Neha, Aradhya and Vansh made traffic lights and give information on them. Teachers highlighted the importance of following traffic rules while on road. We should never cross the road when the red light is on. Cross only when the green light is on and look right and left while crossing the road. Teachers took the assistance of toy vehicle to explain the traffic rules to little students. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra mentioned that whenever children go for an outing generally do whatever they observe. Therefore parents must keep in mind that whenever they take their children for an outing they adhere to traffic rules so that children follow their footsteps.World Chocolate Day celebratedEklavya School celebrated a virtual World Chocolate Day. This day was celebrated to spread joy and sweetness all around. Chocolates are proved to be healthy and play a vital role in increasing the efficiency of the brain and the nervous system. They act as a stress reliever and controls mood swings to a greater extent. On this day, the high school students made chocolate shakes, baked cakes and cookies. The students of middle school highlighted the health benefits of chocolates by making posters on it. Primary school students showcased their creativity by making cut outs of different kinds of chocolates. The tiny tots of kindergarten students surprised everyone with their ability of creating origami patterns with candy wrappers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-scholar-selected-for-training-279984
08-07-2021||The World Population Awareness Fortnight is being observed from June 27 to July 10||Nawanshahr Diary: World Population Awareness Fortnight||Flood control measures in placeThe district has taken every preventionary measure to tackle any untoward situation such as floods ahead of the monsoon season. Flood control rooms have been set up in the district. The helpline of flood control room is 01823-227472. Similarly, the control rooms have also been up at tehsil level too. 01823-220016 is the contact number of tehsil Nawanshahr, 01824-264666 of Banga tehsil and 01885-220075 of Balachaur tehsil. Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said these control room numbers could be contacted to share any information related to floods or to lodge a complaint. She said any problem related to floods would be resolved on a priority basis as the district administration was fully committed to preventing any untoward incident during the monsoons and to protect the lives and property of people.No more exploitation of safai karamcharisChairman of State Safai Karamchari Commission Geja Ram held a meeting today with various department officials. He said the main objective of the commission was the welfare of karamcharis working in various government departments of the state and their exploitation would not be tolerated in any way. He emphasised on providing medical facilities, uniforms and other necessary facilities to karamcharis and also raised another issue in which he said that they would not be allowed to indulge in sewerage related works without masks. He also said the safai karamcharis would only do the cleaning work. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-world-population-awareness-fortnight-279982
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||Woman among 2 steal bike, booked||Two thieves, including a woman, devised a unique way to steal a motorcycle from a showroom. On the pretext of taking a test drive, the thieves fled with the motorcycle.Around 1 pm, the duo arrived at Shiva Auto Deal showroom, located at Valmiki Chowk. Sanjeev, owner of the showroom, told the police that an unidentified man and a woman entered their showroom to enquire about two-wheelers. He said before taking a test drive of a motorcycle (Pulsar 220cc), the couple took a test drive of a scooter. He said the duo, after taking the bike for the test drive, did not return. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-among-2-steal-bike-booked-279981
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||Plan to set up hockey academy for girls in Jalandhar, says Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi||Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi has promised to set up a hockey academy for girls in Jalandhar on the lines of Surjit Hockey Academy for boys on the request of Surjit Hockey Society.At a special meeting with the Punjab Sports Minister, Surjit Hockey Society general secretary Iqbal Singh Sandhu, chief PRO Surinder Singh Bhapa and Olympian Baljit Singh Dhillon apprised him of the concern over the sharp decline in the standard of women’s hockey in Punjab. “Punjab has always been ahead of other states, but the sharp decline in the level of women’s hockey is evident from the fact that our neighbouring state Haryana has its nine players in the Indian women hockey squad, which will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics, whereas only one player from Punjab will be a member of the team,” officials said.Apprising the Sports Minister of the reasons for the decline, Sandhu said the local Government Senior Girls Secondary School (Nehru Garden) had been running the country’s leading girls hockey training centre for almost 40 consecutive years which has produced a good number of Olympians and international women players like Nisha Sharma, Harpreet Kaur, Ajinder Kaur, Rajni Sharma, Surjit Bajwa, Sharanjit Kaur, Pritpal Kaur, Rajbir Kaur, etc. Punjab had the honour of winning the highest number of national championships till 2016 and this hockey centre was shut down in 2016, which is the main reason for the downfall of women’s hockey in the state.On this occasion, the Surjit Hockey Society presented a memorandum to Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi to set up a hockey academy for girls in the city. Sodhi assured the society that the government would soon set up a hockey academy for girls in Jalandhar to revive the lost status of women’s hockey in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plan-to-set-up-hockey-academy-for-girls-in-jalandhar-says-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-279980
08-07-2021||---||With 19,700 jabbed in Jalandhar on Wed, vax supply remains erratic||Jalandhar, July 7After the Health Department ran out of vaccines here on Tuesday, as many as 19,700 people were vaccinated in the district during the vaccination programme on Wednesday.While a single-day high of 62,000 vaccines was recently reached by the Health Department, supply in the district still remains erratic. Until today, 38.56 percentage of population has been vaccinated in the district. Having received 21,000 vaccines last night, after having exhausted 19,700 of these (until 6 pm) in the drive today, the Health Department is yet to receive doses for the drive tomorrow.With vaccines mostly arriving after a gap of a day, the department has to vaccinate people on alternate days as per the supply. As per health records until today with 38.5 per cent vaccinated 8,45,902 people in the distrsict have received vaccinations so far. Of these, the majority are in the age group of 45 -59 (2,60,154), the next most vaccinated group in those in the 60 plus age slot (2,28,439 of whom have been vaccinated). The least vaccinated age group is 18 plus on which age slot only 2 lakh 16,122 people have been vaccinated.Barring this, 1,09,141 frontline workers have been vaccinated in the district. Of health workers, merely 32,046 have been vaccinated.Distrsict Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We administer vaccines as per supply. The government provides us as many vaccines as it gets and we promptly administer all the vaccines. The supply scenario is the same everywhere. We have administered 19,700 vaccines today and the drive tomorrow depends on how many more vaccines we get.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-19-700-jabbed-in-jalandhar-on-wed-vax-supply-remains-erratic-279979
08-07-2021||---||Man found dead on railway tracks||Jalandhar, July 7The body of a man was found on the railway tracks in Jalandhar Cantt on Wednesday. After receiving information about the incident, the Government Railway Police (GRP) reached the spot.The deceased could not be identified, but a slip was recovered from his pocket in which Samsher Singh Sukh was written. The head of the man was also severed from his body.Giving further information, GRP in-charge of police outpost, Jalandhar Cantt, Rohit Kumar stated that he had received information from the station master at around 12pm that a beheaded body of a person was found on the railway lines at Defence Colony near Jalandhar Cantt.After visiting the spot, it appeared that the man had committed suicide. However, there was not any confirmation till now. A slip has been found from the pocket of the deceased on which Shamsher Singh Sukh was written. The body has been sent to the Civil Hospital for a post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-279978
08-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ever tried gluten-free lip-smacking jalebis?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 7Having already prepared items like biscuits, noodles, semolina and porridge from potatoes, the scientists at ICAR’s Central Potato Research Station (CPRS) here have now come up with lip-smacking potato jalebis.The potato jalebis taste very much like the ordinary jalebis, may be even slightly better. The gluten-free jalebi has been prepared by Dr Arvind Kumar Jaiswal, scientist, food technology, here, who has already applied for a patent for the purpose.He explains the concept: “Traditionally, jalebi is prepared by a fermented batter of refined wheat flour along with added curd as an indigenous source of lactic acid bacteria or yeast, salt and water. The thick leavened batter is squeezed and deposited as continuous spirals into hot edible oil. These fried spirals are removed from fat and submerged in hot sugar saffron-scented syrup, which saturates their hollow insides. But the presence of refined wheat flour makes traditional jalebi unfit for gluten-intolerant persons due to the presence of gluten as an active component. But potato jalebi will not be a problem for them”.Another issue associated with the traditional jalebi is that it cannot be stored for longer times because jalebi is preferred when served hot and crispy. To satisfy the jalebi hunger of the gluten-intolerant population and to bring something new for jalebi lovers, the ICAR-CPRI has developed and standardised the process for ‘Potato-based gluten-free ready-to-reconstitute potato jalebi’ and ‘Instant potato jalebi premix’.“In ready-to-reconstitute type potato jalebi, it needs to be submerged in hot sugar syrup for two minutes before consumption. This potato jalebi has a shelf life of 3-4 months at ambient storage conditions without any loss in crispiness. The utilisation of the whole potato also makes potato jalebi rich in dietary fibre,” he explained.Dr Jaiswal adds in more things to its advantage. “Interestingly unlike other potato products such as chips and French fried potato, the potato jalebi is independent of shape, size, dry matter, sugar, and variety of potatoes. Partially damaged or cold-stored potatoes can also be utilised. This technology can be easily adopted by industries involved in the production of ready to reconstitute food products, sweet shops and food industries involved in the production of snacks. As this product is ready-to-reconstitute type therefore can be easily sold at sweet shops, kiryana shops, malls, supermarkets, and departmental stores also. The technology is ready for commercialisation. At present, this technology has been tested at a laboratory scale only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ever-tried-gluten-free-lip-smacking-jalebis-279955
08-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Power supply of poor family cut as it fails to pay hefty bill||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 7The electricity connection of a poor family at Talhan village here was severed as they could not pay a whopping power bill of Rs46,950.Harbhajan Lal (45) and his wife Kashmiro are running from pillar to post for waiver of the power bill, but no official is listening to them. While the differently abled couple has also been issued a fine of Rs 10,000, Harbhajan claims that they use only a fan and three lights.They received the inflated bill in January this year and the family of three has been without electricity since. It was only in the last month that they used kundi connection to light up their house. However, during a raid by workers of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on June 27, they cut off not only kundi connection, but also slapped a penalty of Rs 10,000 on the family. “A few months before receiving the inflated bill, we had also received an electricity bill of Rs 12,500. Owing to the Covid-induced lockdown, we exhausted all our savings and are now left with no work. Therefore, we could not pay the bill for a few months. Despite repeated pleas, our bill was neither corrected nor waived,” said Lal, who makes a living by selling toys with his wife near Talhan gurdwara. Owing to their financial crisis, their 17-year-old daughter also dropped out of school last year.After visitors were denied entry to the gurdwara, the couple lost their business and did not have any other source of income. Except one ceiling fan, three bulbs and water motor pump, the couple did not have any other electrical gadget to use. Despite that they get bill in thousands.Kashmiro said PSPCL officials had asked us to pay the bill in 15 days otherwise their house would be sealed. “With the mercury rising, we had to get electricity through kundi connection with the help of our neighbours,” added Kashmiro.Surprisingly, despite being among the beneficiaries, Harbhajan said he never got 200 free electricity units.Meanwhile, SAD MLA from Adampur Pawan Tinu said even as Navjot Singh Sidhu had a pending electricity bill running into lakhs, his electricity connection was not severed, but poor people in the district were forced to suffer. He assured the family of his help in clearing their bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-supply-of-poor-family-cut-as-it-fails-to-pay-hefty-bill-279956
08-07-2021||---||‘Plantation best solution to check global warming’||Jalandhar, July 7Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated van mahotsav by organising a webinar on ‘Role of microbes in sustainable forest management’. Around 300 school and college students from all over the state participated through virtual mode. The programme was sponsored by the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab.Dr Vipin Parkash, programme coordinator (forestry), Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, was the key speaker. Delivering a talk on the occasion, he said soil micro-organisms were important part of the forest ecosystem and play an important role in sustainable development of forestry.Further, microbial life has been present on earth for at least 3,500 million years and microbes also play numerous roles as silent partners in human activities such as forestry, agriculture, mining and water treatment. A balanced community of micro-organisms is extremely important for health of trees and plays a vital role in converting barren, poor quality land into cultivable land, he added.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Science City, said the primary objective of the van mahotsav week celebration was to bring awareness on the environmental issues and educate masses about the need of planting saplings as these are one the best solution to control global warming. For maintaining the ecological balance in a country, a minimum of 33 per cent of land area is required under forests. But in India, the actual forest area is 21.67 per cent only.However, with a total forest cover of 7,12,249 sq km, India is one of the 10 most forest rich countries of the world and is one of the mega diverse countries and there is dire need to save flora and fauna to prevent forest degradation, she added. The major issue of concern is that the forest cover is not evenly distributed. For example: Punjab has a total forest area of 3.65% only, of which about 1 per cent is very dense forest, 44 per cent is moderately dense and 55 per cent is open forest. This warrants a need to enhance the area under forests in the state.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said Science City was playing an important role in harbouring rich floral biodiversity and maintaining cactus garden, herbal garden and avenue of rare endangered species. It has 5,500 trees having rich cultural and heritage value at its premises. He emphasised the need to increase plantation activity in Punjab to increase forest cover to 15 per cent at least. Science City also organised two online competitions on “Plant native tree species” and “Heritage trees contest” at the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plantation-best-solution-to-check-global-warming-279957
08-07-2021||---||Jalandhar reports 8 fresh Covid cases, no death||Jalandhar, July 7The district on Wednesday recorded eight new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 62,835. Of the new cases, one case was reported from another district. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported. As many as 61,202 people have recovered from the fatal disease in the district while the number of active cases has come down to 149.1 dies, 5 test +ve in K’thalaThe district on Wednesday recorded five fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,650. However, one death due to Covid-19 was reported. The victim was identified as a 47-year-old man from Dhilwan.11 new cases in HoshiarpurWith 11 new cases reported in the district on Wednesday, the total number of Covid patients in the district so far has increased to 30,520, while no death was reported today. Health authorities said the total number of samples taken so far in the district was 6,79,080 with 2,635 new samples of people with suspected with flu-like symptoms today.No death in NawanshahrThe district reported seven fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and no death. Urban Banga, Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Sujjon block did not report any case. The number of active cases in the district now is 27, out of which 24 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,412 (94.45 per cent) and the toll is 358 (3.13 per cent), while the recovery rate is 96.62 per cent. As many as two patients are admitted in the Level-II Covid-care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-8-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-279958
08-07-2021||---||Oxygen plant set up at RCF Hospital||Jalandhar, July 7 A medical oxygen plant has been installed at Rail Coach Factory to provide regular oxygen supply to patients admitted in Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital on the campus. It has a capacity of 83 litres per minute, which can supply medical oxygen to about 20 patients round the clock.  The plant was today inaugurated by Neeta Gupta, president, RCF Women’s Welfare Organisation. The plant has been set up at a cost of Rs 23 lakh.  During April-May this year, the country was left reeling under the shortage of medical oxygen as Covid patients kept thronging the hospitals. The RCF came forward to supply 1,210 kg of liquid oxygen from its oxygen plant to Guru Nanak Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. Supply of this liquid oxygen though had some effect o¬n RCF’s coach production, but the supply proved to be helpful to deal with the emergency needs of corona patients.  The plant is based on pressure swing absorption (PSA) technology wherein the compressed air which contains 21% oxygen and 78% nitrogen passes through a filter for storage in air accommodator and subsequently through coal tower for absorption of hydrocarbon molecules. This air then splits into two phases, with one phase containing 93-95% pure oxygen and other phase containing nitrogen to vent to atmosphere. The produced oxygen is stored in storage tank through a sterilising filter for constant supply to hospital. The plant has been installed by M/s. High Tech Engineered Solutions, Mandi Gobingarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-plant-set-up-at-rcf-hospital-279959
08-07-2021||---||Farmers’ week-long protest concludes in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 7City youths, under the banner of Eduyouth Foundation, on Wednesday concluded a week-long ‘Farmers Week’ protest at Model Town.Kunwar Sartaj Singh, president, Eduyouth Foundation, said the protesters gathered at PAP Chowk to draw support for farmers, followed by BSF Chowk, BMC Chowk, Guru Nanak Missioj Chowk, Nakodar Chowk and Kapurthala Chowk.Farmers under Azaad Kisaan Sangharsh Committee (Punjab), Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) and Doaba Kisaan Sangharsh Committee also participated in the protest. Kunwar, who is also a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said pamphlets and posters related to farmers movement were also circulated from July 1- 7. Sunny Lally (Azad Bus Service), Arshpreet Bal, Gurkirat Sandhu, Jaskirat Sandhu, Gurkaran Randhawa, S.Harsimran Tiwana, and others participated in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-week-long-protest-concludes-in-jalandhar-279960
08-07-2021||---||Frequent power cuts make life miserable for Jalandhar residents||Jalandhar, July 7After no domestic power cuts for the past few days, city residents once again reeled under power cut for over two and a half hours this afternoon.Amid scorching heat and blazing sun when most people prefer staying indoors, families were seen coming out on roads in various colonies to heave a sigh of relief. Residents of areas with smaller dwelling units as in Bhargo Camp, Gandhi Camp, Abadpura and other old city areas even took out their charpoys, chairs and sat underneath a shady place and used hand fans to comfort themselves a bit.The power cut started at around 1.30 pm and continued up to 4 pm during which heat wave further added to the residents’ discomfort. The city gets the MC’s direct water supply in the afternoon from 1 pm to 2 pm and supply of water for half of this time could not be possible today. Residents of Bhargo Camp said owing to a sunny day and power cut, they felt that their rooms had turned into ovens and they could not bear the heat and hence preferred coming out.Meanwhile, even industrialists have been ruing that the power cut imposed on them for the past nearly five days now said that their losses had mounted. Focal Point Extension Association president Narinder Singh Saggoo said, “We understand that there has been a continuous dry spell. We also understand that agriculture needs to be given a priority at this time. We also understand that there has been an increase in demand for domestic power supply because of work from home culture. But at the same time, the schools, colleges, marriage palaces etc are not working these days. Many people have also left for tourist places.”He further asked, “All such things could have been pre-empted and special provisioning should have been made. Since the sales of electronic items, including mobile phones, computers, etc, has risen for over the past one year, the demand of power was certainly set to rise”.Industrialists say that the government had done nothing to encourage installation of solar plants and no subsidies were coming to those who took such an initiative. “We are looking forward to electricity driven cars, scooters, rickshaws etc but we are not bothering to ensure that the adequate provisions are being made. Owing to the industrial shutdown, the daily wagers and labourers too had been rendered jobless for as many days and the government must at least think about their plight”, the association members made some more points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/frequent-power-cuts-make-life-miserable-for-jalandhar-residents-279961
08-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Protesting teachers’ family members share traumatic experiences||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 7“The news of use of water cannons on teachers flashed all day and I kept on getting calls from my family members. They wanted to ask me about my wellbeing and if I was all right. They just wanted to hear my voice,” said an education provider who teaches in a government primary school in Jalandhar.He said Tuesday was tough for all those teachers who had gone to Chandigarh for a meeting, but when the meeting could not happen, they had to protest.The teacher said he had seen something like this for the first time. “What have we done? We are just demanding our money. We earn a meagre salary of Rs 6,000-Rs 10,000. Can anyone run their families with this amount,” he said.Notably, several pictures and videos were being circulated on social media showing visuals of a tussle between cops and teachers during the protest. Kulwinder Singh, president of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, had gone to support these education providers. “I remember that such a tussle was witnessed by me in the year 1997 when we were protesting against the government. After that, I experienced something like this yesterday,” he said.Another education provider requesting anonymity said they saw their colleagues getting injured during the protest.Kuldeep Singh, district president of the education providers’ union, said most of the protesters had gone with their families. “It is an old battle that we are fighting. But till date, no solution has been found by the government,” the president said.He has been working as an education provider for the last 13 years and when he joined, he was earning merely Rs 3,000 and now he earns Rs 10,000. “Can you believe a person, who has done MA and BEd, is earning a mere Rs 10,000?” he said.“The family members were so worried. It was a difficult day for all of us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesting-teachers-family-members-share-traumatic-experiences-279967
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||People’s Pulse - Doaba: Oppn senses real opportunity as Punjab Cong fights dissent||Doaba proved to be a Congress stronghold in 2017 as the party pocketed 15 of the 23 Assembly seats in the region, a far better showing than 2012, when it could win only six. As Punjab goes to polls early next year, the ruling party, which resonated with confidence in Doaba and elsewhere in the state till some months ago, is confronted with an unexpected challenge from within as voices of dissent get louder, and the Opposition suddenly senses a real opportunity.Farmers may hold keyDalit voters constitute a sizable 43 per cent of the total electorate in Doaba, but the divisions are stark, as are the affiliations. This ensures the voting patterns change only marginally, if at all. Poll pundits, therefore, feel the farming community, which accounts for 25 per cent of the population in the region, could hold the key in 2022. Parties gearing up for electoral fightFarmers sitting on the borders of Delhi for the past more than seven months have not opened their political cards, and since they are getting open support from various sections of the society, including traders, arhtiyas and Ravidassias, no one party can lay claim to be their prime backer.While acknowledging that the farmer unrest could prove to be a major election plank, senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia feels it’s a pan-Punjab issue and Doaba is no exception. “We still have sufficient time though. There could a successful round of talks soon.”The Congress, meanwhile, is busy recovering lost ground owing to differences within the party, though its problems of dissidence are far from over. As rebel MLA Pargat Singh, who has taken on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for “not fulfilling promises to voters” says, “The Congress can still get an upper hand and win the polls provided the state leadership changes hands.”Former Congress minister Avtar Henry feels the “existing situation could be a cause of concern” in the region. “Doaba, which had six ministers from the region in the previous Congress regime in 2002-07, has just one representation this time in the Cabinet. Sunder Sham Arora and Rana Gurjit Singh got the berth but the latter lost it far too quickly (after the sand mining contract controversy).” Post the alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Akalis look upbeat in certain areas. Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Adampur Pawan Tinu, who incidentally is a former BSP leader, however, feels the new alliance partner’s core members may not be fully on board with BSP supremo Mayawati’s decision to ink a pact with the SAD, contesting 23 of the 117 seats. BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi though discounts the concerns. “There were some initial reservations within the rank and file regarding seat sharing but since the party supremo has already reiterated that the pact is final, everyone has begun to fall in line.”Underlining the importance of the Dalit card, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo was seen supporting the SC students against his own party on the Post Matric Scholarship issue, recently. This had led to SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot choosing to skip visits to Doaba.While the BJP has already announced that its CM candidate will be a Dalit, even SAD president Sukhbir Badal has said that if the party wins, a Dalit leader will get the Deputy CM’s post. Of the total Dalit population in Doaba, 23 per cent are Ravidassias, and 12 per cent Valmikis and 2-3 per cent Mazhabi Sikhs. Deras such as Sachkhand Ballan, Nurmahal-based Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan, Dera Baba Jaure and Dera Kahnan Dhesian are also important nerve centres for Dalit voting choices. The Christian deras of Dalits, too, could influence the voting trends, feels Dalit writer Des Raj Kali. The 2015 sacrilege issue interestingly does not figure high on the mind of voters in Doaba, unlike in certain other parts of Punjab. Banga SAD MLA Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi feels even education and employment do not count for much as election issues. “Majority of those who can afford it have gone abroad for education and jobs,” he says. The Aam Aadmi Party, which won two seats in 2017, has not been able to build upon its base after Sukhpal Khaira quit. Though Jalandhar ex-DCP Balkar Singh joined the party recently, the ground appears weak. “Our party has already started working at the booth level and soon there will be mass joining of workers and leaders to add to the strength of the party,” claims Jai Krishan Rori, Garhshankar MLA.Phagwara was the only seat from Doaba that the BJP won in 2017 when the party had an alliance with the SAD. But then MLA Som Parkash went to the Centre. Also, former Union MoS Vijay Sampla from Hoshiarpur heads the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. To add to faces, the party has roped in former leader of All India Sikh Students’ Federation Harinder Singh Kahlon as a prominent Sikh face but he is yet to show his presence publicly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/peoples-pulse-doaba-oppn-senses-real-opportunity-as-punjab-cong-fights-dissent-279649
08-07-2021||Jalandhar||7 hospitals fail to install Oxygen plants in Jalandhar, get notice||The district administration today issued show-cause notices to seven hospitals for failure to install pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants despite repeated directions.These include Sharanjit, Kidney, Sikka, Oxford, Ghai, Neuronova, and Caremax hospitals. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori recommended the Health Department to cancel their licence as Covid care facilities in case they fail to adhere to the guidelines issued by the administration. Further, these hospitals would be held accountable for any death due to oxygen shortage in the event of a possible third Covid wave, he said.“During the peak of the second wave, these hospitals kept asking for oxygen. The demand at some hospitals reached 200 cylinders per day. With cases reducing, this was the best time to install PSA plants. Despite meetings with civil officers, these hospitals failed to follow directions.” There are 60 private hospitals offering Covid care facilities in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-hospitals-fail-to-install-oxygen-plants-in-jalandhar-get-notice-279654
