09-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: PwD helpline receives just 58 calls in 3 days||The helpline number launched by the district administration here to vaccinate persons with disabilities (PwDs) has received a lukewarm response so far. The helpline, which was started on July 5, has received just 58 calls in the past three days. A majority of the calls are from the city while some have been from the rural areas.The administration said 45 to 50 of them had been ensured doorstep vaccination by mobile teams.The control room number 0181-2224417 had been launched by the Deputy Commissioner on July 5 to ensure doorstep vaccination to the specially abled people who are unable to approach the vaccination centres.Vaccine hesitancy and people being unavailable for vaccination after making a call on the helpline are some of the factors encountered by the medical teams working on ground. Notably, out of an estimated 18,000 persons with disabilities in the district, 2,000 have been inoculated in special camps. Some have also been vaccinated during routine camps. People from Nakodar, Mota Singh Nagar, Urban Estate, Phillaur and some other areas of the district have so far sought mobile teams in their areas.Meanwhile, an alternate database is being created by the disability sector to raise awareness about the doorstep vaccination. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “Until now, mobile teams have reached out to 50 people seeking doorstep vaccinations.”“We are also receiving feedback from the ground that some people are unwilling to get the jabs. When teams approach them, they say they will consult their doctor first. There are others who are unavailable when teams call them after reaching their area,” said Thori.“The process has also started in Nakodar and Phillaur, where the area SDMs have deputed their teams for the job. The remaining SDMs shall also start the process by tomorrow,” the DC said. “We hope more people call and avail the service,” he added.Amarjit Singh Anand, disability activist and president of the Channan Association, said: “We are reaching out to the members of the community via social media to make a database of those who wish to be inoculated at homes.”“We are creating google forms which shall be filled by them. These will be submitted to the District Programme Officer (DPO), who shall be deputing CDPOs and supervisors to reach out to the persons with disabilities at their homes,” he said.“2,000, including care givers, have been vaccinated at our camps so far. But we have no idea of the persons with disabilities vaccinated at regular session sites. There is also lack of awareness about the helpline number. I have asked officials to advertise the number more so that everyone is aware of it,” Anand added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-pwd-helpline-receives-just-58-calls-in-3-days-280329
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||One dies, 29 test +ve in Jalandhar||With a slight increase in Covid-19 cases, as many as 29 fresh cases were reported today in the district, thus taking the tally to 62,864. Of these, two cases were from other districts. The health authorities reported one Covid-19 related death. With this the toll has increased to 1,485. As many as 61,223 people have recovered from the virus while the district has 156 active cases.14 cases reported in K’thalaIn Kapurthala, 14 people tested positive today. With this, the tally reached 17,664. The health authorities reported one death in Kapurthala district today. A 32-year-old person from Kabirpur village died of the virus today.One dies in HoshiarpurWith 13 new positive cases, the tally reached 30,533 in Hoshiarpur district on Thursday. The authorities reported one death. With this, the toll increased to 972. The total number of samples taken in the district has reached 6,80,640 to date. As per the test reports, 6,50,875 persons tested negative while ,2080 reports were still awaited and 989 were invalid.Of the 2,242 reports received today, 13 new cases were traced in the district. The district has 81 active cases while the number of patients who have recovered reached 29,480. The patient who died today is a 72-year-old woman of Dhakka village in Paldi block.One dies, 4 new cases in NawanshahrThe district reported four fresh Covid-19 cases and one Covid-19 related death on Thursday. With this, the tally has reached 11,416 and the toll increased to 359.Three cases were reported from Muzaffarpur block and one from Balachaur. At present, the district has 28 active cases, out of which 26 patients were under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.61 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-dies-29-test-ve-in-jalandhar-280330
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers hit the streets in Jalandhar over steep rise in prices of fuel, cooking gas||Hundreds of farmers and contractual workers under the banner of various farm unions hit the road against constant hike in petroleum products (petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder) on Thursday.Apart from tractors-trailers, farmers arrived on horse carts. While the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee stayed put at Pathankot Chowk, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) and the Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee’s activists protested at Rama Mandi and Lohian, respectively.After parking their vehicles at Pathankot Chowk and on Rama Mandi-Ludhiana road, farmers honked to show their anger. Upset with power cuts and rising diesel prices, farmers had kept tractors on their trailers with banners stating ‘tractors on sale’ at Rama Mandi.Joginder Singh, a farmer, said, “It’s unfortunate that we are not able to use our tractors due to costlier fuel. It has become difficult for us to irrigate fields by using generators.”Similarly, women holding flags of the farm unions carried LPG gas cylinders, which read only a ‘Modi bhakt’ can refill it.Farmers along with the youth morcha and contractual workers organised a sit-in dharna at BMC Chowk. Holding placards against the Centre, agitators arrived with empty cylinders.Manjit Singh Rai of the BKU (Rajewal) said, “PM Modi-led government is increasing price of diesel and petrol on a daily basis. It has affected agriculture sector the most. Rising diesel prices have also brought transport business to the brink of collapse. Hike in oil prices have pushed up essential freight rates and inflation has peaked. Diesel price has been hiked 16 times from June 20 to date.”No traffic snarls witnessedWhile a large numbers of protesters took to the streets today, but no traffic snarls were witnessed. On highways, farmers had parked their vehicles on a single lane, which did not affect the traffic movement. Heavy police force and anti-riot teams were also deployed on the protest sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-hit-the-streets-in-jalandhar-over-steep-rise-in-prices-of-fuel-cooking-gas-280331
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||Industrialists, labourers in dire straits||Adopting different measures to make workers stay back and run their units has become an arduous task for industrialists. Earlier, the pandemic played the spoilsport for more than a year, and now frequent power cuts have brought production to a grinding halt.As a result, labourers have become restless due to power outages and closure of large scale industries. Most workers have planned to head back to their native places due to unemployment.Rajan Gupta, chief, Industrial Focal Point Welfare Association, said, “Some labourers have left for their homes. They do not want to live here unemployed. Even they want to earn a livelihood for their families. We are facing multiple problems.”The Industrial Focal Point Welfare Association organised a dharna outside the PSPCL office along with factory workers today.Narinder Sagoo, a leading industrialist, said, “Labourers have become apprehensive as there’s no work from the last few days. Units are closed and in the coming days too, situation can remain the same. Thus, they have started conveying us that they will go back.”He informed that out of 11,000 units in the city, 7,000 were large scale. “How will a daily wage worker earn and how will he run his family. If they go back now, they won’t return,” said Sagoo.He said the government did not prepared for the worst- case scenario. “We will contact the MLAs and approach the Director Distribution and discuss the issue,” he said.Apart from this, long power cuts were also imposed in domestic sector.Meanwhile, irked residents vented out their anger on social media platforms by circulating messages against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-labourers-in-dire-straits-280332
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers stage protest outside PSPCL office||Farmers, including men and women, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Thursday staged a protest outside Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office against power supply disruption in the ongoing paddy season.Jalandhar district president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Salwinder Singh Janian, district general secretary Gurmel Singh Rerwan, district Kapurthala president Sarwan Singh Baupur, district general secretary Sukhpreet Singh Pasan led the protest against frequent power cuts in the domestic and agricultural sectors.This is the second such protest within a week. The committee members had earlier submitted a memorandum to PSPCL chief here against failure to supply eight hour electricity to farmers in the region.Gurlal Singh Pandori, one of the farmers, warned the corporation chief that if unscheduled power cuts were not stopped they would intensify their protest. He demanded the government to ensure that the damaged transformers be replaced within 24 hours. The PSPCL should also report about the stolen transformers to the police and provide new transformers as soon as possible.Pandori demanded the state government to immediately fill the vacant posts in the department. The farmer leaders warned the Centre and the state government to stop the electricity crisis and provide subsidies to the farmers. They also demanded repeal of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and the Air Pollution Act 2020. Nirmal Singh Dhandowal, president, Shaheed Sandeep Kumar Zone; Rajinder Singh Nangalambia, district press secretary; Harpreet Singh Kotli Gajran, zone press secretary; Sarabjit Singh Dhandowal and others were present in the protest.Stop power cuts, demand industrialistsIndustrialist from the district along with their workers also reached the Shaki Sadan office of PSPCL against power cuts. The industrialists stated that the manufacturing was suffering due to the power cuts. Instead of making the arrangements to supply uninterrupted electricity to the manufacturing units, the electricity department was extending the power cut schedule, stated the agitators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stage-protest-outside-pspcl-office-280333
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||No bus service for two hours||ASHA union begins two-day strikeTalwara: On the call of state union, the Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) Union, Bhol Kalota, on Thursday started a two-day strike. President of local ASHA union Nirmala Devi said the incentive given to the female community health activists after completion of TB treatment course had not been released by the Punjab Government for the last two years. Besides, the health activists have not got salaries for the last two months. Instead of boosting the morale of the workers, the government is doing sheer injustice to them. It will not be tolerated at all. The struggle will be intensified in the coming days, if demands are not met. A memorandum was also given to SMO Hajipar by the union. OCDoor-to-door vax awareness driveHoshiarpur: Joint teams of the Health Department and district administration constituted by Special Duty Magistrate Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner Avtar Singh Kang, conducted motivation drive in many villages. Nodal officer Kamal Kumar Khosla and Special Duty Officer Rajnish Kumar Guliani motivated the people going door-to-door. They said that no person above 18 years of age should remain without getting vaccinated. Kang said people should not spread misconceptions about vaccination. The impact of the third wave would be minimal if all people over the age of 18 and 45 get vaccinated. OC82 participate in placement campNawanshahr: Under the ‘Door-to-Door Employment and Business Mission’, a placement camp was organised at the District Bureau of Employment here on Thursday. District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer Sanjeev Kumar said that 82 candidates from the district participated in the placement camp. He appealed to the unemployed candidates of the district to avail maximum benefits of the placement camps to be set up in future. Meanwhile, career counsellor Harmandeep Singh said that a library had been set up at the District Bureau of Employment where the candidates could prepare for the competitive examinations during office hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-bus-service-for-two-hours-280334
09-07-2021||Jalandhar||6th pay panel report: Mass media employees observe pen-down strike||Officers and employees of the Mass Media Wing of the Health Department observed a pen-down strike against recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and the Finance Department. The district unit members, under the banner of Mass Media Employees and Officers Association, hold a protest in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office. District mass media officer Kirpal Singh Jhalli, deputy mass media officer Jaswinder Kaur, association’s district president BEE Sharandeep Singh, deputy president Nitiraj B Singh, secretary Ketan Prakash, press secretary Chandan Mishra, illustrator-cum-artist Jagatjeet Singh, Jagdeep Kaur, Aseem Sharma, Preetinder Singh, Rakesh Singh, Manav Sharma, Sandeep Walia, Harvinder Kaur, Neeraj Sharma and others were present during the protest.Kirpal Singh Jhalli said the Mass Media Officers Association had demanded before the pay commission that the posts with the same educational qualification should be given the same pay scale as the Public Relations Department, but the pay commission had done injustice by not considering the demand and ignoring it completely. Sharandeep Singh said, “The association has joined the July 8-9 pen-down strike on the call of Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Sanjha Front. All members of association will strike work for two days.Chandan Mishra said their main demands were restoration of the old-pension scheme and to fill the vacant posts in the department. He said the association would continue their protest till acceptance of the demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6th-pay-panel-report-mass-media-employees-observe-pen-down-strike-280335
09-07-2021||Jalandhar city boasts of a number of educational institutes. Besides academics||Ingenious  innovators||Recycling clothes helped her earn 12 IPRsHead of the PG Department of Fashion Designing of KMV, Dr Harpreet Kaur was always keen in refurbishing her clothes, upcycling them or re-purposing and re-designing them. It was in fact her this style which brought her 12 IPRs by the Copyright Office. She has done these works along with her associates including her namesake Harpreet, Minaal, Maninder Kaur, Navneet, Simerjeet, Rita Kant, Harpreet Tuteja and Navdeep. Dr Harpreet shares that she began working on patents after her PhD which was on “Developing Techniques of Upcycling Pre and Post-Consumer Textile Waste for Sustainable Growth”. She shares: “I always thought of pursuing my PhD work on Kashmir shawls but I realised that there was not much I could contribute. My husband suggested the topic as he felt it was a way of life with me. Soon I filed two IPRs in artistic category of copyright. After that, I gained confidence and soon there was no looking back. Having got 12 patents, there is one more in the pipeline and a few others in the preparation stage”.‘Cuterobot’: Robotic mechanism for Covid wardPopularly known as ‘Rancho of Jalandhar’, Dr KS Nagla, Associate Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, has five patents to his credit. Recently, he shot into limelight with his new technology ‘Cuterobot’, a robotic device for the supply of medicines, meals and other items for a patient admitted in a Covid ward. He has been into designing new products for the past many years. His first invention was an earthquake alarm, the patent of which was granted to him in 2004. He got the second patent for developing a mechanism to clean the poultry farm in 2007. Next was an induction hardening machine for treating equipments which a patent was granted in 2014 and then a leg exerciser machine. This year amid pandemic, he also got a patent on air purifier. Recently, he has also developed a project on Smart City garbage transportation system for which he has already applied for a patent. The technology has already been transferred to M/s Digitech Controls and Systems of Pune for mass production. Dr Nagla claims that the invention will be a necessary part of a smart city to carry the garbage buckets from houses to garbage dumps, several kilometres away. As compared to the conventional conveyor belt transportation systems of industry, the robotic modular system will be low in cost, reliable and modular in nature. The intelligent system will be connected to the computers and mobile phones using IoT technology. Handwash timer, smart bin for Covid wardsHaving already got published 88 patents and got seven granted, Dr Lovi Raj Gupta, Executive Dean of Science and Technology, Lovely Professional University, along with a team of scientists have developed 20Sec4Life. It is an IoT device to time hand washing. It glows, beeps and plays a musical tone for 20 to ensure people disinfect their hands properly. It can be mounted on any liquid soap dispenser to ensure the user washes their hands properly as per the WHO guidelines for Covid. The splash-proof device operates via the battery. The base device gets triggered and starts playing music for 20+ seconds when the nozzle of the handwash is pressed to dispense soap. The expected selling price of the base model post commercialisation is Rs 70 per unit. Dr Gupta said an Australian patent for the item had already been granted for the product. Another useful Covid-related product for which Dr Gupta and his team have been granted a patent is ‘Ally’ which is a ‘smartbin for Covid wards’. “Ally’s task is to collect waste in quarantined areas without human contact and hence it can save lives of thousands of frontline workers battling the Covid-19 pandemic. It can even work in 100-bed hospitals and can be pre-programmed so that it can be directed to a particular bed number. It can even be used to dispense medicines and meals to the patients. We are hopeful it will be commercialised soon,” he shared.Growing potatoes with aeroponicsThe most significant patented technology of ICAR — Central Potato Research Station is aeroponics technology. Team for this technology of growing plants in air was led by Sukhwinder Singh. This technique has been licensed to 21 entrepreneurs, who are producing about 15 million potato minitubers each year to meet India’s demand of pre-basic seed potatoes. He has also contributed to many other technologies, including Vegfast and Hydrofast, the technologies for urban rooftop vegetable gardening, specially designed hand tools for greater ergonomic ease, innovative tissue-cultured plant hardening technology, sensor-based grading/counting systems, insect proof net houses, and so on. He has filed/granted 18 patents in various disciplines of agriculture. Yogesh Gupta, assistant chief technical officer, with over 30 years of experience in post-harvest management of potatoes, has been working on natural organic sprout suppression in potatoes for the past 15 years and has identified several extremely promising sprout suppressants. In addition, he has filed/granted two patents on sprout suppressor and potato dehydration.Prodrug for treating arthritisAs a part of his PhD work at Lovely Professional University, Bhupinder Kapoor, a resident of Phagwara, has developed a prodrug of Sulfapyridine for treating rheumatoid arthritis. The new treatment, which was developed after to give a new lease of life to the arthritis drug Sulfapyridine for its anti-arthritic potential, has been published as an Indian patent while an international (Australian) patent has been granted. Despite being a very old drug, sulfapyridine is still used in treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. However, long-term use of the drug result in side-effects such as nausea/vomiting, rashes, dizziness, anxiety and abdominal pain. The prodrug exhibited better retention in liposomes as compared to the drug, thus reducing the symptoms of inflammation. The prodrug treatment is administered by injecting the affected area; and not through oral consumption. This means that the medication only remains in the affected area, without spreading to the rest of the body. The research team responsible for this new drug delivery method also includes Dr Monica Gulati and Dr Sachin K. Singh and Reena Gupta.IKG Punjab Technical UniversityControlling headlights of approaching vehiclesAvtar Singh Buttar has been granted a patent for inventing ‘A device and method to control headlights of vehicles as per behaviour of eye vision’. Explaining the concept, he said it worked on sensing the light of the vehicle coming on the opposite side by placing a sensing unit and controlling the light of the vehicle in such a way that it does not blind or pain the eyes of the driver due to excessive light. “I had such an experience during driving, which made me think of a solution to ward off the problem. The resultant beam on using the device is a mixing of lights of all bulbs/filaments of the main beam and the lower beam to be controlled distance-wise. The control of light occurs automatically with the adjustment of headlights distance-wise. Professor Buttar has also got published three other patents based on photodiode, phototransistor and another on computational prey chase techniques in animals.Chemisorption of dyes from industrial effluentHaving worked in the Department of Chemistry at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Dr Ekta Khosla has got a patent published on ‘Surfactant modified eucalyptus bark as novel adsorbent for removing basic dyes’. Now working as Principal at DAV College Malout, she shares: “Dyes are contaminating water and we need to treat it so as to recycle it again. My research can help remove dyes from the industrial effluents and help conserve water and save the environment in a big way. I have developed this technology along with collaborators from SBP University, Vallabh Vidyanagar. We conducted the entire research at Eucalyptus Cloning Centre in Phillaur. It basically involves use of bark shed by the tree and the process used for the same is chemisorption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ingenious-innovators-280337
