10-07-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Shukar aa tera maalka’: Harbhajan Singh, wife Geeta Basra blessed with baby boy||Chandigarh, July 10Veteran India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh and his wife Geeta Basra were blessed with a baby boy on Saturday. Harbhajan took to social media to share the good news with friends and fans.He wrote: “Blessed with a Baby boy...shukar aa Tera maalka”.Blessed with a Baby boy 💙💙💙💙💙💙💙💙💙💙💙💙 shukar aa Tera maalka 🙏🙏 pic.twitter.com/dqXOUmuRID  He said both mother and child are "doing well".The cricketer went on to express gratitude to their well-wishers for their constant love and support. Harbhajan Singh and Geeta Basra, a well-renowned actress, tied the knot on October 29, 2015, in Jalandhar. The couple has a daughter, Hinaya Heer Plaha, who was born on July 27, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shukar-aa-tera-maalka-harbhajan-singh-wife-geeta-basra-blessed-with-baby-boy-281053
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Get jabbed, attend regular classes||Even as the state government on Friday allowed colleges to operate on regular basis as positive cases have reduced drastically, most institutes may not call students till August end.Reason: Most colleges are affiliated with Guru Nanak Dev University, which had already announced summer break for students till July 12. Immediately after the break, semester exams would start, which would continue till mid-August.Since all preparations were in place to hold online exams, students would most likely appear from home. As next semester would start by August end, it’s expected that students would be able attend campus classes by that time only. Dr Anoop Watts from KRM DAV College, Nakodar, said, “Online practical exams will start from July 12 and will continue till July 17. After that, online written examination will start. Students, who are now in fourth and sixth semester and got average marks in their second and fourth semester, too have been given a chance to improve through online mode. So, the entire process will get over in the third week of August. We will be able to allow students on campus only when the university announces to start the next session.”As per the state government’s order, colleges, coaching centres and all other institutions of higher learning have been be allowed to operate by the Deputy Commissioner concerned, subject to a certificate having been submitted, that all teaching, non-teaching staff and students have been administered one dose, at least two weeks ago. As a result, colleges have started asking students to ensure that they keep this provision in mind and ensure that all of them have taken at least a single jab.Making provisions for the same, Dr Navjot Kaur, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, said, “Though we have been continuously telling our students to get inoculated, we on our part are also planning to hold a vaccination camp on the campus soon. Students will find it more easy and secure to get vaccinated at their college.” She said the admission process and counselling of the first year students was under way.Likewise, Principal of KMV College Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi said, “Since all college students are 18-plus, they should get vaccinated. Since the government has issued a notice, we will circulate it to all our students for 100 per cent compliance.” Regarding exams, she said, “As our college is autonomous, our examination schedule is a bit early. We have already started with exams and we may start classes by mid-August. We have received a good response for all the first year courses, especially honours programmes. Thus, in a month, we will be ready to start regular classes.”Vice-Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University too said, “We are currently in the middle of conducting online exams. Once these are over, we will call students to the campus for new session. In the meantime, we will direct them to ensure that they have taken at least their first jab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-jabbed-attend-regular-classes-280891
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Paediatric, neonatal wards to come up in Civil Hospital Jalandhar||To provide good treatment to children in the event of Covid-19 during a possible third wave, the district administration has geared up to set up a paediatric ward (30 beds) including a 10-bed Neonatal ICU (NICU) at the Civil Hospital here.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori visited the hospital to check the requirements of this new ward so that the same could be forwarded to health authorities within a stipulated timeframe. He said a list of infrastructure and equipment required for the NICU had been prepared by local health officials so that the setting up of this NICU and enhancing the beds capacity for children could be accomplished timely.The DC also reviewed the progress of construction of a new PSA-based oxygen plant with the capacity of 1000 LPM at Civil Hospital. This plant would take the oxygen production capacity of the hospital to 1700 LPM from the existing capacity of 700 LPM, he said. Thori also added that the work of this new plant was going on full pace and was expected to be completed by July 15.In another development, the bed capacity in the Civil Hospital has been increased by 25 per cent taking it to 70 beds in the Level-III ICU facility. Meanwhile, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jaspreet Singh also visited the Civil Hospital and held meetings with health department officials to oversee the availability of resources to tackle the next wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paediatric-neonatal-wards-to-come-up-in-civil-hospital-jalandhar-280894
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Govt staff, pensioners hold dharna in front of DC office Jalandhar||Members of the Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front on Friday organised a pen-own strike and participated in a massive protest in front of the DC office.The members included employees and pensioners from various schools, departments and government offices. They were led by their respective union leaders who said that they were protesting against the non-fulfilment of their demands related to their promotions, hike in salaries and other issues lying pending for years.In Nawanshahr, members were led by their leaders, including Kuldeep Singh, Ajay Kumar, Surinder Soeta, Parminder Singh and Surinder Pal, who said the state government had failed to fulfil the promises made to the employees and pensioners, including raising of their scales ahead of the Assembly polls. The members said the school teachers, employees and pensioners would remind the state government of their unfulfilled promises in a mega rally to be held in CM’s town Patiala on July 29.Members of the Punjab Roadways Union also participated in a massive protest this morning. The buses were not allowed to operate for two hours between 10 am to 12 noon, which led to a lot of harassment. Several hapless passengers had to wait for two hours in the scorching heat for the employees to end their stir and resume transportation services. The protest by the union leaders also caused traffic jam on roads around the bus stand as they had blocked roads in the peripheral area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-staff-pensioners-hold-dharna-in-front-of-dc-office-jalandhar-280897
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||1 death, 14 test Covid +ve in Jalandhar||The district on Friday reported 14 new cases due to Covid-19, taking the tally to 62,878 cases. Of these, 3 cases are from other districts. One more case of Covid-19 was reported today with which the tally of deceased persons has risen to 1,486. As many as 61,247 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 145.1 death, 9 cases in K’thalaThe district reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,673. There was one death in Kapurthala. A 45-year-old man from Sandar Jagir village died of the deadly disease.No case in NawanshahrThe district on Friday reported no fresh cases and death due to Covid-19 after a long time. The tally of cases stands at 11,416 (4.42 per cent) and the death toll is 359 (3.14 per cent). At present, the district has 23 active cases, out of which 20 patients were under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.65 per cent with 11,034 patients recovered from the virus. At present, one patient is admitted at Level- II Covid care facility unit.8 new cases in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported eight new positive cases in the district on Friday. With this, the tally has increased to 30,541. The authorities reported zero Covid-19 related deaths today. A total of 29,496 patients have recovered to date. So far, 6,82,047 samples have been collected in the district. A total of 6,53,001 samples tested negative while 2026 reports were awaited. At present, the district has 73 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-death-14-test-covid-ve-in-jalandhar-280906
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Excise Inspectors submit memo to Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner||Continuing with their pen-down strike for the fifth day, members of the Excise and Taxation Inspectors’ Association on Friday submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, regarding their disagreement with the recommendations for them in the Sixth Pay Commission report.Led by district president Manjit Singh Dhindsa and vice-president Sukhwinder Singh, the members also burnt copies of the Pay Commission report to express their grouse. They raised their two main demands. They said they would intensify their stir if their demands were not agreed to. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/excise-inspectors-submit-memo-to-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-280917
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Power pangs: Industrialists call on PSPCL official, list problems||Industrialists have been doing it all to voice their concerns regarding the condition of the industry these days. Members of the Northern Chamber of Small and Medium Scale Industries on Friday met the Director Distribution of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited Punjab and apprised him of how the trade and industry of the state was going through tough times.“Industry needs power to be able to manufacture and give employment to workers and daily wagers. Also, industry has to supply their products as per their contracts and any delay would incur penalties,” the members apprised the Director.Narinder Singh Saggu, convener of the chamber, said even in the absence of adequate power, industry needed to pay all their expenses for manufacturing. But due to power cuts, the industry had to bear losses of more than Rs 500 crores per day. All this would impact the revenue model of Punjab too, he said.They said the rules finalised are unjust for the industrialists. “The rules state that the industry having a connection of 100 KVA is allowed to run fully and the industry having connection of 500 KVA is allowed only up to 10 per cent, i.e. 50 KVA, which is not right. At least the percentage should be 50 per cent,” said one of the members of the chamber.Saggu said as per the date, power was abundantly available in neighbouring states. The government needed to urgently consider getting electricity from them to provide it to the industry for its survival. Also, small industries having electricity connection of less than or equal to 500 KVA should be allowed to run so that they could survive in this tough environment, the convener added.Meanwhile, the industrialists have also started pinning their hopes on the weather god, over the government and PSPCL. Ravinder Dhir, another industrialist, shared a post reading that a lot of injustice had been done to Punjab since long, and those who are governing are responsible for all this. “We want Punjab to get a right leader in future and with this we also pray to the rain god to shower rain so that the industrialists could start their work properly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-pangs-industrialists-call-on-pspcl-official-list-problems-280919
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||This ‘Youngest Corona Warrior’ has three records in his name already!||During a time when most of the students have been battling the lockdown blow and getting cranky sitting inside in their home, an 11-year-old city boy Meedhansh Kumar Gupta got his name registered in the World Book of Records, India Book of Records and World Health Organisation as the ‘Youngest Corona Warrior’.Since Covid began last year, Meedhansh, a Class VI student of St Joseph’s School for Boys, devoted his entire time as a website developer by launching various Covid-related websites for awareness in the society. Meedhansh has also received four different types of certifications from WHO, which he has obtained by passing his examination by taking four different courses at a young age. In fact, he is the youngest to pass the WHO test. While his name had already been entered in the World Book of Records, his name has been recently recorded in the India Book of Records with the same title as the ‘Youngest Corona Warrior’.For the unmatched achievement of Meedhansh, National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla celebrated achievements with his parents — Sandeep and Monika — on his birthday and also encouraged him to keep moving forward.The website created by Meedhansh. www.coronafreeworld.com was launched as early as March 20, 2020. It had a helpline and was specially issued so that the public could consult a doctor sitting at home. It was launched by Meedhansh with his parents at a press conference himself.After this, Mission Fateh, a campaign run by the Punjab Government, was also technically designed by Meedhansh and he launched the website www.mission fateh.com. In this website, various government-issued guidelines were mainly launched by him through videos. For this work, Meedhansh was honoured by the Punjab Government by being given a certificate.In October last year, Meedhansh launched his next website www.stayalertstaysafe.in. The main reason for launching it was to spread a positive awareness in the society, in which a message was to be given in the society. The message ‘Stay alert stay safe’ was given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi because at that time the lockdown was removed for a long time and people were confused and had started venturing out without any precautions.A jubilant Meedhansh says, “My objective behind making all these websites was to do something for the society and to promote positive thinking in the society. I tried to collect positive news around various social resources where one can find hope to fight this virus and put it all together.”Meedhansh’s parents Sandeep Kumar Gupta and Monika Gupta too are both Directors in an IT company and have contributed and supported him in developing all its portals with its launch. “Currently, Meedhansh is running his own company Entreprocoder as a CEO where he teaches and guides coding to other kids as well as developing various projects. Also he was convened by European Asian Chamber of Commerce (EACC) and honoured as the youngest entrepreneur at ‘International Business Networking’ event last October 2019,” said his mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-youngest-corona-warrior-has-three-records-in-his-name-already-280920
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based girl bags international research award||Vibha Bhatia, a resident of Maqsudan and a scholar from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, has brought laurels by winning an internationally acclaimed research award in a niche field ‘ergonomics’ (human factors).After the nomination by the Indian Society of Ergonomics, the International Ergonomics Association has awarded Bhatia the 2020 IEA/Kingfar Award for student research in human factors and ergonomics issues.She was also given honorary acknowledgement in the IEA CONGRESS 2021 held at Vancouver, Canada, from June 14-18, whose attendees were world leaders and pioneers of ergonomics and human factors.Bhatia, who will soon complete her doctorate, said, “Ergonomics is a discipline that aims at fostering safe and healthy work environment for workers and applies almost in every occupation ranging from white collar jobs, including IT employees and dentists, to the rugged occupations like industrial labourers, vehicle drivers, and agricultural workers. Working in an unsafe and awkward postures for longer durations is the cause of musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in workers, like frequent and unbearable pain in body muscles/joints. Realising its importance, research and application of ergonomics is given immense importance in developed countries, whereas the field is catching its publicity at a much slower pace in India as well.”At the Centre of Excellence- Industrial and Product Design Lab, PEC, Bhatia has been doing work in dental ergonomics. Dental professionals have to serve ever-rising population of patients under an unfitting environment, making them highly prone to develop the MSDs. She has been working to create a suitable solution to the current scenario. She’s also working on the registered project in collaboration with the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and Panjab University Dental College, Chandigarh. Overall, her dedicated efforts in the area of Human Factors and Ergonomics would not only assist the Indian dental community, but would assist in improvising occupational health and safety of workers belonging to different genres.She said, “The early onset signs of the MSDs include redness, swelling, creptitus, reduced range of motion and loss of strength; symptoms which can be felt by an individual includes pain, discomfort, aching, numbness, tingling, burning, stiffness and fatigue. The symptoms usually disrupt the daily routine of the worker at the workplace as well as home. MSDs diagnoses methods includes laboratory tests (erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), imaging tests (X-rays, bone scanning, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), Ultrasonography). Adopting proactive administrative techniques at the organisational level like work practice controls, job rotations and counteractive stretch breaks becomes crucial. Adopting a physically active lifestyle and yoga stretching in your routine may prove to be simple and effective for early prevention of MSDs.”She thanked her supervisors, centre coordinator, ISE board members and her parents, for their constant support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-girl-bags-international-research-award-280921
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||National Start-up Fest||Lecture on health psychologyKanya Maha Vidyalaya is organising an international series where the eminent personalities from around the world concerning various diverse fields are invited to deliver a lecture. The PG Department of Psychology conducted a session of International Series in which Dr. Robert Urban, Professor and Head of the Department, Personality and Health Psychology, Eotvos Lorand University, Budapest, Hungary, was invited as the guest speaker. The topic of Dr Urban’s lecture was ‘What do Health Psychologists do?’ commenced his lecture by explaining about the field of health psychology. He enlightened the students about how behaviour influences health and how as health psychologists we can help people to cope up and recover from illness. He elucidated the students on how mental disorders influence the occurrence, treatment and outcome of various health conditions. He also briefed the students about the types of other fields that are related to health psychology.Webinar on Post-Covid ComplicationsTo make students aware of post-Covid complications, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a webinar on topic “Post-Covid complications and care”. The resource person for the webinar was Dr Bhaveent Kaur (Assistant Professor, PIMS, Jalandhar). Bhaveet started the session with brief introduction about the pandemic. She stated that people infected with Covid may experience mild symptoms or completely asymptomatic and covid complications can develop due to long term effect of coronavirus. This virus has the potential to directly damage lung cells, leading to lung fibrosis. It can also include the symptoms like high fever, rashes on body, abdominal pain and extreme fatigue. Dr. Bhavneet described that patients tend to have a high concentration of pro-inflammatory cytokines that leads to extensive damage in heart, liver and other body organs.The resource person advised the students to follow healthy life style to avoid Covid complications. She recommended everyone to take nutritious diet, do meditation and breathing exercise to avoid stress and anxiety after disease.Virtual magic show organisedIvy World School arranged a virtual magic show for kindergarten children. Students were excited about the show and they wanted to make sure they did not miss the show. Everyone was filled with curiosity as for some of them this was the first experience. All eyes were glued on screens waiting for surprises, excitement and magic tricks. An experienced magician, wearing an odd dress, showed some tricks which were really unbelievable. He first took some coins and suddenly made them disappeared in to the air. After a minute or so he produced those coins from one of the students’ pocket. The magician surprisingly lifted up a person in the air without any support. In the air he was walking like an astronaut in space. Throughout the show, the magician kept the students amazed and spellbound with his tricks. There were more items such as balance show, juggling, tricks with cards, fire, etc. The virtual spectators burst into loud cheers after each item. In this cyber-age, such magic shows can win young hearts. S. Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and appreciated the educators thoughtful idea for this magic show.Van Mahotsav celebratedTo make students aware of this issue and taking initiative towards it, Delhi Public School, Jalandhar celebrated Van Mahotsav. To sustain the festive spirit of ‘Van Mahotsava’, the little ones of the Preprimary wing are determined to take care of plants and create a Happy Earth. The entire month is dedicated to this theme. Along with everyday thoughts, gratitude jar activities and discussions; an exclusive ‘My Green Friends and 'Green Color Day’ will be celebrated to inspire the young DPSites to protect the environment by taking care of plants. Students of classes 1 to XII were encouraged to dedicate a week to Earth from July 1 to 7 and plant a sapling to make the surroundings greener, livelier and happier and pledge to look after it till it grows to a majestic self sustaining tree. Children also clicked beautiful pictures of themselves with their newly planted saplings. Principal Ritu Kaul encouraged students to preserve trees which play a vital role in maintaining the ecological balance.Apeejay College students excelStudents of B.A semester V of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have generated glory in results of Guru Nanak Dev University by bagging top positions. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to work hard in future too. Dr. Neerja appreciated Aashu Jain (B.SC Economics V semester) who got 95/100 in mathematics. She also appreciated teachers of social sciences for guiding these students to a sparkling success. Jahnvi Aggarwal got 330 marks out of 400 and got the sixth position. Aaruhi, Mehak and Jasmine Sian got 327, 323 and 317 marks and came sixth, eighth, 12th and 16th ranks, respectively.Radhika 1st in B VocThe students of B Voc Sem V (Journalism and Media) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got university positions. Radhika got 251 out of 400 and scored 1st position, Pallavi got 2nd position with 232 marks, Muskan Bhatia got 3rd position with 231 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of Department Rama Sharma and Asst. Prof Jyoti Sehgal and Priyanka Jain. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-start-up-fest-280922
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Teachers demand regular jobs, protest||On the call of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, teachers of meritorious schools held a protest against the state government for not paying heed to their demands. Teachers of Meritorious School, Jalandhar, raised a demand for regularization. Teachers also burnt an effigy of the state government.Six such schools were opened in 2014 to give free education to the needy meritorious students while the numbers of institutes has reached 10. Agitating teachers said despite the fact that all the Education Department’s conditions apply on them, they were still being hired on a contractual basis.As a result, a large number of meritorious schoolteachers leave jobs, when regular appointments are made by the government.They added that in 2018 when teachers of the SSA/RMSA were regularised by the state government in the Education Department, the option was also given to meritorious schoolteachers. Despite this, their regularisation has not been reconsidered since then. Agitating teachers said they had approached various Cabinet ministers and MLAs demanding regularisation of their services, but were merely given assurances. Irate teachers said if their demands were not met, they would intensify their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-demand-regular-jobs-protest-280923
10-07-2021||As many as 40 progressive farmers from the Faridkot district did a tour of Seechewal village to study the Seechewal model. The farmers’ delegation met environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal under Amandeep Singh Keshav||Faridkot farmers visit Seechewal village||EO, Sanitary Inspector caught taking bribeThe EO of the Sultanpur Lodhi Nagar Council office was caught taking bribe on Friday. The vigilance team raided the council office on Friday wherein the EO and a sanitary inspector were caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The vigilance team took both the employees into its custody and started further proceedings. Complainant Vicky, a resident of Rishi Nagar at Sultanpur Lodhi, said his mother was working as a safai sewak in the council and had retired on March 31, 2020. He said for taking her pending four months’ salary from the council, the EO and sanitary inspector sought Rs 30,000 and Rs 28,000, respectively. He said while his mother’s salary due for four months was Rs 1.59 lakh, he paid Rs 10,000 on July 8 and was to pay Rs 15,000 on Friday. He said he made a complaint regarding the same to the vigilance department Kapurthala. After which the teams today caught them red-handed.Drip irrigation to save waterSecretary Agriculture Department Dharminder Sharma toured and reviewed various works ongoing under the land and water conservation department in the district. Encouraging farmers to take up drip irrigation, he exhorted farmers to make efforts to revive groundwater level so that reduction in its level can be stopped. He asked farmers to install drip irrigation systems for orchards and vegetable cultivation to avail up to 90 per cent subsidy for the same. He informed that as per underground pipelines and the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojna, micro sprinklers, drip irrigation and rain gun irrigation schemes were also working. He reviewed the drip irrigation orchard at Bhainwind village in which the farmer broke from the traditional crop cycle norms as well. The secretary said orchards, gardens, vegetable, pulses cultivation be given increased priority by farmers. This will also help save 40 to 60 per cent water and also increase output by 10 to 20 per cent. Regional Research Institute Director Dr Paramjit Singh among others were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/faridkot-farmers-visit-seechewal-village-280924
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Outsourced staff hands over demand letter to MLA Bawa Henry||The Public Works Department’s Electrical Outsourcing Employees Union, Jalandhar, submitted a demand letter to MLA Bawa Henry on Thursday to convey their message to the government. While giving information, general secretary of the union, Pramod Kumar said, a few days ago, PWD Electrical Outsourcing Employees Union of Punjab held a meeting under the leadership of Suba Pramukh Jaspreet Singh Gagan. In the meeting, a decision to send a copy of their demands to all MLAs and MPs in each district was taken. This would continue from July 1 to 10.Today, a demand letter was handed over to MLA Bawa Henry. Kumar further said the outsourced workers in the electrical wing of the PWD Department were working with a meager salary for the past 10-15 years. Due to inflation, it had become very difficult for them to survive with this salary.The demands of the workers are as follows; Outsourced employees should be paid full salary, allowances to the employees without tampering with the Employees Welfare Act-2016. As per the recommendation of the 6th Pay Commission, at least Rs 18,000 per month salary should be credited to their account. According to the decision of the Supreme Court, equal pay should be given for equal work. The increase in salary of contract/outsourced employees has been stopped by the Labour Commissioner Punjab’s letter no-9857-58 dated May 9, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/outsourced-staff-hands-over-demand-letter-to-mla-bawa-henry-280925
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Olympian Rajinder Singh’s first salary for goalkeepers of Surjit Hockey Academy||Undertrial booked for impersonationHoshiarpur: The city police have registered a case against the accused, who did not appear in the court and gave wrong address. According to information, SHO Talwinder Kumar said Onkar Singh, alias Hinsu, was an undertrial and facing charges under Sections 482, 379, 411, and 34 of IPC. Presently he was on bail.The court cancelled bail of the accused and issued arrest warrants for not appearing in court proceedings. During the investigation, the address given by the accused was found to be wrong. The police have started further action by registering a case against the alleged accused under Section 229 of IPC. OCTwo booked for theft in shantiesHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have booked two persons on the charge of stealing cash and valuables from shanties of migrants. According to information, Parmeet Singh, a resident of Bainstani village, lodged a complaint with the police that Heera Lal, alias Heera, and Baljit Singh, both residents of Nangal Maroof village, were stealing valuables from the shanties of migrants near his fields. Passersby raised the alarm following that the accused fled the spot. The police have registered a case. OCWoman among 2 held with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two persons, including a woman, and seized narcotics from them. According to information, the police of Bullowal arrested Ajit Singh, a resident of Bhagowal, and seized 60 gm of intoxicating powder from him, while the Tanda police arrested Seema, a resident of Sansiyan Mohalla in Tanda, and seized a huge quantity of sedative pills from her. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OCThree held with stolen batteriesHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police have recovered stolen goods from the possession of three persons. The accused have been identified as Ajay Singh and Karan Kumar, both residents of Janauri. The police, on the basis of a tip-off, stopped a scooter near Mastiwal village. Cops said those on the scooter has two batteries of tractors. During interrogation, the accused confessed that they had stolen the batteries from Raghwal and Shekha village. The police have also arrested the scrap dealer and recovered two more stolen batteries from him. OCTwo-day remand for rape accusedHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have arrested a man on the charge of raping a seven-year-old student of Class IV. He was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody. The accused is father of two children. According to information, a seven- year-old migrant girl was raped by accused Sarvanjit Singh, alias Nannu (31), a resident of Nangal Shaheedan, when her family members were not at home. The accused came on a bike to the victim’s house and took her to the fields. The accused left her home after raping her and ran away. Inspector Kamlesh Kumari said the accused had been booked under Sections 376 AB of the IPC and 506 of the POCSO Act. OCMan fires at youth, heldHoshiarpur: The police have arrested a Congress councillor’s son for firing at a youth over election rivalry. The victim, Manpreet, alias Mamu, told the police that he was going to return his friend’s vehicle. Meanwhile, he was called by Naveen, son of councillor Chandravati. When he reached, the accused and his brother Ganesh, sister Kanti, her husband and councillor Chadravati, were standing there. Naveen fired three shots at him and he fell down. Accused Naveen along with his brother Ganesh and brother-in-law attacked him and injured him. Investigating Officer Hans Raj said Naveen has been arrested under Sections 307, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. TNS12 Protesters bookedHoshiarpur: After firing at a youth by son of a municipal councillor, relatives of the injured youth demonstrated against the functioning of the police at Rahimpur Chowk and blocked the traffic. The police have registered a case on the complaint of ASI Gurdeep Singh against 12 persons. The police said the protesters ignored the orders of the District Magistrate. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/olympian-rajinder-singhs-first-salary-for-goalkeepers-of-surjit-hockey-academy-280927
10-07-2021||Jalandhar||Murder suspect held in Telangana||The Kapurthala police today claimed to have cracked the murder case of a 23-year-old Begowal youth last month with the arrest of one of the suspects after a 1,900-km chase across six states over 20 days. The suspect, Daljit Singh Shera, is a resident of Kartarpur in Jalandhar.SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Shera was nabbed from Cyberabad in Telangana. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/murder-suspect-held-in-telangana-280846
