11-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Banga resident makes it to Asia Book of Records||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10Banga-based Ranjit Aujla has created a new Asian record in skipping under the 115-kg category. Donning multiple hats, Aujla credited the record to his name recently by skipping 285 times in one minute. A team of the Asia Book of Records has presented him with a gold medal and a certificate.An English university has also offered a doctorate degree to Aujla as he also broke the record of England’s Wharton, who took 231 bounce weighing 98 kg.While the road to success wasn’t a smooth sailing, Ranjit of Aujla Dhak village in Jalandhar took three months to register the new record. Besides, he is also a state-level boxer and has also proved his mettle in European boxing championship.“It’s been over a decade, since I have been practicing boxing therefore building endurance to improve my performance is a crucial part of my game. And I believe skipping regularly plays an important role not only in enhancing agility but also in building muscles. While I was doing my regular practice, one of my friends, after watching me skip faster told me to attempt my maximum bounces. In February, I created my own personal best of nearly 255 bounces in one minute. Subsequently, after searching for skipping records, I noticed that there wasn’t any record holder in above 100-kg weight category. Since then, the hustle began to create a new record. By practicing constantly, I gained 15 more kilograms to make the record in highest weight category. Later, after skipping and exercising for three to four hours daily, I created the record on May 30 and submitted the same to the Asia Book of Records. Recently, I got the certification and prize for my achievement,” he said.Now, he is working hard to register himself in the Guinness Book of World Record, for this his skipping record will be verified in the next three months. After winning three state medals in boxing, he went to Russia and clinched gold medal in all European University games. Apart from his family, he credited his success to his coach Jasbir Singh Shergill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banga-resident-makes-it-to-asia-book-of-records-281398
11-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Retired PCS officer now a college topper||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10Having served on some top-bureaucratic positions, including as the Registrar of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, and five years after retiring from her PCS services, Sarojini Gautam Sharda (63) has donned another role. This time as a student at Hans Raja Mahila Maha Vidyalaya where she topped not just in her college, but among all affiliated colleges of Guru Nanak Dev University in the B Vocational (Mental Health Counselling) course.At an age when learning and memorising is often a problem, Sarojini has scored 352 marks out of 400. Unlike most bureaucrats who choose to get affiliated politically or socially, she said she enjoyed her solitude all this while. Not letting boredom come near, she says she did everything that she missed during her service years, including practising classical dance, reading books, attending webinars and undertaking various online courses related to psychology, which had always been her favourite subject. Finally, she even took a plunge to pursue a regular, well-structured degree course in the subject.“Online education in the recent past has been a boon for the elderly lot like me always wanting to study more. Had it been regular classes, I could have felt a bit awkward sitting amid young girls. But this was definitely not a problem in online classes, where I always kept my video off. Even some of my teachers were perhaps not aware about my background, as they addressed me as ‘beta’ even though I was elder to them. I, too, never reacted as I wanted my identity to remain under wraps. I just wanted them to deal with me normally like any other student in the class and not extend any special treatment. I ensured that I did not miss any class, made proper notes, did all my assignments well and even submitted these in time,” she shared her experiences as a student.Sharing some more interesting anecdotes, she said: “Since my exams were held offline, it was only during this time, that I had to go to college. As I entered the college, the gatekeeper asked me my purpose. I told him that I am a student and had come for the exam. He looked at me from head to toe and asked me to show my roll number, which I did. He even took down my mobile number and other details to be doubly sure.”She said: “Since I was unfamiliar with a building, I asked a student about the examination centre and she chose to escort me to the place, probably thinking that I was some external examiner. Even the invigilator in my room got a little confused, when I entered the room and came to me to check my roll number.”Sharing yet another interesting incident, Sarojini said: “The day when I got my result, my daughter was with me as she had come down from the US. I was just scrolling WhatsApp messages, when I found in the college group that students had started sharing their result details. I got very nervous and did not want to do it in front of my daughter, as I was not sure as to what it could be. Taking some time and preparing myself, I finally opened the result link and checked my marks. I realised that I was probably scoring more than what most students had been sharing. Getting confident, that it was good, I finally disclosed it to her that my result was finally out. Later, I got to know that I had topped. I was quite excited but soon I felt that I had perhaps stolen the top slot, which could have belonged to some career-oriented young student,” she said.The ex-PCS officer’s college HOD Ashmeent Kaur disclosed: “Since Sarojini remained unwell in the recent past, she had even decided to drop the course and not take the examination. But I motivated her against her decision and she finally agreed. From that time on, she did not look back. She really prepared well and came out with flying colours.” The city residents remember her as a dynamic and upright officer who served as ADC (Development), Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner and even as MC Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/retired-pcs-officer-now-a-college-topper-281400
11-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||600 specially abled inoculated on doorstep so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10In continuation with its drive launched on July 5, the district administration has inoculated a whopping 600 specially-abled beneficiaries on the doorstep so far in the district.From 50 people inoculated till July 8, the district outreach programme for specially-abled persons has touched an impressive number of 600 in a matter of two days. Notably, the district helpline for specially abled has received a total of 85 calls until today (it had received 58 calls until July 8).However, notwithstanding the limited response from the helpline, the administration is using the database of the SMOs, DSSO and a network of ASHA and ANMs to reach out to specially abled even if they have not called.As many as 290 people were inoculated in Adampur alone on Saturday followed by 180 in Jamsher, 30 in Shahkot and Lohian, 20 at Bara Pind, 20 at Shankar, 20 at Nakodar and 20 in Jalandhar urban. The specially-abled beneficiaries have been vaccinated as per the inoculation drive carried out by the respective SMOs. The respective SDMs are also monitoring the process.More than 500 specially-abled beneficiaries were inoculated at homes on Saturday alone under the special vaccination drive initiated by the district administration.While the DC had asked health and civil officials to accomplish this mammoth task within the stipulated time-frame, the Deputy Commissioner on Saturday said the administration had roped in ASHA and ANM workers to carry out this task effectively so that no eligible beneficiaries would be left out without vaccination under this special drive.He said the list of specially-abled persons had been shared with all SMOs so that they could chalk out a comprehensive strategy to reach each one of them for inoculation against Covid-19. The DC said Asha and ANM workers were visiting door-to-door to trace the eligible beneficiaries and after verifying their credentials they shared the details with the medical teams, which subsequently reached the spot to vaccinate the beneficiaries.The DC added, “The Adampur and Jamsher SMOs have done a commendable job. Since we were getting limited calls on the helpline, the data of specially abled has come in handy to carry out an effective drive. The purpose of the drive is to inoculate all the people who are unable to get out of their homes for vaccination. The drive would continue until all are covered.”The DC reiterated that specially-abled beneficiaries could seek inoculation facilities at their doorstep by dialling helpline number 0181-2224417. Dr Reema, SMO, Adampur, said, “We have vaccinated a total of 290 specially abled people at Adampur in a single day. We would be reaching out to others in the coming days. The drive would prove to be a big relief for those who cannot go out but are willing to be vaccinated. The drive is receiving an overwhelming response. The beneficiaries were chosen as per the list available with us after a recent survey. Special teams went door-to-door to vaccinate the specially disabled. There are some families who expressed their reluctance to get inoculated, so they were not. Only they were made to sign a form saying they were refusing vaccination as per their own wish. Also, some of them preferred Covishied so they will be vaccinated when Covishield arrives.”Senior Medical Officer, Jamsher, Dr RP Bains said as many as 180 specially-abled beneficiaries were given the doses of Covid-19 vaccine at their home in the last two days.Senior Medical Officer, Jamsher, Dr RP Bains also said the list of such eligible beneficiaries was provided by the administration and all the listed persons were being approached by the health teams.District reports no death, 13 positive casesJalandhar: With 13 new Covid cases, the district tally reached 62,891 on Saturday. No Covid death was reported and the toll remained 1,486. As many as 61,269 people have recovered from Covid in the district so far, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 136.1 dies, 6 +ve in KapurthalaAs many as six persons tested positive in Kapurthala on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,679. A 40-year-old man from Kapurthala city died of Covid on Saturday. TNSEight +ve in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The total number of Covid patients in the district increased to 30,549 after eight persons tested positive for the virus on Saturday, while no death was reported. With 2,460 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Saturday, the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 6,84,507. According to the reports received from the lab, 6,54,883 were negative, while 1,913 reports were still awaited and 999 were invalid. There are 72 active cases in the district and 29,505 patients have recovered so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/600-specially-abled-inoculated-on-doorstep-so-far-281402
11-07-2021||---||2,902 cases settled at Lok Adalats, next session on Sep 11||Jalandhar, July 10 As per the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and Punjab State Legal Services Authority and under the guidance of Rupinderjit Chahal, a District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairperson, District Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar, a National Lok Adalat was held today at Jalandhar, Nakodar and Phillaur.  Chahal said 15 benches at Jalandhar, two at Nakodar and one at Phillaur were constituted for the Lok Adalat.  Total cases pertaining to various civil, criminal, matrimonial and financial matters pending in the courts and matters of banks, companies, departments, comprising pre-litigative matters were taken up by these benches.  A total of 6,153 matters were taken up and out of these cases, around 2,902 cases were settled on the basis of compromise. Wherein disputes pertaining to Rs 11, 52,08,153. Chahal further stated that decision of the lok adalat is final and no appeal can be filed. Secondly, the court fee fixed by the person filing the case, was refunded. Moreover, the amicable solution of a dispute promotes brotherhood among the litigants. She further stated that next national Lok Adalat would be next held on September 11, this year. Dr Gagandeep Kaur, CJM-cum-Secretary DLSA Jalandhar said legal services authorities organise these Lok Adalats from time to time and for putting up matters in Lok Adalats or for seeking other information about services provided by the legal services institutions, toll free no. 1968 of Punjab Legal Services. No one from the authorities could be contacted. Lok Adalat held in K’thala The National Lok Adalat in Kapurthala today awarded a compensation of Rs 5.7 crore in Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) cases. District and Sessions Judge Amarinder Singh Grewal presided over the National Lok Adalat held at the judicial complex today. Grewal said 2,587 cases, including 1,905 old cases of matrimonial disputes, MACT and summary cases were put up for hearing in the 16 Lok Adalats held at Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi, Phagwara and Bholath. The Sessions Judge said Lok Adalats had awarded a compensation of Rs 76.44 crore in 10,318 cases in the district so far. Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary District Legal Authority Services Mahesh Kumar Sharma said 4,745 seminars had been organised to make the litigants aware of the provisions of free legal aid for poor litigants. The Lok Adalats had disposed of more than 1.29 lakh cases so far and also provided employment to 46 para-legal volunteers, said Sharma. He disclosed that the next National Lok Adalat would be held on September 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-902-cases-settled-at-lok-adalats-next-session-on-sep-11-281424
11-07-2021||---||MBD Group celebrates its 76th founder’s day||Jalandhar, July 10 Having made a name in education, hospitality and real estate sectors, the MBD Group celebrated the Founder’s Day and 76th birth anniversary of their founder Ashok Kumar Malhotra.  Like last year, the event this year went virtual, owing to the pandemic. But that could in no way dampen the celebratory mood and spirit of well-wishers, patrons, employees and management of MBD Group who attended the event online with optimism and cheer.  Last year, when the students had to stay at home and teaching-learning methods got changed, the MBD Group launched the AASOKA App, which contains study material in the form of e-books, audio lessons, video lessons and online assessments and assignments that help them focus on studies in a constructive and interesting manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mbd-group-celebrates-its-76th-founders-day-281425
11-07-2021||---||‘Slango’ to bridge language barrier||Jalandhar, July 10 Slango, a new language portal, has been launched by two girls from Sultanpur Lodhi who say they are aspiring to bridge the language barrier between people and help them connect more personally.  The company has been founded by Nimarta Kaur, who is an MBA passout from Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Pune, and Harniamat Kaur, a mechanical engineer from BITS Pilani.  Explaining the concept, they explained, “Slango is a language learning platform dedicated to provide high quality content for its customers to learn the nuances of English from professionals from the comfort of their home.  The twosome got their portal launched from Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, former education minister, Punjab, and Dr HK Cheema, professor and HoD, obstetrics and gynaecology, PIMS, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slango-to-bridge-language-barrier-281426
11-07-2021||Our Correspondent||646 disputes resolved in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, July 10The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Hoshiarpur, organised the third National Lok Adalat of this year in the district on Saturday. A total of 1,712 cases were heard and 646 cases were settled on the spot and the awards worth Rs 7,91,57,923 were passed.In the lok adalat case under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act (pending and pre-litigation bank recovery cases and labour dispute cases), MACT cases, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable), matrimonial disputes, traffic challan and others cases of civil matters were heard.CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi said 10 benches were setup in Hoshiarpur, while three benches each were formed in sub-division Dasuya, Mukerian and Garhshankar.The Bench headed by Additional District and Sessions Judge Puneet Mohan Sharma settled with the consent of both the parties, a 10-year-old case under Section 125 of the CrPC. In another case of Arvind Sidhu vs Kamaljeet Dhara (divorce petition), the dispute was settled by mutual consent and they were sent home happily together. Also, in a case of Paramjit Kaur Vs Gagandeep under Section 13 of Hindu Marriage Act, which was pending for seven years, both the parties were settled by way of compromise. Apart from this, another case of Savita Sharma Vs Ravi Kumar regarding settlement of expenses was settled with mutual consent of both the parties. Similarly, in the court of Parminder Kaur Bains in Dasuya, a compoundable criminal case of Sanjay Jain Vs Sanjeev Kumar, which was pending for 15 years, was also settled with mutual consent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/646-disputes-resolved-in-hoshiarpur-district-281427
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Olympian’s car stolen from hockey stadium||The car of Punjab hockey chief coach Rajinder Singh Junior was stolen from Guru Gobind Singh Stadium on Saturday where he was giving training to budding hockey players. The incident was reported on Saturday morning. Iqbal Singh Sandhu, hockey coach at Surjit Hockey stadium said, the incident took place between 6.30 am and 9.30 am when the coach had gone inside the stadium to train the students.  The coach said despite the presence of heavy police around the stadium, the car bearing number PB08 CR3838 got stolen. The police are investigating the matter and verifying all the CCTV cameras. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/olympians-car-stolen-from-hockey-stadium-281428
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Summer camp concludes||The Summer Hobby camp in The Nobel School concluded on Saturday. It was a learning experience for the school children as they came through various activities like cooking without fire, mental ability, dance, PowerPoint presentation with animation, art and craft, health and fitness, communication skills and personality development. The students from pre-wing to grade XII participated in various activities virtually, under the supervision of expert teachers. The students exhibited their talent through online meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/summer-camp-concludes-281429
11-07-2021||---||Gang behind gold snatchings, vehicle thefts busted, 4 held||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, July 10The Kapurthala police on Saturday busted a snatchers’ gang by arresting four persons and recovered snatched gold, two stolen bikes and one Activa scooty used in committing crimes from them.The accused have been identified as siblings Navish, alias Nony, and Luvdeep Singh, both residents of Kusht Ashram area; Harish, alias Kala, of Mohalla Malkana in Kapurthala city; and goldsmith Iqbal Singh, alias Laddi, of Sidhwan Dona village in Kapurthala.With their arrest, the police have solved eight cases of gold and vehicle thefts.In a press note, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the Safe City Project was launched a few days ago and under it, new PCR patrol motorcycle teams were deployed in the city area to strictly monitor activities of anti-social elements.The SSP said for the last few days, complaints of gold snatching and vehicle thefts were received from city areas.He said taking in view these complaints, a PCR patrol party reached the spot and analysed CCTV footage from nearby establishments.Khakh said under the supervision of SP(D) Vishaljit Singh and DSP(D) Sarabjit Singh, police teams of CIA, Kapurthala, traced the criminals and nabbed brothers Navish, Luvdeep Singh along with Harish after recovering the Activa scooty and stolen bikes when they tried to escape after seeing the police party.The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, the accused revealed eight crimes committed by them. These included gold snatching from women at Kala Sangha Road near Rajpur, the petrol station near the Wadala Railway Flyover, the DC Chowk to Peer Choudhary Road near Army Gate, Kanjali Road petrol station, Bhawanipur Road near the canal.The accused also disclosed that they had stolen a Pulsar (150cc) motorcycle from Chuhar Wali Octroi City Hall, and a few days ago they drove away with a new bike on the pretext of buying it from a dealer near Jyoti Chowk, Jalandhar.The SSP said during investigation, the accused revealed that they were addicted to drugs and would sell all the looted gold to a goldsmith, Laddi, in the RCF area. The police team also arrested the goldsmith for his involvement and buying the snatched gold. The SSP said all the accused had been arrested and a case under Sections 411 and 34 of the IPC registered.He said the accused would be produced in local courts and taken on remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-behind-gold-snatchings-vehicle-thefts-busted-4-held-281441
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Students get jobs||Sandeep Singh 9th in BScSandeep Singh of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged 9th position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of BSc (Non-Medical) Semester-III by getting 342 marks out of 400. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra. The president of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr. Balwinder Singh Chahal, Dr. Navneet Arora and Dr. Palwinder Singh were also present on this occasion.Job-oriented programmesKanya Maha Vidyalaya introduced two inter-disciplinary BA Vocational Studies programmes namely BA Vocational Studies in Visual Communication and Retail Management. Moreover, two diplomas namely Child Care (Nanny) and Old Age Care with internationally accepted sector skill certification are also being introduced at KMV. KMV is also running skill based job oriented BVoc. (Hospitality and Tourism) and BVoc. (Artificial Intelligence and Data Science) along with seven more skill development programmes. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these new age programmes will improve the employability of students focusing on outcome-based learning in degree programmes and promoting active linkage between the higher education system and industry as well as commercial enterprises/organisations. Students will appear in sector skill assessment and after the successful completion of their assessment, students will be awarded with certificate issued by National Skill Development Corporation, Government of India, along with the degree awarded by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.Virtual magic show organisedIvy World School arranged a virtual magic show for kindergarten children. Students were excited about the show and they wanted to make sure they did not miss the show. Everyone was filled with curiosity as for some of them this was the first experience. All eyes were glued on screens waiting for surprises, excitement and magic tricks. An experienced magician, wearing an odd dress, showed some tricks which were really unbelievable. He first took some coins and suddenly made them disappeared in to the air. After a minute or so he produced those coins from one of the students’ pocket. The magician surprisingly lifted up a person in the air without any support. In the air he was walking like an astronaut in space. Throughout the show, the magician kept the students amazed and spellbound with his tricks. There were more items such as balance show, juggling, tricks with cards, fire, etc. The virtual spectators burst into loud cheers after each item.BBA 5th semester resultThe students of BBA (Sem V) Kamla Nehru College for Women Phagwara bring laurels once again to the institution. Simpreet Saggoo secured 1st position with 71.14 %, Taljinder Kaur secured 2nd position with 66.57% and Pawandeep Kaur and Manpreet Kaur secured 3rd position with 63.42%. Dr. Savinder Pal, College Principal, and the teachers of Commerce Department congratulated the students and their parents. They also encouraged them to work hard with determination in the future, too.Van Mahotsav celebratedTo make students aware of this issue and taking initiative towards it, Delhi Public School, Jalandhar celebrated Van Mahotsav. To sustain the festive spirit of ‘Van Mahotsava’, the little ones of the Preprimary wing are determined to take care of plants and create a Happy Earth. The entire month is dedicated to this theme. Along with everyday thoughts, gratitude jar activities and discussions; an exclusive ‘My Green Friends and ‘Green Color Day’ will be celebrated to inspire the young DPSites to protect the environment by taking care of plants. Students of classes 1 to XII were encouraged to dedicate a week to Earth from July 1 to 7 and plant a sapling to make the surroundings greener, livelier and happier and pledge to look after it till it grows to a majestic self sustaining tree.Virtual debate competition heldTo make students more thoughtful, interactive and creative, Cambridge International School, Phagwara organised a virtual debate competition for students of class VIII. The topic of the debate was ‘Animal testing for vaccination should be banned’’. As many as 21 students participated in the competition. All the contestants put forth their views and arguments skillfully and convincingly. Bhaavni Madaan of grabbed the first position while Dishita Sharma and Kanishka Prashar bagged second position and Vaahin Sharma secured third position in this competition. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-get-jobs-281443
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Man held with 28 fake ATM cards||Amid rising cases of ATM card fraud cases, cops at the police division number 3, on Saturday, held a man with nearly 28 fake ATM cards.The accused, indentified as Rajkumar, alias Raj, used to withdraw money from the accounts of gullible people by cloning the debit cards. Besides, eight injections to be used for intoxicants were also recovered from him.ADCP-1 Jagjit Singh, while addressing the mediapersons said the accused was arrested from a police check-post near Damoria over-bridge.The cops at police division number three had got a tip-off that the accused was going to take a consignment from the spot. Subsequently, a check-post was installed to nab the accused.The accused, a resident of Upkar Nagar told the police that he used to rob people at ATMs by pretending to help those who could not withdraw money using their debit cards. The cops said, with his arrest, four ATM fraud cases have been traced. A case under Sections 22, 61 and the 85 of the NDPS Act and under Sections 379, 420 of the IPC has been registered against him at the police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-with-28-fake-atm-cards-281444
11-07-2021||---||1 yr of Punjab Educare App||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10Having got started in Covid times, the ‘Punjab Educare App’ serving as the digital schoolbag for the students has completed a year since its launch on July 11 last year.The app has made the study material for the students of pre-primary to Class XII just a click away. Since last year, the state education department had taken to various digital routes like TV, radio channels, WhatsApp, Google Classroom, YouTube, etc. to reach the students but it was the app that came in most handy for the students.It has achieved a distinctive 4.4 out of 5 rating with 40.9 lakh users, 3.47 crore sessions, 34.76 crore page views and over 24 lakh downloads of the app so far. The students belonging to other states and UTs, including New Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand are also using this user-friendly, easily accessible and easily navigated app.Interestingly, it was a team of school teachers from Jalandhar — Deepak Kumar, Jaswinder Singh, Harjit Kumar, Haridarshan Singh, Chander Shekhar, Omeshwar Narayan, having no IT background or expertise support, who initially developed the ‘Punjab Educare App’ with their sheer dedication coupled with indigenous innovations.The app is a one-stop solution to the problems of accessibility of the study material. It provides systematically arranged study material including text books, audio/video lessons and daily assignments in all subjects. It is a user-friendly app and puts an end to the worry of losing useful study material that is being provided by the education department on a daily basis. It is an additional tool for the teachers and students. The teachers and students can have hassle-free access to the syllabus, text books in PDF form, audio/video lectures, worksheets, assignments, word wall activities, quizzes and study material for competitive examinations, including NTSE, NMMS, PSTSE. It helps both teachers and students to recapitulate any topic whenever they want. Besides, new features are being added as per the requirement emerging from time to time. Krishan Kumar, Secretary, School Education, said that a comprehensive project to update the app with more user-friendly innovations is in the anvil. "A team of dedicated computer teachers having exclusive expertise in such distinctive areas has been striving hard to add new features to make the app more student-oriented as well as focussed on interactive learning", he added. It includes ‘Teachers' Station', ‘Students' Corner’, ‘Word of the Day', ‘Udaan’.To make teachers well-versed in the use of the advanced IT applications, the Punjab Education Department has launched a ‘Capacity Building’ programme for accelerating the pace of qualitative improvement in education. Under it, a series of webinars for were also organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-yr-of-punjab-educare-app-281446
11-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||One booked for jumping bail||Convict absconds, bookedHoshiarpur: The city police have booked Prem Chand, proprietor of HD Studio, Naloian Chowk, who was convicted and sentenced to a rigorous imprisonment of six months by the court under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. He was given seven days to present the bail bond but neither did he present the bail bond nor did he surrender before the court. Non-bailable warrants were also issued but it was found that the accused was not residing at the given address. On the complaint of JMIC Hoshiarpur, an FIR under Section 229 A of the IPC has been lodged against the accused. OCSukhbir’s b’day celebratedJalandhar: Leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) celebrated the birthday of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal by organising various social activities. Former senior deputy mayor Kamaljit Bhatia distributed meals to poor families in Ambedkar Colony, while youth leaders, led by president Sukhminder Rajpal, distributed tree sapling to passersby. He also distributed face masks to the commuters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-jumping-bail-281448
11-07-2021||Jalandhar||Congress, SAD workers booked for assault||As many as 27 persons, including Congress and Akali workers, have been booked after a Durgapur former sarpanch was seriously injured in an attack.The party workers clashed at the village in Sultanpur Lodhi on Wednesday night after sarpanch’s husband Kuldeep Singh along with associates allegedly attacked former sarpanch Gurmail Singh Chahal in his fields.As many as 17 have been identified by name in the FIR. While Chahal belonged to the Congress, Kuldeep was an Akali Dal leader. The police insisted it was a personal dispute and not linked to the parties.Sutanpur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said: “A case of embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh was being investigated against Kuldeep, also a former sarpanch. Anger over the case triggered the attack. It is a case of personal dispute. Chahal has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, as he has head injuries and fracture in both legs. As many as 27 persons have been booked at the Fattu Dhinga police station. All of them are absconding.” MLA Cheema said: “Kuldeep was sour over the embezzlement case. This is not a case of party rivalry.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-sad-workers-booked-for-assault-281313
11-07-2021||---||Arms supplier from MP nabbed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10In a major inter-state operation, the Punjab Police today busted another Madhya Pradesh-based illicit arms network with the arrest of its main supplier, Baljit Singh, alias Sweety Singh, of Barwani district in MP.Lured clients via social mediaSweety Singh, a resident of Umarti village, had been found indulging in manufacture and supply of high-quality illicit weapons to Punjab and other northern states, said DGP Dinkar Gupta here.The Kapurthala police also recovered three .32 pistols, along with three magazines from his possession, he added. This is the third such MP-based illegal weapon manufacturing and supply module busted by the Punjab Police within the past eight months.The DGP said the arrest came 10 days after the Kapurthala police, in the follow-up operations led by SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, arrested four suspected robbers with 10 pistols and a rifle along with ammunition.He said the suspects revealed they were sourcing the weapons from MP-based smuggler Sweety and were hatching a conspiracy to carry out robberies and dacoities at petrol pumps as well as targeting farmers.DGP Gupta said following the inputs, the Kapurthala police procured arrest warrants for Sweety and a special team was dispatched to Barwani district to arrest him in coordinationwith the MP Police.On June 30, an FIR was registered under Sections 399 and 402 of the Indian Penal Code and 25 of the Arms Act at the Fattudhinga police station in Kapurthala.“Our team, while working closely with MP Police, arrested Sweety, who unsuccessfully attempted to evade arrest by crossing the Narmada to enter the Maharashtra border,” the DGP said.SSP Khakh said Sweety had disclosed that he and his elder brother, Sumer Singh, were into the illegal manufacture and sale of arms for several years and used to upload videos of arms on social media platforms to lure customers. The arrested robbers had established contact with them after seeing the videos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arms-supplier-from-mp-nabbed-281326
