12-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||At life’s fag end, he struggles to raise his grandchildren||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 11“They are the only ones I have to live for. But I always keep on thinking what will happen to them once I am gone,” says a distressed and depressed grandfather. He recently lost his son to Covid while his daughter-in-law had died a few years ago. Raising his three grandchildren aged 9, 8 and 7 single-handedly, he says they are his hope. Even his wife doesn’t keep well these days.This is the story of many of those children who were deprived of their parents’ affection due to the virus.Jalandhar-based Pritam Singh (67) (name changed) hardly has any money. He is a daily wager. When his son died of Covid last year in September, he was pushed to the brink. With three small children to feed and take care of, he says, “Initially, we spent our money on the treatment of our daughter-in-law and then on my son. We used to have a small house of our own, but we had to sell that because of all these problems. Now we live on rent,” Singh shared his problem. He said all day, he keeps on thinking about the future of his grandchildren who don’t even have a permanent shelter as all of them live on rent. Halle te rishtedar khaan peen da kr dinde hai, baad vich ki hoyega enna da (At present, my relatives are taking care of meals for my grandchildren, but what will happen when we are not there) this keeps him worried every minute. Even his wife has suffered two paralysis attacks and is unable to do any work. Even after all these problems, the grandfather refused to send them to a shelter home.Singh has two granddaughters and a grandson, and it was not easy for them to bear the loss of both their parents. “I am always worried about their studies. But my daughter takes care of their studies. The children get work online, and since my daughter has a smartphone, she ensures that they do their work. My only wish is to help them get a good education. At least, they will be able to survive on their own and face the world,” he said.Anganwari workers from the area said the pension of the orphaned children has already started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-lifes-fag-end-he-struggles-to-raise-his-grandchildren-281946
12-07-2021||---||Special drive launched to implement Covid norms in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 11The Commissionerate Police have started a special drive to check the implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) in hotels, restaurants and bars here.During the checking, special emphasis was laid on ensuring that the entire staff of these establishments and visitors were vaccinated to stop the spread of the virus.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said 10 joint teams of the police and the civil administration had been formed to check violations of Covid protocols in hotels, restaurants and bars. The Commissioner of Police had deployed five GO rank officers to accompany the teams while conducting checking. In the last two days, joint teams have checked 29 hotels, including Radisson, Ramada, Maya, Best Western, Srover Portiko, Macdonald’s, Best Price, KFC, and many more, besides two IELTS coaching centres.The Commissioner of Police (CP) further mentioned that these eating points were among super spreader categories where chances of virus transmission were comparatively high, so the vaccination of staff working at these establishments and visitors held significance.Bhullar said the district administration had prepared a list of all such points, where joint teams of the police, the administration and the Health Department are visiting frequently to ensure proper compliance of Covid-appropriate behavior there.The CP said no stone would be left unturned to ensure that the protocols were strictly followed as it would help contain the spread of the virus. He appealed to managements of hotels, restaurants and bars to get their staff members vaccinated at the earliest in the larger public interest, besides encouraging their customers to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-drive-launched-to-implement-covid-norms-in-jalandhar-281947
12-07-2021||---||Jalandhar Youth Cong protests fuel price hike||Jalandhar, July 11Members of the Jalandhar unit of the Youth Congress burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in protest against the hike in petrol and diesel prices across the country on Sunday. The protest march started from Congress Bhawan and culminated at BMC Chowk, where an effigy of the PM was burnt.Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri attacked the BJP government at the Centre for the sharp hike in prices of essentials commodities, making life miserable for all sections of society. He said the Modi government had failed on all the fronts and the focus of the Central Government seems to be shifted from helping livelihoods to revenue generation. While the entire country is battling the coronavirus, increase in diesel and petrol prices has increased the financial burden on every citizen, he said.Bunty Shelke, secretary of the Indian Youth Congress and in charge of the Punjab Youth Congress, said during the Congress rule, the rate of LPG cylinder was Rs 414 while now the rate has hit Rs 900 and same is the case for petrol and diesel. The prices of pulses and mustard oil have doubled in past 10 years. He further said that the Modi govt has imposed heavy taxes on the people as its economic policies have been a total failure leading to worst ever economic situation and lowest ever growth of the country leading to unprecedented price rise of all commodities.Angad Dutta, president of the Jalandhar Youth Congress, said: “With barely any control by the government, private companies were increasing the rates of petrol, diesel and gas cylinders time and again. Income sources of common man have shrunk after lockdowns were imposed, but the government, instead of providing any relief, has resorted to hiking prices of petrol, diesel and other essential commodities thereby burdening people financially.”He further added that the rise in petrol and diesel prices have set new records in the country and noted that despite the low international crude oil prices, the government was still taxing the common man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-youth-cong-protests-fuel-price-hike-281948
12-07-2021||---||No death reported, case tally nears 63,000 in Jalandhar dist||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 11With 12 new Covid cases reported today in the district, the total district tally reached has reached 62,903 cases. Of these, three are from other districts. No Covid death has been reported today. The deceased tally remains 1,486. As many as 61,284 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases here is 133.6 cases, no death in KapurthalaSix persons were reported positive in Kapurthala, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,685. No death was reported in Kapurthala today.Hoshiarpur reports 5 casesThe district today received 2,193 samples, out of which five new positive cases of Covid have been reported, taking the total number of patients so far to 30,554. With the receipt of 1,735 new samples from the people with suspicious flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far in the district till date is 6,86,242. According to the reports received from the lab, 6,57,071 samples are negative while 1,455 reports are awaited and 999 samples are invalid. With no death reported on Sunday, the death toll so far is 972. The number of active cases is 72, while the number of cured patients is 29,510.2 test +ve in NawanshahrThe district reported two fresh Covid-19 cases from Balachaur and Sujjon blocks on Sunday. With this, the tally has reached 11,418 and the toll increased to 359 (3.14 per cent). At present, the district has 17 active cases, out of which 12 are under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.70 per cent. For the last two days, no case was reported from Nawanshahr.Meanwhile, the daily positivity rate in the country was recorded at 2.25 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 20 consecutive days and the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.32 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-death-reported-case-tally-nears-63-000-in-jalandhar-dist-281950
12-07-2021||---||‘Men with weapons’ seen at Cong protest||Jalandhar, July 11The photos of two men carrying weapons in their hands went viral hours after the Youth Congress held a dharna in protest against the diesel hike on Sunday. In the photograph which went viral on the social media, one man was seen carrying a double-barrel gun, while the other was seen carrying some other weapon. The Congress has in turn said these were personal security men of Sehaj Chhabra, general secretary of the Jalandhar Youth Congress.Angad Dutta, president Youth Congress, Jalandhar, said, “These are the personal security men of Congress general secretary. He is a businessman and has hired the security personnel who always accompany him. The police have also verified the same. We asked the men to leave their weapons in the vehicle while accompanying the leader. They stood out and got noticed because they were not wearing their uniform today being Sunday. They were here to guard the general secretary.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/men-with-weapons-seen-at-cong-protest-281951
12-07-2021||Strap||Population — A liability or an asset?||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, July 11 A lecture was organised on the occasion of World Population Day by the Pushpa Gujral Science City on “Global population issues and their impact on environment”. Around 100 school & college students participated in the event through virtual mode. The theme of this year’s event is ‘The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on fertility'. Under the same theme, the issue of ‘Rights and choices are the answer: Whether baby boom or bust, the solution to shifting fertility rates lies in prioritising the reproductive health and rights of all people’ is being discussed globally. The United Nations has sent up the UNFPA (United Nations Fund for Population Activities, now known as United Nations Population Fund) and a population division to plan programmes to highlight and disseminate information on issues related to population.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, in her introductory remarks on the occasion, said population growth has both negative and positive impacts on the society. Whereas on one hand, population explosion can lead to over-exploitation of resources, create resource crunch for present and future generations, affect age structure of a country, lead to local and international migration and cause economic inequality thus compromising sustainability; however, on the other side, it can provide a country with a large workforce which can help increase its commercial output and productivity, innovative potential, tax base and consumer spending, thus creating an impetus for the economy. Low population growth in high-income countries is likely to create social and economic problems while high population growth in low-income countries may slow their development. However, it is largely accepted that population growth constantly acts as a hurdle in effectively addressing the problem of poverty, hunger and malnutrition and in providing the better quality of health and education, with limited resources. Covid-19 has accentuated these challenges and also raised concerns on the timely attainment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is therefore important to understand that in order to have a better future for all on a healthy planet, attainment of the SDGs is critical. Hence, providing adequate education and training to the large young population would ensure them to be productive, effective and competent, thereby proving themselves as key contributors for the achievement of these SDGs. Dr Parmil Kumar, Associate Professor, Department of Statistics, University of Jammu, was the key speaker at the occasion. Delivering his talk, he said the main objective of celebrating this day is to raise awareness of global population issues and its impact on environment, natural resources and human beings. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City said overpopulation was a crucial issue considering depletion of world resources at an unsustainable rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/population-%E2%80%94-a-liability-or-an-asset-281952
12-07-2021||---||4 booked for bathing in Bist Doab canal||Nawanshahr, July 11Four persons have been booked for taking bath in Bist Doab Canal, said Nawanshahr SSP Alka Meena on Sunday. The cases have been registered at the City Balachaur police station. The offenders have been identified as Happy, Rahul and Ajay from Balachaur and Rahul, a resident of Rupnagar.Notably, last month four youths of of Balachaur town, who had reportedly jumped into the Sutlej to get relief from the scorching heat in the afternoon, had drowned. Their bikes, clothes and footwear were found along the Sutlej. Professional divers from Ropar were deployed who after five hours of effort had finally managed to pull out the bodies.After that, the police officials were directed to carry out special checking of ghats and canal bridges on the Sutlej, besides keeping a strict vigil on people who come to bath at these places. The Deputy Commissioner had imposed a complete ban on bathing in the Sutlej and Bist Doab Canal as both are closed. “The water flow is very fast and taking bath in it could lead to loss of life,” the DC had said. A special appeal had also been made to the parents to take care of their children so that they do not go for bathing in the river or canal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-booked-for-bathing-in-bist-doab-canal-281954
12-07-2021||What should be done to ensure a drug-free society?||Adopt carrot-and-stick policy to tackle drug menace||Launch an all-out war against drugsDrugs and illicit trade is a very serious issue as it has ruined number of families. The role of society, social organisations and family members, play an important role in motivating youngsters to stay away from drugs. Though the administration has been carrying out raids to nab peddlers and the police have succeeded in confiscating contraband on regualr basis, menace of drugs has not ended yet. When most Chinese became opium addicted, Peking launched ‘Opium War’ against the addiction. As drugs offers easy money, people often indulge in this illegal trade. In Punjab, number of surveys have been held, which pionted out that border areas have turned into heaven for drug smugglers. Despite the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police confiscating drugs worth crores of rupees, the menace is ongoing. It’s become difficult for the administration to ensure a drug-free society because it’s up to the masses to create awareness and launch special drives in schools, colleges and universities. Parents, too, should take the matter seriously and discuss the issue with their children regularly. Similarly, the administration, managements of schools and colleges, should ensure that nobody sells cigarettes or tobacco within 700 m area of the campus. But it’s the same government, which generates maximum revenue by selling liquor, even though prices rates are skyrocketing. We all should take an oath to stay away from drugs as crime also increases manifold after consumptions of contraband.Rajat Kumar MohindruParents, civic body should work togetherThere is a need to adopt a multi-faceted approach to fight drug abuse, rehabilitate addicts and motivate youngsters to stay away from drugs. The other step that the administration should take is to spread drug awareness as a preventive measure. Achieving drug de-addiction on a larger scale in Jalandhar is possible if parents and civic body work together.Akash KumarControl easy availability of banned vialsConsumption of drugs is a curse for the entire society. Other than heroin and opium, a number of medicines, including tramadol, have been banned by the government. Such drugs cannot be sold, but still they are easily available. It is for seniors to inform youngsters that consumption of drugs will not just ruin their health, but also create problems for their family members and loved ones. Though the government has opened rehabilitation centres for drug addicts to bring them back in the mainstream, numerous discrepancies have led to their failure and fulfil the commitments. The administration should create more and more awareness among citizens, especially youngsters, as they get hooked to drugs easily and indulge in criminal activities. No doubt seminars and debates are being organised to have a drug-free society, but the meance is far from being getting over. The Indian Armed Forces and the Punjab Police have been working overtime to tackle drug peddling on the international border.Simmi MohindruSuccess depends on will of societyDrugs have shaken the very foundation of our society, particularly the youths. But to think of a drug-free society is a chimera and a pipe-dream. No country in the world has been able to get rid of this illegal trade. Though Capt Amarinder Singh had taken an oath to stop drug menace, nothing has been achieved on the ground. Unfortunately, acolytes of political parties, are running illegal distilleries and indulging in drug trafficking. The drug trade is mostly carried out through Pakistan because smugglers have safe heavens in Pakistan-Iran and Afghanistan. One nneds to follow carrot and stick policy. Many countries in south east Asia have started imposing death penalty on peddlers. Those indulging in such activities should be handed condign punishment so that it serves a lesson to others. Numerous policemen have been held for assisting smugglers and resorting to peddling. Help should be taken from religious leaders and social activists to enlighten masses, especially youngsters about harmful affects of drugs. Many families have been ruined due to drug addiction. The NGOs have come forward to run drug de-addiction centres, but their success depends on will of the entire society.Dr JS WadhwaKeep constant vigil on childrenAny society which is inflicted with curse of drugs is greatly incapacitated to human progress and social prosperity. To prevent this evil to spread further and to rehabilitate those devastated is the foremost responsibility of the government and residents of any civilized society. Two major dimensions - supply and demand - determine the incidence and scope of this menace, which, however, can be eliminated with strategic planning followed by strict enforcement in a time-bound manner. Society first needs to evaluate the process of origin and demand of drugs over a period. For this, family values have to be rediscovered and practiced at micro levels. Parents need to be generally connected with their wards in a way that there is no communication gap between them. The managements and teachers at schools and colleges must keep a constant vigil over the activities, both on campus and off campus, of their students in coordination with parents for monitoring their exposure to drugs and undesirable indulgences. On the other side of supply, unambiguous and comprehensive legislation embracing exemplary punishments followed by strict enforcement thereof is a primary requirement. Special fast tracked courts to deal with drugs traffickers and their illicit activities is the need of the hour.Jagdish ChanderCombat drug menace with iron handThe exponential increase in cases of drug abuse and illicit trade in Punjab over the past few years is a cause of concern as it poses a potential challenge to health, social fabric, sustained development and safety of residents. Due to the ISI-sponsored and facilitated smuggling from across the border and production, distribution and sale by local drug cartels and crime syndicates, illicit drugs, including opium, heroin, cocaine and synthetic psychotropic substances, are freely available across the state. Our younger generation and adults fall an easy prey to narcotic addiction out of sheer glamour, stress, unemployment, suffering and deprivation. Had the magnitude of the problem been properly understood in time and the campaign against drugs and illicit trade been carried out earnestly, the situation would have definitely improved. Every political party vows to eradicate this menace in its poll manifesto, but after assuming power, it does nothing truly constructive on the ground level. The need of the hour is to combat the menace effectively with an iron hand so that those blighted by the drug abuse should live a drug-free, happy life. A strict and speedy punitive action should be taken against peddlers and unscrupulous businessmen. Drug abuse is a super self-destructive habit and the addicts should not be treated as criminals, but as compulsive victims. Instead of punishing them, they should be sent to standard rehabilitation centres for care and treatment. The government should spread public awareness about the malpractice of drug trafficking. There should be no political interference in the working of the police. We should enhance border surveillance and security, and show zero tolerance to narcotics for the holistic well-being of the state and its entire populace.Tajpreet Singh KangImplement anti-drug abuse lawsThough drug abuse and illicit trafficking is a worldwide phenomenon, it has assumed alarming proportions in India, particularly in Punjab. The menace has far reaching physical, psychological, economic and social repercussions such as broken ties, distortion of interpersonal relationships, alienation, road accidents, organised crime, social vices, corruption and narco-terrorism. The younger generation is the worst-affected as peddlers target school and college going students who are prone to suffer from depression due to studies and work burden, peer pressure, poor performance, failure in exams, unemployment and so on. Despite frequent seizures of drugs, busting of drug rackets and arrests of notorious smugglers by the Punjab Police under the provisions of the NDPS Act 1985, the government has failed to tackle the rampant menace, courtesy political apathy, lack of political will and commitment, and the existence of a powerful nexus between politicians, police and drug mafia. We observe the International Day against Drugs and Illicit Trafficking every year on June 26 as a mere ritual. The fight against drug use should be a collective effort by the government, addicts and their families, social and religious organisations, physicians and psychologists. Taking radical political decisions as part of the Directive Principles of the State Policy, the government should ensure strict implementation of anti-drug abuse laws and initiate penal action against peddlers as well as politically connected crafty dealers, distributors and their patrons involved in this thriving lucrative business. Education curriculum should include chapters on drug abuse to sensitise students about its ill-effects. We should establish quality de-addiction centres and camps for the addicts. All sections of society are enjoined to cooperate with the enforcement agencies to root out this evil and make the state safer from drugs, organised crime, corruption and terrorism.D S KangParents should offer moral supportDemand and supply of drugs is in abundance. Different kind of drugs are available in the market, which is destroying future of present generation. Children often consume drugs for fun while socialising with friends to escape from stress. It’s difficult to pin point the exact reason, but its a fact that the use of drug is very much prevalent among youngsters. So many campaigns have been launched and rehablitation centres have been started to end the menace, but nothing has changed on the ground. There are some signs or behaviour that can tell about the person who is consuming drugs, such as staying aloof from siblings and family members. It’s the duty of parents not to react in a harsh manner and assist their kids as they need moral support at this particular point of time. They should keep a constant check on friend circle, develop a close relation and trust with their child. Not only boys, but girls are also equally involved in consuming drugs. Strict vigil with honesty at the border is the need of the hour. It needs to be checked that drug seized should are fully destroyed. It’s a matter of concern how the drug are easly available for children. To curb the menace, sporting activities should be developed among children. Small motivational films should be screened in schools, colleges and universities, if we want a drug-free society.Shashi KiranTake stern action against bigwigsAddiction of liquor and other kinds of intoxicants, including opium, have been prevalent in society since times immemorial. Earlier, it used to be a fascinating addiction for a few elite, but slowly it has percolated among conman through rave parties. To tackle the issue, some sort of ban has been put in place against excessive use of drugs and intoxicants, but the menace is going on unabated. Looking at its adverse impact on global society and public health, the United Nations declared June 26 as the International Day to spread awareness against drug abuse and illicit trafficking. In India, some state governments have taken stringent measures against the illicit trade of liquor and drugs. On the contrary, some states are allowing sale of liquor as a source of revenue generation. They have legalised the trade by moderating conservative use of drugs through higher pricing tag with different brands and licensing by yearly auction of liquor vends. Consequently, due to soaring price difference, poor and mediocre section get tempted to buy spurious liquor. In this way, parallel illicit trade of liquor and drugs has prospered into a big source of making quick bucks. Many unscrupulous elements and even influential persons have jumped in to reap the dividends from this illicit trade. Gradually, apart from liquor and opium, other synthetic drugs, including heroin and smack have become quite common among youngsters, which has led to increase in crime rate and destruction of numerous families in the state. Despite tall promises made by the government to end the menace, drug peddling is flourishing. The sustained campaigns carried to root out drug menace have not yielded the desired results as a number of hooch tragedies and big haul of contraband is reported every day. Even de-addiction centres set up to cure addicts are proving ineffective and thereby earning the public ire of having failed in its mission. The magnitude of illicit trafficking is so much that unless the government takes drastic action against bigwigs and make collective efforts to check cross border/ interstate smuggling of banned drugs, the curse is difficult to be rooted out.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathHold anti-drug drives, street playsAnil KhannaQUESTIONUnscheduled power cuts amid an intense heat wave across the state have left residents fuming and fretting. The rising demand of power has exposed chinks in infrastructure and preparedness in tackling with such a situation. What steps should be taken to ensure that residents don't reel under long power cuts in the state? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adopt-carrot-and-stick-policy-to-tackle-drug-menace-281956
12-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||BJP to gherao Punjab CM’s residence||24-yr-old dies in road accidentHoshiarpur: A 24-year-old youth lost his life after being hit by an unidentified vehicle on Saturday. Avtar Singh, a resident of Chohra village, told the police that Davinder Singh, a resident of his village, was returning home after work on a motorcycle. An unidentified vehicle rammed into his bike on Banga Road in Garhshankar. Davinder was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver. OCOver 10 booked for assaultHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police on Saturday registered a case against more than a dozen persons for attacking Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Muggowal village. Lakhwinder Singh told the police that he was riding a bike along with Satnaur village resident Jang Bahadur, when a car, in which Gaggi, a resident of his village, was sitting, stopped them and attacked Jang with sticks due to old enmity. Then about a dozen more persons on six bikes reached there and allegedly assaulted him with an intent to kill him. The police have registered a case under Sections 323, 341, 308, 148 and 149 of the IPC. OCProtest against termination onMukerian: A dharna by AUCT (Association of Unaided College Teachers) near SPN College, Mukerian, on Sunday entered its 16th day. The dharna is being held in protest against the sudden termination of Prof Tarun Ghai, assistant professor in political science, on June 23 by the management of the college reportedly without any charge sheet or inquiry. Ghai said the reason behind his termination was that he had sought the details of the money collected from the students by the college under the RTI Act. OCMan held with 22-gm heroinHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police on Saturday night arrested a person with 22 grams of heroin which he was trying to sell from his car. The accused has been identified as Harbans Lal, a resident of Khanur village. The police have also seized the culprit’s car and booked him under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-to-gherao-punjab-cms-residence-281957
12-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar DC’s report finds lapses in Vanita Ashram functioning||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 11A house mother at the Children’s Home of the Gandhi Vanita Ashram asked inmates to put in writing that “Shelter home staff will not be held responsible if anything happens to one particular inmate”.The glaring disclosure has been made in a report submitted by the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner. An inquiry ordered by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori into the incident of the escape of 37 girls from the Children’s Home at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram (GVA) on March 8 has found this and other glaring irregularities at the home.The DC’s report was submitted to the Principal Secretary, Department of Women and Child Development, on the night of March 8 the same day that the escape incident happened. The report made on the basis of findings by the SDM, Jalandhar II, found that the Children’s Home had — “shortage of police personnel” on duty at the ashram on the day of the incident and “lapse in deliverance of her duties” by the house mother of the Children’s Home. The report also stated that the CDPO, Bhogpur, who had the additional charge of Superintendent of the Children’s Home “was not able to discharge her duties properly”.The DC’s report states, “It has come to the notice that there has been one lapse on the part of house mother Neelu. The girls stated that the house mother had exhorted them to put in writing the following: “The shelter home staff would not be held responsible if anything happens to one particular inmate.” This inmate is suffering from acute stress owing to personal conditions and the house mother has asked all the other inmates to give the above text in writing. This unauthorised exertion by the staff member accounts for a serious lapse in discharging her duties as her main job is to take care of the inmates.”Speaking about the lack of security at the ashram, the report said, “The girls could leave the premises in an unauthorised manner due to the shortage of police personnel as they being in large number manhandled the woman police constable, only 1 on duty at the time. As per the duty roster, three woman constables are appointed at the gate of the shelter home, working on a rotational basis. They forced their way out of the premises by breaking the lock of the main gate entrance and also manhandling the gatekeeper.”The report further stated, “The CDPO, Bhogpur, has an additional charge of Superintendent of the Children Home and she has not been able to discharge her duties properly as the incident could have been avoided if pro-active measures were taken by Superintendent or her sub-ordinate staff in addressing the concerns of girl inmates.”The report filed in March also found that four girls had reached the age of 18 in the ashram. And that the home with a capacity of 50 inmates was housing 83 inmates and their three infants.District Programme Officer Garry Randhawa said: “At present, the ashram has around 90 inmates. After the incident, cases of several inmates over 18 were resolved and they were sent home. Only one inmate over 18 is currently staying at the ashram. Additional security has been provided to the ashram after the incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dcs-report-finds-lapses-in-vanita-ashram-functioning-281958
