13-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Oxygen plant at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital soon||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-plant-at-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-soon-282505
13-07-2021||Jalandhar||Orange Champs clinch football under-14 title||The Sports Champs Football Club of Jalandhar Heights-1 organised a tournament of under-14 category. Club members Adhikshit, Tanvin, Shubraj, Achintya and Ranveer made the arrangements. Four teams took part in the competition. Orange Champs took the winning trophy. Adhikshit was declared the man of the series. Salwinder, wife of Sukhdev Singh MD AGI Infra LTD along with Amita Khanna, wife of Major Gen Arun Khanna graced the occasion and motivated the energetic children filled by distributing the prizes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/orange-champs-clinch-football-under-14-title-282441
13-07-2021||---||BJP activists protest attack on counterparts in Rajpura||Jalandhar, July 12Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday held a protest oustide the Jalandhar Deputy Commssioner’s office against the attack on their counterparts in Rajpura yesterday.District chief Sushil Sharma led the agitation along with other leaders from the saffron party. Sharma condemned the state government and said mischievous elements attacked the BJP leaders at the behest of Capt Amarinder Singh.BJP vice-president Rakesh Rathour said the incident, which happened in Rajpura was a cowardly act. He said spokesperson Bhupesh Aggarwal and district chief Vikas Sharma were gheraoed and attacked. He said the duo had to hide at someone’s house to save themselves.The BJP’s leaders said these kind of incidents would not be tolerated. Rathour said Capt Amarinder Singh’s government was resorting to hooliganism. He said hide its own misdeeds, the Congress was attacking the BJP leaders.BJP’s secretary Anil Sacchar said there was total anarchy in the state. Activists said they would go home to home to tell people what the state government has done.State spokesperson Mahendra Bhagat, Diwan Amit Arora, former Mayor Sunil Jyoti, Jalandhar (rural) north chief Amarjit Singh Amri, Jalandhar (rural) south president Sudarshan Sobti, Ravi Mahendru and Subhash Sood, among others, were present on the occasion.Bhim Army’s demand: Rename Mohali airport after Guru RavidasJalandhar: Members of the Bhim Army and Azad Samaj Party on Monday held a massive protest outside the residence of Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh over their demand pertaining to renaming of Mohali airport after Guru Ravidas.Hundreds of members of the Ravidassia community first gathered at Dr BR Ambedkar park in Buta Mandi carrying blue flags, banners and placards to raise their voice. The youth moved on bikes towards the residence of Jalandhar MP where the city police had set up barricades.The protesters alleged that the MP had backtracked from his commitment over the issue. As the MP was reportedly not at his place, agitators handed over a demand letter to his staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-activists-protest-attack-on-counterparts-in-rajpura-282442
13-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: 27-yr-old dies in road accident||Jobs for Class XII pass-out girlsNawanshahr: The District Bureau of Employment will be organising a placement camp for girls on Tuesday on the third floor of District Administrative Complex at the employment office. District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer Sanjeev Kumar said the candidates would be selected by Ajail Private Limited Company. He said Class XII pass-out girls between the age group of 18 to 26 years could participate in the camp. They should also bring their education documents with them. TNSDrug peddler arrestedHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have arrested a drug peddler and seized 62-gm of intoxicating powder from him. The accused has been identified as Sourav, a resident of Bassi Wajid. He was held at a naka, which was set up near Kahlwan on Sunday night. An FIR under Sections 22-61-85 of od the NDPS Act has registered against Sourav. OCOne held with 10-gm heroinHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have arrested Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Chhangla village, and seized seized 10 gm of heroin from him. The contraband was recovered from his car, which was stopped for inspection near Rara on Sunday. Gopi has been booked under Sectiona 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act by the Tanda police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-27-yr-old-dies-in-road-accident-282444
13-07-2021||---||Rain spells cheer for Jalandhar residents, farmers||Jalandhar, July 12The rainfall for the last two days brought a lot of relief to the residents of the region from a long spell of hot and humid weather. Cloudy skies and rain made way for pleasant weather for the entire day today. The rain also brought in cheer for farmers cultivating paddy.While the delayed monsoon earlier forced some farmers to keep their fields idle even in the paddy season due to the shortage of water, but now the farmers have once again started transplantation in their fields.Owing to the weather change, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) authorities said the demand from the agricultural sector had also falling and the overall power demand in the Jalandhar circle had reduced to 9,000 MW from 12,000 Mw per day.The rain also brought relief to the industrialists who had to keep their operations shut for nearly eight days. It was around 6:30 pm that the PSPCL lifted its restrictions of power consumption in the factories. Nearly 2,000 industrial units in Jalandhar which could not operate finally got working and many of them called in their entire labour for a night shift as well.Zonal Chief Engineer, Harjinder Singh said the industrialists had been permitted to use power from 6.30 pm today till 8.30 am on Wednesday. He added that if it would rain inconsistently for the next few days, there might not be any restrictions on Wednesday too.The day temperature also dropped to 31°C from 42°C, the previous days. In the evening, the temperature further dropped to 26°C. As per the weather forecast, the rain activities have already intensified over western states. The rain belt is likely to shift gradually and Punjab, Haryana and other regions would receive moderate to heavy showers in the next few days.Residents in the town welcomed the fresh breeze. Gaurav Singh, a resident of Kishanpura said: “We were struggling in humid conditions over the past few weeks and the power cuts had made the things miserable. Finally, there is a relief.”Agriculture department officials also stated that the rain was beneficial for the paddy crop at this stage. While the monsoon should have arrived earlier, but it would now be beneficial for sowing basmati.Charanjit Singh, a farmer from Kapurthala, said, “The rain is good for the paddy crop. Now I don’t need to run my tubewell for a few days. Since Sunday, I have also kept my generator off".Most industries to work 24x7President of Jalandhar Focal Point Extension Association Narinder Sagoo said: “It was after their consistent pressure on the PSPCL officials that we got the restriction to use power temporarily lifted. Since the industrialists apprehend that the restrictions could be re-imposed from Wednesday morning, no one wants to waste even an hour. So, most units would possibly be working 24x7 to recover as many losses as possible and to expedite the completion of their orders and get the goods moved to transport as soon as possible.”He added that retaining labourers had become a huge trouble for the industry owners. “Today, I had to give out Rs 2000 as advance to all my workers to ensure that they join in fast and start the production. I have also promised them that I will pay them full day wages even if there is any further power restriction imposed by the PSPCL due to any shortage. Power shortage has put us in a grave trouble to maintain the labourers as many of them are reportedly mulling to move to Gujarat or Kerala for better avenues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-spells-cheer-for-jalandhar-residents-farmers-282447
13-07-2021||---||Highway robbery, murder case solved, 4 held by Kapurthala police||Jalandhar, July 12The Kapurthala police arrested four miscreants for a robbery and murder case in which a truck driver was hacked to death with his body dumped in the Beas. His iron-rod laden truck was also robbed. The highway robbery was solved within 19 hours of the incident.Those held have been identified as Manpreet Singh, Harjit Singh, Gurmail Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, all belonging to various parts of Amritsar district.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Manpreet was a kingpin of this gang which was involved in murder and highway robbery cases and is one of the offenders in three cases.The gang had also committed similar crimes in Punjab and other states, including murder at Guwahati, Assam, theft of a truck from Amritsar under the NDPS case, he said. He added that yesterday at 7 pm, some miscreants had murdered a truck driver Manjit Singh, a resident of Daulatpur village, Begowal and thrown his dead body from the Beas Bridge.He said several special police teams were formed under the supervision of ASP Bhulath Ajay Gandhi, comprising the SHO of police station Dhilwan and other police staff, which started the investigation after registering the case under Sections 302,201,392,120-B of the Indian Penal Code, on the statement of victim’s cousin Nishan Singh.The SSP said the police teams have been raiding the hideouts of the accused identified during the investigation and at the same time, information has been received from a source that the accused were present in the robbed truck number (PB10-CL-9291) at the bus stand Umarpura, Amritsar. The police team immediately reached the spot and arrested the four accused and recovered the truck from the spot, he added.During the preliminary interrogation of the accused, they confessed their crime and revealed that Manpreet Singh Manna was the kingpin of this gang and their only motive was to loot the iron rods in truck. They also disclosed that they have sold the looted iron to scrap dealer Jaswinder Singh, son of Nidhan Singh and Shamsher Singh, both residents of Umarpura village.The SSP said the police teams also booked Jaswinder Singh and Shamsher Singh for intentionally buying looted iron and raided their place, from where both managed to escape after spotting the police party. But the police team recovered the looted iron from their shop. The SSP said the accused would be produced in the local courts and would be taken on remand for further interrogation as many more revelations are expected in similar incidents. He said the body has also been recovered from Beas and handed over to the family after post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/highway-robbery-murder-case-solved-4-held-by-kapurthala-police-282448
13-07-2021||---||Post-Covid complications: ‘Use of steroids a double-edged sword’||Jalandhar, July 12Doctors have been witnessing various post-Covid complications among patients. Dr Shubhang Aggarwal, an orthopaedic and robotic joint replacement surgeon, NHS Hospital, has raised a concern saying that many patients have been reporting pain in joints, hips, shoulder and knees after having recovered from Covid-19. He said this condition is medically known as avascular necrosis (AVN) and if not managed well, could lead to another devastating post-Covid complication like mucormycosis.“Though there has been no government data regarding this as an emerging trend, hospitals in many parts of the country have confirmed such cases,” he said.“The use of steroids during the treatment of Covid-19 is the suspect behind this unnatural bone damage. The excessive use of steroids causes marrow edema at bone ends that cuts off its own blood supply. The cases of avascular necrosis that are being reported now are definitely more in frequency and they seem to be induced by steroids. In our hospital also, we have seen 8-10 cases so far. The condition, which comes into light after three months of the Covid-19 infection, needs immediate medical intervention. If the pain persists, then patients are advised to undergo an MRI which will detect whether it is a case of bone death or not. We suggest surgery in the form of joint replacement in an advanced stage,” said Dr Aggarwal.However, orthopaedic surgeons are of the opinion that bone deaths are not new. But, the incidences of such conditions have gone up as a side-effect in the patients, who had Covid. “People suffering from shoulder and hip problems shouldn’t ignore this condition and seek medical help on an urgent basis. Ideally, the whole procedure takes nearly three years to treat the disease completely if we have to protect the natural joint, but if the patients respond to the treatment, the pain begins to subside within 3-6 weeks,” the doctor advised.“Patients, who have been given steroids for improved lung function affected due to Covid-19, are more prone to get AVN of the hip,” Dr Aggarwal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-covid-complications-use-of-steroids-a-double-edged-sword-282449
13-07-2021||---||Array of events mark LKC e-fest||Jalandhar, July 12E-Fest Bonna fete-2021 was organised by Lyallpur Khalsa College (LKC) this weekend. Various fun-filled and colourful activities including an e-concert, virtual dance party, live tambola, online mind games were organised to refresh the minds of online audience and participants.The inaugural function was presided over by Gurjot Kaur, a college alumnus. While honouring her, Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra applauded and appreciated her for the achievements and contributions towards Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat. At the same time, he applauded the organisers of the fete. Appreciating them, he said this was an innovative initiation to beat the heat of the pandemic by entertaining students on the platform of virtual mode.Adding to it, he said the e-event would definitely foster camaraderie and a sense of community amongst the students and teachers of our institution. He further said that such an event would go a long way in lifting the spirits of the college fraternity in this difficult pandemic time. The second event was a musical concert organised by the Post Graduate Department of Music. Apart from various departmental activities, live online tambola was conducted to refresh the players.The surprise of the fete was a bhangra presentation by the Principal Dr GS Samra and senior teaching staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/array-of-events-mark-lkc-e-fest-282452
13-07-2021||---||Jalandhar district logs 15 cases, no death||Jalandhar, July 12With 15 new Covid-19 cases reported today in the district, the total tally reached 62,918 cases. Of these four cases, three are from other districts. No Covid death has been reported today for the third day in the district. The deceased tally remains 1,486. As many as 61,308 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 124.1 death in KapurthalaFour persons were reported positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 17,689. One death was also reported in Kapurthala today. The deceased is an 82-year-old man who died at the GMC, Amritsar.No case in NawanshahrThe district did not report even a single case on Monday. With this, the tally stands at 11,418 and the toll is 359 (3.14 per cent). At present, the district has 16 active cases, out of which 11 are under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.71 per cent. However, four patients have been admitted in the Level-II Covid care facility.No fatality in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported five new positive cases in the district on Monday. With this, the tally has increased to 30,559 so far. The authorities reported no casualty in the district today. The death toll stands at 972. With 2,360 samples taken today, the total number of samples taken in the till reached 6,88,653. According to reports, a total of 6,58,949 persons tested negative while 1,970 reports were awaited.At present, the district has 70 active cases. A total of 29,517 patients have recovered so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-15-cases-no-death-282453
13-07-2021||---||Kapurthala SSP launches ‘You share-We care’ campaign to tackle drug menace||Kapurthala, July 12To tackle the menace of drugs, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh has launched a campaign ‘You Share-We Care’ by soliciting support of public on new helpline number 91155-25501.The SSP said people can share any sort of information related to drugs and also of illicit liquor smuggling. He said any person who has any information regarding drug supply network or liquor smuggling can share it on this helpline for quick action.The identity of any person giving information on drugs would not be revealed and the helpline would be operational round the clock, he added.Soliciting cooperation from people in this regard, he said the prime motive of this helpline is to eliminate drug menace. He categorically said that as per the commitment of the state government to make Punjab a drug free state, the police administration would ensure that this target is achieved soon, with the active support and cooperation of the general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-ssp-launches-you-share-we-care-campaign-to-tackle-drug-menace-282457
13-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Pandemic Blues: Sportspersons quite low on stamina||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 12Young players have commenced practicing after a gap of almost a year due to the pandemic at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Nehru Garden. Contrary to earlier days, the training phase does not seems easy for them. Players experienced tiredness as they took to the field.Payal (16) a state-level judo player said it was impossible to practice at home. “Thus, when I started, I did experience persistent tiredness. My coach ensured that no pressure to perform better is exerted on us,” she said.Another player, Ritika, who agreed with Payal, said stiffness and pain were frequent in the beginning. “We could not practice due to the pandemic. I was really missing the feel of actual place where a sportsperson feels the happiest. Now, that we are back, we will do everything to get back our momentum,” she said.Challenge for physical education teachers has increased manifold as they look forward to increase the frequency of practice sessions.Sudhir Kumar, who is a physical education teacher, at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Nehru Garden, said, “I am keeping training schedule very light for players because if I start hard, they will suffer and it will be not good for their health. They are quite low on strength and endurance. So, it’s like a challenge to maintain pace.”He said he wants his players to practice daily so that they gain stamina and focus for upcoming trials of ‘Khelo India’ games that can happen anytime now. He said the state government has given them a grant with which they purchased judo mats and opened a gym for players.Sharandeep Kaur, physical education teacher, Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Adarsh Nagar, said they would commence training within next 10 days. “I will start with recreational activities to motivate players, so that they don’t feel burdened. I have seen players whose performance has reduced to 40 per cent from 90 per cent earlier. This is a challenge, which we will overcome soon,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-blues-sportspersons-quite-low-on-stamina-282459
13-07-2021||To promote sports among youngsters||Jagatpur Jattan cricket team lifts the trophy||Gifting breath of lifeCity-based Akal Induction Welfare Society has launched a free oxygen concentrator service for Covid patients. Jatinder Singh Virdi, a social worker and the owner of the society said the oxygen concentrators would be of great help to people who can’t afford it or the hefty bills of the oxygen cylinders. He added that the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 prompted him to make oxygen contractors for the helpless. For the time being, four oxygen concentrators have been piped into service.Feeding the hungryIn remembrance of Ajit Singh Dhillon, the Prem Nagar Welfare Society distributed ration and other food packets among the 20 needy families. Social worker Malkiat Singh Raghbotra and former councillor Parminder Kaur Raghbotra organised a ration distribution camp. The society has been doing this noble gesture for the past 116 years. Chief Guest on the ocassion Raman Nehra and Rakesh Kumar said the workers were also running a stitching centre and a computer training centre on the Khera road. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jagatpur-jattan-cricket-team-lifts-the-trophy-282460
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||1 dies, 30 hurt as bus rams into tree||Tanda Urmar, July 12A total of 30 passengers were injured after an overspeeding private bus met with an accident on Tanda-Hoshiarpur road near Rampur village on Monday. The accident happened after the bus heading towards Tanda first rammed into a scooter and then crashed into a tree.The impact of the collision was so severe that the bus broke into two parts and passengers got trapped. Nearby villagers pulled the injured passengers out of the ill-fated vehicle by using an earth mover. An 8-year-old child and a woman got stuck between engine and seat of the bus, who were pulled out with great difficulty.The injured were shifted to hospitals in Tanda and Hoshiarpur. The vicitm has been identified Sukhjinder Singh (scooterist), a resident of Kandhala Jattan. He succumbed to his injuries during the treatment. Those admitted to the hospital in Tanda included Satnam Singh, a resident of Shala village in Gurdaspur; Maninderjit Kaur, a resident of Moonak Kalan; Simmi, a resident of Kumpur; Sandeep Sunny, a resident of Moonak Khurd; Rekha, a resident of Sarai; Mohan Singh of Chotala village; Jaswant Kaur a resident of Budhipind; and Davinderpal of Jalalpur village. The condition of some of the injured was said to be critical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-30-hurt-as-bus-rams-into-tree-282461
13-07-2021||Jalandhar||World Paper Bag Day celebrated||World Population Day observedTo sensitise the students about the alarming situation, HMV Collegiate Sr Sec School celebrated ‘World Population Day’. Students prepared various skits to convey the message of population control. The event was organised under the guidance of Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen and school co-ordinator Meenakshi Syal. Students beautifully presented that increase in population has created many serious problems like scarcity of resources, unemployment, social evils etc. Increasing population is a threat to the environment as well. They also emphasised on the idea of ‘Small Family Happy Family’. The Principal appreciated the efforts of students and highlighted the importance of population control to make this world a better place to live in.Webinar on Modern MarketingKanya Maha Vidyalaya is organising an international series to bring together bright minds to give talks that are idea focused and on a wide range of subjects. Keeping with the tradition, PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration organised webinar on “Modern Marketing Approaches”. More than 300 participants joined this webinar. Dr Zanete Garanti, Head, Research Centre, Associate Professor, School of Business, City Unity College, Nicosia, Cyprus, was the resource person. She acquainted the students with the concept of modern marketing as technology- enabled marketing that requires innovation and creativity. She gave a new perspective of the 4Ps of marketing i.e. place, price, promotion and product, citing relevant illustrations, case studies, and real-life examples of the corporate world.DAV signs pact with gwalior LNIPEDAV University, Jalandhar, and Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education agreed to build cooperation by signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU). This MoU was signed by Dr Yeshbeer Singh, Head of the Department of Physical Education (the authorized representative of DAV University) and Prof S Mukharjee, Vice-Chancellor LNIPE Gwalior.The vice-chancellor of DAV University Dr Jasbir Rishi congratulated the department. She said that this MoU is a form of mutual commitment in complementing each other’s duties and function in the perspective of Institutional duties and development, particularly in the students learning and research development in Physical education and sports.Two-day Boot Camp organisedCT Group of Institutions organised a two-day boot camp on “Family Managed Business Entrepreneurship” for the aspirant entrepreneurs. The camp was designed for enhancing their skills and knowledge about the existing firms if they have or they are likely to establish a new business. The eminent speaker of the boot camp remained Prashant Bothra, managing director, Sofinco Industries, who emphasised about the various aspects of managing the family business and how new business can be setup especially in the time of Covid-19 situation. The students from management and engineering stream participated in it. Around 259 attendees sharpened their knowledge and abilities about the concept of family managed business.Smriti 1st in MA GeographySmriti, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, has secured the first position in Semester-I in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MA-Geography by getting 342 marks out of 400. Saloni Devi bagged second position by getting 335 marks in the same class. Principal of the college Dr Gurpinder Singh gave this information adding that Lyallpur Khalsa College is the only college in Doaba region to offer MA Geography and is the first choice of the students. The president of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Cooking competition organisedGB Public School Dhilwan organised an online activity cooking without fire competition for class VI to XII. Students explored their talent in making salad, juice, shakes, smoothie, chart etc. Class incharges gave message to eat healthy food during the ongoing pandemic so that students remain healthy. They also gave kitchen tips so that students can easily adopt them to enhance their cooking and work easily in the kitchen. School coordinator Mandeep remarked that online education doesn’t imply only to the completion of syllabus but it also should look into the overall development of student.Five DAV students in BCA merit listHoshiarpur: Five students from DAV College, Hoshiarpur were on the merit list in the result of BCA (5th and 1st Semester) declared by Punjab University Chandigarh. Amandeep Kaur, Urvashi and Pankaj Yadav of BCA (Sem V) secured VIth, VIIth and Xth position in merit list respectively. While Jasmine Kaur and Aanchal in the merit of BCA (1st semester) finished ninth and tenth position. The students attributed their success to the blessings of their parents and all the professors of the department. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-paper-bag-day-celebrated-282462
13-07-2021||---||To encourage students to read, ‘library langar’ at govt schools in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, July 12To inculcate reading habit among students, government schools across Nawanshahr district , organised a ‘Library langar’ on their premises on Monday. Teachers went door to door to handover books to students.As per information, around 40,000 books were distributed among students today. Jagjit Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), said they aimed to reach out to maximum students to promote reading and ensure that books of their choice were handed over to kids.Deputy DEO ( Secondary) Amrik Singh said, “The initiative holds more importance as students are stuck at their homes in the wake of the pandemic. Thus, it will help in engaging them productively without exposure to screens.”Vigorous poster campaigns via social media platforms and announcements from gurdwaras were made to sensitise students and their parents regarding the mega event.A range of books of different subjects were put on display for not just students, but also for parents. An overwhelming response was received from students, their parents and local residents, said teachers.Teachers said they had received a great response and now the endeavour would be made a regular feature to inculcate a habit of reading books. As both teachers and students enthusiastically participated in the event, now they would also be encouraged to write reviews on books they picked, said Surinder Pal Agnihotri, in charge, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar Team, Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-encourage-students-to-read-library-langar-at-govt-schools-in-nawanshahr-282463
13-07-2021||---||2 Jalandhar natives held for cloning ATM cards in Mohali||Mohali, July 12The police have arrested two Jalandhar residents involved in an ATM card cloning fraud. They recovered Rs6.9 lakh, an ATM card skimming device, a micro camera, one laptop, two mobile phones and a smart watch from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Savej and Rajiv Kumar, both residents of Jalandhar. One of their accomplices, Bimal Mehra, is yet to be arrested.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and the IT Act has been registered against the suspects at the Phase 1 police station.Mohali SP (Cyber Crime) Gurjot Singh Klaer said the gang members used to dupe people in ATMs at Phase 1 and Phase 5 where there were no security guards and the machines were outdated. The duo chose Mohali, instead of Jalandhar, to exploit the lax security infrastructure here. The duo used to fix a micro-camera inside the kiosk and attach a skimmer with the ATM to get the password and magnetic code. The money was withdrawn from various locations in Jalandhar.“Savej is a Bachelor in Computer Applications and Rajiv is MBA (Finance). The duo took the help of “dark net” and also joined various Telegram and WhatsApp groups of fraudsters to learn the nitty-gritty of the crime. They were operating here since December 2020. With their arrest, almost 100 complaints have been solved in the Mohali area,” said Klaer.Modus operandiMohali SP (Cyber Crime) Gurjot Singh Klaer said the gang members used to dupe people in ATMs at Phase 1 and Phase 5 where there were no security guards and the machines were outdated. The duo chose Mohali, instead of Jalandhar, to exploit the lax security infrastructure here. The duo used to fix a micro-camera inside the kiosk and attach a skimmer to the ATM to get the password and magnetic code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-jalandhar-natives-held-for-cloning-atm-cards-in-mohali-282246
