14-07-2021||Jalandhar||IELTS exam: IDP monopoly worries immigration firms||The recent reports of acquisition of the British Council’s IELTS operations by the International Development Programme (IDP) has made the huge local market of IELTS training centres and immigration companies very jittery.Reason: Earlier, the students could pick from a testing centre of either IDP or the British Council. But now, all IELTS testing in the country will be conducted by the IDP only ending the prevailing competition. The owners of local coaching centres feel that the company has now got the monopoly and it will operate without any market competition. They fear that the IDP, which runs immigration and consultancy services too, will also get highly empowered and their businesses will surely get hit by this move.Sukant Nain Trivedi, an immigration company owner, said, “Our apprehension is that a student who registers itself for IELTS at IDP will prefer applying for foreign admission or immigration also through them taking it as a one-stop shop. Why would he come to us now?”He added, “IDP Education is their private international student enrolment division which can now influence the student market through all unfair means. It will get data of each and every student registering himself for the test. Data of students aspiring to go abroad is all what one needs in this business.”The company officials claim that there is no sharing of data between the IDP’s IELTS division and IDP Education, the company’s student enrolment division.Both the companies compete with one another in as many as 53 countries. They had jointly conducted over 3.5 crore tests in the country till the last year. IELTS testing is a high stake business in the country. The British Council will stop offering IELTS from July 25 and its bookings have already stopped. But with the entire stakes of the very popular English language testing in India going to one company has definitely raised many eyebrows.Jaspal Singh, president, Association of Consultants for Overseas Studies, said, “Monopoly is bad in any business. Competitive environment should always be allowed for fair play.”Kamal Narang, vice-president, North Immigration and Consultants for Education, said “Exploitation is a very big possibility when there is just one player left in any business. Services can get affected and pricing for tests may also increase. Checks and balances are definitely required since IELTS is a huge market here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ielts-exam-idp-monopoly-worries-immigration-firms-282910
14-07-2021||Nawanshahr||Minor girl sexually harassed by youth||The police have booked a 21-year-old youth of Kathgarh for the alleged harassment of a 14-year-old girl. The accused is absconding. Though the incident happened on June 25, a case was registered on Monday.In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother stated that the accused was the neighbour of the girl and used to make obscene gestures and would pass dirty comments whenever the girl would walk on the terrace. She said the accused would often call her girl and would talk dirty.She stated that on June 25 when she was out of town, the accused came to her house and started misbehaving with the girl and tried to molest her. When the mother returned, she saw the accused running towards his home. When she confronted her daughter, she told her about the entire episode. “The accused warned of killing me (mother) if she revealed the incident to anyone,” she stated in her complaint.Jagir Singh, investigating officer in the case, said the police were on the lookout for the accused. “The accused was not present in his home. Also, the mother came to file the complaint late because her daughter had not told her everything immediately. The medical of the girl has been got done and we have also recorded her statement,” he said.The Nawanshahr police have registered a case under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), Section 354-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012, against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minor-girl-sexually-harassed-by-youth-282918
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||949 specially-abled persons jabbed on doorstep in a day in Jalandhar||The special drive to inoculate specially-abled persons on the doorstep has gained momentum in the district with 949 more such beneficiaries receiving vaccine jabs at their homes here on Tuesday.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the district administration had started the drive a few days ago with a view to reaching the homes of specially-abled persons and inoculate them against Covid-19. All the SMOs were working earnestly to ensure that every such beneficiary was jabbed on the doorstep, he said.The DC said all five SDMs were personally monitoring the drive in their respective jurisdictions so that this mammoth exercise could continue.Sharing the efforts being made by health teams, Senior Medical Officer, Jamsher health block, RP Bains said the teams comprising ASHA and ANM workers and vaccinators were not only administering the doses to specially-abled persons but also creating awareness among rural population of the benefits of early vaccination. “Our teams are visiting door to door to inoculate PwDs as directed by the DC. So far, 339 beneficiaries have been jabbed at their homes,” he added.Similarly, SMO, Adampur block, Dr Reema stated, “We have covered almost 95 per cent of the PwD beneficiaries in our health block and only those were not vaccinated who expressed their unwillingness to get the dose.” She said as many as 340 such beneficiaries, including 50, had been covered so far on Tuesday.Pointing out further, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Himanshu Jain stated that the health teams were making all-out efforts to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of the specially-abled beneficiaries by visiting their homes. He said the drive would continue until the goal of maximum vaccination was achieved. He said 339, 340, 30, 160, 20, 20, and 40 beneficiaries had been inoculated in Jamsher, Adampur, Shahkot, Lohian Bara Pind, Shankar, Nakodar, and Jalandhar Urban health blocks, respectively, to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/949-specially-abled-persons-jabbed-on-doorstep-in-a-day-in-jalandhar-282927
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||Anganwadi workers seek share of dues under Poshan Abhiyan||The non-release of fund under the Central Government’s Poshan Abhiyan has irked anganwadi workers of the Doaba region. For the last three years, the child care workers and helpers have been deprived of the 40 per cent share of the state government.As part of the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), the Poshan Abhiyan Scheme was launched in March 2018 and as per it, the anganwadi workers were to be paid Rs 1,500 monthly — Rs 900 by the Central Government and Rs 600 by the state government. However, since October 2018, the state government has not deposited its share.Under the scheme, food, pre-school education, and primary healthcare were to be provided to the children below six years. The scheme was linked to anganwadi centres to check malnutrition and ill-health among children.However, poor budget allocation for nutrition in Punjab had aggravated problems of anganwadi centres, rued the workers. In addition, Gurpreet Kaur, one of the district in-charges of anganwadi workers’ union, said there were around 3,500 anganwadi workers in the district, who have been working for many years, but were not even given the status of a labourer. “We are forced to work on meagre salaries. The apathetic attitude of the government has forced the workers to either leave their work or become irregular,” said Gurpreet Kaur.To cope with the rising cases of malnutrition among children, the poshan scheme was announced as a flagship programme to improve the nutrition of children, pregnant women and lactating mothers.Usha Rani, president of the All-India Federation of the Anganwadi Workers and Helpers, said apart from non-disbursal of fund under the scheme, children coming to anganwadi centres were being shifted to government schools.“As per the state government, a government teacher is responsible for visiting an anganwadi centre to teach pre-primary children between 3-5 age group. But, no anganwadi centres are being visited by teachers. Instead, children are taken to primary schools. The monthly salary of an anganwadi worker is Rs 8,100, but we get only Rs 7,500, which is not paid on time,” added Rani, who has been working as an anganwadi worker for the last 40 years. Nearly 100-150 workers have been protesting against the government for the last four months outside the residences of Cabinet ministers Aruna Chaudhary and Vijay Inder Singla. The workers wanted immediate disbursal of fund under the poshan scheme along with pending dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anganwadi-workers-seek-share-of-dues-under-poshan-abhiyan-282945
14-07-2021||Kapurthala||Age no bar: At 52, PWD XEN Sarb Raj sets an example by conquering Mt Everest||At 52, when most government officials start the countdown to their retired life, PWD XEN Sarb Raj chose to set up a rare example. As everyone was reeling through the second wave of Covid, he showed his exemplary fitness taking on a mission to climb Mount Everest.Working for the past few years to build up his stamina and endurance, Sarb Raj finally set out on his two-month mission on April 3 returning last month. In his honour and to encourage the visitors on maintaining a high level of fitness, especially in Covid times, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has chosen to set up a photo gallery of 12 big size pictures clicked by the XEN at the district administrative complex. Sarb Raj today handed over his pictures to the DC for the purpose.Narrating his account, Sarb Raj said in his two-month expedition, he had to bear extremes of weather with temperature ranging between as low as -30°Celsius to as high as 52°Celsius. “It was not easy. I had bought special clothing from here for low weather conditions. For protection from heat and the sharp UV rays, I was trekking with ice packs on my head. It was not easy to spot bodies of unknown people who could not survive calamities during their trek and to know that their bodies too could not be rescued back”, he said adding that low oxygen level and extreme cold conditions drained everyone in the expedition not only physically but also mentally.Sarb Raj said there were 400 people in the expedition, most of whom could not complete it for one reason or the other. “There are many factors which need to be taken into account for taking such expedition. The most important of these, of course, is the physical and mental strength and second is financial. The trip cost me several lakhs of rupees as permits, charges to be paid to a company hired for the trek and special equipment are all highly priced. The third most important part is the family support. I had to convince them all that I will quit my expedition if at any point of time I see any risk to life. It actually took me more than years to convince them all that I return hale and hearty. Signing a self-declaration form that one is going on own risk and parting from the family too weighed heavy on mind,” he now laughs.Sarb Raj shares: “My preparation for this expedition started as early as in 2010 when I started mountaineering. Just as people find peace in visiting places of worship, I find solace in mountain peaks”. He also climbed the highest peak in the Leh Range Stock Kangri besides highest peak Kilimanjaro in Tanzania at African continent in 2017.He won the title of ‘Iron Man’ in a competition organised by the World Triathlon Corporation, Florida (US), in Malaysia in 2019, for which he got training of seven months. He completed the triathlon sports in 16 hours which included 3.86 km swimming, 180 km cycling and 42 km running.The DC while setting up a gallery of his pictures said it would inspire others to take care of their health and exercise. Sarb Raj was also honoured by the Punjab Government on the occasion of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev along with 550 prominent Punjabi personalities in the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/age-no-bar-at-52-pwd-xen-sarb-raj-sets-an-example-by-conquering-mt-everest-282947
14-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three killed in road accident||Mother-in-law, husband bookedHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have booked two persons, including victim’s husband, in a dowry harassment case. The police have registered a case against victim’s husband, Akashdeep, a resident of Begumpura, Ravidas Nagar, and her mother-in-law, Ranjit Kaur. The victim, Ekta, a resident of Sihwalik Enclave, told the police that she got married to Akashdeep last year. She told the police that after the marriage, her husband and mother-in-law allegedly started harassing her for dowry. When their demand was not met, the accused started torturing her and threw her out of the house. OCDocs protest, OPD services hitHoshiarpur: On the call of the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee, doctors of the Civil Hospital on Tuesday boycotted the OPD services to protest the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission. On the occasion, Dr Manmohan Singh said the doctors had been protesting for several days but the state government was not bothered about them. He said a large scale protest march would be organised on July 14. He said in public interest OPD, emergency, post-mortem and medico-legal services are continuing but if the government does not resolve the issue by July 18, the doctors will go on indefinite strike from July 19. OCThieves take away cash, jewelleryHoshiarpur: Thieves targeted a house at Mustapur Kapahat village and decamped with Rs7lakh in cash and gold ornaments worth Rs4 lakh on Monday. The thieves reportedly entered the house from the second floor. The owner of the house, Rajiv Parashar, told the police that he and his wife had gone from the village to their new house being built in the city at 11:30 am. When they returned home in the evening, they found that the fans, lights and air conditioners were all on and the locks of all cabinets/ almirahs were broken and the household items were scattered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-killed-in-road-accident-282949
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||No work, labourers head back home||First the Covid-19 induced lockdown, then delayed monsoon and now power outages — all this has catapulted problems for workers and industrialists. One thing that the city-based industrialists were wary of was labourers heading back to their native states due to the lack of work.Huge rush of workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar outside the Jalandhar railway station has brought forth the grim reality. A migrant who was leaving for his native village said there was no work in the factory and he cannot afford to sit idle.Pardeep, another labourer, said many of his co-workers were also thinking of going back due to joblessness. Vijay Kumar, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, said “Whenever such a situation rises, everyone wants to go back to their homes. We don’t want to sit here and eat without any work.”As paddy transplantation season would end in a few days, workers do not have much options other than working in factories, but unscheduled power cuts have made them jittery.Charanjit Singh Maingi, a leading industrialist, has yet not started operating his unit. He said he received a call from his workers in the morning that they would be heading back for a few weeks due to lack of work.“We have been asking them not to go and just pray that monsoon arrives. It is true that labourers are going back. The orders to start units have come, but it all depends on rain,” he said. He said he has to run his factory 24x7 . “Once switched off, PVC extruder machine takes 4 hours to start. And we run the extruder 24x7. Amid such a situation, we cannot function properly,” said Maingi.Tajinder Singh Bhasin, another industrialist, said the industry is fully dependent on labourers. “Some workers from my unit have also gone back. We have started opeartions, but uncertainty remains. As more rain is predicted in in the coming days, we are hopeful that things will get back to normal,” said Bhasin.Rakesh Chawla, a unit owner, said he has witnessed such a situation for the first time. “Now, we have started operations, but concern is still there,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-work-labourers-head-back-home-282951
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||Calligraphy competition organised at The Nobel School in Jalandhar||Workshop on IPR organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a one-day Online National Workshop on IPR and IP Management for Start ups under DBT Star College Scheme. Dr Ruchi Tejpal, St. Francis College, Begumpet, Hyderabad, Managing Proprietor and Senior Patent Associate from Hyderabad were the resource persons for the workshop. During the workshop, Dr Ruchi enlightened the students about introduction and importance of intellectual property rights. She also discussed detailed steps to be followed in IPR filing. Further she gave overview of types of IPR highlighting the facilitation of Patent Cooperation Treaty for simultaneously filing international patents. She also gave detailed explanation on trademarks, industrial designs, geographical indicators, trade secrets and copyrights. Further she discussed the steps to strategise IP and monetisation of IP. She also elaborated about Startup India to drive sustainable economic goals and measures taken by government to promote it.World Paper Bag Day celebratedMarking ‘World Paper Bag Day,’ NSS volunteers of HMV distributed paper bags. They also motivated the public to shun plastic bags and use paper bags which are eco-friendly. Under the guidance of Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen, the students pledged to increase the usage of paper bags which are reusable and as well as recyclable. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Anjana Bhatia said that plastic bags are not only bio-degradable; they can also endure a lot of pressure. It takes less energy to manufacture them as compared to plastic bags. Paper bags are also safer for pets and other animals. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said that the college has installed waste paper recycling unit which is utilised to recycle waste/used paper from students, office to generate various eco-friendly items. It is also used to recycle waste/used paper, cardboard, tetra packs, Xerox paper, denim material etc. Papers of different thickness, colour and quality depending upon the requirement is to be generated through this machine. Paper is recycled three times and the waste water from the machine is utilised for gardening purpose. No chemical is used during the whole process except alum.Manraj 1st in National golf tourneyManraj Singh, a class IX student of DIPS Kapurthala, participated in the recently concluded National Golf Tournament held at Chandigarh and secured the first position. He brought laurels to DIPS chain of school and made his parents feel proud of his wonderful achievement. School principal Jaswinder Singh shared the news and told that Manraj Singh participated in Chandigarh Golf Club The Tee box Golf School 4th Junior Championship nationals and bagged the first position. In this tournament, sportspersons from Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh and Mohali including about more than 50 participants. Manraj Singh was awarded a trophy by principal Jaswinder Singh and chain of the DIPS institution. Manraj highlighted that he started playing golf at the age of eight years. He started taking training from professional coach Harjinder Singh Mattu. He was won many national and state level tournaments and wants to excel in Golf in the coming times. His family along with DIPS school have contributed due to which he has reached such great heights.MDShubh Ashish SamarohPhagwara: Keeping the college tradition alive Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, organised a Shubh Ashish Samaroh in the college campus. Hanuman Chalisa, Sukhmani Sahib and Chaupai Sahib Path were recited on the occasion. The Principal of the college, Dr. Savinder Pal, along with the faculty members prayed to the Almighty for the remarkable success of the students in the examination. On this occasion, bhajan and melodious Shabad-Kirtan were chanted by Dr. Lalit Kumar, Head, Department of Music. After this, ardas took place for the success, bright future and progress of the college. This was followed by Guru ka Langar and Chhabeel for the college family. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/calligraphy-competition-organised-at-the-nobel-school-in-jalandhar-282953
14-07-2021||---||Two held with 4 stolen bikes, 30 cell phones||Jalandhar, July 13The Baradari police on Tuesday arrested three members of a gang involved in thefts and snatchings. ADCP Jagjit Singh Saroya said under the supervision of ACP Harsimrat Singh Chetra, SHO Kamaljit Singh had set up a check post near BSF Chowk along with the police party.Two bike-borne youth after seeing the police at the naka tried to sped away. However, the bike slipped and both fell down. During the interrogation, the accused were identified as Golu and Manish Kumar alias Mannu, both residents of Gurunanakpura East.During the investigation, the police came to know that the motorcycle was stolen by the accused along with their third accomplice Shivam, a resident Gurunanakpara. The police have recovered four stolen motorcycles and 30 mobile phones from their possession. The police have started investigation after registering a case against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-4-stolen-bikes-30-cell-phones-282954
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||20 fresh Covid cases, no deaths in Jalandhar||The district on Tuesday reported 20 fresh cases of Covid-19. However, in a major relief, no fatality was reported in the past five days. Now, the total confirmed Covid cases in the district are 62,938. With the decreasing number of active cases, around 61,323 patients have been discharged. The total number of active cases now stands at 129, lowest since the outbreak of the second wave. As per the Health Department, the Covid beds in most of the hospitals are vacant.1 dies in NawanshahrThe district today reported three Covid cases and one death. The deceased was identified as an 84-year-old woman from the Saroya block. On Monday, not even a single case was reported. With this, the tally reaches 11,421 and the toll is 360 (3.15 per cent). At present, the district has 18 active cases, of which 13 are under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.69 per cent. Three patients have been admitted to the Level-II Covid care facility.Two test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district today reported two Covid cases, taking the number of total patients to 30,561. The total number of samples taken so far in the district stands at 6,91,122. As per lab reports, a total of 6,61,478 samples were found negative while 1,898 reports are awaited and 1,022 samples are invalid. With no death reported on Tuesday, the toll stands at 972. The number of active cases is 63 and 29,526 patients have recovered.Just 1 case in KapurthalaThe district health authorities on Tuesday reported just one more positive case of Covid-19 with positivity rate falling to as low as 0.08 per cent. However, no fatality was reported. The total number of active cases in the district remains at 64 after the discharge of 11 patients. The district has so far reported a total of 17,600 infections and 548 deaths. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-fresh-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-jalandhar-282957
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Mayor pedals in rain to protest rising fuel prices||A day after members of the Jalandhar unit of the Youth Congress burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest against the hike in petrol and diesel prices, Mayor Jagdish Raja, along with some Congress councillors, today pedalled cycle in heavy rain.He started off from the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, and continued up to the Congress Bhawan. “We had planned to pedal for 5 km. However, due to the heavy rain, we could not pedal much,” he said.“Nobody would be able to drive vehicles if fuel prices kept on rising like this. Inflation is at its peak and everyone bearing the brunt of it,” he said. “Just to mark my presence in the protest, I rode a bicycle today. Otherwise, I had never thought I would do that,” the Mayor added.Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri had also slammed the BJP government on Monday for the sharp hike in prices of essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mayor-pedals-in-rain-to-protest-rising-fuel-prices-282959
14-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: 3 days on, no clue of stolen car of Punjab hockey chief coach||Three days after the car of Punjab hockey chief coach Olympian Rajinder Singh was stolen from outside the Guru Gobind Singh stadium, Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Surjit Hockey Society, on Tuesday urged the District Magistrate (DM) and the Commissioner of Police (CP) to issue orders under Section 144 of the CrPC to enable the investigating officer (IO) to procure CCTV footage from private institutions or homes. The development took place after the police failed to find the missing car.Sandhu, who is also a former Additional District Magistrate, Ludhiana, said the (Swift) car of Punjab hockey chief coach Olympian Rajinder Singh (Dronacharya Awardee) was stolen on July 10 from outside the local Guru Gobind Singh stadium while he was imparting training. The owner of the house, whose CCTV camera is positioned just 10 yards from the incident spot, did not cooperate with the police and refused to show his CCTV recordings. “Earlier, parts of machinery of three air-conditioners installed at Surjit Hockey Society were stolen thrice from the same place and the same owner of the house did not allow the police to go through CCTV recordings,” Sandhu added.He further said every citizen was required to help the police in investigation and crime detection and also to gather scientific evidence in the form of CCTV footage resulting in the conviction of perpetrators in the court of law but in the absence of a legal order, the investigating officer failed to view the CCTV recorder installed in private establishments and private residences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-3-days-on-no-clue-of-stolen-car-of-punjab-hockey-chief-coach-282960
