15-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Saplings planted to develop mini forest at Vajra Nature Park||Jalandhar, July 14The Vajra Corps, Jalandhar district administration and the District Forest Department joined hands and organised a mega tree plantation drive at Vajra Nature Park today.The initiative was aimed at creating a mini Miyawaki Forest, which involves planting of 8,000 saplings of 34 native species of trees in the acreage of the existing Vajra Nature Park. The event witnessed planting of trees by Lieut Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding Vajra Corps, Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Hargurnek Singh Randhawa, Range Forest Officer, Jalandhar, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Police Commissioner, Jalandhar and other eminent personalities who had came together in their efforts for enhancing the green cover of the Jalandhar Cantonment.Apart from the Miyawaki forest which includes a combination of shady trees, fruit bearing and ornamental trees, flowers and medicinal plants, a fruit orchard was also planted alongside, within the confines of the Nature Park.Over the past one month, the Jalandhar Forest department has assisted the Vajra Corps by providing a total of one lakh saplings of native trees which have been planted in the Jalandhar Cantonment. The Miyawaki project, which is part of the Tree Plantation Drive, was conceptualised by Lieutenant General C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, based on the Japanese technique of forestation. The concept pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki in 1980s, involves growing dense forest in a small area with shrubs, trees and canopies. The densely planted vegetation grows exponentially in months rather than years, wherein the plantation follows its natural growth pattern and the technique helps in ensuring that plants grow 10 times faster and 30 times denser than normal plantation. It involves planting dozens of native species in the same area which becomes maintenance free after first two years and ultimately create a self-sustaining ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-saplings-planted-to-develop-mini-forest-at-vajra-nature-park-283480
15-07-2021||---||3 kids pushed into begging by man posing as father, rescued||Jalandhar, July 14Members of the Youth Congress on Wednesday rescued three children from begging. Reportedly, a man pretending to be their father forced them into begging.The matter came to light after a Youth Congress member, Amritpal Singh, on Monday night found an 11-year-old boy abandoned on the road near Devi Talab Mandir. He was found crying and was alone. Amritpal Singh took him to his home and offered him food. The child, identified as Gaurav, told him that he left his house after his father beat him up. Subsequently, on Tuesday morning, Amitpal dropped him at his home in Kazi Mandi where the accused told him that he beat the child up because he was taking drugs.However, before leaving, Amritpal left his contact with the child and asked him to call him if he faced any difficulty. On Tuesday night, the child called Amritpal and told him that the accused again thrashed him and two other children.Following which, Amritpal along with Youth Congress president Angad Datta reached the child’s home. Dutta said the children were crying and there were injury marks on their bodies.“Gaurav told us that the accused was not his real father. He, along with his accomplices, forced the children to beg on streets. Every night he used to beat them up and take all the collection from them. Last night also, he beat them up with wooden sticks after getting drunk.“Besides Gaurav, there were two more children having the similar tales. After investigation, we got to know that the children got in touch with the man a few years ago. Gaurav’s mother also begs near Devi Talab Mandir,” added Datta, who immediately informed about the matter to the Deputy Commissioner.While the Youth Congress member was talking to the children, the accused reportedly fled away and could not be searched. A case has been registered against him at police division number eight.Meanwhile, a legal team from the administration sent the children to Nari Niketan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-kids-pushed-into-begging-by-man-posing-as-father-rescued-283481
15-07-2021||---||Dispensary opening: Farmers protest ahead of Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s visit||Jalandhar, July 14High drama prevailed at Dhannowali village in Jalandhar Cantonment today where Health Minister Balbir Sidhu was scheduled to reach this afternoon for the inauguration of a government dispensary.Hours before the minister was to reach, members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) sat on a dharna announcing that they would not let the Congress leaders, including the minister or MLA Rajinder Beri, to inaugurate the building. The farmers were supporting the village youth who had been claiming that the Congress leaders had been trying to bag mileage unduly as the building had been readied more than five years ago and the party leaders had just got a fresh paint done on it to impart a new look and take the credit.Village youth Sukhdeep Singh said the Urban Primary Health Centre in the village had been proposed way back in 2014. “We people kept running between the departments for all clearances and got it finally sanctioned for Rs 50.41 lakh. It was readied in 2.5 years. The Congress leaders have just renovated it a bit and are trying to give an impression as if they had got the project accomplished. We cannot let them take an undue credit,” he said.As the dharna kept growing bigger and villagers began to gather, a heavy posse of police reached the site. DCPs Gurmeet Singh and Naresh Dogra and ADCP Harpreet Singh Benipal reached the site to control the situation. The villagers even put up banners at all the entry points banning the entry of all political leaders. An announcement was also made from the gurdwara that no politician would be allowed to enter the village. Seeing the situation, the cops stopped the minister midway from reaching the site. Even the MLA was told not to make it to the venue.Finally, Congress councillor of the area Mandeep Jassal reached the venue along with a few supporters. He too faced opposition but the police managed to control both the sides. As the situation was getting normal, Jassal went to the foundation stone site and drew the curtains getting himself clicked for performing the inauguration. He announced that the minister and MLA could not make it owing to some work. But as soon as the agitating villagers got to know that Jassal had attempted to perform the inauguration, they lost their temper. The police force had to immediately get into action to protect Jassal and rescued him inside the dispensary premises. The farmers tried to force open the gates but the police had to use all might to control them.Eventually, as the police tried to pacify them, the villagers and farmers too went to the foundation stone site and performed another inauguration, thus ending the entire ruckus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dispensary-opening-farmers-protest-ahead-of-health-minister-balbir-sidhus-visit-283482
15-07-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration gears up to tackle third Covid wave||Jalandhar, July 14The Civil Hospital is all set to make all 240 Level 2 oxygen beds compatible with oxygen wave in Jalandhar. Expecting the third wave, a drive to equip as many beds as possible with oxygen supply or concentrators has begun in the district.While the 450-bed Civil Hospital has been already serving as a Covid centre in Jalandhar since the outbreak of the second wave, many of the beds of the Level 2 facilities were sans oxygen supply.But now all the 240 beds are being equipped with oxygen supply through either direct supply or oxygen concentrators.To tackle the virus in rural areas and regional health centres, as many as 200 oxygen concentrators will also be pressed into service at the district level as that beds in rural and regional centres might have sufficient oxygen supply when needed.To keep the third wave at bay, the district administration has been making efforts to increase the oxygen supply at the PSA plant at the Civil Hospital.Meanwhile, in addition to all this, the paediatric ward is also set to get 30-bed increase in bed capacity.The paediatric unit’s general so far had 18 beds, 30 beds — 20 at Level 2 and 10 at Level 3 or ICU level have been earmarked for the third wave. Of the 10 ICU beds for Level 2, four will be equipped with ventilators.A special Paediatric Task Force Committee made is monitoring the needs and equipment which will be revamped soon. Dr Sahil Vikas, Medical Officer and in-charge of the paediatric wing of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar said, “Sufficent beds have been earmarked to tackle the third wave. We have also sought special equipment and additional manpower which will also be provided soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-gears-up-to-tackle-third-covid-wave-283486
15-07-2021||Jalandhar||1 dies, 15 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||A total of 15 new Covid cases were reported today in the district, taking the total tally to 6,29,153. Of these cases, one case was from other district. One Covid death has been reported today for the third consecutive day in the district. The deceased tally has reached 1,487. As many as 61,340 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 126.6 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district on Wednesday reported five Covid cases, taking the number of total patients to 30,567. The total number of samples taken so far in the district stands at 6,93,561. As per lab reports, a total of 6,64,079 samples were found negative while 1,730 reports are awaited and 1,022 samples are invalid. With no death reported on Wednesday, the toll stands at 972. The number of active cases is 53 and 29,542 patients have recovered.2 succumb in NawanshahrThe district reported two deaths and no new cases on Wednesday. Both deaths were reported from Balachaur block. The total number of cases stands at 11,421 and the toll is 362 (3.16 per cent). At present, the district has 17 active cases, of which 12 are under home isolation. Nawanshahr has a recovery rate of 96.68 per cent.9 cases, no death in KapurthalaAt Kapurthala, today nine persons were reported positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 17,699. No death was reported in Kapurthala today. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-15-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-283487
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||NPA cut: Doctors block road for 2 hours; threaten strike||Hoshiarpur, July 14Labourers and farmers are already on the path of struggle due to the wrong policies of the government and now most educated cadres have gone on the path of struggle. This was stated by protesting doctors of the Health Department on Wednesday on the third day of their strike on the NPA issue.On the state-level call of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee, a protest march was taken out from the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, to Prabhat Chowk following which there was a jam for two hours and the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur main road was blocked.On the occasion, senior medical officers, Ayurvedic Doctors’ Association, Dental Doctors’ Association, Veterinary Doctors’ Association, Punjab Nursing Association, Punjab Laboratory Technicians’ Association, Para Medical Staff, X-Ray Operators’ Union and class four unions participated in the march by boycotting health services.State committee member Dr Raj Kumar said doctors in the state were on the path of struggle for the past several days, but the Punjab Government did not listen to them.The joint action committee warned the government that if their demands were not met by July 18, then on July 19, on the call of the state committee, all health services would be suspended and they would go on indefinite strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/npa-cut-doctors-block-road-for-2-hours-threaten-strike-283489
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||2 inmates hurt in Hoshiarpur prison violence||Hoshiarpur, July 14A group of inmates of the Central Jail, Hoshiarpur, on Wednesday morning injured two undertrials. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital by the jail administration, where they have been kept under observation.The doctor said their condition is stable. The victims have levelled allegations against the Deputy Superintendent posted in the jail for the attack. They said they had already written to the jail administration that they feared attack by some inmates.Harjinderpal, one of the injured, said he was facing trial under Section 307 of the IPC while another youth Raman Kumar is undertrial in a case of murder. Both are lodged in Central Jail, Hoshiarpur. He told that this morning he was sleeping while Raman had gone to the gurdwara in the jail. As soon as he returned, they were attacked by a group of 7-8 persons. He said the assailants attacked him with iron strips and cutters.They alleged that the Deputy Superintendent himself went on leave today and the accused attacked them in his absence. City Police SHO Talwinder Kumar said that the statements of the victims are being recorded in this regard, after which a case will be registered against the accused.Jail inmate dies in KapurthalaKapurthala: An inmate of Modern Jail, Kapurthala, died on Tuesday after he was injected with some suspicious substance using a syringe by fellow prisoners. The victim, Lakwinder Singh of Harchowal village of Gurdaspur was facing trial in a murder case. Soon after the incident, his health started deteriorating and he had to be hospitalised. SP (Jail) Baljit Singh Ghumman said two other inmates, including Vishal and Tirath Singh, somehow managed to get the syringe and commit the crime. “We rushed the victim to the hospital immediately but the doctors declared him dead.” Harpal Singh, SHO, Kotwali police station, said the body was taken into custody and post-mortem was conducted. He said the accused had been booked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-inmates-hurt-in-hoshiarpur-prison-violence-283491
15-07-2021||---||Nurmahal resident poisons his 2 minor children, kills himself  too||Jalandhar, July 14A Nurmahal-based man allegedly poisoned his two children killing one of them and subsequently ended his life too by consuming the same poison.The incident took place in Pandoori Jagir village of Nurmahal when the deceased, Jaspreet Singh, and his two children, son Sehajpreet (6) and daughter Manroop (5), were found unconscious near a village pond on Tuesday night. While Jaspreet and his daughter died on their way to the hospital, Sehajpreet is battling for his life at the hospital.Sulphas, a poisonous substance, was found near the pond. Hardeep Singh, the brother of the deceased, told the police that Jaspreet got married to Amandeep Kaur around eight years ago. Amandeep left the house two years ago after matrimonial issues. Meanwhile, Jaspreet got to know that Amandeep had married another man, whom she met on social media.An avid social media user, with large number of following on her Instagram and TikTok accounts, Amandeep reportedly got married to her fan around four days ago. Jaspreet saw her pictures on the social media, said Hardeep in his statement to the police.Nurmahal SHO Inspector Gurinderjit Singh Nagra said the father and his children were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Nakodar. While the doctors declared Jaspreet and Manroop dead. Sehajpreet has been shifted to a private hospital where his condition was serious.The SHO further added that, the father of the deceased, Hari Singh, said his son was depressed due to the breakdown of the marriage. For the future of his kids, he didn’t want to end the marriage whereas Amandeep was pressurising him for divorce. Her marriage to another man left him shattered, forcing to take the extreme step.A case has been registered against Amandeep Kaur and her partner on the statements of the family members of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurmahal-resident-poisons-his-2-minor-children-kills-himself-too-283492
15-07-2021||The NSS unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College||Online oral presentation contest||Arts and crafts activity heldJalandhar: DIPS School conducted an online art and crafts activity to bring out the creativity of students of pre-wing. The students made use of colourful paper and with the assistance of their parents made beautiful spiders, miniatures, mini carry bags, toys etc. Teachers gave valuable information and tips on art and craft to the students. Principal Jagbir Singh Randhawa highlighted the role and significance of art and craft along with academics. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra expressed that due to the ongoing pandemic, students are unable to come to school and do any activities. Moreover, they do not get a chance to move out of their houses to perform any activity. It has become important to make the students perform such activities so that they get engaged and occupied in doing productive activities.Automated sanitiser dispenserKMV, Jalandhar, organised a trip to the Innovation Hub of Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala. Under the guidance of Vishal Sharma, Scientist-cum-Chief Mentor of Innovation Hub, Pushpa Gujral Science City, students developed an automatic machine of hand sanitiser and also constructed a project on water sensor. Keeping in mind the problem of water stagnation during the rainy season, students have developed an automatic sensor system which will activate holes in the road for better drainage and storage of rainwater. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the efforts of the PG Department of Physics for organising this mentoring session. She added that today innovation is the need of hour and KMV’s curriculum always give much focus on innovation and entrepreneurship.Pupils take part in Science TalkIvy World School organised an Inter-House Science Talk for the students of classes IV to VIII. Participating with great zeal and enthusiasm, students showed great scientific temperament. The direct and engaging experiences of hands-on, inquiry-based science drew out students’ sense of wonder, and readily lend themselves to conversation. Students were excited by their discoveries, which motivated them to share, discuss, and debate their ideas with others. Through exchanging views with others, students developed their understanding of the science beyond what could be achieved individually. Principal Sanjeev Chauhan applauded the efforts made by students and also encouraged them to create their unique identity. Raghav Vasal, The CEO, applauded the efforts put forth by the school to create such platforms for budding scientists to express their talent and gain confidence.Malala Day observedEklavya School celebrated ‘Malala Day’ declared by the United Nations in the honour of the young activist Malala Yousafzai. The day is observed to support world education and to appeal to the world leaders that they ensure compulsory and free education for every child. To celebrate this occasion student of class 6th Anoopdeep Kaur delivered speech in the assembly in which she shed some light on the journey of Malala Yousafzai. Videos were also shown to the students which raise awareness regarding Malala’s work and her fierce bravery by standing against the Taliban when the city banned girls from attending school.Students shine in academicsStudents of Bachelor of Fine Arts, BFA Semester V of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, got merit positions in examination conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University. Sujata Bharti and Vrishti Gill got third position with 544 marks out of 600. Muskan Kaur got eighth position with 525 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students. On the occasion, Head of Fine Arts Department, Dr Neeru Bharti Sharma and Dr Shailender Kumar were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-oral-presentation-contest-283493
15-07-2021||A special campaign to provide free treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh to the registered eligible beneficiaries under Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana for their e-cards was launched in the district. Camps were organised on July 12||Campaign to make health e-cards of beneficiaries||Voter awareness campA voter awareness camp was organised at Cooperative Sugar Mill, Nawanshahr, under the guidance of Electoral Registration Officer Jagdish Singh Johal. Surjit Singh Mazhoor, Sweep Nodal Officer, briefed the workers in detail regarding the process of self-registration, cancellation and correction etc. by downloading Forms 6, 7, 8 through online method in view of forthcoming Assembly elections in the state. He said in a democracy, every single vote counts. Therefore, it is very important for every citizen to cast their vote and use it properly.Job fairs for youthThe District Employment and Employment Bureau is helping the unemployed youth of the district to become independent by giving them employment. Recently, a camp was held for girls where 93 candidates participated, of which 43 candidates were selected by a company. Another placement camp was organised on Wednesday at District Administrative Complex for unemployed young men looking for jobs. Candidates from the age 18 to 30 years who have passed 12th participated in this camp from 9 am to 2 pm. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/campaign-to-make-health-e-cards-of-beneficiaries-283496
15-07-2021||---||Pandemic made her discover love for nature||Jalandhar, July 14Until last year, Manjit Kaur used to keep only a few plants on the terrace, but never realised that a year later there will be a dedicated floor and balcony to the greens. The pandemic made her discover love for nature and the environment. Now she has more than 50 plants with colourful and bright flowers.“When pandemic hit, like everyone else, we had nowhere to go. We used to do exercise on the terrace and I started adding more plants, and slowly started feeling relaxed and good with them,” Manjit Kaur, the councillor from Ward No. 21, shared.She uses waste material as compost to grow vegetables. She has been also doing kitchen gardening and the family eats organic vegetables like brinjal, okra, green chillies etc.She said she along with her husband looks after the plants in the morning and evening. “It gives us satisfaction, when we eat our own grown vegetables knowing that they are not adulterated and completely safe and healthy,” she said.She has several hanging pots, ornamental plants that increase the beauty of the home. There is a swing surrounded by the greenery where Manjit Kaur along with her husband relaxes. She said these plants are her stress buster. “We all know the importance of oxygen, but during the pandemic, we have become more cautious. So, when we sit near the plants, we make sure that we take maximum oxygen in the form of natural air,” the councillor expressed.Life has completely changed after I introduced these green babies to my life. Every morning, I look at them and whenever I find any new flower or growing leaves, I feel blessed. It is like seeing your children growing. And whenever I witness any flower dying, I feel depressed. I like to take care of them, looking after them and pampering them,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-made-her-discover-love-for-nature-283500
15-07-2021||Jalandhar||Diksha Thapar is chief of Rotaract Club||Neurologist bags int’l fellowshipJalandhar: Dr Anmol Singh Rai, a city-based neurologist, became the first doctor from Punjab and among a few from the country to crack the European Board examination in neurology. He has been awarded the Fellowship of The European Board of Neurology. His performance in the two-step exam earned him the European Board Certification. European Board of Neurology is an international organisation of high repute responsible for harmonisation and raising standards in neurology practice worldwide. A successful certification implies that the practice and skills of neurologist in treating brain, spine, nerve and muscle diseases are at par with the European standards. TNSMemo submitted to Civil SurgeonHoshiarpur: The Punjab State Aids Control Employees Welfare Association, Hoshiarpur, sent a letter of demand addressed to the Punjab Health Minister through Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, today. District Coordinator Shyam Lal Saini said the union had planned to hold a dharna but it was postponed after the Principal Secretary assured to regularise their services. “We are with the government and do not want to hold strike. We never want that the people of Punjab to be harmed so we request the Punjab Government to regularise our services”, he said. He warned that if the demands of the employees are not met, the employees would be forced to go on strike. OCBanking job fair for youth todayHoshiarpur: Under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission of the Punjab Government, a high-end job fair would be organised on July 15 by the District Employment Bureau for the aspiring youth in the banking and financial sector according to their qualifications. DC Apneet Riyat said the job fair would be organised at the District Employment Bureau Office in Government ITI Complex on Jalandhar Road from 10 am to 3 pm. Candidates can register for the fair by downloading mobile app DBEE online of the District Employment Bureau or contact at mobile number 6280197708. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/diksha-thapar%C2%A0is-chief-of-rotaract-club-283501
