16-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Kala Chashma fame Amrik Singh Shera now comes up with his book of songs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 15Kala Chashma fame Amrik Singh Shera (47), a head constable, is all set to release his book ‘Virsa Punjab Da’, in which he has penned 150 songs on various issues affecting society. He plans to release the book at the earliest. Shera, a native of Talwandi Chaudhrian village in Kapurthala, made headlines with his song ‘Kala Chashma’, which he penned way back in the year 1990, while he was just a teenager. It was later adopted for Sidharth Malhotra-Katrina Kaif starrer “Baar Baar Dekho.”He said he started writing at the age of 14. “Since then, I have written several songs defining the culture of the state, highlighting environmental problems, water shortage, etc, which are completely different from the songs that get released in the present days,” he said.Amrik thanked his seniors in the Punjab Police for motivating him and encouraging him for this move. “Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing it in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release this book containing my work,” he said.Three years ago, he got a permission letter from the Director General of Police (DGP) office to pen songs, have his music cassettes released and give interviews to the TV channels.His most famous song, ‘Kala Chashma’ was first rendered by Punjabi singer Amar Arshi during a performance in England. A music company there released the song, which became an instant hit and that proved to be a turning point in Shera’s life.He has also penned a song on the Punjab Police, “Sari duniya to disdi alag bai, khaki vardi nal banni lal pagg bai’ (Standing out from the rest is the khaki uniform and the red turban). The humble cop wants to make his village famous too. “I mentioned my village’s name in ‘Kala Chashma’ and will continue to do so in other songs too,” he said.Apart from this, he said his two songs are also set to be released in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kala-chashma-fame-amrik-singh-shera-now-comes-up-with-his-book-of-songs-283995
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur municipal body launches desilting of drains||Hoshiarpur, July 15With a view to checking waterlogging in urban areas during the rainy season, the municipal corporation has kick-started a special three-week drive to desilt drains in the city and its outer areas.Launching the drive from Red Road to Choe Bandh, the civic body has also chalked out a detailed plan to cover all areas expected to witness waterlogging during the rains.Mayor Surinder Kumar said the desilting of drains would continue till August 4 as per the schedule prepared in this regard. He said the requisite machinery and manpower had also been provided and deployed at different sites to tackle any untoward situation in the monsoon.Giving details in this regard, Hoshiarpur MC Commissioner Aashika Jain said special focus would be on low-lying areas, besides solving the problem of sewer overflowing. The municipal corporation has identified almost all drains in the city and its adjoining areas for removing silt from them to ensure an uninterrupted flow of rainwater.The MC has also made it mandatory to get desilting work certified from respective councillors on its completion, said Aashika Jain, adding that as per the schedule these areas would be covered from two to three days.The teams deployed for desilting are being covered the areas, namely Red Road to Choe Bandh Road, CIA Staff to Choe Bandh Road and Premgarh to Sutehri Khurd from July 15. When and Where||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-municipal-body-launches-desilting-of-drains-283997
16-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Shortages hit vax drive in Jalandhar again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 15Started seven months ago in the district, the vaccination drive gets affected due to shortage of doses after every few days. So, a smooth and regular vaccination process remains a distant dream. After months of confusion regarding a separate supply chain from the state and the Centre, there were hopes that the supply of vaccine doses would be regular after the Centre starts supplying the doses. However, for the last two days, residents have to return empty-handed as they have not been vaccinated.In Jalandhar, after every two to three days of the intensive vaccine drive, there is a two-three day of vaccine lull in the district. Like clockwork, vaccine shortage hits again leaving hundreds hapless.As compared to the hype over 60,000 a-day vaccination drive, regular shortages are still being witnessed. In the last seven months, the district has seen vaccinations being administered to only 9 lakh of the total population of 21,93,590 people.Exactly seven months after the start of the Covid-19 vaccination first began to be administered to health workers in the district on January 16, the district has witnessed vaccinations of 9,11,361 people which amount to 41.547 per cent of the district’s population.Having received 22,000 vaccinations a few days ago and having exhausted most of them in a single day, the district has not seen Covid vaccinations being administered for the past three days. While Covaxin session sites at Maqsudan and Garha have been administering vaccines constantly, very few other sites have been administering vaccines while the majority of sites have been closed due to unavailabaility of the vaccine.District officials said the increased demand for vaccine was also one of the reasons that a majority of the vaccine were being used up soon. While the district previously averaged at 10 to 12,000 vaccines per day, now it is becoming common to vaccinate over 20,000 people in a single day when the vaccine arrives in bulk.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We received 22,000 vaccines a few days ago. A very little amount remains with us. There is so much demand for the vaccine that all the supplies are rapidly exhausted in a single day. The 2 to 3,000 left with us is being administered in a few session sites while majority are closed. We are dependent on supply to carry the process forward.”While the Radha Soami Satsang Beas session sites in Jalandhar have been known for always having vaccines even amidst acute shortages, this time even they have run out of vaccines. The DIO said 15,000 vaccines are expected to arrive tonight after which the vaccine drive may be resumed tomorrow.Long way to go||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shortages-hit-vax-drive-in-jalandhar-again-283998
16-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Girl found shot dead, body dumped near canal; victim not identified yet||Jalandhar, July 15Panic gripped Raipur Rasoolpur village near Pathankot Chowk in the district after a girl’s body was found abandoned near a canal this morning. The deceased in her early 20s was reportedly shot dead and then dragged along the road towards the canal as blood stains were found on the road.There was a deep bullet injury inflicted on her forehead. Even the back of her head had a deep wound as if caused by a sharp-edged weapon. The incident was reported at around 7.30 am after some morning walkers spotted her body dumped there.Maqsudan SHO Sub-Inspector Sukhwinder Singh said local residents informed the police control room that a woman’s body was found to be lying along the canal. Following which, a police team was sent to investigate the matter. A 7.65 mm bullet shell fired from a pistol was also recovered from the spot.While the deceased could not be identified, her body was sent for a postmortem. The SHO further added that investigation teams had been formed to nab the accused and local residents were being approached to identify the victim. He said it was difficult to identify the victim as there was no CCTV camera installed near the site.The SHO said, “We have got the news flashed on our social media accounts and even got her photograph posted since morning. We have also contacted all the PGs and restaurants around the area to cross-check her whereabouts. We have also contacted all orchestra groups for we are guessing a possible link owing to her dressing style.”While this morning there were reports that the deceased was a Nepalese, police sources maintained that she probably was a Punjabi or a Punjab-born migrant for she had a bindi on her forehead. A case of murder and Arms Act has been registered against an unidentified person.Meanwhile, a resident of Sultanpur Lodhi Road died this evening after being crushed under a speeding train was heading towards Chandigarh from near Adda Hoshiarpur railway crossing. The victim has been identified as Arun Kumar of Sultanpur Lodhi, who was serving at Kalsi Engineering Works in the city. The GRP said the body had been badly mutilated after the accident and the deceased could be identified only from the ID cards in his pocket which fell on the tracks. It still is not clear whether the victim committed suicide or met with an accident. No suicide note was found at the site. An eyewitness, however, said that the man was sitting on the track for sometime before the train arrived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-girl-found-shot-dead-body-dumped-near-canal-victim-not-identified-yet-283999
16-07-2021||Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology is considered as a dream destination by most upcoming technocrats.Tribune reporter Deepkamal Kaur and lensman Malkiat Singh explore the various facilities on the campus that help in nurturing great minds||Nurturing innovation: Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar||Ranked among the top 25 institutions across the country in the Atal Ranking of Institutes on Innovation and Achievements, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, has certainly become the most happening innovation hub of the region.The top scientists at this Centre-run deemed university have got four patents granted, as many as 50 IPRs filed, five technology transfers, eight research outputs related to Covid-19, as many as 3,500 publications and 28,733 citations to its credit just in the past five years.Established with the support of ISRO, the NIT’s Rs 2.71 crore set up of Space Technology Incubation Centre that came up here two years ago has got nine projects worth Rs 80 lakh already sanctioned.Incubating ideasSome passouts of Jalandhar NIT have been making a big name as entrepreneurs. Upasana Taku, co-founder of Mobikwik, a Gurgaon-based company with $700 million valuation, was an alumnus of this institute and so was Bengaluru-based Furlenco owner Ajith Mohan Karimpana. The latter’s furniture rental company has a turnover of Rs 500 crore.In Covid times, an alumnus, Gaurav Kumar, developed a learning app Rancike Gyan. The app helps students connect, exchange notes, network, share e-books for free, post queries, promote discussions, get updates on examination and government notifications. It targets students from the CBSE and ICSE school students of Classes IX to XII and even provides them with mentors.Some recent start-ups of the institute are FreeCo, Eskairo, Genesis, Controls, Inventix, Sanved, NIT Tech, Kayrio, Kowera, Instawashing and Knoniq Stream.NIT students are not just making a mark in start-ups. They have also been getting a very good placement. Recently, Deeksha, an alumnus, got appointed as the Junior Scientist at ISRO. The last batch of passouts had a student being inducted into Microsoft on an annual CTC of Rs 43.30 lakh.Facilities and strengthThe institute with a massive annual budget of Rs110 crore is spread on a sprawling area of 154 acres. It is offering UG courses in 11 streams with an intake of 1,137 students per year through JEE. The 14 MTech programmes have an intake of 540 students a year. In addition, there are 124 research scholars enrolled on the campus.The NIT has a huge strength of teaching faculty which includes 108 Assistant Professors, 53 Associate Professors and 30 Professors, 12 of them being on Higher Administrative Grade.Prof Balbir Singh Kaith from the chemistry department here got recently ranked among top 2 per cent scientists in the world as per Stanford University of the US. The recognition came on account of extensive research work he had pursued and 250 papers that he got published in various national and international journals of repute.In Covid times, the classrooms are being converted to automated studios for simultaneous offline and online learning. The institute also has a swanking student welfare centre set up at a cost of Rs26 crore with a top-class gym, badminton and table tennis courts, facilities for playing chess, carom and other indoor games, besides grounds for volleyball, basketball etc.While the NIT already has seven boys’ hostels and two girls’ hostels, but to cope up with an increasing student strength, it has also set up a new mega 459-room hostel for girls at Rs57.23 crore. In the next plan are mega hostel for boys with 288 rooms at Rs40 crore, 27 lecture theatres for Rs37 crore and expansion of central library for Rs7.5 crore.HistoryThe institute was originally established as the Regional Engineering College (REC), Jalandhar, in 1987 in a joint venture of the Government of India and the Punjab Government. The land for the same was provided by Bidhipur and Suranussi villages on the Jalandhar-Amritsar stretch of the GT Road. It got the status of National Institute of Technology (Deemed University) by GoI on October 17, 2002. It has been declared as an Institute of National Importance under the MHRD under the Act of Parliament (2007). It is one of the 31 National Institutes of Technology of India.Technology TransfersSome IPRs of NIT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurturing-innovation-dr-br-ambedkar-national-institute-of-technology-jalandhar-284067
16-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||53 job aspirants get placements||20-yr-old Girl abductedHoshiarpur: The police of Bullowal have registered a case against an unidentified accused of kidnapping a girl working at an IELTS centre. Parminder Kaur, a resident of Bainstani village, lodged a complaint with the police that his 20-year-old daughter Lovepreet was working at an IELTS centre in Hoshiarpur. She had gone from home to the centre on July 13. Since then his daughter’s phone has been switched off and she has not returned home. The police have lodged an FIR under Section 365, IPC. OC54 students visit Vajra Veer VatikaJalandhar: An excursion-cum-educational tour was organised for 54 students of Bhogpur (Punjab) to Jalandhar Cantonment on July 15. During the tour, students were taken to the Vajra Veer Vatika and the museum there. They also visited Army College of Nursing, Jalandhar, wherein an overview of Army Welfare Education Society and its various affiliated colleges was presented. It was followed by visit to the campus. TNSMan booked on theft chargeHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked Sukhwinder Sigh alias Lakkha, a resident of Karnana village of SBS Nagar, and some unidentified persons under Section 379 of the IPC. Satnam Singh of Binjhon village had lodged a complaint to the police alleging that the accused had stolen his tractor and a generator set from his cattle shed on July 2. oc1 arrested with drug powderHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested a drug peddler and recovered 40-gram intoxicating powder from him on Wednesday night. The accused has been identified as Lakhwinder Singh of Kainthan Mohalla, Dasuya. The accused has been booked under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OC36 bottles of liquor seizedHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have recovered 36 bottles of illicit liquor after conducting a raid at Bure Jattan village. The police have registered a case under the Excise act against Varinderjit Singh alias Billa, a resident of Buren Jattan. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/53-job-aspirants-get-placements-284066
16-07-2021||Our Correspondent||4 young lives lost in road accident near Shergarh bypass in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 15Four youths hailing from Purhiran village lost their lives after their car collided with a tipper parked on the road near Shergarh bypass in Hoshiarpur on late night Wednesday. The vicitms have been identified as Pushp Kumar, Vikas Kumar, Narinder Kumar and Prakash Jha.The impact was so severe that three youths died on the spot, while their fourth companion was rushed to a hospital, which referred him to the DMCH, Ludhiana. However, he succumbed on his way.Model Town police station SHO Karnail Singh said the vicitms were around 28 years of age. He said bodies of the vicitms were handed over to their kin after getting their post-mortem conducted at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.The police have registered a case against tipper driver Sukhdev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-young-lives-lost-in-road-accident-near-shergarh-bypass-in-hoshiarpur-284065
16-07-2021||---||NPA: Docs set up OPDs at protest site||Jalandhar, July 15Government doctors protesting against the reduction of NPA in the district today suspended OPDs and examined patients at the special ‘protest OPDs on the fourth day of the strike here today. As many as 400 patients were examined/ treated at the special OPD by the PCMS Association. The medicines given to the patients today were procured by the medical association. The doctors have suspended all services, except emergencies and Covid cases for the past four days now. Holding dharna at the entrance of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, as many as 60 doctors gathered at the protest site today.Notably, across sub-divisional health centres in nine blocks also, doctors observed similar protest, suspending government medical services.Members of the PCMSA (Punjab Civil Medical Services Association) have been protesting against the reduction of the NPA. Doctors have also been protesting against the delinking of NPA with basic pay and its reduction from 25 to 20 per cent. They have been demanding that the NPA be linked to the basic salary and increased to 33 per cent. Doctors have also been seeking special Covid allowance for their services as frontline workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. The strike will continue for the coming days as well, the doctors said.The 250 doctors of the PCMS Association include those from the Civil Hospital, ESI Hospital and nine CHCs and two SDHs which also have footfall of at least 50 to 100 patients per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/npa-docs-set-up-opds-at-protest-site-284064
16-07-2021||Jalandhar||9 contract coronavirus in Jalandhar, no death||As many as nine new Covid cases were reported today in the district, taking the total tally to 62,962 cases. Of these four cases were from other districts. No Covid death has been reported today in the district. The deceased tally remains at 1,487. As many as 61,352 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 123.1 dead in NawanshahrTwo cases and one death was reported from Nawanshahr on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as an 59-year-old woman from Balachaur and both cases were also recorded from the Balachaur block. The tally in the district is 11,423 and deaths are 363.5 test +ve in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, a total of five persons were reported positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,704. A 73-year-old woman who belongs to Phagwara died of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-contract-coronavirus-in-jalandhar-no-death-284061
16-07-2021||Jalandhar||Some action has begun in Congress, says Pargat Singh||Amidst reports that Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu may be announced the PPCC chief soon, his aide and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, who for the past over a month had been quite vocal about the functioning of the state government and had targeted CM Capt Amarinder Singh, seems upbeat at the likely move.Asked if he felt the things were now on the right track, Pargat said: “Some action has begun for sure. A new SIT has been formed to probe the post-sacrilege firing. Farm loans to the tune of Rs 590 crore too have been announced for landless farmers and labourers. Things have begun moving in the right direction. We still have time for course correction. I have always been insisting that we must do everything before going to people and asking for votes.”Stressing he only intended to bring things in order, Pargat said: “The perception in people’s minds about the government needed to improve.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/some-action-has-begun-in-congress-says-pargat-singh-283758
