17-07-2021||Jalandhar||32 teachers get job letters in Jalandhar||MLA Rajinder Beri and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday handed over appointment letters to 32 government teachers at the District Administrative Complex, Jalandhar.The MLA and DC while giving away the appointment letters urged them to work earnestly to shape the future of the next generations.Congratulating the new batch of teachers, the MLA and DC interacted with them. They said it was mainly because of teachers that the government schools in the state have witnessed significant increase in admissions besides securing top position in national performance grading index for government schools. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/32-teachers-get-job-letters-in-jalandhar-284377
17-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Visa fraud: 4 of family booked||Robbery case solved, 4 held Hoshiarpur: With the arrest of four accused, the police claimed to have solved Rs6.5-lakh robbery case within 24 hours that took place in the Mahilpur area on Wednesday. All four accused are employees of money changer. The police also seized the entire amount. The accused have been identified as Baljinder Singh, Sahil of Kot Fatuhi, Rohit of Bugran and Prabhjot Singh of Binjo. SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said on July 13, Rajesh Kumar of Mahilpur, who is running Western Union (currency exchange) in the area, lodged a complaint with the police that three unidentified persons had snatched a bag containing Rs 6.50 lakh from Baljinder Singh and Balwinder Singh, who work in his shop, by putting chili powder in their eyes near Milan Palace. The SP (D) said Baljinder was the kingpin of the crime who hatched a conspiracy with Sahil, Rohit and Prabhjot and all of them were booked under various sections of the IPC. Sandhu said the accused were remanded to the police custody for three days by a local court. OC3 held for dowry harassmentHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against the husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law for torturing a woman for dowry. Surjit Kaur, daughter of Baldev Singh, a resident of Baranda village, told the police that she was married to Lakhwinder Singh, son of Nirmal Singh and a resident of Fambian village. She told that after the marriage, her husband, his father-in-law and mother-in-law Mohinder Kaur started harassing her demanding more dowry. The accused also threw her out of the matrimonial house and destroyed her dowry items. The police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 498 and 406 of the IPC. OCOne held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have arrested a resident of Dihana on the charge of illegal mining. The police, during a naka near Dihana village, stopped a trolley laden with soil. During the interrogation, the driver could not show any document regarding transporting the soil. The accused driver, Lal Hussain, was arrested and a case was registered against him. OCSI recruitment processNawanshahr: As the Punjab Police has started the process of recruitment of 560 sub-inspectors, the District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer Sanjeev Kumar said both male and females are eligible for the posts. "The candidate should be at least a graduate and the age limit is 18-28 years," he said. The officer said the last date for online application for this recruitment is July 27 and candidates can apply by visiting the Punjab Police website. He said the candidates who want to get training from Punjab Police can contact Gaurav Dhir on 95921-77111.TNSHPCL celebrates Foundation DayJalandhar: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) organised its 47th Foundation Day at Apahij Ashram on Thursday. The celebrations were held by organising a cake-cutting ceremony by officials of the HPCL and Tarsem Kapoor, head of the Ashram.SBI holds tree plantation driveJalandhar: Officials of the State Bank of India planted 200 saplings along Cool Road, New Jawahar Nagar; Radio Colony and a government primary school in the area. The bank officials organised the tree plantation drive in association with MC Councillor Manmohan Singh. Residents, including Gurpreet Kaur, Sonia Rana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/visa-fraud-4-of-family-booked-284379
17-07-2021||---||I&B Ministry holds vaccine camps, 450 inoculated||Jalandhar, July 16The Field Outreach Bureau of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting organised vaccination camps in coordination with the Health Department in the city today.The vaccination camps were organised at DAV College and Prakashwati Sarvhitkari Vidya Mandir School on Mithapur Road. Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh inaugurated the vaccination camp at the college.Youngsters between the age group of 18-45 years got themselves vaccinated and appealed all to do the same to win the war against the pandemic.The vaccination drive at Prakashwati Sarvhitkari Vidhya Mandir School was launched Dr Surbhi Sharma along with her team. She said 450 persons have been vaccinated at both the places. In all, 14,500 persons have been vaccinated in Jalandhar today.The bureau distributed especially designed caps “I am Vaccinated” to those who got jabbed.Field Publicity Officer Rajesh Bali said such camps are also being orgnaised in Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh also. The cultural troupe of the bureau presented ‘nukkad nataks’ to raise awareness on Covid vaccination on the college premises and Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi. The awareness van of the bureau was also spreading awareness in the city for the past four days.From the Civil Hospital, Dr Amandeep Kairon and Dr Shubham were present along with their teams besides Technical Assistant of the bureau Kavish Dutt, DAV College Prof Surinder Midha and school principal Neelam Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ib-ministry-holds-vaccine-camps-450-inoculated-284381
17-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Polio no more a crippling fear for him||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 16Birbal was diagnosed with polio at the age of five due to lack of proper medical facilities in his village. The unavailability of proper treatment crippled him for his entire life. He suffered a major setback early in his life but was always keen on moving on and complete his education despite his disability. However, constant slurs from peers forced him to drop out of the school. What remained constant throughout his growing years was his zeal to become independent and support his family.Now, 31, Birbal took to body building in 2004 to shape up his career and body. “I had just entered my teens when I started working on my physique. The idea initially was to have an enviable body despite my inability to use legs. I didn’t want this to be any kind of hurdle in my dreams. With time, bodybuilding became my passion and within a few years, I started participating in several body-building championships. I believe, it is easy to give up and blame circumstances for one’s shortcomings, but the joy of achieving something is only felt when you persevere through life to overcome difficulties. This joy comes with hardwork and sacrifice,” said, Birbal, a resident of Lidhran village, near Suranussi.Being the eldest among his siblings, he says, his parents started worrying when he was diagnosed with polio. Wrong medication by doctors further made him miserable and he couldn’t grow normally. Apart from following his passion, he used to do odd jobs to earn a living for himself. In the absence of any tricycle, he even had to crawl to move from one place to another.“To shed extra fat from my upper body, I used to crawl faster using my hands. The encouragement came from observing others. I made my mind stronger and thought, why not make optimum use of two hands gifted to me by God. When I turned 18, I participated in my first body-building competition and the journey forwarded from district to state level competitions,” shares Birbal.Now, standing tall with his list of achievements, Birbal is popular among budding fitness freaks as Billu Paji. It has been over five years, since he became a gym trainer and now rides an Activa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/polio-no-more-a-crippling-fear-for-him-284382
17-07-2021||---||Inspired by Balbir Singh Seechewal, Jalandhar boy wins award for project on Bein||Jalandhar, July 16Jalandhar boy Aryan Rajput has won the Regional Award for the INTACH ‘Nature in Danger’ contest for his report on his project report “Water Body Clean Up”. As aspiring astronaut and ardent environemnt lover, Aryan, who studies in the 9th standard has submitted his report is based on and inspired by the mammoth clean up and kar sewa of the Holy Kali Bein.The INTACH competition titled “Nature In Danger: My Project Report” invited thousands of entries from students across the country of which 10 national, 42 regional and some special awards were announced. Aryan who won the regional award is a Jalandhar-based student inspired by the environment.Speaking to The Tribune, Aryan said: “I met environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal on one of my recent trips to Sultanpur Lodhi after the lockdown and was inspired by his Bein clean-up initiative. I talked to the environmentalist and the villagers who shared hugely inspirational stories. That prompted me to work on this project. The award is a huge encouragement.”Aryan who conducted intensive search of internet about the project knowing its in and outs is also keen to make a difference environmentally. He is an ecology lover and believes every one should do their bit to save the planet.Aryan is currently preparing to pursue astronomical engineering.While Aryan’s mother is principal at a Beas school, his father is an educational consultant. He says the atmosphere at home also helps him pursue his dream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inspired-by-balbir-singh-seechewal-jalandhar-boy-wins-award-for-project-on-bein-284383
17-07-2021||---||Anganwadi workers sit on hunger strike at Congress MLA’s house||Jalandhar, July 16In their protest held outside a Congress leader’s residence, Anganwadi workers sent a blood-soaked letter to raise their demands with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here on Friday.On the directions of state president of Hargobind Kaur and under the leadership of block president Sunita Rani, the All-Punjab Anganwadi Workers’ Union, Block Lohian and Shahkot, sat on a hunger strike in front of the house of Congress legislator Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia.On the occasion, they raised slogans against the Punjab Government. The workers and helpers who had gathered in large numbers wrote their demand letter in blood and sent it to Capt Amrinder Singh through the legislator.They demanded that the children of anganwadi workers (in the 3-6 age group) who were sent to government primary schools in 2017 should be sent to the anganwadi centres as per the agreement.They also demanded that anganwadi workers should be given the status of nursery teachers. The workers and helpers should be given salary and allowances on the pattern of Haryana. The anganwadi workers and helpers working under NGOs should be brought under the main stream. They said the workers should be given smart phones, hortatory amount to the workers and helpers ranging from 500 to 250 should be given. Circle meetings fare of Rs 200 should be given and pending amount of PMVI of 2017 should be released.Besides, they demanded that the workers who had become supervisors on false certificates and those supervisors whose enquiries had been completed should be dismissed immediately and cases under Section 420 of the IPC should be filed against them. Mini anganwadi workers should be given the status of full anganwadi workers.Fuel expenses of 40 paisa per worker should be raised to rupee one. Anganwadi workers gave warning to the government that if their demands are not accepted they would gherao the Congress ministers and intensify their struggle. Kashmir Kaur, Sukhjinder, Jagdish, Manjit, Rajwinder, Gurdev Kaur, Balveer Yakopur,Gurpal, Manjeet, Harwinder, Anu, Paramjit, Suman Rani,Balveer, Santosh, Balveer Manakpur, Kamaldeep Chadha, Amandeed and other workers and helpers were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anganwadi-workers-sit-on-hunger-strike-at-congress-mlas-house-284387
17-07-2021||---||No death, 13 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 16With 13 new Covid cases reported today in the district, the total district tally reached 62,975. Of these, two cases are from other districts. No Covid death has been reported today in the district. The deceased tally remains 1,487. As many as 61,359 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 129.Kapurthala reports 1 deathIn Kapurthala, four persons were reported positive in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,708. One death was reported in Kapurthala today. A 47-year-old woman resident of Kapurthala died of Covid today.Six cases in HoshiarpurAs many as six new Covid cases were reported today in the district, taking the total tally to 30,579 cases. No Covid death has been reported today in the district. The deceased tally remains at 972. As many as 29,562 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Hoshiarpur is 45.No case in NawanshahrNo case was reported from Nawanshahr on Friday. Also, no death was reported here on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-death-13-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-284388
17-07-2021||---||Measures in place to check dengue||Jalandhar, July 16With the beginning of rainy season, no case of dengue or malaria has been reported at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar. However, the Health Department has increased its surveillance and inspection on dengue and malaria prevention. Health teams visited over 300 houses under the programme today and found larvae at 11 places. While the samples of over 10 persons have been tested for dengue in the district so far, none of them tested positive for dengue.Dry Day Friday was observed in Jalandhar under the vector and water-borne diseases control programme. Health teams encouraged residents to empty and dry out their coolers and keep their surroundings clean to prevent dengue. Teams of the Health Department also visited the Khambra Colony, General Post Office, Regional office Punjab School Education Board, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Neela Mahal and Kishanpura.The teams also visited 301 houses, drying out and inspecting 102 coolers, 442 out-of-use containers and 14 tyres. Dengue larvae were found at 11 places, which were destroyed by health teams. Mosquito repellent was also sprayed and people were advised to drink boiled or chlorinated water to keep diseases at bay.Pathologist Dr Satinder Kaur said, “We have received 10 to 15 samples for dengue testing but all have tested negative. So far, there is no case of dengue. No malaria case has been reported either.”Health teams have also issued advisory to people to keep their utensils water-free and not allow hoarding or accumulating of water in any household utensils or in the surroundings. Notably, despite the disclaimer that it doesn’t spread though dirty water, dengue outbreaks have traditionally been reported in crowded and congested slum areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/measures-in-place-to-check-dengue-284389
17-07-2021||---||Smart city?: Garbage spillovers in Jalandhar city risk spread of monsoon ailments||Jalandhar, July 16Even as the city residents are lurking under the threat of an imminent third wave of Covid-19, the huge spillovers of the garbage in the entire city during the ongoing monsoon season too is posing a huge risk of causing various seasonal ailments.Since garbage is not being daily picked from the dumping sites, it often tends to spread to almost double the designated area. At many places, the filth gets spread on the roads causing a huge inconvenience to the passersby, especially the pedestrians. Stray cattle and dogs add to the menace and cause even more nuisance.The biggest eyesore in the city is the dumping site just along the cremation ground in Model Town. The garbage covers the entire parking lot of the visitors coming to perform the last rites of their loved ones. The stench emanating from the site, especially during the ongoing humid and rainy season, further causes more annoyance.The Municipal Corporation has recently got constructed a U-shaped wall in the centre of the fish market. Even since this wall got raised, the volume of garbage being dumped here has increased which has started troubling not just the shopkeepers of the fish market, but also the commuters along the old GT Road and owners of other shops near the area.Sukhbir Singh, who owns a shop, on the GT Road, said: “Now everyone thinks that it is their right to throw the litter here. So the entire area has become so messy and unwelcoming. With Covid danger still on mind, shoppers are avoiding visiting any filthy area over fear of contracting infections. Even more serious is the issue that no proper daily waste lifting is being done by the MC safai karamcharis”.No door-to-door waste segregation for a yearThe Municipal Corporation officials who had been spreading awareness on door-to-door segregation of waste for quite sometime earlier have now completely stopped carrying on the drive. The wet waste from the kitchen and plastic and other dry stuff are going into the cart of the garbage collectors in one bucket. The garbage collectors too are selectively picking up whatever re-saleable scrap that they are finding and eventually dumping it off all together at the dumping sites. The MC vehicles pick the entire waste and take to the Wariana dumping site.Except for two small sites, Birring and Dakoha, where a limited amount of waste from the nearby areas is being dumped, no other area is involved in the compost making technology. “Here the kitchen waste goes into a pit and is then used as organic manure for plants. The entire city is recklessly dumping the landfills and causing environmental damage,” said Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri.Most residents are of the opinion that till the times IAS officer Aashika Jain served in the city, she remained involved in the waste segregation campaign and had even started imposing fines on households not following the directions. “Since she got transferred last year, no other official from the MC is paying a heed on the issue”, said Vicky, a garbage collector.Meanwhile, as the tenure of the present government is coming to an end, it is now that the officials have started expediting the plan for bio-mining at Wariana dumping site. “The tenders for the project have got opened and we expect the work to start at the site in the next 20 days”, MLA Beri said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-city-garbage-spillovers-in-jalandhar-city-risk-spread-of-monsoon-ailments-284391
17-07-2021||---||Punjab goes all out to revive tourism||Jalandhar, July 16A teaser titled ‘Revive Tourism of Punjab’ was released on social media which showcases the most pretty and scenic wetland – Harike Pattan. It has been shot by Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer and nature photographer Harpreet Sandhu.The wetland is famous for the natural lake, created at the confluence of the Sutlej and the Beas and its south western boundary touches Jalandhar. The teaser beautifully depicts the serene calmness and natural beauty of Harike Pattan wetlands and brings alive panoramic views of this romanticising location, giving one glimpse of beautiful meadows, heavenly Sunrise and sparkling water whirring from all directions.Sandhu said he extensively utilised the time during the second phase of lockdown and prepared this teaser. He said rather nature has blessed Punjab with colours of every season and the beauty of nature around the state is one of the greatest blessings of God on us.He said: “This teaser will certainly be of immense interest for the younger generation to witness the most scenic locations of Punjab and further encourage nature enthusiasts to have glimpse of this unseen beauty of Punjab, known for its flora-fauna and migratory birds, surrounded with the natural lake situated deep inside the sanctuary at Harike.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-goes-all-out-to-revive-tourism-284392
17-07-2021||---||Nuclear gallery upgraded at Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala||Jalandhar, July 16The National Power Council of India Limited has upgraded the nuclear gallery at Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, to propagate awareness for enhancing and improving the public perception and understanding of nuclear power in the country.The gallery was inaugurated by Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Science City, here on Wednesday. Speaking at the occasion, Dr Jerath said nuclear energy was first utilised commercially in the 1950s, since then it has continued to grow, and there are now around 440 nuclear power reactors across the world, providing 10 per cent of the planet’s electricity.Nuclear power is generated by bombarding uranium with neutrons and is an efficient source of energy with low carbon footprints as opposed to burning fossil fuels. However, it has to be properly managed to ensure safety.Evidence over the past 60 years shows that it is safe and risk of accidents is low especially due to better technologies and improved safety measures.The gallery showcases the various aspects of nuclear energy, benefits and hazards of nuclear power and its applications for the betterment of human life and environment. The gallery also focuses on several salient aspects of nuclear power generation through fascinating audio video interactive exhibits.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said nuclear energy was one of the most cost effective energy sources and was essential to our response to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. The aim of setting up this gallery is to dispel misconceptions about nuclear energy and present visitors with the facts in an easy and enjoyable way, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nuclear-gallery-upgraded-at-pushpa-gujral-science-city-kapurthala-284393
17-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Patients with CVD more vulnerable to Covid: Expert||Hoshiarpur, July 16“Patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease (CVD) have a higher vulnerability to contract Covid-19 and also tend to have more severe diseases with worse clinical outcomes. Various risk factors also adversely affect the prognosis in these patients. A meta-analysis of six studies from China, including 1,500 patients with Covid-19 reported 9.7%, 16.4%, and 17.1% prevalence of diabetes, cardio-cerebrovascular disease, and hypertension respectively.”Dr Gagandip Singh, associate director of cardiology at Ivy Hospital, said, this in an online session regarding ‘Covid and CVD’. He said the various mechanisms responsible for CV complications are; direct myocardial injury, systemic inflammation, and cytokines storm, altered myocardial demand-supply ratio, plaque rupture, and coronary thrombosis and electrolyte imbalance.He said acute myocardial injury was the most commonly described CV complication in Covid-19. Both tachy and bradyarrhythmia are known to occur in Covid-19 and can occur in about 10-15% of patients with a higher incidence in those patients requiring ICU care.A Chinese study reported heart failure in 52 per cent of patients who died and 12 per cent in those who recovered. The incidence was more in patients with pre-existing heart disease or those with multiple co-morbidities. Any cause of myocardial dysfunction mentioned above can lead to heart failure and increased metabolic demand of systemic disease can cause acute decomposition of pre-existing stable heart failure, said Dr Gagandip.CVD patients should take a healthy diet and regular exercise, have good control over hypertension and diabetes and should regularly take prescribed medication and avoid smoking and tobacco use, he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patients-with-cvd-more-vulnerable-to-covid-expert-284395
17-07-2021||To ensure immunisation and safety of students against Covid-19 and in the hope to return to traditional class experience Pyramid College of Business and Technology has scheduled vaccination camp for students in the premises aimed to inoculate maximum number of students to participate. As per the instructions of IKGPTU colleges were instructed to co-ordinate to get their students and to facilitate this||Vaccination camp organised||Poster-making competitionJalandhar:: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Sr. Sec. School organised a poster-making competition on the topic “Commerce, Trade and Business” to make the students learn the concepts in a very interesting manner. The competition was organised by P.G Department of Commerce and Business Administration. Students from all the streams participated in this competition with full zeal and enthusiasm. During the competition, students made beautiful posters covering the topics namely e-Commerce, Business Management Planning, Functions of marketing, levels of management and 4 P’s of marketing etc. The results for the competition were as follows: 1st prize: Siya, 2nd prize: Damanpreet, 3rd prize: Rosy and Yashleen, and consolation prize: Ravneet and Heena.CBSE merit certificateState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, has again proved itself as two students of 12th class , Akshay of Non- Medical and Amrita of Arts have been awarded with merit certificate from CBSE. This certificate to the students who have excelled in any subject. This merit is made on the basis of 0.1% which means 100 students out of every one million students receives this honour. It is extremely a proud moment for the school, for the parents, for the teachers as these students have won laurels for the school. President Dr Narotam Singh said that every year students get merit certificates and this year also Akshay and Amrita have continued the trend.Students excel in varsity ExamsFinal Semester students of IT and Management department of Innocents Hearts group of Institutions received accolades by attaining distinctions in IKG-PTU Examination April 2021. Total 33 students secured university positions out of which 19 students are from Management department, 14 are from IT department. MCA- Sem VI students Simpy and Satyam secured 9.31 and 9.14 SGPA respectively. BCA- Sem VI students Gaganpreet Kaur, Kamaljit Kaur and Mansi Paswan got 9.00 SGPA. Taranveer Nijjar of BBA- Sem VI got 9.28 SGPA.HMV students bring laurelsStudents of B. Voc (Banking and Financial Services) Semester I of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to college by bagging university positions. Nandika Mehra bagged third position by getting 249/350 , Bhavya Arora bagged 5th position by getting 244/350 , Mehak Seth bagged 6th position by getting 241/350 followed by Lipsa who got 239/350 and secured 7th position. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated Head of the Department Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur and the students for this achievement.B-Plan competitionStudents of Apeejay Institute of Management & Engineering Technical Campus brought laurels by winning positions in TAP B-Plan Competition organiwed jointly by IKG-PTU and TIE Chandigarh. A virtual award ceremony was held and final results were declared by Dr. Ajay Sharma, Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU. More than 150 teams participated in the competition and top 25 entered the final round of the competition across IKGPTU Campuses and affiliated colleges. Manya Wadhera, a second time winner, won a cash prize of Rs 20,000. Manya, student of BBA IV was adjudged second runner-up for her business plan ‘Designer clothes for pets’ which was a step towards capturing a niche market of pet lovers. Shriya Maini and Surbhi Sharma of MBA II won consolation prize and got a cash prize of Rs 5,000.Flower arrangement competitionA fresh flower arrangement competition was organised for the students of Classes XI and XII among three branches of Innocent Hearts School. It was conducted on Zoom. The participants used their creative skills and imagination to design their floral arrangements. They presented the current situation due to the pandemic through flowers. After displaying their arrangement the students explained their themes, colour scheme. They conveyed wonderful messages through their floral presentation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-camp-organised-284396
17-07-2021||---||Two more gyms caught stealing power, fined Rs 9L||Jalandhar, July 16The enforcement teams of the PSPCL continued their drive to curb the electricity theft even today.Five squads of Jalandhar carried out checking at various locations. Two more gyms, opposite to Metro Mall on Pathankot Road, were found stealing electricity by installing a loop in the metre terminal. A penalty worth Rs 3 lakh was levied on them on account of electricity theft, apart from an FIR against them. Electricity theft by a residential consumer using direct kundi connection was found in the Model House area. Load of the consumer was found 10 kW and penalty of Rs 1 lakh was charged to the consumer.In another case, concealment of reading was found in the metre of a petrol pump on the Nakodar Road. A penalty of Rs 70,000 was charged to the petrol pump and Rs 1.4 lakh to the Sterling Transformers company.The company has been directed to terminate the services of metre reader responsible for concealment, said Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, Enforcement, Jalandhar. A Venu Prasad, CMD of PSPCL, has given strict directions to adopt zero-tolerance approach against electricity theft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-more-gyms-caught-stealing-power-fined-rs-9l-284398
