18-07-2021||Jalandhar||3 days on, girl’s body not identified||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-days-on-girls-body-not-identified-284838
18-07-2021||Jalandhar||Series of ‘Inspirational talks’ held||World Emoji Day observedStudents of Primary School made bookmarks and participated in craft activity of Emojis. World Emoji Day is observed annually in the summer to celebrate the emoji, a small digital icon used to represent an idea or emotion through electronic means. Students of Senior School made emoji masks under the supervision of Educator Anamika Nirmohi. The Emoji masks showed how Emojis are a fun way to quickly express our emotions with others. Our emotions are a gift from God, that he has a purpose for all of them, and that we can express them in a good way. JK Gupta, chairperson of Eklavya School, said the purpose of observing World Emoji Day was to promote the use Emojis and spread the enjoyment that they bring to all those around us.Students awarded merit certificatesTwelve students of Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Senior Secondary School, Sangal Sohal, Wariana, have been awarded Certificate of Merit by the CBSE in Punjabi, music and painting. The certificate is given to top 0.1 per cent of the successful students in order to recognise their qualities and outstanding performance at its Senior School Certificate Examination. The students, who are honoured by this certificate in session (2019-2020) in Class X, Punjabi is Barjinder Singh, in Class XII music are Swarna Bohra, Manjot Singh, Khushi Aggarwal, Ridhima, Mehak, Banika Bedi and in painting are Sanigdh Budhia, Tarannum Atwal, Navjot Kaur, Simranjeet Kaur and Arshdeep Kaur. Principal Priyanka Sharma congratulated the students, parents and teachers for their outstanding performance.Plantation drive organisedState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, organised a plantation drive to make the society aware of how crucial are trees and health of environment in our life. On the occasion, guests namely councillor Praveena Manu, SHO Jalandhar Cantt Ajaib Singh, Chowki Incharge of Paragpur Baljinder Singh with president Dr Narotam Singh along with Managing Director Anmol Singh and Principal Savina Bahl planted saplings to heal the nature. This is not just a sapling but a ray of hope that our environment will stay healthy so that we can survive and enjoy our lives without major ailments. The management also passed on the message of being considerate and thankful to our mother nature who is selflessly nurturing us and has given her precious lap to lead our life peacefully.Investiture at Guru Amar dass schoolGuru Amar Dass Public School celebrated investiture ceremony online for the session 2021-2022 under the guidance of Ajit Singh Sethi, president, Guru Amar Dass Public School. Election of the school representatives was done through online voting and interview. Head Boy Ekamjit Singh, Head Girl Muskaan, Vice-Head Boy Anmolpreet Singh and Vice-Head Girl Nippunjot Kaur took the oath to fulfil their responsibilities with dedication.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/series-of-inspirational-talks-held-284842
18-07-2021||As many as 21 years of the ‘kar sewa’ of the Kali Bein were completed this July. The ‘kar sewa’ at the Kali Bein began in July 2000. The story of the Kali Bein is the first instance of people’s movement in cleansing and reviving a dried water body into a now flowing rivulet. Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal began the ‘kar sewa’ 21 years ago when the Bein a patch of the river was overtaken by water hyacinth and a stretch dried up in which water had stopped flowing. The Bein which is celebrated as a symbol of Guru Nanak’s enlightenment now is the site of many gurdwaras and hosts many annual fairs. The 21st anniversary of the ‘kar sewa’ of the Kali Bein shall be celebrated on July 25. On the occasion||21st anniversary of kali Bein’s ‘kar sewa’||Vaccination camp on court complexWith the cooperation of the Distrsict Legal Services Authority Kapurthala, a Covid vaccination camp was held at the New Judicial Court Complex, Kapurthala, under Distrsict and Sessions Judge Amarinder Singh Grewal. As many as 50 judicial officers/employees received the jab during the camp. Some of the employees also received their second Covid vaccine. During the camp, Additonal District and Sessions Judge Rajwinder Kaur and Raman Kumar, Chief Judicial Magistrate Jasvir Singh and Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-secretary District Legal Services Auhtority Mahesh Kaumr inspected the camp.Master cadre Teachers get appointment lettersAppointment letters were handed over to newly appointed master cadre teachers during the start of the advanced training course at Kapurthala on Friday. Handing over appointment letters to teachers of the master cadre, DC Uppal said the initiative had been taken to bring about an increase in professionalism in the Education Department. Aiming for an increase in professional capacity of teachers employed with the department, use of latest technology in teaching students and to make teachers adept at the newest technological tools of education, certificate course in advance training has been started with the cooperation of the Indian School of Business, Mohali. Teachers were handed appointment letters under the same programme.(contributed by aparna banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21st-anniversary-of-kali-beins-kar-sewa-284843
18-07-2021||---||Agri officials play pied piper as rodents plague farmers||Nawanshahr, July 17The Agriculture Department, Nawanshahr, has been organising camps in various villages after farmers complained of rats destroying their fields. Last week, the farmers of Bhaghora village and adjoining villages brought to the notice of the department that in villages such as Bhan Majara, Barwa, Baghora, Rakra, Bakapur, Jainpur and other adjoining villages, crops such as paddy, maize and fodder crops were being destroyed by rats because of which farmers had to incur huge losses.A special camp and a farmers’ talk was held at Baghora village recently to train farmers to deal with the problem of rats. Naresh Kataria, Block Agriculture Officer of Nawanshahr, along with other field officers, inspected the fields in the villages.He noticed that the standing crops were severely damaged by rats. He said, “The issue of rats can be resolved only if a campaign is launched in the entire village for the prevention of rats,” the agriculture officer said.He apprised the farmers of the procedure to combat this issue. He said for one acre of field, one can prepare a mixture of 400 gm of maize /wheat or millet grains and add 10 gm of edible oil and 10 gm of powdered sugar to it and keep it in the rat hole for the first two to three days and on fourth day, a similar mixture should be prepared by mixing 10 gm of medicine in it and making 40 such packs. Then, this mixture should be placed inside the rat hole. “Adopting the technique can reduce the risk of crop damage by rats,” the officer said. He further said at present, no such disease has been found in the paddy and maize crop. So, unnecessary poisoning should be avoided.Raj Kumar, the Chief Agriculture Officer Nawanshahr said usually, during this season, heavy rains used to flood the fields, thus, keeping the rodent menace at bay. But, this time, since the monsoon is late, hence the problem got aggravated. So, we held campaigns and advised farmers of the method that they can use,” he said, adding that the situation at present is under control.The officer said, “A rat can adapt itself to any environment and it has a great smelling power. That is why it is important to use the medicine in a prescribed amount, otherwise it can smell it and chances are the rat would never have it,” the officer said.Fighting back the invadersThe Agriculture Department advised farmers to prepare a mixture of 400 gm of maize/wheat or millet grains for one acre of field and add 10 gm of edible oil and 10 gm of powdered sugar to it. The mixture should be further kept at the rat hole for the first two to three days and on the fourth day, a similar mixture should be prepared by mixing 10 gm of medicine in it. The officials said one can make 40 such packs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agri-officials-play-pied-piper-as-rodents-plague-farmers-284822
18-07-2021||---||Financial aid for Covid orphans||Nawanshahr, July 17District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority (Nawanshahr) Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa on Thursday said the children who lost their parents to Covid during the pandemic would be properly brought up and educated.He said financial assistance of Rs 2,000 per month would be provided to such children. He directed that these children should be identified and their data compiled so that due benefits could be given to them on time.“It should be ensured that the child who is already studying in school should continue his/her education in the same school. The District Child Protection Officer would launch a massive campaign in this regard so that no such child was deprived of any benefits,” he said.Meanwhile, he also issued guidelines for the betterment of the government gaushala. Besides, he issued instructions for immediate redress of the problems related to Sakhi One Stop Centre.Several other instructions were also given such as fogging in the district courts, directing the police department to take action on priority in cases of crime against women. He said the District Legal Services Authority provided free legal services to every needy person or woman under the directions of the Punjab State Legal Services Authority.He said the National Lok Adalat will be held on September 11 in Nawanshahr in which pre-litigation cases would be disposed off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/financial-aid-for-covid-orphans-284823
18-07-2021||Sanjiv Bakshi||Hoshiarpur MC’s first meeting on July 19||Hoshiarpur, July 17The municipal corporation is convening its maiden House meeting after the civic polls and the constitution of the House to discuss key agendas, including recruitment of safai sewaks and sewermen on contract, procurement of jetting machines, setting up of Verka booths in parks, creation of more green spaces, etc.The meeting will be held under the chairmanship of new Mayor Surinder Kumar on July 19 (on Monday at 3 pm) in the MC complex. The civic body has proposed and included in the agenda the carving out of new parks in the areas where these are needed with the consent and suggestions of residents. Besides, the MC is also chalking out a plan to install more CCTV cameras so that waste could be lifted on time and littering checked at unauthorised spots.“The civic body has provided the agenda to all members so that healthy discussions and decisions on these can be taken,” said ADC (Urban Development) and MC Commissioner Aashika Jain, adding that the House would also think of introducing road safety features, including cat’s eye (or road stud), in the larger public interest.Divulging the details, Aashika Jain stated that more than 400 safai sewaks and sewermen were already working in Hoshiarpur and now it was proposed to recruit 98 safai sewaks and 15 sewermen on contract through advertisements. She said proposals for more green spaces and parks in the city were being considered. Suggestions regarding potential spaces for developing parks/green belts can be sent at official email adcudhsp@gmail.com.The procurement of two water tanks for supply of potable water and fogging machines to prevent dengue would also be on the agenda, said the MC Commissioner, adding that purchase of four jetting machines were also being proposed to resolve the problem of blockage of sewers.Besides, road development works worth Rs 10.32 crore would be discussed in the meeting for House approval. Making payment to BSNL for CCTV cameras installed at different locations was also being discussed and installation of more cameras for sanitation purpose and setting up of Command and Control Centre at the MC’s office was being considered.Aashika Jain said Rs 38.42 lakh would be set aside after the approval of the House for providing and fixing retro-reflecting signboards of different types on main roads falling under the jurisdiction of the MC.The allotment of Verka booths at five MC locations — Model Town Park, MC office, Green View Park, Gautam Nagar Park and Friends Park — will be discussed. Once passed in the House, applications will be invited from those in need and preference given to persons belonging to marginalised sections. Interested applicants can contact only through WhatsApp at 92162-00095.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-mcs-first-meeting-on-july-19-284824
18-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||Power shocker for mechanic, told to cough up ~26-lakh bill||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 17Anil Heer, a resident of Buta Mandi, near Ravidas Dham, was in for a shock, when he received an unusually high electricity bill in February this year.While complaints about excessively high bills being issued by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) have become a routine, Anil received an inflated electricity bill of nearly Rs26 lakh for just two months.The 27-year-old consumer works as a car mechanic and he moved to his under-construction house in December, last year, after his marriage. Heer at first didn’t know how to react, when he received the bill, showing a total consumption of 5,794 units.Earlier, he hardly used to pay Rs1,500 to Rs2,000.He said: “The bill was completely misprinted as I don’t have any other electricity appliances except a fan and three bulbs. The average electricity bill that I used to get against my energy consumption at my previous house always remained between Rs800 and Rs1,000. I fail to understand how a bill for such a hefty amount has been issued to me without taking into account the actual consumption.”However, the problem didn’t end here. After paying multiple visits to the local PSPCL office, his metre was changed in March, but the officials have asked him to pay Rs1.20 lakh to clear his bill.“The Junior Engineer at the electricity office told me that I received the inflated bill due to metre jump. Afterwards, instead of revising the bill amount, I received a letter from PSPCL to pay Rs1.20 lakh to clear the outstanding bill. It’s been over four months and my issue hasn’t been resolved and the officials only ask me to visit every week. Last year, too, I had to run from pillar to post to get a new meter installed in my house,” he said.According to the bill no. 300302083 issued to Anil, the amount payable against the bill was Rs25,26,410 and if the bill was not paid by due date, then the payable amount was Rs25,97,388. Though the bill reading was of 5794 units.Heer’s brother also reportedly received a hefty bill of Rs2,22,420. Nearly 20 days ago, the electricity connection of a poor family of Talhan village was also severed, as they couldn’t pay a whopping bill of Rs46,950.Rs 17.71L fine imposed on defaultersJalandhar: Following the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD PSPCL; Er DPS Grewal, director distribution; and Er Jainender Dania, chief engineer, North Zone, PSPCL, mass raids were conducted to check the connections under the Jalandhar distribution circle. Er HS Bansal, deputy chief engineer, distribution circle, Jalandhar, said as many as 2,376 connections were checked and discrepancies, including power thefts, were noticed. Subsequently, 28 consumers have been penalised. A fine to the tune of Rs17.71 lakh has been imposed on defaulters. FIRs have also been registered against theft cases at the anti-theft police station under Section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003. Bansal appealed to consumers to not indulge in power theft and if anybody is seen stealing power, information for the same could be registered at 9646116301.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-shocker-for-mechanic-told-to-cough-up-26-lakh-bill-284825
18-07-2021||---||NTSE result: Sky is the limit for city lads||Jalandhar, July 17Mridul Gupta, a student of Innocent Hearts Public School in Jalandhar, has topped the NTSE stage II exam in the district by securing 145 out of 196 marks.Jalandhar students Daksh Bhatti and Manan Sethi have cleared the NTSE exams, securing second position in Jalandhar with 138 out of 196 marks. The trio qualified the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) 2020 stage II, the results of which were declared on Friday. Daksh Bhatti (17) had also performed impressively in the state-level test stage 1 of NTSE also, in which he had got 186/200 marks and 6th rank in Punjab.Speaking to The Tribune, Daksh gave credit for his success to his parents. Daksh’s parents Professor Adarsh Bhatti and mother Vandana Bhatti, are both teachers. His uncle Kulwinder Gakhal also supported him in the pursuit.Currently studying in Class XII (non-medical) and preparing for JEE, Daksh wants to qualify JEE and eventually aspires to make it to IIT. He also qualified VVM Vigyan Vidya Manthan and attended the Indian National Science Congress at Lucknow. He wants to develop technology which can provide earlier warning signal of heart attack at least 12 hours earlier. He says he wants to do it because it will help to serve humanity.Manan Sethi, a student of APJ School, Mahavir Marg, Jalandhar is also currently pursuing the non-medical stream. Mana’s father Rajit Sethi is a financial consultant and his mother Seema Sethi is an Assistant Professor in Other students who qualified the stage II of the NTSE-2020 include Sarthak Kapoor from APJ School, Mahavir Marg, who aspires to be an entrpreneur, and Shivam Bhagat student of NGN Public School Adarsh Nagar who aspires to master software development and Tanveer Singh from MGN Public School Jalandhar.In all, as many as seven to eight students in the district, have cracked the NTSE exam. Majority of them are from the non-medical stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ntse-result-sky-is-the-limit-for-city-lads-284827
18-07-2021||---||Vaccine shortage in Jalandhar, disappoints people||Jalandhar, July 17It has been a long wait for the second dose for those who have already received their first Covid vaccine in the district. Reason: acute shortage of vaccine doses.In Jalandhar, as many as 5,000 to 10,000 people wait for their second jab daily. Even as an acute vaccine shortage and uncertainty over the future supply drives a population which has received the first jab more to the edge every day. Health officials are hounded with dozens of calls daily with people eager to get their next dose.While the district claims of having vaccinated 41.54 per cent of its population until July 15, there is a huge gap between the first and second doses in the district. Of the over 9 lakh people vaccinated until now, merely 1,75,000 people have received their second dose. Of the 9,11,361 people who had been vaccinated in the district until Friday, the first dose has been administered to over 7,36,361 people, a majority of whom (those vaccinated 84 days ago) now await their second jab.However, with vaccine supply arriving after days of wait and being rapidly exhausted, the number of people due for the second jab is piling up dramatically daily. Health Department estimates state that daily as many as 5,000 to 10,000 people await their second jab.After several days of wait for vaccine stock, the district carried out vaccinations of 15,000 people on Friday across 110 session sites. The 15,000 vaccines received by the Health Department were rapidly consumed in a single day.The department was left with merely about 2,000 vaccines today which have been administered. At present, the department is left with just 100 vaccines.District Information Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “About 5,000 to 10,000 people are getting due for their second Covid dose. With the previous backlog yet to be cleared, there is a long queue of those yet to the vaccinated. We can only vaccinate as many as people as the supply allows. The demand is so much that new delivery is being exhausted in a day. We are getting repatedly calls by anxious people. Yesterday we vaccinated 15,000 people, today about 2,000 were vaccinated. Now we are left with very few doses. We hope the next supply will arrive soon.”150 jabbed at campA vaccination camp was organised near the Lamma Pind Chowk by the Samaj Sewak and Jal Kalyan Social Welfare Society today. President of the society Kirti Kalyan said around 150 doses of Covidshield were administered to beneficiaries at the camp. Area MLA Bawa Henry and ward No. 6 Councillor Nirmal Singh Nimma inaugurated the camp. The organisers said more such camps would be organised soon.17 test positive, no death reported in Jalandhar districtJalandhar: The district on Saturday reported 17 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 62,992 cases. Of these, two cases were from other districts. However, no Covid death was reported today in the district. The tally of deceased persons remains at 1,487. As many as 61,383 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 122. 3 cases, no death in Kap Three persons reportedly tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,711 in Kapurthala. There was no death in Kapurthala today. TNSNawanshahr reports 1 death, 1 caseThe district health authorities reported just one case of the coronavirus infection. A patient from the district also succumbed to the virus on Saturday. The tally of positive cases is 11,424 whereas 367 persons have lost their lives so far. The district only 10 active cases as of now. TNSHoshiarpur reports 1 death, 6 +ve casesA person succumbed to the virus at the Civil Hospital on Saturday, taking the toll to 973. As many as six persons also tested positive for Covid in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday, taking the tally to 30,585 cases. The 32-year-old deceased was a resident of Sham Chaurasi. Now, there are 42 active cases in the district and 29,570 persons have recovered so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-shortage-in-jalandhar-disappoints-people-284828
18-07-2021||Talwara (Hoshiarpur)||Two killed as tractor-trailer overturns||Two persons died in an accident after the tractor-trailer they were travelling in overturned in the area on Saturday. The Talwara police have registered a case against the tractor driver. Station in-charge Ajmer Singh Chahal and ASI Ram Singh said Daljit Kumar, son of Gurpal Ram, of Arjanwal village, said his father Gurpal Ram was working as a daily wager in the Daroli Kalan nursery of the Forest Department.On Friday, his father Gurpal Ram, Bhajan Singh, a resident of Haripur village, district Jalandhar and Joginder Singh of Musapur village, district Jalandhar, among others were travelling in a tractor-trailer from Jalandhar to Beh Nangal village (Kamahi Devi) to collect bamboo saplings from the government nursery. The tractor-trailer was being driven by Kuldeep Singh, of Ucha village, district Jalandhar. In the evening, when they were going back to Jalandhar, Kuldeep Singh, lost control over the tractor near Puhari village and it overturned and fell into a gorge. Bhajan Singh died on the spot, while Gurpal Ram died at the Civil Hospital Dasuya. The police have registered an FIR against tractor driver Kuldeep Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-as-tractor-trailer-overturns-284829
