19-07-2021||Rationalise tariffs||Urgent need to diversify power sources, ramp up infra||Focus on real-time monitoring of supplyThe local administration should have made alternate arrangements to provide uninterrupted electricity to consumers. In the long-term, loss-making electricity distribution utilities should be revived under the UDAY (Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana) scheme. In order to achieve 24x7 power for all, we need to focus on real-time monitoring of supply at the end-user level as it will help track the ground reality of electricity supply. Improving maintenance services, estimation of adequate demand and respective power procurement will also go a long way in reducing load shedding. Last but not least, a significant improvement in customer service, which includes billing, metering and collection, is also crucial to maintain financial stability.Akash Kumar QUESTIONopen in the state?by Thursday (July 22).Harness solar energy to meet power demandThe maximum demand of power in Punjab has touched 15,500 MW this year but the state has been able to supply only about 13,000 MW. The power theft is rampant, more so in rural areas. People have to use inverters and generators to deal with power shortage. Farmers and industry are also suffering for the same reason. At some places even the transformers of the electricity board have been stolen. Though the cost of power is highest in Punjab still people are not getting power supply. Better solution would be to harness solar power by investing in solar panels to give relief to the public from power cuts.Dr JS WadhwaPopularise LED lights to save electricityElectricity is the basic need for any economy. India is heading towards digitalisation and for this power is the basic need. The demand and supply shortage has created shortage of electricity in Punjab paving way for power cuts. The government needs to chalk out a plan about how to increase the electricity generation through micro-hydel projects. We should educate the masses to save electricity. Use of LED lights and five star ranking electrical appliances can reduce power consumption significantly. Similarly, more transformers should be installed with regular annual maintenance to bridge the power shortage gap.Rajat Kumar MohindruEncourage electricity conservationElectricity should be judiciously used by every consumer so that all consumers are able to get required electricity. Switching off lights when not in use, use of natural light and air should be encouraged. Each family should start taking steps to conserve electricity to contribute consumers for a better tomorrow. Further, the Bhakra board management should be requested to increase power generation so that uninterrupted power can be supplied to all consumers.Rimplepreet KaurEstablish powercom regulatory authorityAmid delayed monsoon, power crisis has deepened further in Punjab. The demand touched 15,000 MW against availability of 12,800 MW. The acute demand-supply gap forced the authorities to impose long power cuts on domestic consumers. Despite the two-day compulsory cut on the industrial sector, the state is finding it difficult to maintain the promised eight-hour supply to farmers. The industrial sector, already in distress due to Covid, is also bearing the brunt of power shortage. Although, it is not unusual that consumption of power rises during the intense heat wave in summer, yet the authorities cannot be absolved of their duty to ensure continuous power supply. A powercom regulatory authority should be set up to undertake appropriate measures to meet energy needs of the state. Focus should be on harnessing alternate sources of energy in place of thermal power. Alongside, tariffs ought to be moderated to suit the pocket of consumer and the power thefts should be sternly checked. The conservation of energy through improved infrastructure, avoiding reckless use and minimising transmission losses/wastage by technology upgradation is ardently required.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathScale up production to meet demandAmid the intense heat wave, Punjab is facing a severe power shortage these days. The huge gap between electricity demand and supply has ignited public protests across the state. The main contributory factors behind the problem are rising demand, delayed monsoon, reduced power generation from hydropower plants, shutting down of government-run thermal plants, free and subsidised power to agricultural and industrial sectors, illegal connections and over-dependence on private plants through flawed power purchase agreements (PPAs). It is the duty of the state authorities to provide electricity to residents at affordable rates. Besides checking power theft, scaling up production, reviewing the controversial PPAs and purchasing power from the National Grid, the government should adopt innovative measures such as tapping renewable solar, biomass and wind energy which is cheaper, environmental-friendly and sustainable.D S KangRepair old thermal plants in stateIt is unfortunate that Punjab is reeling under acute energy crisis during this sweltering summer season. The unprecedented rise in electricity demand and its erratic supply has not only impacted the agricultural and industrial sectors but also made the life of common citizens miserable. Rather than shutting down the public thermal plants due to technical snags, they should have been repaired in time or alternative arrangements should have been made for the production loss. Under the faulty power agreements, the government continues to pay a humongous amount of Rs 20,000 crore to the private power producers. Along with tough measures on consumption, it is buying electricity at exorbitant rates, causing huge loss to the state exchequer. The government should revisit its policies on free or subsidised power, find a legal recourse to counter the power contracts and produce electricity from alternative sources to tide over the ever-looming energy crisis.Tajpreet S KangAddress issue of power theftPunjab is reeling under unprecedented power shortage amid the heat wave. The solution to the problem is to hand over the charge electricity production and distribution to private companies. It is a fact that where electricity is managed by private company, 24-hour power supply is assured. Power theft is also one of the major reasons for inadequate power supply. Faulty and old wires are never replaced and the result is, electricity tripped and it takes hours to repair and restore the connection. The government always lack in making advance planning and we are taken for granted to suffer.SHASHI KIRANPrivatise all power operationsSuccessive governments have failed to deal with the issue of power cuts. The only remedy is to privatise all processes relating to electricity to get rid of its political exploitation any more. It will solve the problems of subsidisation, the promises of free power and issues such as power theft and distribution losses. The electricity will become like other economic activity to be regulated on the basis of supply and demand with healthy competition among the players. It will definitely make electricity availableall the seasons and all the times with affordable rates like any other product in the market.JAGDISH CHANDERRaise awareness on saving powerDue to power cuts in Punjab, people had to take to the streets to protest. To deal with the power crisis, the government needs to increase the power transmission capacity so that there will be no difficulty in importing power from other states. The public should be educated about saving electricity and water through TV, radio, newspapers and social media. Farmers should be encouraged to plant other crops besides paddy as it consumes more water. Therefore, electricity consumption is higher. By revoking the agreements of private thermal plants in Punjab in the Vidhan Sabha, the money saved can be used to buy electricity and solve the power crisis. The government should appoint a regular CMD of the PSPCL so that he can easily find a solution to the problem like power crisis.Sucha SagarInstall smart meters in every householdThe world is moving towards renewable sources of energy, with Tesla being a great example that has revolutionised the autmobile industry. We should also switch from thermal power plants to sources such as solar, wind and hydopower. Thermal power plants (TPPs) produce cause water and air pollution. Many reports say that the theft of electricity is very rampant in Punjab, particularly in rural areas. Smart metres must be installed as soon as possible in every household. Recently, we have seen how many units of the TPPs malfunctioned causing a great distress to the people.Jatinderpal Singh Batth||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/urgent-need-to-diversify-power-sources-ramp-up-infra-285348
19-07-2021||Jalandhar||Hitin Khurana 1st in B Voc||University positionsShreya Sharma of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged the 19th position in the university exams of BSc Medical Semester-III by getting 323 marks out of 400 whereas Shweta the bagged 20th position by getting 322 marks in the same class. College Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said the college was committed to provide quality education and provide help to the deserving and needy students. College Governing Council president Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Prof Jaswinder Kaur, Head of Department of Zoology, and Dr Upma Arora were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hitin-khurana-1st-in-b-voc-285340
19-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two booked on murder charge||One arrested for molesting minorHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have arrested an accused for allegedly molesting a minor girl by calling her home. A 15-year-old resident of a Mahilpur block village has lodged a complaint with the police saying that she was going from home to the market when a resident of her village, Jatinderpal, alias Kala, allegedly called her to his house saying that his mother wanted to talk to her. She said when she reached the house of the accused, no one else was there and the accused allegedly molested her. The police have registered a case and he has been arrested. OCOne booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have registered a case against Satnam Singh, alias Santu, a resident of Khurali Bassi village, charging him of abducting a minor girl living in his neighbourhood. According to information, the victim’’s father told the police that Satnam Singh, alias Santu, who is their neighbour, abducted his minor daughter luring her on the pretext of marriage. The police have registered a case against the accused. OCSeven arrested with narcoticsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested seven persons, including a couple, and seized huge quantity of narcotics from them. The Bullowal police have arrested a couple during a naka near Sikri village and recovered 80 grams of intoxicating powder from them. The accused have been identified as Suraj Kumar and his wife Pooja resident of Chotala. Apart from this, the police have also arrested Tajinder Singh, alias Bhindi, a resident of Khadiala Sainiyan and Mandeep, alias Pandit, a resident of Dhoot Khurd from Nainowal Vaid village. OCOne held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have booked an accused on the charge of illegal mining. A trolley filled with soil has also been taken into possession, while the accused escaped. According to the information, the police, during a naka in the area, stopped a trolley laden with soil. The driver left the tractor-trolley and fled. The accused has been identified as Dihana village resident Sawardeen, alias, Gama. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-on-murder-charge-285339
19-07-2021||---||10 yrs on, they are still awaiting plots||Jalandhar, July 18Members of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Association will hold a dharna outside the Improvement Trust office in Jalandhar from 10 am to 2 pm on July 19. The protest will be held against the failure of the Improvement Trust to grant them the possession of their lands for the almost 10 years.On July 15, the members of the association also wrote to the DC Jalandhar to seek permission for the same.They wrote, “We, the allottees of residential plots of the Improvement Trust Jalandhar Scheme Surya Enclave Etxn.94.97 acre 2011/2016 are the worst sufferers. We have not been handed over the possession of our plots. No development has been carried out by the Improvement Trust Jalandhar due to illegal encroachments on our plots in C block and park/link roads/main 120 road connecting Domoria Bridge to the national highway.”“Therefore, we will stage a symbolic dharna in front of the Improvement Trust, Jalandhar, tomorrow, from 10 am to 2 pm. We also want interest on the amount. We shall observe the Covid-19 protocol.”Manohar Lal Sehgal, an aggrieved senior citizen said, “The encroachment on my plot has been removed but the 45-feet road from Domoriah Bridge to C Block has been badly encroached upon. Even the parks have been encroached. There is no drinking water or sewerage facility. Our money is stuck for the past 10 years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-yrs-on-they-are-still-awaiting-plots-285338
19-07-2021||---||Teachers gherao Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku’s car||Jalandhar, July 18Serving in the government schools across the state as education providers under the Alternate Inclusive Education (AIE) and other schemes since 2003, members of the Temporary Teachers Union gheraoed the car of Jalandhar West Congress MLA Sushil Rinku on Saturday.The incident took place near his house at Basti Danishmandan. The protesting members led by Harpreet Kaur said the Congress came to power after assuring them that their services would be regularised and that they would get wages on a par with the regular teachers working in schools. As Rinku came out of his car, teachers presented him a memorandum in which they mentioned that Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh should accept their demands or else they would hold a massive protest in association with other unions on July 21 at Mohali.The members, including Kuldeep Singh, Taranvir Singh, Sumit Kaushal, Varinder and Sandeep Sandhu demanded their issue to be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-gherao-jalandhar-west-mla-sushil-rinkus-car-285337
19-07-2021||---||One death, 10 fresh Covid cases reported in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 18With 10 new Covid cases reported in the district today, the total tally reached 63,002 cases. Of these, two cases are from other districts. One Covid death has been reported in the district today. The deceased tally reached 1,488. As many as 61,400 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 114.One dies in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, two persons were reported positive in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,713. A 70-year-old man, a resident of Begowal also died of Covid in Kapurthala today.2 fatalities in NawanshahrTwo persons lost their lives while no case was reported from Nawanshahr on Sunday. The deceased — a 46-year-old woman and a 45-year-old man, both from the Balachaur block. At present, there are eight active cases, out of which five are under home isolation. Total death toll is 369 in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-death-10-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-285336
19-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Birthday or wedding anniv, they play football to celebrate every occasion||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 18Be it birthday, marriage anniversary or getting a new job, they all adopt a unique way to celebrate it. They cut no cakes and blow no candles, but play football to celebrate every occasion. These are the members and players of Daily Morning Club in Nawanshahr.Today, Ajay Kumar, president of the club, celebrated his birthday by organising a football game. Not only this, but the members also plant saplings at the end of the game. It has become a ritual now, they say.The reason why they do this is to encourage the spectators to adopt sports in their lives. The club is known to motivate those who are into drugs to join the club and then change their lives forever.The Tribune had earlier highlighted success stories associated with the club. But the club has now adopted this way of celebrating occasions by organising matches. Tarsem Lal, who is a senior player and a member of the club, said whenever they played football, children, youngsters and elderly came and watched them play. “You cannot imagine what impact this will have on those who come and then enjoy the game. We want the children to adopt sports early in their lives and get associated with us,” he said, adding that “whenever I see a youngster playing with them and recovering well from the pain he has suffered while consuming drugs, he feels so relieved and satisfied”.Tarsem also motivates youths, who have fallen prey to drugs, to come and play football with them. He shared that at present three youths who indulged in drugs had joined them, and were also playing and doing well in night tournaments that were being held at Jindua village near Nawanshahr.Notably, the district administration has been encouraging master trainers at the OOAT centres to take responsibility for at least 10 drug addicts and ensure that they shun drugs under the Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan. Also, there is a special team for players above the age of 40 too. Various tournaments are organised by the club regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/birthday-or-wedding-anniv-they-play-football-to-celebrate-every-occasion-285335
19-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||All is not well at Jalandhar's Gandhi Vanita Ashram||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 18The state’s only home for victims of underage marriage and sexual abuse has been in the news mostly for wrong reasons. In the aftermath of the escape of 37 girls from the Children’s Home at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram on March 8 this year, the mental health of the home inmates has also found a mention in a report of the administration for the first time.The Jalandhar DC’s report has found grave lapses in the ashram’s functioning and it also refers to the “immense psychological stress” among inmates and notes that the belief of some that “the wrong recording of their age in documents”. Notably, the home inmates are cut off from the outside world due to their cases being sub judice. There is a strict restriction on their interaction with mediapersons. Charges against a house mother of getting an “unauthorised exertion” from inmates raises questions over staff competence.While the ashram has been in the news for frequent incidents of escapes of girl inmates regarding which disciplinary action has been taken against some staff members. Ironically, the same set of staff is re-deputed at the same home due to the lack of better substitutes. Sources say despite many CDPOs, the same staff is re-deputed.A Superintendent of the Children’s Home, suspended in 2019, has now been deputed again at the same home after the present Superintendent was transferred a month ago. To address this, the Social Security Department says that the staff now deputed will be put under a mentorship by the Joint Secretary, Women and Child Development Department.The DC’s March 8 report had said, “The main concern highlighted by the inmates was the delay in their release from the shelter home, even in case of turning major (attaining age of 18 years). This has caused immense psychological stress among them and they went on to press for their demand for immediate release from the shelter home. As per the report received from the Superintendent, Children’s Home, four girls have attained the age of 18 years and their release orders are pending with various courts/CWCs. The cause of delay has been observed to be pendency at Judicial/CWC level.” The cases of three of these aforementioned girls have been resolved as per the administration and at present, one girl over 18 is at the home.The report further states, “Further, many girl inmates expressed their demand that even if they have not attained the age of 18, their cases be initiated and favourably decided for release by competent courts/authority. In addition, some girls stated that their age has been wrongly recorded in their original documents lesser than the actual age. They have demanded bone ossification test for determining their real age so that they can be released as per their actual age.”Raji P Shrivastav, Principal Secretary, Department of Women and Child Development, said, “An inquiry was held against the superintendent, but she was absolved of charges. To make sure, the staff performs properly, it is now being put under mentorship of Joint Secretary Social Security Vimmi Bhullar. Training for the staff is also being considered. These are girls keen to reunite with their partners. The March 8 escape clearly shows that the girl overpowered the staff, broke gates. It is not easy to handle them. We are revamping security with the police’s cooperation. Recreational activities, dance events, block printing workshops, etc, are also being held to keep them busy.”The Principal Secretary said, “As far as the house mother’s attempt to get a written declaration from the girls is concerned, it is totally uncalled for. Counselling and therapy is the proper way to deal with these girls. Strict action will be taken against her.”In the news for wrong reasons||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-is-not-well-at-jalandhars-gandhi-vanita-ashram-285283
19-07-2021||---||GST audit notices drive Jalandhar city traders up the wall||Jalandhar, July 18City traders have been complaining of receiving audit notices by the GST Department. Not only this, they also have to go to the Hoshiarpur office to complete formalities, even when the GST office is in the city.“Covid has already proven to be a disaster for us, but the departments do not care and burden us with new challenges,” the traders rued.Ravinder Dhir from the Traders Forum said the department has been sending notices in the name of the GST audit and on the top of it, traders from the city are going to the GST Audit Wing in Hoshiarpur, which is again nothing short of harassment.He said there were two problems. Firstly, there are several traders whose VAT assessment cases of three to four years are still pending. Secondly, the audit wing of Jalandhar is operated from Hoshiarpur, even though there is a huge office in the city itself, he said.Paramjit Singh, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, said, the audit of 2017-2018 has started and it has to be done because it is the mandate of the GST council.On the Hoshiarpur issue, he said: “Until now, we have picked up 33 cases. We have three audit wings, of which audit wing number 1 and 3 are here in the city, and 2nd number wing is in Hoshiarpur. So, only 10 cases are being looked after by the Hoshiarpur wing. If anyone faces any issue and will definitely try to resolve the matter.Notably, after several fights, scores of meetings and plethora of requests, the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for VAT dues was finally unveiled at the beginning of the year. With this policy, the traders having tax demand up to Rs1 lakh would only have to pay 10 per cent of the tax amount to be paid and thus the policy proved good for them.Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora had then termed it a ‘historic step’ to give the much-needed relief to industrialists. He said the scheme would benefit almost 10,000 small and medium scale businessmen of the Doaba region. The traders had said only the cases from 2013-2014 were covered under the scheme, which was not justified, and since then, they had been demanding that the cases till December 31, 2020 should be taken under the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gst-audit-notices-drive-jalandhar-city-traders-up-the-wall-285284
19-07-2021||---||AAP meets industrialists, promises to fulfil demands||Jalandhar, July 18 Leaders and workers of the AAP on Sunday held a meeting with industrialists at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here. AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur and senior vice-president (Trade Wing) Anil Thakur presided over the meeting. They said the state government had failed industrialists. Holding a meeting with industrialists, the AAP made a slew of promises to the industry sector. The AAP said the meeting was aimed to encourage policy for better state economy and talk about promises not fulfilled by the state government. The party said the AAP’s trade wing would keep an eye on government projects and funding and bringing in policies to encourage the industry. Thakur said the AAP would work to provide one window/online approval/door to door delivery for required clearances, registrations, and licences for trade and industry. He said they would adopt a zero-tolerance policy to interference or harassment of industry by any authority.  They said a mechanism for feedback and response from traders and industrialists would be devised to check policy matters. Speaking on the occasion, MLA Baljinder Kaur said the Amarinder government was unable to keep its promise of Rs 5 per unit electricity to industrialists. She said power bills of factories and units closed during the pandemic were not waived, which has caused a crisis in the industry. AAP trade wing president Indervansh Singh Chaddha said cheap electricity and basic amenities to industrialists were among the top priorities of the AAP. Anil Thakur said Kejriwal would provide 24-hour electricity to traders and industrialists and small traders would be specially facilitated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-meets-industrialists-promises-to-fulfil-demands-285285
19-07-2021||Jalandhar||Blasphemy case: SAD (S) asks Sukhbir Badal to explain inaction||Reacting on SAD chief Sukhbir Badal’s statement that his government did not withdraw the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) spokesperson Gurcharan S Channi questioned him as to why he did not ensure that the police filed a challan in his 4.5-year tenure since the incident.Channi, who served as the district SAD chief before quitting the party, further said: “We agree that the case was withdrawn by the police at a time when election code had been imposed but why didn’t he act against the police officials who had withdrawn the case when his government returned to power in 2012?” Channi asked Sukhbir to ensure that he replies to these queries as the Sikh community was deeply hurt over inaction by the SAD at the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blasphemy-case-sad-s-asks-sukhbir-badal-to-explain-inaction-285286
19-07-2021||Jalandhar/Khanna||Navjot Sidhu calls on party leaders in Jalandhar, Khanna||Before his elevation, Navjot Singh Sidhu held meetings with various Congress leaders, including Avtar Henry, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha, today.In Jalandhar, he was accompanied by Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh and Tanda legislator Sangat Singh Gilzian. Asked about Sidhu’s possible elevation, Pargat said: “He just came to meet Henry. Some things don’t need to be said. When it is overcast, you know it is going to rain.”Avtar Henry said: “I have known Sidhu for past 30 years. He is a friend. So he has come to meet us. We’ll talk over a cup of tea.” Earlier, Sidhu met MLAs Kotli and Lakha in Khanna. Praising Sidhu, Kolti said party workers had complete faith in him.“Sidhu enjoys public support and if the 2022 elections are fought under his leadership, it will yield positive results,” said Kotli.“The decision by the Congress high command has to be accepted by all party leaders, irrespective of their stature. We are soldiers of the party and will readily accept the decision to make it stronger.” — TNSNo infightingThere is no infighting within the Congress. There are no two factions. It’s just an opposition narrative. Avtar Henry, CongressDullo for Dalit CMGiven the Dalit vote share in the state, a leader from the community should be made the CM. Shamsher Singh Dullo, Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-sidhu-calls-on-party-leaders-in-jalandhar-khanna-285214
