20-07-2021||Jalandhar||Weaving tales: Online short story contest held in Jalandhar||The Jalandhar Literary Forum, in association with M/s Krishna Agencies, organised an online Short Story Contest-2021. The concept was drafted and shaped by Randeep Dhillon Mand, a prolific writer who is also the editor of the newly-released book ‘Barefoot Souls’ (a collection of stories by children).The contest was announced online in June on the Bookrack Group of Facebook and the contest was opened for participants up to the age of 16 years of age. Randeep Mand drafted three different starters of three different stories and the participants were to complete one of the stories out of three up to 600 to 800 words. Sargi Uppal, Jinisha Batra and Naman Sachdev won the first, second and third prizes, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weaving-tales-online-short-story-contest-held-in-jalandhar-285544
20-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora opens Rs 1.4-cr oxygen plant at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital||Hoshiarpur, July 19Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Monday inaugurated an oxygen generation plant having capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) at the Civil Hospital.He said the unit would ensure sufficient and continuous oxygen supply to each and every bed in the Covid ward. He added that the plant had been establishment under the requisite guidance of the DRDO and the NHAI, which would prove to be immensely beneficial for critical patients. The plant has been set up at a cost of around Rs1.40 crore, said the minister adding that besides Covid-19 patients other critical ones could also get supply of oxygen in emergent situation.He said that the facility would be operational shortly in the hospital. The minister said in view of the problems faced during first and second Covid wave regarding availability of oxygen, the Punjab Government had started the process to establish the plant, which would ensure sufficient supply of gas to further saving people from Covid-19 and other serious ailments.Those present on the occasion include Mayor Surinder Kumar, Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Saini, Deputy Mayor Ranjeet Chaudhary, Chairman Improvement Trust Advocate Rakesh Marwaha and ADC (G) Vishesh Sarangal etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industries-minister-sunder-sham-arora-opens-rs-1-4-cr-oxygen-plant-at-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-285545
20-07-2021||---||‘Poor struggling for roof over their heads’||Jalandhar, July 19Raising voice for thousands of poor struggling to get government help under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) for repairing their houses or construction of their houses, Congress leader Nimisha Mehta held a meeting of panches and sarpanches at her Garhshankar residence on Saturday.In a letter duly signed by the area residents, sarpanches and panches, stressing on the demand for raising voice in the Parliament session beginning on July 22, Nimisha Mehta said the Government of India, in order to bring about transparency in the PMAY, got this scheme linked to the PMAY website of GOI wherein the MGNREGA-GRS clicks the picture of the person seeking benefit under the scheme and these pictures get uploaded online whenever the ministry opens the website. “Sadly, the website opened just once in 2019 during PM Narendra Modi’s tenure and has not opened so far after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” she said.In the letter, she stressed that there were thousands of the poor who were living in pitiable conditions with a fear of monsoons looming large on their minds. “There are thousands of hapless who have been filling forms to seek benefit to repair the roofs of their houses but because the website doesn’t open their applications just go down the drain,” she said.“Rather after years of struggle of giving applications, these poor people who struggle to earn two square meals a day are forced to take huge loans to repair their houses and this PMAY Scheme seems only like a mere dummy programme of the GOI which rather befools the public,” she said adding that it is common to hear reports of roofs collapsing and houses getting damaged. Nimisha Mehta stressed that the PMAY window opened only before the Lok Sabha elections 2019 thereby giving a message that voters will get a facility only around elections and not otherwise.She demanded, “If the Modi government is serious about giving benefit to people under awas yojana in the rural areas, it is very important to keep the window open throughout the year or at least the window of the ministry should open once a month.” Nimisha Mehta appealed to Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari that keeping the sentiments of his poor voters in mind, he must strongly raise his voice in the Parliament on this pressing issue to facilitate the financially weaker section.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poor-struggling-for-roof-over-their-heads-285547
20-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Revelling in nature’s bounty||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 19‘Nurture nature and nature will nurture you,’ is her eternal mantra. For her, these aren’t just words but a way of life, a visit to her home in Jalandhar is a ‘breathing’ testimony of this fact.Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Dean Academics, head of the Commerce Department and NAAC coordinator at the HMV College, is indeed a proud owner of an exuberant garden. Verdant bushes of curry leaves and ashwagandha greet one at the entrance of her home. Stepping inside, one sees an entire row of oxygen-generating plants. A narangi tree with its refreshing green leaves and orange tangerines peek out cheerfully at the entrance portico. A reclaimed shoe rack with ornamental crystals, tea cups serving as pots and a Zen Buddha corner serves as a tranquil resort.Fruits and veggies galoreWhile her greens exude a wellness-retreat-kind-of-vibe to her home, every niche, corner, gallery and space, both on the inside and outside, is tastefully decorated with her plants in mind. In the shade of her narangi tree, rests potted plants ready to be given to friends when she retires later this year. Packed into her front gardens, hedge gardens, entrance portico and two terrace gardens is a variety of trees, plants, flowers, fruit and veggies so diverse and fertile that every year she gives out many of her plants to neighbours, friends and colleagues - planted in pots herself - propagating the green goodness. She has at least five varieties of Basil tulsi.Of exotic flowers & herbsHer frontal flower bed is rich with pervasive and choicest flowering plants, herbs, ornamental trees and her loved tulsis. It has button flowers, hibsicus, football lillies, crepe Jasmine or chandni plant (Tabernaemontana Divaricata), the night flowering coral Jasmine (Nyctanthes arbor-tristis), various varieties of periwinkles (sadabahar plant), Nerium Oleander or Kaner and a verdant varieties of herbs such as Niazbo (or sweet Basil), indigenous basils, with a number of fruit yielding trees too — moringa oleifera (or drumstick tree), papaya, Mango tree, lemons etc. At her top terrace garden is her vegetable garden which yields the family’s bountiful supply of guavas, pomegrenates, brinjals (3 varieties), okra, green gourds, and another hedgeful of Basil dancing in the rain.Switching to organic wayDr Kanwaldeep says, “Collection of plants kept my stress and illness at bay. The garden has cured me of all my ailments. We cook chutneys with five different herbs, live on the supply of our own veggies and our drumsticks are much sought after in the neighbourhood for their medicinal value. I propagate my own plants and rarely buy from outside. We also make our own compost which provides rich soil for our produce.” Her husband Omkar Singh Bedi, a retired banker, also lends a helping hand to her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revelling-in-natures-bounty-285542
20-07-2021||Jalandhar||Students get jobs in Jalandhar||Webinar on Entrepreneurial JourneyGNA University, Phagwara, organised an interactive session on ‘Entrepreneurship and Motivation’ with respect to the entrepreneurial journey of a renowned entrepreneur for all the students of GNA Business School via online platform, Blackboard. The resource person for the webinar was Harbhajan Kaur, a 94-year-old successful woman entrepreneur and the founder of Harbhajan’s Made With Love (Besan Ki Barfi). She explained about how the idea of besan barfi evolved into her mind and how slowly she diversified her business while the interaction with her daughter Raveena Suri. Not only barfi, but today Harbhajan diversifies in many other products such as pickles, traditional sausages.Labs set up at KMVA new block has been constructed at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya which houses some recently-constructed labs. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi said these innovative labs provide the most conducive environment to the students for research and innovation in their respective fields. The PG Department of Physics include spectroscopic lab, computational lab, electronics lab, general physics lab, condensed matter lab, nuclear lab to provide a cutting edge to the students who by dint of their practical exposure have made entry to variety of top notch careers. PG Department of Computer Science & IT has 10 labs. KMV Fibre Forensic Lab- the first of its kind in the region has high end forensic servers & work stations.173 CT Group students get jobsCT Group of Institutions is assisting its students in fetching their dream jobs and internships via online campus drive. Around 173 students have bagged offers from the different companies including Nivia, Amul, Shoe Variant Pvt Ltd, Shrimann hospital, CSB Bank, and Pukhraj in all sectors including management, engineering and pharmaceuticals for internships as well as placements. The candidates were selected after passing through rigorous rounds comprising of online aptitude test, written test, group discussion, technical interview and HR interview. Vansh Raheja, Deputy Director, congratulated the students on their achievement.Monsoon activity with origamiIVY World School organised “Monsoon activity with origami” in the Kindergarten wing. Due to the pandemic restrictions, this year’s Monsoon Magic Week was celebrated virtually by young learners of Ivy. The week was planned with lot of engaging origami activities suggested by educators to children. Origami is an activity that involves the art of folding paper with certain techniques to make something new. The young Ivyians participated in this creative venture with great zeal and high spirits. The budding stars of Ivy were amazed to see the transformation of a flat square sheet square of paper into a finished sculpture through folding and sculpting. Tiny tots created unique and exclusive boats under the supervision of their parents to showcase their finesse in paper craft.Essay writing competitionEklavya School, Jalandhar, organised an online essay writing competition for senior classes, while the students of primary classes participated in online speech competition on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mangal Pandey, the Indian soldier who participated in the 1857 rebellion. JKGupta (Chairman of the school) threw light on “Nationalism”. Seema Handa (Director) and Komal Arora (Principal) also explained the importance of “the role of citizens in nation building.” Dimple Malhotra (Administrator) appreciated and landed the efforts of students in making these virtual competitions successful.Eating healthy food activityIn all chains of DIPS schools, the students are being told about the importance of healthy food. To avoid fast food, a healthy tiffin activity was organised. During this activity pre-wing students along with their mothers prepared healthy tiffin and salad. Students all ate food prepared by them during online classes and told about the healthy food item in their tiffin. Teachers shared videos to inspire the children to eat healthy and stay fit and also demonstrated the advantages of green vegetables and fresh seasonal fruits. They expressed their views on healthy eating to remain healthy and active. All principals praised the efforts put by parents for their cooperation to make this activity a great success. They also thanked the parents for actively participating in the activity online.English Quiz organisedEnglish Department of Police DAV Public School organised an English Quiz entitled “Quiztique” under the guidance of Principal Dr Rashmi Vij for the students of classes IX to XIIth. It was under month long National Reading Month from June 19 to July 19 being organised by PN Paniker Foundation. The rounds were based on authors, vocabulary, grammar, anagrams, word substitution etc. The four teams were formed through a screening test held online for students. The teams namely: Wordsmiths, Bards, Musers and Mozarts participated in different rounds- Litspark, Grammarly, Wordpedia, Uber utterance, creative caption. Abhimanu, Anusha, Mankiran and Bhumika were the Quiz Masters. Team Mozart comprising Andew, Madhav, Yash and Khusmeet bagged the first position. The second position was bagged by Bards.Merit positionStudent of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, performed well in Guru Nanak Dev University exams. In a press release, the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said Gourav, a student has bagged 8th position in the MA Music (Vocal)-I Semester by getting 336 marks out of 400. Principal Dr. Samra also said that the college was committed to provide quality education to its students and it would ensure all possible help to the deserving and needy students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-get-jobs-in-jalandhar-285546
20-07-2021||On the occasion of World Environment Protection Day||Phagwara Diary: Rainwater harvesting plant set up at ITI||LPU student to feature in ‘College diaries’Sahil Kumar (pic), a final year student of Performing Arts and Theatre at Lovely Professional University, has forayed into the Bollywood by debuting in the web series ‘College Diaries’. Currently, he is shooting in Chandigarh along with Harsh Beniwal, Ritwik Sahor and other co-stars. After completing different shoots at different locations, Sahil will be seen in the role of one of the three senior college students. Prior to this, he has also worked in the reality crime television series ‘Crime Patrol’ which airs on Sony TV. Sahil has always been fascinated by theater and performing arts. Prior to this, he participated in four National Theatre Competitions from LPU, where he showcased his skills in Natyashastra and won top prizes and accolades. “College Diaries” is an evergreen story of the youth, which brings to the fore experiences that can be related to their college days. The series is about some college students where each of them have different characters and their special qualities and demerits. In fact, the lead cast of MX Player’s upcoming college-based web series got recognised during the filming in Chandigarh.Poor get ready-made clothes for Rs 10Under the initiative of ‘Naya Kadam Nayi Soch’, New Phagwara Welfare Club, organised a camp in which the underprivileged people were given clothes for just Rs 10. Ballu Walia, president of the club said, the initiative was taken to help those in distress amid rising inflation. Ready-made clothes were provided to the needy at minimal rates. The club members reached out to slum dwellers and migrant labourers. Walia and other members said, such camps would be organised in coming days too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-rainwater-harvesting-plant-set-up-at-iti-285548
20-07-2021||---||Now, traders need not visit Hoshiarpur for GST notices||Jalandhar, July 19After The Tribune highlighted how industrialists were up in arms against receiving the GST audit notices and had to go to Hoshiarpur for the same, the District Excise and Taxation Commissioner today called a meeting of traders and assured them that they won’t have to go to Hoshiarpur from now on. They can now complete their formalities at the GST Bhawan, Jalandhar.The Traders Forum had yesterday said the department had been sending notices in the name of the GST audit and on the top of it; traders from the city were going to the GST Audit Wing in Hoshiarpur, which was again nothing short of harassment.Today, the industrialists met the DETC with MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri and the MLA also urged the DETC not to send the notices to the industrialists for some time because of the pandemic. He also said the One Time Settlement Scheme for VAT assessment must be introduced as soon as possible so that the cases coming under remaining years could also get covered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-traders-need-not-visit-hoshiarpur-for-gst-notices-285543
20-07-2021||Garhshankar||3.2-quintal poppy husk seized in Garhshankar||Sparsh Centre opened at CanttJalandhar: Sparsh, a centre for the specially-abled children, was inaugurated on at Jalandhar Cantonment recently. The objective of Sparsh Centre will be to empower the specially-abled children, instil confidence and prepare them to face all the challenges of life with elan. The centre has an enhanced capacity to look after 60 specially-abled children. This project is funded by the Ministry of Defence and is open for defence persons, defence civilians and other civilians. The centre will have a special educator as well as a speech therapist, who will carry out counselling, speech training, physiotherapy as well as pre-vocational and vocational skill training to make the children socially-independent. TNSParents body to protest fee hikeHoshiarpur: Members of the Parents Association organised a meeting at Roshan Ground, Hoshiarpur, under the leadership of the association’s president, Harjit Singh Matharu, to protest against the exorbitant increase in school fees by St Joseph’s School. Matharu said at present no school is asking either for annual fee or increasing the fee, rather providing concessions. However, parents are being pressurised through teachers to deposit the annual charges for the last academic year too by the St Joseph’s School authorities. The parents will stage a sit-in in front of the district administrative complex on July 22 against the school and the administration. OCProtest outside MLAs’ residenceJalandhar: Members of various farmers and labourers unions will hold demonstrations outside the residences of Shahkot MLA Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia; Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh and Kartarpur MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh on July 27, 28 and 29, respectively, and hand over memorandums to remind them of their poll promises. Harmesh Malri, state secretary, Punjabi Khet Mazdoor Union; Darshan Nahar, state president, Dehari Mazdoor Sabha, and Kashmir Singh Ghugshore, leader, Pendu Mazdoor Union Punjab, said huge protests will be organised by labourers. A meeting in this regard was held at Uggi and Dheerpur villages in Jalandhar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-2-quintal-poppy-husk-seized-in-garhshankar-285540
20-07-2021||Jalandhar||Covid-19: 3 infected, no death in Jalandhar||As many as three persons were reported Covid positive today in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,005 cases. Of these cases, two are from other districts. No Covid death was reported today in the district. As many as 61, 409 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 108.3 cases in KapurthalaThree person were reported positive in Kapurthala today, taking total number of positive cases to 17,716.No case in NawanshahrA day after two deaths were reported from Nawanshahr district, no case and no death was recorded on Monday. At present, there are eight active cases, out of which five are under home isolation. The tally of positive cases stands at 11,424 (4.30 percent). A total of 369 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district so far.Eight +ve in HoshiarpurAs many as eight new Covid cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally of cases to 30,601. No Covid death was reported in the district today keeping the toll at 974. As many as 29,583 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Hoshiarpur is 44. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-3-infected-no-death-in-jalandhar-285541
20-07-2021||---||Congratulatory hoardings for Navjot Singh Sidhu dot Jalamdhar||Jalandhar, July 19A day after Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed as the PPCC president, hoardings bearing congratulatory messages were put up at various important intersections in the city.All important intersections, including Skylark Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and BMC Chowk, had hoardings installed by the national spokesperson of Youth Congress and his loyalist Gautam Seth. Parts of Jalandhar Cantt constituency represented by MLA Pargat Singh, who has been closely associated with Sidhu, also had hoardings bearing a similar message.As Sidhu had come to the city last evening, he met just two out of four Congress MLAs. While he visited the house of MLA Bawa Henry, along with Pargat Singh and ex-MP Mahinder Singh Kaypee, he had skipped meeting other MLAs. Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri is learnt to have been invited at Henry’s house for the meeting but he reportedly did not turn up.There was a buzz that Sidhu could pay visit to Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku to congratulate him as he got blessed with a child after 15 years, but he chose not to. Sidhu and Rinku have not been seeing eye to eye as both had got on loggerheads during Sidhu’s tenure as Local Bodies Minister. Shahkot MLA Hardev Laddi who resides in city and Chaudhary Surinder Singh from Kartarpur also did not catch up with Sidhu yesterday.Rohan Sehgal, a councillor, who have been supporting Pargat, have been using social media to express their excitement over Sidhu’s elevation. There, however, has been a mixed reaction from the city in support of Sidhu so far.As Sidhu is expected to visit Doaba again tomorrow morning, there is a possibility of some more meetings with the MLAs of the area.Navjot Sidhu to visit Khatkar Kalan todayThe newly-appointed president of Punjab Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu, will visit Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, on Tuesday, where he will pay obeisance to the martyr at 9.30 in the morning. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh said the appointment of Sidhu as the Congress president has created excitement among party leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congratulatory-hoardings-for-navjot-singh-sidhu-dot-jalamdhar-285539
20-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Nod to projects worth Rs 10 cr at first Hoshiarpur MC meet||Hoshiarpur, July 19In its first House meeting after the civic polls, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has cleared the proposal to recruit safai karamcharis and sewermen besides enhancing green spaces in the city area and setting up Verka booths in five parks.At the very outset, the House observed two-minute silence in memory of former councillors who have left for their heavenly abode since the last House meeting.Key decisionsThe House also welcomed its all members as well as Commissioner before starts its proceedings. The House unanimously passed the resolution on recruitment of 98 safai karamcharis and 23 sewermen to be recruited as per law and the guidelines issued by the Government of Punjab besides committing to the additional expenditure of Rs 1.44 crore per year for this purpose.Giving details of the meeting, the MC Commissioner, Aashika Jain, said financial powers up to 50 lakh had been delegated to the F&CC.The committee will be led by the Mayor as its Chairperson while two Councillors Balwinder Kumar from Ward No 14 and Mrs Kulwinder Kapoor from Ward No 45 along with Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor have also been nominated to the Committee.She pointed out that proposals for green spaces have also been passed thus suggestions for development may be sent to adcudhsp@gmail.comThe House also approved the setting up of Verka booth in the designated parks and interested eligible candidates may contact at 92162-00095 in this regard.The meeting held under the chairmanship of Mayor Surinder Kumar also gave its nod to development works worth Rs 10.32 crore. The House also discussed the agenda of the meeting in detail, which had already been circulated amongst the members. The meeting also unanimously approved various development works.MC chief Aashika Jain asserted that the MC is fully committed to the overall development of the city along with the completion of various development works, beautification of the city and development of parks shall be undertaken aggressively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nod-to-projects-worth-rs-10-cr-at-first-hoshiarpur-mc-meet-285533
20-07-2021||---||Inmate found dead at illegal de-addiction centre in Jalandhar, owner booked||Jalndhar, July 19A 25-year-old inmate was found dead at a de-addiction centre in Kartarpur. While the incident took place on Sunday evening, the police have registered a case against owner of the de-addiction centre on Monday.The vicitm, Baljinder Singh, alias Ballu, a resident of Khirawali village, was admitted at the drug de-addiction at Pattadkalan in village around 10 days ago.Ballu’s mother Balbir Kaur told the police that her son was a drug addict, thus she got him admitted to the de-addiction centre being run by Nihangs. “Few months ago, we came to know that a drug de-addiction centre is being run by Nihangs at Pattadakalan village. The management had taken 100 per cent guarantee of curing drug addicts. Subsequently, we borrowed Rs 10,000 from villagers and sent our son to the de-addiction centre. Sukkha Nihang, who is the owner of the centre, asked us to pay Rs 10,000 per month for treating Ballu. On Sunday, I was told that my son has passed away due to a heart attack,” mentioned Balbir in her statement.Kartarpur SHO Rajeev Kumar said the police team was sent to the de-addiction to investigate the matter.He said body of the victim has been sent to the hospital for getting an autopsy done.Assistant Sub-Inspector Bodhraj said there were injury marks on Ballu’s body and apparently he was beaten to death. He also had deep cuts on his head.The SHO said the de-addiction was being run illegally and there were around 45 inmates. “Sukkha Nihang is absconding and a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against him and few others. The inmates have been sent back to their homes,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inmate-found-dead-at-illegal-de-addiction-centre-in-jalandhar-owner-booked-285531
20-07-2021||---||Surya Enclave plot holders in Jalandhar seek justice||Jalandhar, July 19Plot holders of the Surva Enclave Extension today submitted a complaint letter to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee today against the Jalandhar Improvement Trust for not providing possession of plots with complete basic amenities in the Surya Enclave Extension Scheme since 2011.An elderly protesterI had paid Rs 40 lakh in 2011 but haven’t received the posession so far. The area is a wasteland without power and sewerage. The C block is the worst. People were given land at the rate of Rs 17,000/sq yard. But it isn’t even worth Rs 1,700/sq yard. After a decade, the land and amenities promised to us elude us.Holding a dharna outside the Improvement Trust office today, plot holders raised slogans against the Improvement Trust holding banners, ‘When We Construct Our House’ (sic), Why Should we Suffer?, What is our Fault?”Most of the demonstrators being senior citizens, they also held a huge banner with pictures of a heavy garbage-littered road and wasteland overgrown with weeds with overhanging electrical wires titled, ‘Current Situation of Surya Enclave Extension’ - and raised slogans ‘Punjab Sarkar Murdabad’ and ‘Improvement Trust Murdabad’.In the complaint, they mentioned that the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) had launched Surya Enclave Extension Scheme in the year 2011 and 2016 but till date, they have failed to provide possession to residents with basic amenities.Elderly, Prem Walia, who came along with his wife, to participate in the dharna, said, “I had paid Rs 21 lakh for the plot, but so far, I have not received anything. It has been 10 years, but neither have I received the plot nor my money back. Every time we complain, we are sent back after being assured of action. We want the plot with proper living conditions or our money back with interest. “Bas Laare lai jande hai,” they said.Protesters said till date, basic amenities such as water supply, sewerage and construction of roads have not been provided in the said area. They also said there are heavy overhead electrical wires over the plots in the C block and also alleged that there is an illegal encroachment on 45 ft and 120-ft roads, which connect the Domoria Flyover and Surya Enclave Extension.The plot holders said despite repeated reminders to the Improvement Trust for a decade, the possession of plots with complete amenities as promised eludes the plot holders.Many allottees, who are also senior citizens, have made full payments long time back towards the cost of the plots and have gone to various courts and give judgement in their favour. They also said some of them had also received their money back with interest.The plot holders requested the Vidhan Sabha Committee to look into the matter and take strict action against the officers who have launched the scheme in 2011 and re-launched again in 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surya-enclave-plot-holders-in-jalandhar-seek-justice-285532
20-07-2021||---||Shrinking open spaces in Jalandhar leave no room for green lungs||Jalandhar, July 19As the monsoon season has already started, various NGOs, social organisations, banks, educational institutes and corporate companies have started mass plantation drives. But the moot question for all of them is where to grow the trees.Harleen Kaur, Social activistWe even decided to move to the outer areas of the city such as Sofi village near Jalandhar Cantonment and Khusro village in the absence of space for growing trees. But there is always an issue of watering the saplings after plantation. We had to assign the duty to some residents and continuously call them to remind them to water the plants every morning and evening.The city, which is fast converting into a concrete jungle, only has roadsides, strips along canals and some parks and edges of school playgrounds where plantation is possible. With commercial buildings and malls dotting the roads, highways getting widened to adjust higher vehicular traffic and even internal roads getting paved end to end, even this space is getting shrinked in the city areas.Even most houses are bereft of adequate lawn space as people have been covering the front and backyards fully with even the Municipal Corporation not taking any action against the owners. It is common to see residents now realising the need to plant trees and fulfilling this desire by using huge drums for plantation.Pawan Bassi of SBI Bank said, “When we recently started our plantation drive, we did it in some schools and parks. But then, we realised that there were hardly other options. So, we, along with our regional manager Pardeep Kumar decided that to head towards villages. We are now procuring and handing over 100 plants to schools in each village so as to carry on the drive.”Similarly, social activist Harleen Kaur also said she was even facing issues in finding proper spaces in the city. “We too decided to move to the outer areas of the city such as Sofi village near Jalandhar Cantonment and Khusro village. But there is always an issue of watering the saplings after plantation. We have had to assign the duty to some residents and continuously call them to remind them of watering the plants every morning and evening,” she said.The forest officials said it was just to meet the space issues that they had started promoting agro-forestry, urging farmers to plant trees in their agricultural lands. The department is giving Rs 14 as an incentive for plantation of each tree in the forest areas.Despite such issues, the forests officials claim that the forest cover has increased recently in the region owing to large plantation drives carried out on the occasion of the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev when 76 lakh trees were planted all across the state and on the 400th Gurpurab of Guru Teg Bahadur when 66 lakh trees got planted. The officials say that the survival rate of these trees was 75 per cent and at all gaps thus created trees were being planted again now. Forests Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had recently claimed that the area under forests had increased by 11.63 sq km since the past one year.The forest officials said: “We have also set up 432 Nanak Bagichis and 29 Miyawaki forest areas in the state, with some in Jalandhar and periphery too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shrinking-open-spaces-in-jalandhar-leave-no-room-for-green-lungs-285534
