21-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based dentist bags national award||A city-based orthodontist, Dr Amandeep Kaur (in pic), has won the ‘Best Orthodontist’ award recently. She has become the first woman dentist in the state to have clinched the national award in orthodontistry.Dr Amandeep won the award under the category of excellence in clinical orthodontics at ‘Heroes of dentistry, IDEA-2021’. The award was given by International Dental Excellence Awards. Earlier, she was conferred ‘Best dentist’ award, in 2019 by Indian Health Professional Awards.Working in this field for the past nine years, Dr Amandeep said spreading smiles has been her motto of life.She has not only treated patients for crooked teeth, but has also helped clinics in delivering excellent dental treatments to their patients.“One smile of a patient is enough to inspire me to work further. With a dream to excel more in our field, I keep on learning the latest advancements and execute the same. Apart from being a clinician, I spend days and nights to expertise in ozone dentistry,” said the doctor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-dentist-bags-national-award-286082
21-07-2021||Jalandhar||Disability awareness day at Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus||Webinar on design thinkingHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya hosted an online session on “Design Thinking” under the initiative of Institutional Innovation Council. President IIC Dr Anjana Bhatia gave a formal welcome to resource person Partap Rajput. He described design thinking as the backbone of the solution to any problem. It is the process of finding the problem, thinking design and finding solution. It is a process of solving problems by prioritising customer needs above all else. He discussed what, why and how of design thinking. He gave lots of examples to make students understand the concept of “design thinking”. He said design thinking follows empathy, defining the problem, ideating, prototype designing and testing the dummy design.University positionsStudents of BBA (Sem V) of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have again shown their academic excellence in Guru Nanak Dev University examination. Niharika bagged fourth position with 249/350 and Pawni secured ninth position with 244/350. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the winners and wished them every success with bright future in their life. She congratulated and applauded the efforts of Monica Mogla, HOD, Department of Commerce, Payal Arora and Talwinder Kaur for motivating and encouraging the students to achieve their goal.Eight DAVIET students get jobsEight students from various departments of DAVIET were selected for Whitehat Jr, who will work for the company and pursue their degree simultaneously. The selected students will get monthly stipend of Rs 12,000 plus incentives up to Rs 12,000 per week and after completion of degree their pay package would be 3 LPA to 5 LPA. The company has selected the students after technical and HR interview. The selected students Neha Sareen, Parneet Kaur, Shreya Arora, Pawni, Shubahngi, Muskan Jain, Sakshi Sadana and Nilakshi Ayri had shared that they had started preparing for the placement drive early and concentrated on developing their interpersonal skills along with the enhancing their knowledge about the core areas.Brainstorm competition organisedThe PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised online National Inter College Competition - Brainstorm. The competition witnessed participation from different parts of India including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Six activities were planned — Logoli, E-quiz, poster making, business plan, business tycoons and rumours and humour in promoting Covid products. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disability-awareness-day-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-technical-campus-286084
21-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Awareness camp for farmers at Kane village||The Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare Department and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bahowal, jointly organised a one-day farmer awareness camp at Kane village on direct sowing of paddy and smooth cultivation of maize.During the awareness camp, conducted under the leadership of Dr Manjit Singh, Deputy Director Training, Maninder Singh highlighted the importance of pest management for various kharif crops and apprised the farmers about the damage caused by pests on maize and their prevention.Agriculture Development Officer Dr Mr Kiranjit Singh also gave a detailed presentation on direct sowing of paddy and prevention of weeds. Prabhminder Kaur, DPD, ATMA scheme, shared useful information about the home gardening. Agriculture Development Officer, Hoshiarpur-1, Dr Simranjit Singh apprised farmers about the subsidies being given by the government and about various schemes being run by the Agriculture Department. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-camp-for-farmers-at-kane-village-286085
21-07-2021||---||Maya — an engrossing tale of two growing up sisters||Jalandhar, July 20Veterinarian-cum-author Dr Rana Preet Gill’s fourth book, Maya, which underlines the story of two adolescent sisters who encounter an array of challenges while growing up, was released by Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori.The book talks about two sisters — Maya and Zenia, who live with their mother at Galaxy apartments in the suburb of Dwarka. Maya, the younger, is insecure and full of negativity because of the scars which did not leave her face after a dreadful chicken pox bout in childhood. Zenia’s charm and the constant comparisons in their physical traits create a rift between them, and Maya ends up doing something that she shouldn’t!While providing an insider’s view into the book, Dr Gill shares, “This book is somewhat about sibling rivalry and is partly inspired by a real-life incident which captured my attention as an adolescent. It is full of interesting twists and turns which I would not reveal, for which you need to read the book!”Thori appreciated Gill’s dedication and determination to write despite being in a regular job. He encouraged people to devote more time to books and reading. Writing brings out the best of creative minds and relieves stress which is much needed in times of pandemic, he added.When asked about her experience of writing during the pandemic, Dr Gill, “I had spent the most of my time during pandemic in reading and researching for a new book which is a non-fiction project. The times of pandemic have been very tough for all of us. For me, reading proved to be very therapeutic and writing came as a blessing. It helped me a lot to tide over the unprecedented times.”She has already authored three books, which include two novels — Those College Years, The Misadventures of a Vet and a collection of middles titled, Finding Julia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maya-%E2%80%94-an-engrossing-tale-of-two-growing-up-sisters-286086
21-07-2021||---||UIDAI: Aadhaar enrolment, updation must for children||Jalandhar, July 20UIDAI Deputy Director General Bhawna Garg emphasised the need for Aadhaar enrolment for all children besides updating their biometrics at the age of five and 15 years. While reviewing the Aadhaar enrolment and updation at a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, the DDG stated that updation of biometrics of children, including their fingerprints and iris scan, was a must.Garg said Aadhaar is for all age groups, even a new born child can get Aadhaar adding the mandatory biometric updation in Aadhaar at age of 5 years and 15 years is free of cost.Aadhaar enrolment is free of cost and for any demographic updation such as address, update/correction in name, date of birth, gender, only Rs 50 are charged. However, services like biometric updates i.e. change in photograph or updating iris or fingerprints in Aadhaar could be availed at a fee of Rs 100, she added. In case of overcharging, residents can lodge grievances on toll free number 1947.The DDG added that the resident must check their details carefully while enrolling/updating for Aadhaar as there was a limit for updating details like name, date of birth and gender in Aadhaar. While name in Aadhaar can be updated twice, date of birth can be updated once and also gender can be corrected once, she said adding that Aadhaar also offers self-service update facility to residents, who want to update demographics information in Aadhaar including name, gender, date of birth and address.She mentioned that to update demographics details online, the resident needs to log in to https://ssup.uidai .gov.in/ssup/. However, it is essential that the mobile number of the applicant is registered in Aadhaar to avail online updation facility.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori assured that there were 221 Aadhaar centres running in the district and the district administration will ensure citizens get easy access and hassle free services.Seed ball plantation campaign launched||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uidai-aadhaar-enrolment-updation-must-for-children-286075
21-07-2021||---||LPU plans to set up space station for multiple satellites tracking||Jalandhar, July 20Lovely Professional University (LPU) has announced the establishment of ‘Professional Space Station for Multiple Satellites Tracking and Telemetry’ on its campus. The station will function under LPU’s ‘Centre for Space Research’, which was inaugurated last year by Dr Sudhir Mishra, distinguished scientist and Director General (BrahMos), DRDO, Ministry of Defence. The station will not only act as a resource for LPU and its researchers but also be a virtual lab for other educational institutions in India and neighbouring countries.With automatic antenna adjustment and precise digital signal processing, this professional station has two major modules — Satellite Tracking and Amateur Radio (HAM radio) along with many other salient features. It can track multiple satellites, which are at present 3000-plus and collect real-time satellite images. It can be used for a host of functions, from determining the position of assets like vehicles and cattle, city planning, weather forecast as well as disaster management support. It is also helpful for community connect; communication with mobile assets including drones; monitoring power lines and landslides.The space station would allow students and researchers to communicate with the International Space Stations as well as receive data from nano-satellites and other spacecraft. The centre will carry out awareness programmes related to space research and remote sensing with the support of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre as well. The space station at LPU also offers an internet-to-orbit gateway mission control centre for public use.Lovely Professional University Chancellor Ashok Mittal said, “The facility will also reduce financial and engineering barriers that hinder access to science and engineering data from orbit. This will provide great opportunities to our researchers and scientists to collaborate with other organisations, government bodies and academia to take space engineering research to the next level.”LPU’s Centre for Space Research is closely related to the Space Situational Awareness and Management (SSAM) programme of ISRO. The space centre at LPU will engage the trainee students in satellite system design and system engineering; satellite payload and sub-system design and development; satellite assembly, integration and testing; satellite launch, operation; payload data processing, application in the area of navigation, remote sensing, meteorology, and space science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-plans-to-set-up-space-station-for-multiple-satellites-tracking-286076
21-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||4 cases of theft, robbery reported in Hoshiarpur||Vendors get tips on Covid normsGarhshankar: In collaboration with Punjab Government, National Urban Livelihood Mission and the PGI, a one-day training programme was organised at the Municipal Council, Garhshankar, for street vendors. Programme officer Dr Vaishali Soni, training coordinator Dr Ishaan Chopra and Komal Kashyap made street vendors aware about prevention of Covid-19. They were asked to ensure cleanliness of hands, proper maintenance of food items, not to consume gutka, pan masala and that cut fruits should be kept covered. Resource person Ravindra Kumar, Tribhank Dutt Airi, president, Municipal Council, EO Avtar Chand Sekhri and others were present. OCFive parks for special kidsHoshiarpur: Efforts are being made to beautify the parks of the city, said Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora after starting the construction work of five special children friendly parks at different places in the city today. He said special children’s parks are being built in the city at a cost of Rs 1,10,67,712 under the AMRUT scheme. A children friendly park is being built at Gautam Nagar, Street Number 1 at a cost of Rs 20,80,716. Beautification of Mount Avenue Ward No 28 Park is being done at a cost of Rs17,55,012, Ekta Nagar Park Rs19,50,292, Bottle Brush Park at Rs18,54,919 and Green View Children Friendly Park at a cost of Rs34,26,773. He said that in the initial phase, open gyms were set up in all the parks. OCOne dies in a road accidentHoshiarpur: One person died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle. The Mukerian police have registered a case against an unidentified driver. Rinku, a resident of Harsa Mansar, told the police that his father Tarsem Lal was going on his cycle on Monday. When he reached near the Ranga turn, a vehicle hit him. He was admitted to the hospital in critical condition where he died during the treatment. The police have registered a case against the unknown driver. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-cases-of-theft-robbery-reported-in-hoshiarpur-286087
21-07-2021||---||Covid-19: No death in Jalandhar district, eight cases reported||jalandhar, July 20The district on Tuesday reported only eight fresh cases of Covid. In a major relief, no fatality was reported in the past three days. Now, the total confirmed Covid cases in the district are 63,013. With the decreasing number of active cases, around 61,418 patients have been discharged. The total number of active cases now stands at 107, lowest since the outbreak of second wave .Eight +ve in HoshiarpurAs many as eight new Covid cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally of cases to 30,609. No Covid death was reported in the district today keeping the toll at 974. As many as 29,588 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Hoshiarpur is 47.No case in NawanshahrNo case and no death was recorded in Nawanshahr on Tuesday. At present, there are eight active cases, out of which seven are under home isolation. The tally of positive cases stands at 11,423.No fatality in KapurthalaThe district health authorities reported three positive cases of coronavirus with the positivity rate dropping to a low of 0.2%. No fatality was reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-eight-cases-reported-286088
21-07-2021||---||Three arrested for murder of migrant worker in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 20The Commissionerate Police on Tuesday solved a case of murder of a 22-year-old youth within two days by nabbing all three accused. The arrested persons have been identified as Umesh (44), Ganesh Ram (40), and Gulshan (24), all residents of Chhattisgarh.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the victim, Dharamveer Parsad, and the daughter of one of the accused, Ganesh Ram, were in relationship which Ganesh never liked.He wanted her daughter to get married with 24-year-old Gulshan, who also liked her. This love triangle led to this heinous crime as Ganesh Ram, Gulshan along with his uncle Umesh killed Dharamveer at an under-construction building at Reru village near Pathankot Chowk.The Commissionerate Police stated that all three accused inflicted sharp injuries on the face of the victim that proved fatal for him. All the accused had been arrested and their police remand would be sought from court to recover the weapon used in the crime.The CP said investigation would be completed and a charge-sheet would be presented against the accused in the court within the stipulated time-frame to bring all the accused to justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-for-murder-of-migrant-worker-in-jalandhar-286089
21-07-2021||---||Kukki Dhab robbery case solved, four held||Jalandhar, July 20With the arrest of four persons involved in a robbery case, the Commissionerate of Police on Tuesday solved the incident that took place in the Kukki Dhab locality and in which a group of robbers had looted a family at gunpoint. While the police claimed to have arrested four out of the five accused, the jewellery and cash looted from the family were still missing.Those arrested have been identified as Rajan, alias Raju, and Harnoor Singh, alias Noor, both residents of Kot Sadiq, and Deep Singh, alias Deep, and Navpreet Singh, alias Abhi, of Hamirpur village in Kartarpur. Raids were on to arrest the fifth accused, identified as Deepak, alias Deepu, a resident of Kot Sadiq village.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said on July 14, the incident was reported wherein the robbers had taken the jewellery from a family. He said during checking on July 19, a police party had signalled all the four accused riding two-wheelers — an Activa scooty and a motorcycle (CT-100). However, after watching the police party, the accused tried to run away from the check-point.“During the interrogation, Navpreet Singh, alias Abhi, revealed that on July 14, his cousin Deep had received a phone call from Deepak, alias Deepu, of Kot Sadiq, who asked him to get ready for a robbery.Further, after the phone call, they all assembled at the canal in Kot Sadiq where Deepak planned and executed the robbery and asked all the accused to change their get-up. Afterwards, they went to a sweets shop and bought a box of sweets and left for a colony, where Deepak armed with a pistol entered a house and then signalled the other accused to come in.Subsequently, they robbed the old woman of her jewellery, including two golden earrings, one nose ring, two bangles and a ring. Then they fled from the spot and again assembled at the canal of Kot Sadiq village where they changed their get-up once again and returned to their homes. The accused, identified as Deepak, alias Deepu, kept the jewellery with him and is still at large.A case under Sections 454, 380, 379-B, 452, and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the police division number seven.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kukki-dhab-robbery-case-solved-four-held-286074
21-07-2021||---||Store owner shot at by robbers in Jalandhar, dies||Jalandhar, July 20Sachin Jain (32), the owner of a general store, who was seriously injured in a firing incident that was reported on Monday night near Sodhal Road here, breathed his last on Tuesday. A bullet had pierced through his ribs and the stomach.According to sources, the incident was reported at around 9pm when Jain, owner of Jain Karyana Store, had just left for home after closing his shop when three miscreants reached outside his shop and asked him to give them money. He resisted and in an attempt to foil the robbery, the accused fired at him and fled from the spot.While no bullet shell was recovered from the area, eye-witnesses told the police that Sachin was running here and there for help. Subsequently, his two friends took him on a scooter to four private hospitals which refused to admit him. Then they admitted him to the Civil Hospital.After a delay of 45 minutes in first-aid medication, he was treated at the Civil Hospital from where he was shifted to a private hospital. However, despite best efforts, the doctors could not save him and he succumbed to the bullet injury in the wee hours on Tuesday. The bullet had pierced deep into his stomach, causing excessive blood loss and infection. The victim is survived by a two-month-old child and his wife.Later in the evening, the Commissionerate Police claimed to have identified two accused involved in the murder case. Both accused have been identified as Arshpreet Singh, alias Wadda Preet, of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar and Deepak, a resident of Haripur village under the Adampur police station.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said as per information, both the accused had a scuffle with Jain to snatch some money from him and one of the miscreants fired a shot at him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/store-owner-shot-at-by-robbers-in-jalandhar-dies-286073
21-07-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu gets rousing welcome in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 20To get a glimpse of new PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, a large number of Congress party workers gathered at a reception party organised by Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway this afternoon.As the cavalcade of Sidhu going from Chandigarh via Khatkar Kalan towards Amritsar was to pass from the city, Henry had organised a welcome for him at his petrol pump in Guru Gobind Singh Avenue. The party workers continued to stand by the roadside taking shelter under sheds or using umbrellas for over two hours to give a hero’s welcome to Sidhu. Sidhu too had opened the sunroof of his car and responded to the workers’ welcome with the same enthusiasm.The PPCC chief was presented with several bunches of bouquets, garlands and showering of flowers. He waved back to the crowds, expressed his gratitude and took out his hand to shake it with anyone who reached out to him. Bawa Henry walked along Sidhu for about 10 minutes till the convoy passed through the area.Even as Henry extended full support to Sidhu, especially since his Sunday’s visit to his place, some other MLAs are yet to tag along. Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh did not turn up even though both had been showing up together for the past two days. Kartarpur MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh had gone to Chandigarh on Monday and had figured in the group photo of MLAs organised at the residence of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.Those who are still maintaining a distance include Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku, Shahkot MLA Hardev Laddi and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh.These MLAs have not even expressed their support for Sidhu on social media. They are learnt to be either waiting for the much-awaited Sidhu-CM meeting or are expecting Sidhu to call on them too before they take any step forward. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, who is considered to be a staunch loyalist of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, and was sort of averse to Sidhu, has already hosted him at his Chandigarh residence.Cheema quips, “Everyone will ultimately tag along. Afterall, it is a decision of the party high command.” Laddi said, “My brother-in-law Pargat is already in the forefront along with Sidhu. I too will follow him sooner or later.”Phagwara: As Sidhu’s cavalcade turned towards Jalandhar from the Phagwara bypass, hundreds of Congress workers led by former Punjab Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann gave him a rousing reception. Phagwara MLA Balwinder Dhaliwal, however, gave the event a miss.The new PPCC president was welcomed with drum beats, flowers and sweets. The Congress workers raised slogans in his favour. Buoyed over enthusiasm of Congress workers, Mann claimed, “Sidhu’s appointment has infused a new spirit among the Congress cadres ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls.”On the occasion, Mann was accompanied by party leaders Harjit Singh Parmar, Satbir Singh Sahbi and Daljit Singh Raju. They all said they hoped that the party would get further strengthened under the leadership of Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-singh-sidhu-gets-rousing-welcome-in-jalandhar-286078
21-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Monsoon is here and so are waterlogging woes||Jalandhar, July 20As it rained incessantly since early morning, the city roads got badly deluged causing a lot of problem in commuting to the general public.The roads in Sodal area, Kishanpura, Basti Danishmandan, Adarsh Nagar, Central Town, Kapurthala Road and Industrial Area got completely inundated and residents had to wade through 1 to 1.5 feet deep water to pass through. Residents of old city areas, especially around Domoria Bridge and Ikehri Pull, got completely cut off as it was difficult for them to cross over even in vehicles, which kept on getting knocked off due to stagnated water.The visitors to public places like bus stand, district administrative complex, Suwidha Centre, tehsil complex etc also had to face problems as the rainwater was not getting drained properly due to clogging.Raghbir Kainth, who had come to check the status of his application for SC certificate in the DC office, said: “I tried walking carefully by the higher edges of the passage to reach the Suwidha Centre, but I had to ultimately put my shoes in the stagnant water to reach the office. The administration is levying facilitation charges from the public for all services, but is not providing complete convenience.”The residents of the city used social media especially on the 91K member FB page ‘NoticeBoard - Jalandhar by Tinu Luthra’ to vent out their ire. A member of the group Iqbal Deep Singh wrote: “The great Jalandhar boating and water sports festival is back. Enjoy free boating. Hurry. Offer valid till water logging lasts. Issued by MCJ in the interest of public”.The post got so much response that people started ridiculing municipal corporation authorities asking them if Jalandhar was actually a Smart City. On a serious note, Sanjeev Duggal, a member wrote: “Try to correct your voting pattern. Can’t we choose 50 honest, educated and dedicated persons for the welfare of Jalandhar in corporation elections?”Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “Since it rained very heavily today, the water got stagnated at some places. Our teams have been out to clear the road gullies which had drainage issues. We will get all areas checked.”Kapurthala’s sub-tehsil complex is a lake now!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-monsoon-is-here-and-so-are-waterlogging-woes-286072
21-07-2021||Nawanshahr||Navjot Singh Sidhu gives clarion call for ‘sach di ladai’||Newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today paid obeisance at the memorial site of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh at his ancestral Khatkar Kalan village near here.Sidhu was accompanied by PCC working president Kuljit Nagra and six MLAs — Angad Saini, Darshan S Mangupur, Rajkumar Verka, Sukhpal Bhullar, Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Gurpreet GP. Youth Congress leader Brinder Dhillon, former Banga MLAs Tarlochan Soondh and Mohan Lal Banga, and Pungrain Chairman Lalli Majithia also came along. The convoy of Congress leaders started from Chandigarh and headed towards Amritsar, Sidhu’s home constituency.Farmers wave black flags, block highwayA fully charged Sidhu raised slogans ‘Shaheedo teri soch te, pehra deyange thok ke’ and ‘Shaheed Bhagat Singh amar rahe’ at the memorial. Since it was raining heavily when the PCC chief reached the site, he got totally drenched.Sidhu suffers toe injurySidhu got injured during his visit to Khatkar Kalan. He was walking barefoot after paying respects at the statue when the nail of his right toe got plucked. Despite the injury, the PCC chief continued his roadshows via Phagwara and Jalandhar towards Amritsar.He addressed mediapersons at the site, saying, “I have come here to seek direction and light up the spirit of truthfulness among Punjabis. I wish Punjabis draw strength from Bhagat Singh and set out on ‘haq te sach di ladai (fight for right and truth)’. Every Punjabi must consider himself a stakeholder in the ongoing quest to regain prosperity for the state. The proposed Punjab model will bring things on the right track. The implementation of the 18-point programme of the Congress high command will empower the masses.”In a veiled reference to the scathing attacks by CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp, he mentioned, “Punjab cannot progress if we keep abusing one another”.Meanwhile, ahead of Sidhu’s visit, Congress workers from Banga, who are supporting the rival factions of ex-MLAs Tarlochan Soondh and Mohan Lal Banga, almost came to a faceoff and indulged in sloganeering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-singh-sidhu-gives-clarion-call-for-sach-di-ladai-285919
