22-07-2021||Jalandhar||Shiromani Akali Dal’s faux pas||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiromani-akali-dals-faux-pas-286704
22-07-2021||Jalandhar||Surjit Hockey Society to hold function to cheer up Indian hockey team||New PSIEC head meets tradersJalandhar: A close aide of Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, Bhupinder Singh Jolly, has been appointed as the new Director of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC). He was today honoured by members of the Focal Point Extension Association and Leather and Surgical Complex at the office of Engineering Export Promotion Council here. The members shared the problems being faced by them including poor infrastructural facilities of the PSIEC, delay in transfer of industrial plots and other issues. Among the industrialists present at the event were Narinder Singh Sagoo, Puneet Gupta and Rajeev Mittal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-society-to-hold-function-to-cheer-up-indian-hockey-team-286651
22-07-2021||Jalandhar||Students of DIPS, Jalandhar, cheer Tokyo Olympics participants||Talent hunt competition organisedHMV Collegiate Sr Sec School organised Online Talent Hunt Competition (Pratibha Khoj 2021). Students of SSC-I and SSC-II utilised this opportunity enthusiastically and showcased of their talent pertaining to multiple facets ranging from declamation contest (star orator), sound music, poster and collage making contest, dance, mehndi, art & rangoli competition to quiz contest in which more than 150 students participated. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen expressed her immense pleasure to watch the soulful performance of the students. The declamation contest was adjudged by Kuljeet Kaur and Protima Mander in which the students eloquently expressed their oratory skills on the relevant topics of “Are today’s children Fashion Victim, Traditional Education v/s online Education, Future of Vaccinated India.”World Youth Skill Day celebratedVarious activities were held in virtual classes during World Youth Skill Day celebrations at Eklavya School.To make this day more valuable, the students of different classes designed posters, charts on ‘World Youth Skill Day’. The students were told about the importance of the day. They were told that the young people are almost three times more likely to be unemployed than adults and continuously face the challenges of greater labour market inequalities. The aim of the day is to advocate for skills as an important factor to improve young people’s transitions to decent work, and to highlight the crucial role of skilled youth in addressing today’s most challenging global issues. The Chairman of the school, JK Gupta, said that it is very important to teach the children about significance of youth skills. Dimple Malhotra, administrator also appreciated the students.Webinar on Inorganic SpectroscopyKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a two-day webinar series on ‘Inorganic Spectroscopy’ under the Department of Bio-Technology Scheme. The webinar was organised by PG Department of Chemistry. Dr Meenu, Assistant Prof, Department of Applied Chemistry, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, was the resource person for the webinar. More than 100 students actively participated in the webinar. During the first day, Dr Meenu enlightened the students about introduction and applications of structural elucidation of different inorganic compounds. She discussed in detail the use of group theory involved in vibrational spectroscopy to find out the vibrational modes (IR active and Raman active) of different molecules. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these kinds of activities aids in developing scientific aptitude in the minds of the students. Principal lauded the efforts of PG Department of Chemistry for organising the webinar.Microsoft award for LPU studentBTech Computer Engineering final year student at LPU - Vansh Devgan - has been applauded by ‘Microsoft’ with a bounty reward of USD 20,000 (nearly Rs 15 Lakh) for his significant security search to ultimately favour the techno-giant company. Vansh, along with his team member, has enabled Microsoft to correct crucial security flaws in its ‘Edge’ internet browser. These flaws were duly notified to Microsoft by this two-man team of cyber security researchers, led by Vansh. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the creative, enterprising and industrious student, and invoked all others to keep utilising the creative skills learnt through their respective departments.Covid vaccination campApeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, has always been on the forefront contributing to social causes and society at large. To continue its work in this regard, the college organised corona vaccination camp with collaborated efforts of Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, in which 150 people were vaccinated. Carrying forward its societal responsibility with enthusiasm, the college Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra averred that we must be conscious to get ourselves vaccinated for corona in order to fight the pandemic. She appreciated the endeavour of the Physiotherapy Department for the successful culmination of the camp. She motivated Dr. Neeraj Katyal, Head, BPT Department, and other faculty to keep up the great work for the safety and uplift of humanity.Badges distributedThe NSS team of Police DAV School conducted a drive to distribute the badges and stickers to the staff members of school and Radisson Hotel who have completed their vaccination. The drive was initiated by Principal Dr Rashmi Vij. She supported Mission Fateh by accompanying the team members and distributing badges and stickers to all the members who have taken both the jabs of the vaccination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-of-dips-jalandhar-cheer-tokyo-olympics-participants-286650
22-07-2021||---||Army recruitment exam on July 25||Jalandhar, July 21The common entrance exam (CEE) for the Army recruitment will be held on July 25 at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium, said Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) while taking stock of the ongoing preparedness for the exam.The ADC, who is also a nodal officer for conducting the test, said the CEE would be organised for candidates who have cleared the medical examination after the recruitment rally. He added that as many as 4,000 candidates from five districts including Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, and Tarn Taran would appear in the exam.On the occasion, the ADC assigned various duties to the key departments as Municipal Corporation was asked to ensure portable drinking water and mobile toilets while health officials had to deploy a medical team at the spot besides directing police officials to ensure proper security measures here on July 25.He added that a single entry point would be utilised for the test adding that the stadium would be closed for the general public on the evening of July 21 and handed over to army officials on July 22 for the test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-recruitment-exam-on-july-25-286649
22-07-2021||---||Kapurthala scientist conferred ICAR award||Kapurthala, July 21Internationally renowned and celebrated agriculture scientist Dr Gurinderjit Randhawa, head, Department of Genomic Resources, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Indian Council of Agriculture Research, New Delhi, has been honoured with the prestigious award — ‘Punjabrao Deshmukh National Outstanding Woman Scientist Award’ — by the ICAR.Eldest among four sisters, this Doaba-based woman scientist was born and brought up in Kapurthala. She had studied at the local Government Girls’ School and later earned MSc from Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, MPhil from PU, Chandigarh, and PhD from the UK in Molecular Genetics as a Commonwealth Fellow.Dr Randhawa has more than 35 years of a distinguished and illustrious service as an agriculture scientist and published more than 80 research publications in high impact factor journals, seven books, 14 book chapter and more than 100 invited lectures in international and national fora to her credit. Besides, she has been granted three patents by the Government of India.She has developed cost-effective and robust GM Detection Technologies such as GMO screening matrix, visual and real-time PCR-based essays, DNA-based diagnostics for more than 15 crop plants and has transferred the technologies to the stakeholders enabling their commercialisation and widespread adoption, also established an operational network of GMO detection labs at national level.Apart from attending 32 international conferences, she was invited as an expert by FAO, UNIDO, European Commission, etc, and visited 17 different countries.The national award was bestowed upon Dr Randhawa especially for her farsighted and strategic research efforts that she had steadily built, upgraded, harmonised and globally positioned national capacity in the area of diagnostics of genetically-modified crops and development of genomic resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-scientist-conferred-icar-award-286648
22-07-2021||---||Jalandhar admn approves financial aid for 8 Covid-hit kids||Jalandhar, July 21To provide financial aid to Covid-19 pandemic-hit orphans, the district administration has approved eight pension cases that have been sent to the Social Security Department for disbursal of monthly pension.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the information of such children who lost their parents during the pandemic was being collected through anganwadi workers so that they could be provided with financial and other required assistance. He stated that not only monthly pension but they will also get assistance in their education and employment after their studies.The District Programme Officer, Gurminder Singh Randhawa, said anyone who has lost their parents could apply for the pension. The eligible beneficiaries have to submit death certificate, their residence proof, age proof, and Aadhaar Card. After approval, the cases are sent to the Social Security Department for disbursal of pensions. He added that the application along with required documents could be given to anganwadi workers, CDPOs or directly to DPO office for further process.Randhawa stated that the beneficiaries under this scheme would also be assisted with employment opportunities after completion of study as their names are listed in employment generation department for the jobs. He stated that any family that lost their breadwinner due to Covid-19, the dependents including wife and minor children are eligible for monthly pension worth Rs 1,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-admn-approves-financial-aid-for-8-covid-hit-kids-286647
22-07-2021||---||One dead, 10 new Covid cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 21As many as 10 new Covid cases were reported today in the district taking the total district tally to 63,023 cases. Of these, four cases are from other districts. One Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally reached 1,489. As many as 61,432 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 102.2 cases, no death at K’thalaIn Kapurthala, two persons were reported positive, taking the tally of positive cases to 17,720.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-dead-10-new-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-286646
22-07-2021||---||17,000 vaccinated in Jalandhar; no dose left for today||Jalandhar, July 21The district is facing the shortage of vaccine doses again and again. Though around 17,000 beneficiaries were inoculated on Wednesday, the Health Department has run out of the stock again and there is likelihood that no beneficiary will be inoculated tomorrow.After a gap of many days, the inoculation drive resumed on Wednesday. The vaccination drive remained suspended with the stock running dry. Long queues, beneficiaries jostling in lines, a long wait for their turn, etc, were the scenes witnessed at the crowded sites of the district as vaccination resumed after days in the district.With a clamour among people to get vaccinated, the vaccine stock exhausted soon after they came in. With 17,000 people receiving their jabs in the district, the district ran out of all vaccines in a single day. As per the Health Department, there is no Covishiled dose to vaccinate anyone tomorrow as all of them were used up.As previously highlighted by this newspaper, in Jalandhar as many as 5,000 to 10,000 people wait for their second jab daily. While nearly 9.50 lakh people have been vaccinated so far, the increasingly erratic vaccine supply is driving the population to the edge.The first dose has so far been administered to less than one lakh of the nearly 9 and a half lakh people vaccinated so far.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have used up all of our vaccination supplies today. All 17,000 vaccines received have been administered. There are last few doses of Covaxin left at the Garha session site. Barring these, we do not have any vaccine dose left for tomorrow. We do not know the time of arrival of the next slot of vaccines so far.”Interestingly, the Health Department was left with about a 100 doses on January 17 after the supply was exhausted. This time the supplies are running low. Sources said there was simply no guarantee of the future vaccine drive as the supply chain was not regularised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-000-vaccinated-in-jalandhar-no-dose-left-for-today-286645
22-07-2021||---||Alert residents of Master Gurbanta Singh Nagar foil theft of transformers||Jalandhar, July 21As many as two persons allegedly involved in the theft of electricity transformers have been arrested by the police.The miscreants were caught by residents at Master Gurbanta Singh Nagar, Verka Milk Plant. They were trying to steal four electric transformers of 300 KV. A truck was also recovered in which the suspects tried to load the transformers. The incident was reported on Tuesday midnight at around 1am, when a gang of six transformer thieves reached Master Gurbanta Singh Nagar and tried to steal four transformers.Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) said the thieves had loaded three transformers in the truck and while they were unplugging the last one, it fell down, making a loud thud sound. After hearing the noise, local residents got suspicious and managed to apprehend two accused. The truck, loaded with transformers, was also seized and later handed over to the police.The locals who had caught the thieves stated that officials that the miscreants were wearing masks and four out of six managed to escape.SDO Kripal Singh said the Electricity Department would have suffered a loss of over Rs7.5 lakh, if the transformers were stolen.The officials also stated that there has been a rise in the transformer or copper wire theft cases. The accused were handed over to the Police division number-1 where a case has been registered against them. SHO Rajesh Kumar said investigations were on started to trace the truck owner and other accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/alert-residents-of-master-gurbanta-singh-nagar-foil-theft-of-transformers-286644
22-07-2021||---||Most Doaba leaders missed Amritsar tour of PPCC chief||Jalandhar, July 21Most leaders of Doaba barring MLAs Pargat Singh and two young MLAs - Angad Saini from Nawanshahr and Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North – on Wednesday missed the Amritsar tour to religious places in the holy city along with Sidhu.There are 17 MLAs of the Congress in Doaba, of whom only three made it to the event. The religious tour which was largely a show of strength had none of the four MLAs from Kapurthala – Rana Gurjeet Singh, Balwinder Dhaliwal, Navtej Cheema and Sukhpal Khaira — on board. While Cheema said he was at his place today at Sultanpur Lodhi, Rana Gurjeet today met the CM at Chandigarh clearly spelling out his stance in the factionalism.Even from Hoshiarpur, barring Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, who is a working president in the new team, no other party MLA, including minister Sunder Sham Arora, Raj Kumar Chabbewal, Pawan Adia or Indu Bala, have shown any support to Sidhu yet.None of the Mayors from Doaba, including those from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur or Kapurthala or the Chairmen of Improvement Trusts from Jalandhar or Hoshiarpur, have shown their support to Sidhu and are seemingly on the side of the CM so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/most-doaba-leaders-missed-amritsar-tour-of-ppcc-chief-286643
22-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Capt Amarinder missing in Navjot Sidhu’s new hoardings in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 21Even as a fierce war is on between Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the new PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, some local workers are perhaps fuelling it further with their actions.The new hoardings with congratulatory messages for Sidhu that are coming up across the city are without any pictures of the Chief Minister. These hoardings are otherwise big enough to bear the pictures of AICC leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and all local MLAs, but the sponsors perhaps deliberately chose not to put the pictures of the CM as a part of the exercise to appease Sidhu.The posters put by Jalandhar councillor Rohan Sehgal have a bold picture of Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, whose patronage he enjoys. It bears a tag line, ‘Sirjange nawan Punjab (we will create a new Punjab), Team Navjot Singh Sidhu’.Another kind of hoarding in the city, put up by Youth Congress leader Ravinder Singh Laddi, even has the picture of PUNSUP chairman Tajinder Bittu and National Youth Congress Spokesperson Gautam Seth among the AICC and the state leaders, but not that of the CM.The party’s senior leaders today commented on the issue saying: “It is because of such workers who keep instigating one camp that the dividing lines between two factions in the party have deepened further. While it was a mistake or a failure of the party high command to have not called in both the fiercely fighting leaders, including the CM and the new PPCC chief together while making the announcement, the local workers were further instigating the matter and indulging in such actions that have been causing irritation to the rival camps”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capt-amarinder-missing-in-navjot-sidhus-new-hoardings-in-jalandhar-286608
22-07-2021||---||Jain murder: 1 held; traders demand justice||Jalandhar, July 21The Commissionerate Police (CP) on Wednesday arrested Deepak, a resident of Haripur village, who is reportedly one of the persons involved in the murder of Sodal Road-based kariyana store owner Sachin Jain. Besides, the police have identified the third accused as Sahil of Raj Nagar locality.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said the two accused were identified by the police within 24 hours of the incident and one of them had now been arrested. The accused were identified as Arshpreet Singh, alias Wadda Preet, of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Deepak, a resident of Haripur village under the Adampur police station, and Sahil of Raj Nagar locality.The DCP further stated that as per reports, all three accused with a motive to snatch money from the karyana store owner had a scuffle with him and one of the accused fired a shot at Sachin Jain. Following which, he succumbed to the gunshot on Tuesday morning.The police remand of Deepak would be sought by the police to complete the investigation in this case.Meanwhile, shopkeepers of the area under the banner of the Traders’ Forum, Jalandhar, on Wednesday evening organised a sit-in near Bhagat Singh Chowk demanding justice for Sachin Jain. They also appealed to the government to provide help to the bereaved family.Sanjay Sehgal, a city resident, submitted a complaint via Twitter to the National Human Rights Commission, the National Medical Commission, the Indian Medical Association, the Commissionerate Police, Jalandhar, and the Punjab State Commission for Minorities against all four private super specialty hospitals in the city which refused to admit Sachin at a time when he urgently needed medical care.“Sachin Jain belonged to the Jain community and the state government has given minority status to the community, so the matter is brought to the notice of the Punjab State Commission for Minorities to take cognizance of the matter,” added Sehgal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jain-murder-1-held-traders-demand-justice-286609
22-07-2021||Kapurthala||Gang of snatchers busted in Kapurthala||In its crackdown on snatchers under the Safe City Project, the Kapurthala police today solved nine cases of snatchings of gold ornaments and arrested two accused besides recovering the five gold earrings and 14 intoxicating injections.The accused have been identified as Ajay alias Phull of Lakshmi Nagar and Sharnjit alias Sunny of Kadupur village, Kapurthala.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said that the Safe City Project was launched in the city in the last month under which new PCR patrol motorcycles teams were deployed for swift action on every complaint and were directed to keep close surveillance on the activities of anti-social elements. The SSP said that during a routine checking in crime-prone areas, the accused riding a motorcycle (PB08-DW-8096) were stopped by cops at Sukhani Bridge. During the search, 14 intoxicating injections were recovered from them.“During preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed of committing nine snatchings and revealed they had robbed women of their gold earrings at Ramneek Hotel, Bhawanipur, Shekhupur, Kartarpur Road, Wadala Bridge, PUDA Colony, Maqsudan Mandi and adjoining areas of Sukhani,” Khakh told.The SSP said the police team has recovered five earrings from the accused.He said that a case under Sections 379-B of the IPC and other sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-snatchers-busted-in-kapurthala-286610
22-07-2021||---||Vidhan Sabha panel advises waiver of pending water bills||Jalandhar, July 21 Members of the  Vidhan Sabha committee have advised the Municipal Corporation (MC) to waive water bills of residents amounting to Rs75 crore, which are lying pending for several years. “The residents have balance payments of 5-10 years, but it has been decided in the meeting that the long-pending water bills of those who will pay the proper amount of water bills regularly for a year will be waived,” a source from the meeting said. During the meeting, the issue of the one time settlement policy (OTS) was also raised. It was discussed that the buildings that had got built 10 years ago, but were unauthorised were being targeted, so until the OTS scheme comes into the place, the MC should not seal any of the buildings or take any action. It was decided that new buildings should not be allowed to get constructed, but also no action should be taken against old ones.  Another issue of Guru Gobind Singh Avenue was also taken up, where resident are reeling under the problem of waterlogging and clogged sewers. “Neither MC nor the Sewerage Department and Improvement Trust are working to resolve the issue, everyone is passing the buck to each other,” the source said. Delay in getting map approved of the residential properties was another problem being faced by the residents which were highlighted in the meeting. “It takes at least two years to get a colony approved. The delay forces colonisers to carve out unapproved colonies out of frustration. This is another issue that was raised because if the formalities are complete, then the approval must be given within 15-20 days,” the source associated with the committee said. Memo given to panel members The All Adhoc Committees Chairman of the MC gave a memorandum to the Chairman of Vidhan Sabha Committee in which it was mentioned that several works were being carried out under the Smart City Project about which the MC councillors don’t even know. “So, whenever work is not done properly,  area residents blame councillors. So, it is very important that councillors must also be told regarding the works being done,” the memorandum reads. Another issue mentioned in the memorandum is to waive the property tax of commercial and residential properties because the Covid situation has impacted everyone’s business and work. Councillor seeks inquiry Jaspal Kaur Bhatia, Councillor, Ward No 45, also handed over the memorandum to the committee and she asked members to conduct an inquiry into the works done in the city in the last two years. She said that the MC funds were being wasted in the name of doing development works. “There are several scams that will unearth if inquiries are marked in this matter,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vidhan-sabha-panel-advises-waiver-of-pending-water-bills-286611
22-07-2021||---||Clinic without licence: 4,600 tablets, 186 injections seized in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 21Days after a web portal ran a sting operation on a clinic being run without a degree in Jalandhar, health teams today raided the establishment and seized tablets and injections from a ‘quack’ today. The suspect has been identified as Surinder Singh, owner of the clinic. He was running the clinic and prescribing allopathic medicines to patients without having a valid degree in medicine. As many as 4,600 tablets and capsules along with 186 injections were seized by the health teams from the clinic in the Guru Nanak Pura West locality here today.While the clinic was raided on the instructions of the DC, the DC said a complaint had been received, highlighting illegal medical practice at Taliwalia Clinic situated in Guru Nanak Pura (West).Notably, the DC’s directions to journalists to carry out sting operations have yielded many discrepancies and disclosures in the district previously. The Drug Control Officer, Dr Amarjit Singh, said Surinder Singh couldn’t produce any valid doctor’s degree to practice allopathy. Moreover, no licence was furnished to store or sale allopathic medicines leading to seizures of these drugs, he added.Dr Singh also stated that as many as 25 types of various drugs have been confiscated from the clinic. These medicines included 3,930 tablets, 670 capsules, and 186 injections worth Rs 30,000 and there was no record of this stock.The officer further stated that a notice under Drugs and Cosmetics Act would be served to him. Further, a case would be filed in the court after obtaining reply from the clinic owner.The DC said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Balwinder Singh, had been given directions in this regard, following which, a health team comprising District Health Officer Dr Arun Verma and Drug Control Officer Dr Amarjit Singh conducted a raid. Recently, a video of the quack had gone viral of WhatsApp on the basis of which a complaint was filed to the DC.Drug Inspector Amarjit Singh said, “The wife of the said man had a degree in electrohomeopathy but none of the two were authorised to run a clinic in allopathy. We have initiated proceedings against him under Section 18 (A and C) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. A notice shall be served to him and he will be asked to reply. After this court proceedings and prosecution shall be initiated against him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clinic-without-licence-4-600-tablets-186-injections-seized-in-jalandhar-286612
22-07-2021||---||Pegasus snooping an attack on press freedom: Journalists||Jalandhar, July 21 In opposition to spying on 300 people in India, including journalists, through the Pegasus Spyware Software by the Central Government, a protest march was organised by the Punjab Press Club, Jalandhar, on Wednesday.  A number of journalists participated in the protest march. Starting from the Punjab Press Club, the march proceeded to the Shastri Chowk. The journalists indulged in sloganeering against the government for spying on media and other personalities. They termed the case an attack on the right to privacy and on the freedom of press. Punjab Press Club president Dr Lakhwinder Singh Johal said the incidents of spying on journalists were unfortunate and this was against the spirit of the Constitution.  He demanded a probe into the serious matter. The journalists also sought that the Central Government should come clean on its position on the software used by the Israelite company, NSO, for spying on Indian citizens. An investigation was also sought to look into it that on whose behest the heinous crime was committed. Journalist Satnam Manak said the journalists who dissented from the government were being heckled in some way or another. He sought the government should come clean on the software and its use which is wirth millions of rupees. The investigation should be carried by someone in a position no less than a Supreme Court judge. Journalists and mediapersons present on the occasion included Dr. Lakhwinder Singh Johal, Satnam Manak, Mandeep Sharma, Maklit Brar, Pal Singh Nauli, Sunil Rudra, Jatinder Pal Singh, Harvinder Singh Phul, Ranjit Singh Sodhi, Tejinder Singh Rajan, Pawandeep Singh, Jasbir Singh Sodhi, Nisha Sharma among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pegasus-snooping-an-attack-on-press-freedom-journalists-286613
