23-07-2021||13 cases in dist||13 Covid cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 22As many as 13 new Covid cases were reported today in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,036 cases. Of these, three are from other districts. No Covid death was reported today in the district.1 death at KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, one person was reported positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 17,722. A death was also reported from Covid today. The deceased is a 50-year old-woman.No case in NawanshahrNo case and death was reported from Nawanshar for the third consecutive day. While the active cases are seven, those under home isolation are six. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-287117
23-07-2021||Jalandhar||Lahan destroyed, liquor seized||surprise check at tehsil complexJalandhar: Sub Divisional Magistrate Dr Jai Inder Singh on Thursday conducted a surprise check at the tehsil complex and driving test track to oversee delivery of services. The SDM said the checking has been conducted to check malpractices in providing the services. The SDM visited all booths located at the tehsil complex and interacted with the public. He asked the applicants if they were overcharged for Transport Department related services besides directing booth owners to restrain from any kind of malpractice. The SDM then visited the driving test track where he intercepted two suspicious persons and confiscated several documents from their custody. TNSBody found on national highwayJalandhar: A 28-year-old man was found dead on Jalandhar-Pathankot National Highway on Thursday. The body was spotted by some commuters on the road near Raipur Rusulpur village. SHO, Maqsudan, Sukhjeet Singh said the deceased was a resident of Jammu and it was an accident case. A vehicle has apparently hit him from the rear side. The deceased suffered injuries on his head and lower body. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lahan-destroyed-liquor-seized-287118
23-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dr BR Ambedkar — the only Indian to find a place at Gray’s Inn||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 22Dr BR Ambedkar became the first Indian with a room dedicated to him at the Gray’s Inn, London. The Gray’s Inn is one of the four Inns of Court in London with an illustrious list of jurists, judges and barristers such as Francis Bacon, Baron Slynn, Lord Bingham of Cornhill and others having been its members.An institution unique to BritainDr Ambedkar’s connectDr BR Ambedkar is the first person of the Indian origin and the very second jurist in the world to have a room dedicated to him at the Gray’s Inn. The Inn, previously had a room dedicated to Rose Heilbron, England’s first woman queen counsel and judge.The historic development is the result of the efforts of human rights and equality campaigner Santosh Dass — an ex-civil servant and a woman of Punjabi origin. Hailing from Hamirowal village in Nawanshahr, Dass has been a relentless rights activist and the campaigner against caste-based discrimination. She was also the key person behind the proposal to the Indian government to make Ambedkar House in London a memorial.The room dedicated to Dr Ambedkar is a direct result of discussions since 2018 between Santosh Dass MBE, president of the Federation of Ambedkarite and Buddhist Organisations (FABO) UK and Brigadier Anthony Harking OBE, Under Treasurer, at the Inn. Unveiled by Master Ali Malek QC, Master Treasurer, Gray’s Inn, it will be used by barristers in training and as a meeting room. A portrait of Dr Ambedkar donated by FABO UK was also unveiled on the occasion.At a 25-member reception held on June 30, those present included Dass, Dr Ambedkar’s great grandson Sujat Ambedkar, alumni of Gray’s Inn, Ambedkarite Dr Suraj Yengde, Master Ali Malek QC, artist David Newens (who painted Dr Ambedakr’s newly dedicated portrait) and parliamentarian Lord David Alton of Liverpool, among others.Santosh Dass, said: “This is a great honour for all Ambedkarites around the world. I am confident that the new Ambedkar Room and the portrait donated by the FABO UK will arouse the curiosity of legal students who will get a chance to learn about Dr Ambedkar’s accomplishments. It is a wonderful feeling to know that the generations of barristers will now have a direct acquaintance with Dr Ambedkar’s persona. For a number of years, the Gray’s Inn and I discussed the ways in which we could raise the profile of Dr Ambedkar at Gray’s Inn. Dr Ambedkar inspired the Buddhist movement in India and was the chief architect of India’s Constitution. It is therefore demeaning when he is merely reduced to a leader of the ‘untouchables’. He believed in secular society. We can imagine his outrage at the draconian laws that are being liberally used by the Indian Government now to incarcerate without bail, academics (including Dr Anand Teltumbde), human rights activists who raise their voice against atrocities against minorities or corruption.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-br-ambedkar-%E2%80%94-the-only-indian-to-find-a-place-at-grays-inn-286850
23-07-2021||---||Three Punjabis stuck in Malta rescued safely||Jalandhar, July 22Swift action by the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has yielded positive results as three Punjabis, including a woman, have been rescued from Malta.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said a few days ago, a video of Jalandhar resident Sagar had gone viral on social media, in which he highlighted his plight in Malta where he was taken as a machine operator.Sagar and Arshdeep from Jalandhar and Krishna Devi from Ludhiana were sent to Malta as machine operators by A&Z Exports Ltd, he added. The company had exported some machinery to Malta for making face masks and these three persons were sent along with the consignment as machine operators, adding that initially they were kept in Dubai for a period of 14 days and then they were sent to Malta.The DCP stated that they were allegedly made bonded labourers and made to undergo physical torture where Sagar made his videos seeking help and highlighting their plight in Malta. Notably, Sagar in the video had also mentioned that he would commit suicide, if not rescued, he said. Taking prompt action on the viral video, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar deputed officials to verify the facts and take appropriate action.He said appropriate arrangements were made to bring all three distressed Punjabis back to Jalandhar and now they have been reunited with their families. Thanking the CP, all rescued persons stated that they had got a new lease of life. The DCP further added that legal action will be taken against the erring persons under the prevailing laws after all the victims file a written complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-punjabis-stuck-in-malta-rescued-safely-286851
23-07-2021||---||Jain murder case: Three-member panel to probe hospitals’ denial of admission||Jalandhar, July 22Following the protest by traders, members of the Jain community and the family members of Sachin Jain, a 32-year-old man who was shot dead by three snatchers here on Monday night, the Deputy Commissioner on Thursday marked an inquiry into the case.The victim, a general store owner, near Sodhal Road was seriously injured in the firing incident as a bullet pierced through his ribs and stomach.After his death on Tuesday, a series of protests were held in the city. Residents of the area, members of the Jain community along with MLA Rajinder Beri demanded strict action against four hospitals — Joshi Hospital, Satyam Hospital, Tagore Hospital and Armaan Hospital — for denying admission to the victim.The protesters also appealed the DC to take action against the Civil Hospital and Patel Hospital for delaying first-aid. The delay caused substantial blood loss and deepening of the wound inflicted due to the bullet. The bullet remained inside his body for over an hour.His friends claimed that nearly 45 minutes were wasted in moving from one hospital to another.Beri said strict action should be taken against the hospitals for not providing treatment to Jain. “As per the Supreme Court, the hospitals cannot deny treatment to any emergency patient. Hospitals are bound to provide first-aid to accident or emergency patients without asking for payments,” added Beri.The Traders’ Forum also submitted a memorandum demanding action against the accused to the DC.Meanwhile, DC Ghanshyam Thori formed a three-member committee to probe the allegations. The committee includes Randeep Singh Gill, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances), Dr Jyoti Sharma, DMC, Jalandhar, and Dr Varinder Thind, Assistant Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jain-murder-case-three-member-panel-to-probe-hospitals-denial-of-admission-286852
23-07-2021||---||Vaccine supply severely hit in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 22The Health Department on Thursday inoculated only 160 beneficiaries against Covid-19 on a single day. After the mega vaccine drive on Wednesday where more than 17,000 people were vaccinated and the existing supply exhausted, the district saw just 160 Covaxin being administered at the Garha session site on Thursday.While over 100 session sites were operational yesterday, merely one was operational today. The district has zero vaccines left to administer to beneficiaries now. A long queue of second shot aspirants could be seen with each passing day of crippling vaccine shortage.The Health Department in turn is hounded with calls from people, especially NRIs, who needs a quick jab to travel abroad. So far, nearly over 9.50 lakh people in the district have received the vaccine in Jalandhar of whom less than 2 lakh have received the second shot.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have administered whatever vaccines we had today. Garha site was the only one operational. We don’t know when the next supply of vaccines will be received.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-supply-severely-hit-in-jalandhar-286853
23-07-2021||---||Poll time: Jalandhar Civic body rolls out Rs 125-cr development plan||Jalandhar, July 22With just six months left for the ruling Congress government to show its work to the electors ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation (MC) has rolled out a Rs 125 crore development plan for the city. Amnesty scheme on the cardsThe plans have come up as a part of the MC’s agenda for the July 27 House meeting. While the meeting was slated to be held this Monday, it got postponed owing to political reasons. Though no major development project falls in the development plan, it largely includes the general road relaying work, streetlight repair, park renovation, installation of tubewells and laying of new sewer system. The proposals have been made such that almost all colonies get some work allotted.One new service that the MC intends to start is of providing a processing plant for the construction and demolition of waste at Gadaipur. As per a new regulation, all cities with a population of 0.5 million to 1 million population have to set up the plant in two years time. The officials have readied a DPR to the tune of Rs 8.09 crore. The total estimated cost including Rs 2.23 crore for the processing plant unit, Rs 66.35 lakh for the feeding machinery and the remaining as five year maintenance cost, labour, site development etc. Some recycled products would also be made and separated during the process, the officials have proposed.Another new proposal in the agenda has been incorporated after the Tuesday’s Vidhan Sabha committee visit. This includes the plan for special waivers to be given to the water connection holders in the city who have not been defaulting the amount for years. As per the new proposal, the defaulters will get 50 per cent waiver on the water bill amount. They will also get 10 per cent waiver on the penalty amount imposed on them. The proposal has been put forth by Mayor Jagdish Raja saying that the amnesty will at least invite pending dues from the defaulters who have not been able to pay up owing to fund crunch in Covid times.Other plans on agendaProvision of Rs 2.78 lakh for use of drone system to take photos and videos of works done by MC so as to share the same with the residents.Renaming of road from Namdev Chowk to PAP Chowk after Sita Ram Kapoor, grandfather of city hotelier Gautam Kapoor.Construction of stadia at Mithapur, Khusropur, Dhina, Nangal Karar Khan and Khambra. Renovation of existing stadium at hockey nursery Sansarpur. To allot a shop at Sanjay Gandhi Market to Vir Chakra awardee Brig Joginder Singh Jaswal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-time-jalandhar-civic-body-rolls-out-rs-125-cr-development-plan-286855
23-07-2021||---||No job, married couple ends life in Banga||Nawanshahr, July 22A young couple committed suicide in Banga, Nawanshahr, on Wednesday, by consuming sulphas. According to the police, the couple, who had got married seven months ago, ended their life because they could not find appropriate jobs. SHO Banga Naresh Kumari said, “The man was 24 years of age and his wife was 22. He was in depression because he 'could not see his future' in the absence of any job. He wanted to go abroad. He had come from a foreign land already and had then got married.”The police said a suicide note has also been found where the man stated that he was ending his life because there was no source of income for him. Both of them were taken to the hospital where they breathed their last.The police further said the parents of the man were living abroad and had disowned their son long ago. “The deceased couple used to live here and there is no statement from the woman’s family as well. The postmortem was done and the case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was registered,” the police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-job-married-couple-ends-life-in-banga-286859
23-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Kin seek world record for 124-yr-old woman||Jalandhar, July 22“I have lost my husband and five of nine children. I have even lost my eyesight but perhaps God has forgotten to take me back from this world,” says Basant Kaur of Sabuwal village near Lohian here, whose family claims she is 132 years old.The documents of the elderly woman, however, show her age as 124 years. Her voter ID card says her age, as of January 1, 1995, is 98 years. Hard of hearing, Basant Kaur has to be conveyed all queries through her daughter-in-law Kulwant Kaur, who maintains that she is 132 years old and a proper age entry could not be made in the ID proof. Her great grandson Varinder Singh (27), who resides in Kapurthala, demands that her name be entered in the world record as the oldest woman on Earth.Basant Kaur says she has seen three centuries and is happily watching kids of her fifth generation grow. Her great great granddaughter Jasleen Kaur is two years old. “I had nine children, five of whom have already passed away. One of them died at 94,” she says. She proudly tells that she is free from any ailment. “My only problem is that I cannot see and I am a little hard of hearing. I enjoy taking sweets in all my meals. I take two chapattis along with a vegetable and curd. I am not taking any medicine even at this age,” she laughs with the number of wrinkles on her face doubling up and her eyes getting even more sunken. Well verse of the current situation, she talks about the prevailing Covid infection. She can even walk about her home with some support. Neighbour Aman Panesar says he enjoys listening to the stories of pre-Independence era from Basant Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-kin-seek-world-record-for-124-yr-old-woman-286930
