24-07-2021||---||11 LPU students part of Indian challenge at Tokyo Olympics||Jalandhar, July 24Eleven students from Lovely Professional University (LPU) are part of the Indian contingent that is representing the country at the Tokyo Olympics.A press release issued by the university said that India’s Hockey team (Men) Captain Manpreet Singh, who is also LPU’s MBA student, led the Indian Contingent during the opening ceremony held in Tokyo on Friday. This is the highest number of students ever to get selected to any Indian Olympic contingent, from an Indian private university, the release claimed.These students are participating in wrestling, hockey, athletics (javelin throw and sprinting) and Paralympics.  The star wrestler of India, Bajrang Punia, who is pursuing M.A in Public Administration at the university, will take part in wrestling while Indian para-athlete, Nishad Kumar doing his BA has been picked for Paralympics High Jump.The Indian track and field athlete and a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Indian Army, Neeraj Chopra (B.A) is selected for javelin throw. Amoj Jacob (B. P. Ed), the Indian sprinter specializing in the 400 meters and the 800 meters will take part in 4x400 Mt Relay-Race for men. Seven players of the Indian Men’s Hockey Team are LPU students. These are Hockey team captain, Manpreet Singh (MBA), Rupinderpal Singh (MBA), Harmanpreet Singh (MBA), Mandeep Singh (BA), Shamsher Singh (MBA), Dilpreet Singh (BA) and Varun Kumar (MBA).Chancellor, Lovely Professional University, Ashok Mittal said, “We congratulate all our students for making it to the Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics, and elated too that they are presently representing the country. We indeed feel proud that near 10% of the Indian Olympic participants are LPU students. The entire LPU community along with the nation is praying that they win medals at the Olympics and make us even more proud.”“At LPU, we have been investing extensively in building world-class sports infrastructure and hiring top trainers to ensure our students bring laurels to the country. The efforts have started to show results now with several of our students winning national and international competitions over the last few years. We are confident that many more students will follow the path of superstars like Manju Rani, Unnati Sharma, Amoj, Neeraj and Nishad and make us proud in the years to come”, added the Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-lpu-students-part-of-indian-challenge-at-tokyo-olympics-287599
24-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar schools put safety measures in place||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23Sanitising the campus and ensuring 100 per cent vaccination of the entire staff and 18-plus eligible students before reopening are some of the stringent measures that private and government schools have been ensuring as they gear up to open in a week's time for the senior classes. The number of Covid cases in the district presently is at an all-time low.Even as the state government has allowed all schools in Punjab to resume regular teaching for Classes X to XII from July 26, the authorities have begun the process of seeking consent of the parents. While only a few schools will open on the scheduled date, the authorities of the remaining schools are gearing up to start calling the students from next Monday, i.e., August 2 onwards.Even the government schools may take some days to reopen as District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh said, “We have called the parents of all government schools on July 26 to give consent to allow their children to attend regular classes. We will take the decision based on their response."One of the schools which might resume regular classes for students of Classes X to XII is Innocent Hearts School. Principal Rajiv Paliwal says: “We are preparing ourselves to be fully ready to welcome the senior classes to school from July 26. All government SOPs and guidelines will be followed and our staff has been issued directions accordingly. Our entire staff has been vaccinated.”Like Innocent Hearts School, Cambridge International School is also set to open on July 26. Director of the school Deepa Dogra said, “Our entire staff has been vaccinated. We have sought consent from the parents and we will get their feedback by tomorrow. To begin with, we will open only for 12 students per class. We will stagger the classes too. We will call Classes XI and XII on one day and Class X the other day. All Covid related guidelines will be followed properly for the safety of the students and staff. We hope that with everything falling in place, we will be able to bring back our students to the campus from July 26 onwards.”Owner of the 23 chains of the DIPS in the city Tarwinder Singh Raju said, "We have a few 18-plus students in Class XI. We have already asked their parents to get these eligible children vaccinated. Once we get the confirmation, we may resume classes for X to XII from August 2. Once everything gets back on track for the senior classes, we may call in other classes too.”Likewise, MD of CT Schools, Manbir Singh said, “The most likely date for us to resume classes for the students of X to XII is from August 2 since it is a Monday and we will have a full week to prepare. We need to get each and every corner of our campus sanitised well. We have already sanitised our Atal Tinkering Lab and we have allowed 15-20 senior students to take turns so as to perform their experiments with the teachers. We are helping them with learning coding, robotics and basics of artificial intelligence."Most of the private schools are of the opinion that they will have to continue with the hybrid mode of education. Principal Ritu Kaul of Delhi Public School says: “We will begin the process of seeking consent of parents of students of senior classes, in the coming week. If we get the nod from them, offline classes will resume for the senior classes. Even if only 20-30 per cent parents give their consent, our teachers will call the students on alternate days. We will take offline classes on one day and online the next day as we did earlier."The schools in Punjab were allowed to open for just about five months in the last session till the government ordered their closure again on March 20 last, just ahead of the final examination.Not ready to send wards: ParentsSenior classes gear up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-schools-put-safety-measures-in-place-287486
24-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||17 months on, cases, deaths see a dip in Jalandhar District||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23After recording a whopping 63,052 cases and 1,490 deaths so far since the outbreak of the contagion, the number of fresh cases and deaths has now come down to a trickle. It all started with three patients from Virk village, all relatives of an elderly person (alleged to be the first Covid-19 patient in Pathlawa village of Nawanshahr).On March 24, 2020, three persons from a joint family in Virk village in the district, all belonging to a joint family, became the first cases of Covid-19 reported in the district. It was only on July 19, 2021, a few days ago that cases in the district came down to a low of three cases (reported in a single day) yet again. It has been around 16 months since Jalandhar saw a single day tally of three Covid cases.Virk village was only the second village in the state to report cases as Pathlawa’s elderly was patient zero of the state.The first three cases in the district led to a huge Covid tally with Jalandhar often seeing itself as the district with most cases in the state. It was on May 1, 2020, that the district crossed 100 cases and by then four persons had died.It took exactly 17 months for cases to subside to the low of single day tally of three cases. While the second wave saw district cases touching ever new highs, it has taken nearly two to three months to the Covid peak (witnessed in May) to subside. On May 5 this year, the district reported an all-time high of 816 cases. But currently the cases have been considerably reduced.In July, the district has seen 303 cases so far. For the past four days, the number of cases has been minimal. On July 19, three cases were reported followed by eight cases on July 20, 10 on July 21, 13 on July 22 and 16 on Friday.Meanwhile, Virk village finds itself in the middle of the Covid vaccination drive.Ashok Bangar, a social worker who distributed ration to the quarantined villagers and families in the beginning of the outbreak, now expresses relief that those days are over.“Ours was among the first villages of the state to report Covid-19 cases. It was a difficult time. But the village rallied together to extend help to the families. We cooked langars, made masks and extended help from home to home. Except the first few odd cases, the district saw a few Covid-19 cases. We are now holding regular free vaccination camps to get the villagers vaccinated,” said Bangar.However, experts caution that amidst the awaited surges of the third wave, people need to be careful.Meanwhile, Dr Bhupinder Singh, in-charge for Covid, Jalandhar, said, “The cases are currently quite low. We have very few patients in wards and none of them are on ventilators. The bed capacity is currently on a par with that of the second wave. We have 60 level 3 beds and 280 level 3 beds to tackle Covid-19 cases.”Deputy Medical Commissioner, Jalandhar, Dr Jyoti said, “Cases are currently down to 15 to 16 per day. That has of course provided relief and temporary relief. But the pandemic is not over yet. We plan a 100-bed increase in capacity of level 3 beds ahead of the third wave. People are being urged to take all precautions and not to step out without masks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-months-on-cases-deaths-see-a-dip-in-jalandhar-district-287488
24-07-2021||---||100% differently-abled vaccinated in 26 villages||Jalandhar, July 23Target of 100 per cent vaccination among divyangs has been achieved in 26 villages under the Shahkot Community Health Centre. Teams of the Health Department have been providing the differently-abled with the facility of getting the jab at their doorstep.Under the Covid vaccination campaign, more than 80 per cent of the persons with special needs have been vaccinated in 60 villages. Teams of the department are working continuously so that the target of 100 per cent vaccination can be achieved in all 148 villages in Shahkot. Meanwhile, vaccination of other beneficiaries is also being done continuously.CHC Shahkot Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal said on the instructions of the department, a special campaign had been launched for the vaccination of differently-abled persons in the area. “Under this, all disabled persons above 18 years of age are being vaccinated. Also, those who are in critical condition and are unable to go to the hospital or vaccination centre, are being vaccinated at their homes. More than 300 persons have been benefited under the door-to-door vaccination campaign in 148 villages under the CHC so far,” the SMO said.Drive completed in all seven villages of Muridwal centreBlock Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said under the vaccination campaign for differently-abled persons, 100 per cent vaccination has been completed in all seven villages of the Muridwal sub-centre. The target could be achieved with the efforts of ASHA workers, villagers, ANM Satveer Kaur and multipurpose health worker Baljinder Kumar, he said. He further said in villages where more than 80 per cent vaccination had been done, complete vaccination could not be achieved due to the beneficiaries’ denial or other medical reasons. Soon this target will be achieved in all villages, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-differently-abled-vaccinated-in-26-villages-287489
24-07-2021||---||Sultanpur Lodhi: Itehasik Gurdham marks anniv of Holy Bein rejuvenation||Jalandhar, July 23A book on historical Sikh shrines of Sultanpur Lodhi titled ‘Sultanpur Lodhi: Itehasik Gurdham (Khoj Adharit)’ penned by Dr Assa Singh Ghuman was released on Tuesday.The book release function was held at Nirmal Kutia, Sultanpur Lodhi and the ceremony was performed by Balbir Singh Seechewal in the presence of prominent academicians.Among those who attended the event were Dr Dharamjit Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Sant Baba Bhag Singh University Khiala; Dr Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, Principal, Khalsa College, Sultanpur Lodhi; Dr KS Bajwa, retired HOD, Historical Studies Department, Punjabi University, Patiala; Prof Suba Singh, retired HOD, Divinity Department, Khalsa College, Amritsar; Jagjit Singh Dhuri, president, Federation of Private B.Ed Colleges and Schools; Chairman Sukhdev Singh Judge, Prof Gurnam Singh and Jathedar Jaimal Singh.Work based on academic research & has new dimensions: author The event was organised by Punjabi Chintak Global Manch, Nadala and Sirjana Kendra, Kapurthala. It was dedicated to the commemoration of 21st anniversary of Holy Bein rejuvenation initiated by Balbir Singh Seechewal through Kar Sewa in 2000. Bein was visited by Dr Abdul Kalam, then President of India in 2006. Dr Ghuman claimed that this small work is based on academic research and he has given certain new dimensions to the prevalent knowledge about the historical places associated with Guru Nanak and Bebe Nanaki.Dr Bajwa emphasised that many historical facts about Guru Nanak have to be revisited and revised. He focused on the status of Guru Nanak Dev as Modi of Nawab Daulat Khan which was a post equal to a vizier and not just being a shopkeeper. Dr Randhawa highlighted the main points raised by Dr Ghuman in his book and also welcomed the audience on behalf of the residents of Sultanpur Lodhi.DFSO Rattan Singh Sandhu and Promila Arora spoke about the Kar Sewa done by Baba Seechewal. In his concluding remarks, Baba Seechewal welcomed the new book but also reiterated that much more important is to act on spreading the teachings of Guru. In the end, the writer was honoured by him and also by the present and retired staff of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Sultanpur Lodhi and the Old Students Association. He was also felicitated by Sahitya Sabhas of Sultanpur Lodhi and Baba Bakala. A vote of thanks was offered by Prof Upkar Singh and Sant Sukhjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sultanpur-lodhi-itehasik-gurdham-marks-anniv-of-holy-bein-rejuvenation-287490
24-07-2021||---||AAP burns Union Minister Lekhi’s effigy||Jalandhar, July 23The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today held a protest before the DC office against the anti-farmer statement made by Union Minister and BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi.Party activists also burnt an effigy of the minister. Senior party leader and state secretary Harminder Bakshi, district party president Surinder Singh Sodhi and rural president principal Prem Kumar said we demand the resignation of Minakshi Lekhi for the remarks she made against the farmers.They said it wasn’t the first time that such objectionable words had been used against the farmers. Earlier too, leaders had used foul words to refer to them. They said AAP would keep opposing the Centre and its leaders on the issue as long as they don’t resign.The leaders said for the past eight months, in spine chilling cold and scorching summers, farmers had been sitting on the border to protest against the anti-farm laws. They have been staging the protest with their children and countless farmers had lost their lives while protesting at the Delhi borders. They said rather than addressing their demands, the BJP leadership was using objectionable and provocative language against them rubbing salt on their wounds.Senior leaders Darshan Bhagat, Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Harcharn Singh Sandhu and Subhash Sharma among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-burns-union-minister-lekhis-effigy-287491
24-07-2021||Jalandhar||Congress okays six names for Jalandhar Improvement Trust||Even as there are just six months left for the ruling Congress government to perform ahead of the forthcoming Assembly polls, it is now that the Local Bodies Department has approved the names for six trustees for the Jalandhar Improvement Trust.Among those whose names have been approved today through a notification issued by Principal Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha are three MC councilors — Kamlesh Grover, Pawan Kumar and Manmohan Singh Raju. While Grover is from ward No. 37 falling in Jalandhar West constituency, Pawan Kumar is a councillor from reserved ward No.30 of Jalandhar Cantonment and Raju is from ward No. 16 of Jalandhar Central constituency.The other three trustees from among the residents are in fact Congress workers — Bhupinder Singh Jolly from Lajpat Nagar, Jaswinder Singh Billa from Guru Nanakpura and Rajesh Bhatti from Chandan Nagar. Jolly is an industrialist engaged in pipe fitting and a casting and close aide of Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh. He had recently also been appointed as the director of Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation. Billa had contested the MC polls on Congress ticket from ward No. 12 and had lost by a thin margin. Bhatti, a Dalit leader, has remained on the post of the PPCC secretary.On getting two government portfolios in a week, Jolly said, “The government has assigned me twin tasks and I will try to give my best on both the fronts. Many industrialists have already started approaching me with their pendency of works in the PSIEC and I have begun getting their works done. At JIT, my main task will be attending meetings of the Trust and helping the applicants with the processing of their files. I am sure that I will be able to serve the people in both the government departments.”These trustees will function only till the day the Model Code of Conduct for the Assembly polls is imposed, as the entire Trust will get dissolved on that day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-okays-six-names-for-jalandhar-improvement-trust-287492
24-07-2021||Jalandhar||Around 1,000 jabbed in Jalandhar district||As many as 1,000 beneficiaries were inoculated by the health authorities in the district today.On Thursday, mere 160 people could be administered the vaccine due to shortage of stock. The authorities received a supply of 1,500 vaccines on late night Thursday. A huge rush was witnessed at the Civil Hospital session site where 700 persons received shots. People were also vaccinated at other session sites, including Garha, Mehatpur and Military Hospital.DIO Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Since we were out of stock, 1,500 vaccines were supplied last night. Around 1,000 doses were administered in the district today.” So far, nearly 9.50 lakh people have been inoculated in the district, and of them, less than 2 lakh have received their second shot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/around-1-000-jabbed-in-jalandhar-district-287493
24-07-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala boy in international Golf Championship||Manpreet’s mom visits academyJalandhar: Just before the inauguration of the Tokyo Olympics, Manjeet Kaur, mother of Indian hockey team skipper Manpreet Singh, extended her blessings and best wishes to the team and other players participating in the Olympics. Kaur said she was happy to visit the Surjit Hockey Academy on Friday as her son Manpreet was from the same academy. “Manpreet is privileged to lead the Indian Olympic contingent,” she said. On the occasion, Kaur also distributed 31-kg ‘laddoos’ among players and guests of the academy. TNSWoman kills self, case registeredHoshiarpur: A 32-year-old married woman committed suicide at Padrana village of Garhshankar on Thursday. Victim Poonam hung herself from a ceiling fan at her in-laws’ place to end her life. Married since 2009, the woman had two sons aged 12 and seven. Her husband was settled abroad. Her parents have alleged that their daughter had made a video of her being mentally upset before taking the drastic step. They said by the time they reached her, she had already died. The deceased even reportedly left behind a suicide note blaming her in-laws, who are on the run. A case has been lodged at Garhshankar police station. TNSCEE postponed due to covidJalandhar: Common Entrance Exam which was scheduled on July 25 for candidates hailing from Kapurthala, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran districts has been postponed due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, expected third wave and flood/rain situation in many parts of the nation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-boy-in-international-golf-championship-287494
24-07-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports one death, 16 fresh Covid cases||Jalandhar, July 23The district on Friday reported 16 fresh Covid cases, which pushed the tally to 63,052. Of these, three cases were reported from other districts. With the one Covid fatality reported today, the district toll has increased to 1,490. As many as 61,471 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 91.2 cases, no death in KapurthalaKapurthala today reported two fresh cases and no Covid fatality. The number of positive cases in the district now stands at 17,724.No case, death in NawanshahrNo case and death was reported in Nawanshahr on Friday. There are only four active cases in the district out of which three are under home isolation. The district tally stands at 11,422.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-one-death-16-fresh-covid-cases-287496
24-07-2021||---||4 more arrested for murder of Sachin Jain||Jalandhar, July 23Four days after the murder of a shopkeeper, Sachin Jain (32), in the Sodal Road area, the Jalandhar Commissionerate Police on Friday apprehended the remaining four accused. Besides, the weapon used in the murder was recently brought from Madhya Pradesh by Raman Kumar, alias Sai.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the Special Operation Unit also recovered a .32 bore pistol and two live cartridges from the culprits. Bhullar said the accused were identified as Arshdeep Singh, alias Wadda Preet, of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Sahil of Raj Nagar, Darshan Lal, alias Lucky, of Sant Nagar, Raman Kumar, alias Sai, of Madhuban Colony while the fifth accused, Deepak, was already arrested.He said culprits Arshdeep Singh and Sahil were arrested from Lamba Pind Chowk whereas Darshan and Raman were nabbed by a police team near a Verka milk plant. Bhullar mentioned that Wadda Preet had already been booked in five cases in Jalandhar and Kapurthala and was wanted in one case registered at police division No.2. Accused Darshan Lal was also wanted in two separate cases registered at the Bhargo Camp police station. Two criminal cases had already been registered against accused Raman Kumar Sai at the Bhargo Camp and Basti Bawa Khel police stations.The Commissioner of Police said the police had got three-day remand of Wadda Preet to get into the bottom of the case, besides recovering the bikes used in the crime. He said the charge-sheet would be filed against the accused as early as possible so that justice could be ensured at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-more-arrested-for-murder-of-sachin-jain-287499
24-07-2021||Jalandhar||Grass cutter model developed by students of St Soldier Institute of Pharmacy and Polytechnic||e-farewell Sayonara heldTo bid adieu to the final year students during Covid times, an e-farewell was organised by the Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus. The event was organised on online platform and started with a welcome speech by Dr RS Deol (Deputy Director KCL Group). The event then proceeded with the motivational speech of Simerjeet Singh (international motivational speaker). Two songs and dance performances were presented. Few students of final year also shared their experience about the past four years and their life in Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus. Vikramjeet Singh was declared Mr Farewell and Aarti Ms Farewell. Dinesh Badan, Sachin Kumar, Rozy and Kajal Salwan won the titles of Mr Handsome, Mr Talent, Ms Charming and Ms Confident, respectively.Webinar on philosophical traditionsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a national webinar on the topic ‘Reading Indian Philosophical traditions’. Dr Gautam Kalotra, Department of Philosophy, Delhi University, was the resource person for the webinar. During the webinar, Dr Kalotra enlightened the participants by shedding light on the definition of Vedas, its divisions and sub-divisions. He also explained Natya Shastra: Theories of nine emotions, Hamsa yoga: Realisation through Hathar and Thathar and Shilpa Shastra: Theories of Indian Architecture, Prana-Vidya: heart and mind theories. The webinar was very informative and after the session students ask many questions to which Dr Gautam replied eloquently. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi thanked the honoured guests for having spared their invaluable time.Webinar on design thinkingApeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on “Design Thinking”, which was in association with Start up Punjab. The keynote speaker of the event was Col. Rajiv Bhargava, Associate Director, Munjal Institute for Global Manufacturing. Webinar started with the welcome address given by Dr. Rajesh Bagga, Director AIMETC. There were more than 200 participants who attended the webinar. The event was also addressed by Mrityunjay Singh, Global Head of Innovation and Continuous Improvement, FRA, Ops, Novartis. The webinar was also attended by Sunil Chawla, DGM, Start up Punjab and Salil Kaplesh, Start up Coordinator, Start up Punjab. Both the resource persons shared their knowledge and experience.Slogan-writing competitionA slogan writing competition was organised by Cambridge International School, Phagwara, run by Vasal Education group. The competition was organised for Classes III to V during online classes under the supervision of class teachers. More-than 400 students participated in the event. Students shared their slogan on the topic - Covid awareness among youth. Students reflected their prospective and helped spreading awareness during this pandemic. The winners for the competition from grades 3-5 were Japjot, Gurmannat, Rudraksh, Tegbir, Palak, Aditya Sharma, Sabreet Kaur, Raghav, Khushagar Suri, Srishti and Tanishika. Principal Jorawar Singh and MD KS Bains, congratulated the winners and encouraged the students to participate in such activities.Young scientists’ competition heldIVY World School organised the “Young Scientists Competition”. The aim of the event was to develop scientific temper and furnishing the learners with skills like logical thinking, communication and creativity. The students made environment-friendly and cost-effective models which had real life application. The students demonstrated functioning of models in an exemplary manner and impressed the judges with their explanations. The students showcased their unique models and experiments related to atmospheric pressure, magnetic forces, hydropower plant, inflation etc. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and applauded the educators.Police DAV School lad clears NTSEVaibhav Yadav of Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, has cleared NTSE at national level. This examination is organised by National Council of Education Research and Training. Dr. Rashmi Vij, Principal congratulated Vaibhavi and her mentor Sunita Pardesi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/grass-cutter-model-developed-by-students-of-st-soldier-institute-of-pharmacy-and-polytechnic-287505
24-07-2021||On the occasion of My Tree Day||Nawanshahr diary: Plants distributed||Legal aid for womenChief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Harpreet Kaur conducted a surprise check at ‘Sakhi One Stop Centre’ in Civil Hospital, Nawanshahr. She said the District Legal Services Authority has been providing free legal aid to the women who are victims of violence. She directed that awareness camps should be organised at village and mohalla level to make people more aware of the facilities being provided by Sakhi: One Stop Centre to the women. “Only needy women would be able to avail the benefits of this center. A legal aid clinic has also been set up in the state to provide free legal aid services to the women in need,” she added.Jobs up for grabsThe state government has been providing free online courses in artificial intelligence and data science to the youth of Punjab under the door-to-door employment mission. Disclosing this here, Nawanshahr District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer Sanjeev Kumar said the course was being conducted by ITI, Rupnagar, and asked the candidates to avail the opportunity. He said this course would have two modules, out of which the first module would be of four weeks and the second module would be of 12 weeks. The eligibility for the course is Class XII with maths subject. He said the youths who have completed their educational qualifications and are keen on completing this course should join hands with Harmandeep Singh, career counsellor, District Employment Office, Chandigarh.‘Can’t obstruct roads’Problems faced by people traveling to Chandigarh-Jalandhar-Amritsar due to blockades on the main road during protests by various organisations and unions has led to Nawanshahr District Magistrate Dr Shena Aggarwal, exercising her powers under Section 144 of the Act 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (1974). She has ordered a complete ban on protests by any union/organisation within the limits of the district in view of the inconvenience caused to patients. According to the District Magistrate, places have been allotted for protests in all three sub divisions of the district and no organisation /union will be able to protest at these places without prior approval of the local administration. After getting approval at the designated places, the approval of the loudspeaker will have to be obtained from the SDM concerned. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-plants-distributed-287507
24-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers ready with posers for leaders visiting villages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23“Don’t come to villages, you have not done anything for us. Don’t ruin the atmosphere. Go to Delhi. Gherao Parliament and get the farm laws repealed.” This video statement addressed to politicians by Satnam Singh, president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, on July 17 sums up the mood of farmer unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Even as farmers hold a parallel ‘Kisan Sansad’ in Delhi, in Punjab, teams of farmers are planning to offer stiff opposition to politicians visiting villages ahead of the elections. “We’ll boycott BJP leaders and ask others some tough questions,” says a union leader.The SKM has asked its members to stay away from any political event. The BKU (Rajewal) has created district-wise patrol teams of farmers to question political leaders in every village they visit.Posters have been issued stating all leaders entering villages will be opposed if they haven’t fulfilled their manifesto promise or have supported the farm laws.Kashmira Singh, BKU (Rajewal) spokesperson, Jalandhar, said: “We have constituted two patrol teams in each district which shall visit villages where political leaders plan to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-ready-with-posers-for-leaders-visiting-villages-287267
