25-07-2021||---||Gold loan office staff looted at gunpoint in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 24Six robbers looted a gold loan office at Garha Road, near Urban Estate Phase-1, at gunpoint on Saturday.This is the second such incident reported in the city within a span of five days. Earlier, one Sachin Jain was killed in a bid to foil robbery at his store.As per initial information, the incident took place in broad daylight at the office of a gold loan office. Around 3 pm, six masked men entered the office and pointed guns at workers. Before taking out their weapons, they posed as customers and asked workers to show them the jewellery.Sources reportedly claimed that the miscreants fled with 10-kg gold. The stolen gold’s estimated cost is said to be in crores.The entire incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras. The police have taken the CCTV footage in its record and started tracing the accused.After getting the information, DCP (investigation) Gurmeet Singh said the police division-7 SHO along with his team reached the spot and started the probe.The police said the robbery took place between 3 pm and 3.30 pm. The accused arrived in a four-wheeler and stopped outside the gold loan office.Six armed persons went inside the shop and one remained outside.After entering the shop, the robbers within a few minutes pointed guns at the workers and looted the gold and fled in their car. Apart from three girls, there were four workers inside the office. The robbers also attacked one of the workers, who was later rushed to the Civil Hospital.The DCP said a case has been registered at the police station concerned. The police checkpoints and nearby chowkis have been alerted but there are no breakthroughs so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-loan-office-staff-looted-at-gunpoint-in-jalandhar-287996
25-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||A digital media influencer,  this Hoshiarpur lad is making waves at 23||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 24Vish Kumar VK (23) is a young lad with several feathers in his cap. He hails from Maharaj Ranjit Singh Nagar in Hoshiarpur. At an age when children either focus on studies or play games, Vish started exploring the world of internet and computers and earned himself a reputation of digital media influencer on the social media.He was only 11 when he first started web designing. Subsequently, in his teens, his self-learning aptitude made him a pro in Google ads and digital marketing. He was so engrossed in learning the skills that he even skipped his school to carve a niche for himself in the field.His talent and expertise in the digital media has made him a social media influencer and digital entrepreneur. He enjoys a social media following of nearly 90K followers.Last year, he also turned into a singer, with his first title track ‘Meri Kahani Meri Zubani’ being a hit on digital apps. “While initially, surfing Google, creating web-designs and learning HTML were just my hobbies however, later, they tuned into a profession due to financial crisis in my family. I was in Class IX when I first received my cheque for web designing. Afterwards, I kept on getting freelance work and paid my school fees on my own. Though it was a tough time, it helped me grow in the field of digital media. With the advent of social media applications, I expanded my business and learnt about various softwares,” said VishWhile he is popular among Pollywood and Mumbai-based artists for running their social media accounts, his work has also fetched him clients from the Hollywood. He owns ADVISH Media and Marketing firm. This young techie also trains budding digital media entrepreneurs.Many individual entrepreneurs are flocking the digital domain, which serves as a breeding ground for brands and influencers. Vish Kumar VK is known as an expert in social media marketing, multimedia campaigns and advertisements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-digital-media-influencer-this-hoshiarpur-lad-is-making-waves-at-23-287997
25-07-2021||---||Jalandhar-based coach of Mirabai Chanu elated at Tokyo win||Jalandhar, July 24With the Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics winning a silver medal, the excitement is palpable in Jalandhar too.Reason: Assistant coach Sandeep Kumar, of Manipur-based weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu, who had mentored her ahead of the event, hails from the city.Sandeep, who hails from Bara Pind in the district, is serving as an inspector at the Sports Centre of Punjab Armed Police headquarters here. He is serving with the Punjab Police as inspector and is posted at Sports Centre in PAP Jalandhar at present. Sandeep is accompanying Chanu to Tokyo.An international-level weightlifter himself, Kumar had participated in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. He had won a bronze in the 69-kg category in the 1998 Commonwealth Games held in Kuala Lumpur. He is also the recipient of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award (2006) and has been the chief coach at PAP. He had joined the Punjab Police as constable in 1994 and rose to the rank of inspector in 2011.Based on his performance, Sandeep was deputed to train Chanu since the last five years. In 2016, he had accompanied Chanu to Rio Olympics too but could not get success at that time. He had even trained her in the US. On her victory today, he said: “I am happy that I have finally taken Chanu to the Olympics podium and all our efforts have finally yielded results. I trained and accompanied Chanu in April for the Asian Weightlifting Championship at Uzbekistan this year, where she created a new record in Clean and Jerk, when she lifted 119 kg to rub out the old mark of 118 kg.”After the news of Chanu winning the Olympics medal broke today, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi congratulated Chanu and her assistant coach on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-coach-of-mirabai-chanu-elated-at-tokyo-win-287998
25-07-2021||---||Firing at petrol pump, 1 injured||Jalandhar, July 24Another incident of firing was reported in the city on Saturday. According to the information, the firing was reported at Henry Petrol Pump.As per reports, a meeting was going on in the office of MLA Bawa Henry regarding the agreement between the two parties. Avatar Henry wasn’t there in the meeting. Meanwhile, a gunshot was heard in the office, which was fired from the revolver of a youth sitting in the meeting. However, according to the police, it is not clear whether the bullet was fired intentionally or by mistake.A man was reported to have been injured in the firing and has been admitted to the Johal Hospital.The owner of the revolver has been taken into the police custody. The investigation of the case is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/firing-at-petrol-pump-1-injured-287999
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 4.20 Lakh penalty for power theft||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-4-20-lakh-penalty-for-power-theft-288000
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district logs 4 new cases, 1 death||Around four new Covid cases were on Saturday reported in the district taking the total district tally to 63,056 cases. Of these, 2 cases are from other districts. No Covid death was reported in the district.The toll stood at 1,490. Total 61,481 persons have recovered, while there are 85 active cases in the district.4 test +ve in KapurthalaKapurthala on Saturday repoted four more cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 17,728. However, no death was reported. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-4-new-cases-1-death-288001
25-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers’ anger forces Sampla to return||Phagwara, July 24As soon as the news of the arrival of former Union Minister and National SC Commission chairman Vijay Sampla spread, irate farmers gathered at the spot where he was to inaugurate a showroom at Satnampura in Phagwara on Saturday.BJP leader Balbhadhar Sein Duggal had opened a new sanitary showroom, which was to be inaugurated by Sampla, but on hearing the news, farmers got provoked and started gathering under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Doaba. They started raising slogans 100 meters away from the venue and warned that they would not allow BJP leaders to work until the Union Government solved their problem.The protest took an ugly turn so much that farmers and BJP leaders came face to face and started tearing down the tents set up for the function. Though SP Phagwara Sarabjit Singh Wahia, DSP Paramjit Singh, DSP Babandeep Singh were present with a posse of police, farmers insisted that they had come to oppose the chairman and the farmers would return only after removing the tents. The police tried stopping both sides, but to no avail.Meanwhile, Senior Superintendent of the Police, Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, reached and spoke to both parties and farmers’ leaders who were adamant on taking down the tents. Some farmers were adamant but farmers ended their dharna after a message from Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union, Doaba.Farmers, however, warned that now wherever BJP leaders would go for ceremonies or inaugurations, they would be strongly opposed. Meanwhile, it was learnt that Sampla was forced to return from a short distance from the venue without inaugurating the shop on the advice of senior cops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-anger-forces-sampla-to-return-288002
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||LIC staff oppose privatisation move||On the call by the Central Trade Unions, members of the Northern Zone Insurance Employees Association organised a massive demonstration here yesterday.  While addressing the rally, Ved Kumar, divisional secretary of the association, said the Centre is pleasing its corporate friends by making policies in their favour at the cost of common people. “All this is being done in the name of self-reliant India. The Centre has increased the FDI limit in life insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent, IPO of Life Insurance Corporation is also on the advance stages. The Centre was forwarding the arguments that insurance business needs capital infusion. But as per the report of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), total FDI in life insurance and general insurance is 35 per cent and 24 per cent respectively, which is way behind the present limit of 49 per cent,” he said. Among others present were Pankaj Bhardwaj, Divisional President, Parveen Chhabra, Renu Kalra, Sanjeev Abrol, Rajnish Sehgal, Ashok Bhagat, B.S. Minhas and Harish Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lic-staff-oppose-privatisation-move-288003
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||300 participate in dance competition||The stage was set on fire by the dance performances of finalists of Jalandhar Dancing Star Season 3 — a dance competition organised by CT Group of Institutions at CT Group of Institutions on Saturday. As many as 300 contestants from Chandigarh, Jammu, Bathinda, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Gurugram and New Delhi gave the online auditions. As total of 60 contestants competed in the finale of the event, under three different categories which are 6-12 years, 12-18 years and above 18 years. The competition was adjudged by renowned personalities namely Rajan Aujla, international Bhangra performer Shubhjeet Kaur, gold medalist in Indian Classical and Folk Dance Mehak Munjal and winner of Dhee Punjab Di (2009) Gurmeet Kaur Mahal. The winners of the 6-12 years category were Nirvahan (first), Guranav (second) and Harjai Singh (third). Consolation prizes for the same category were won by Reva and Manavjot Singh. The winners of the 12-18 years were Suraj (first), Ishreet Kaur (second) and Gloria (third). Consolation prizes for the same category were won by Aditya and Harsimer Kaur. In the above 18 category, the first prize was bagged by Shiva, second by Simarjeet, and Akash stood third. The consolation prizes in the same category were bagged by Varun and Jagtaar.  Rajan Aujla, one of the judges, said, “It was a wonderful event in which participants performed extremely well. It became so confusing for us to select the top three winners of each category.” Manbir Singh, Managing Director, CT Group said, “I congratulate all winners and rest of the participants who made this event a grand success today. I thank the chief guest and judges for sparing their time and giving a fair judgment.” On the occasion, Parminder Kaur Channi, Co-Chairperson, CT Group, Harpreet Singh, Vice-Chairman, and Davinder Singh, Deputy Dean Student Welfare, were also present.  —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/300-participate-in-dance-competition-288004
25-07-2021||---||Jalandhar students pass with flying colours||Jalandhar, July 24The results for the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) Boards were announced today, the excitement was just perhaps routinish as the children have passed this year without taking their board examination. The assessment of the students was finalised by the schools on the basis of their internal tests and previous examination, which most students could calculate to quite close.In Class X, Suryansh Thakur from St Joseph’s Boys’ School, won the first position with 99.4 per cent marks. From the same school, Kunal Kohli came second with 99 per cent marks, Rhythm Mahajan with 98.6 per cent marks, Aniket Sharma with 98.4 per cent marks and Akshat Kaushal with 98 per cent marks.While always having had a clear edge over other ICSE schools, this time the girls of St Joseph’s Convent School did not take the usual lead. Arunima got 490 of 500 marks and scored 98 per cent. Aastha Punj, Neelakshi Sachdeva and Saanvi Aggarwal got 97.6 per cent, trailing behind Arunima with just two marks. Saihajpreet Kaur followed then with 97.4 per cent. Both Avnoor Kaur and Smriti Minhas scored 97.2 per cent. Havaly Singh and Sachita scored 97 per cent. Aishlee Joshi, Jasleen Kaur and Ojasvi hit the 96.8 per cent marks.From among Class XII (non-medical) students of St Joseph’s Boys’ School, Jasmine Singh, Kultaj Singh and Amitesh Sabharwal stood first, second and third positions, respectively. While Jasmine got 95.75 per cent, Kultaj scored 93.75 per cent and Amitesh obtained 90.25 per cent.In Class XII (medical), Tanu got 91.5 per cent while Annie got 89.75 per cent. In commerce, Eshaan Aggarwal got 93 per cent, Muskan got 90.25 per cent and Tania got 87 per cent, standing first, second and third in the stream.TopperspeakSuryansh wants to be computer enggSuryansh Thakur, city topper and a Class X student, says that he was expecting his result to be anything above 95 per cent and had not gone into the calculation much. Aspiring to be a computer engineer, he has already taken admission in the non-medical stream. His father is posted in the Army while his mother is a housewife. Suryansh quips, “I scored good due to my teachers’ guidance. Internet also helped me sail through. I used to do self-study for four hours after my online classes.” Seemingly, a bit shy, he said, “He always enjoyed playing basketball and was missing the game badly holed up inside home since the pandemic”.Jasmine aspires to become an aeronautical engineer Having scored the highest marks in the city in Class XII (non-medical), Jasmine Singh aspires to pursue higher studies in Canada. “I am taking IELTS examination and want to join my elder sister in Canada. I want to be an aeronautical engineer there and got a good, sureshot, highly paid job.” Jasmine says that she was not at all upset at her board examination getting cancelled for she had already given her best in the pre-board examination putting in all her effort. “Calculation of marks on the basis of pre-boards was the best thing that happened to me. The practicals were taken in the form of viva through a video call and they went fine”, she said adding that her family had arranged a small party at home today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-students-pass-with-flying-colours-288005
25-07-2021||---||Aid for children who lost their father to Covid-19||Jalandhar, July 24 Days after the plight of a grandfather, who is taking care of his grandchildren who lost their parents, was highlighted in these columns, help has started pouring in for them. Their grandfather, Pritam Singh (name changed), had recently lost his son to Covid-19 while his daughter-in-law died a few years ago due to some health problem. “Raising his grandchildren single-handedly had become a tough task,” says Pritam. This reporter has received calls to help Pritam Singh. Recently, an NGO, Ik Aas Foundation Society, reached out to Pritam and got his grandchildren enrolled in a school and got them books. Now, the NGO has taken the responsibility of education of both children till Class XII. The president of the NGO is Kanwarjeet Singh Chandi and the Vice President is Pardeep Singh Kang. Pardeep Singh Kang, vice-president of the NGO, said, “We aim to help those children who lost their parents amid these times of unprecedented health crisis.”  When contacted, Pritam said he was feeling a little relieved now. “This is what I want. If they get good education, I’ll be content,” he said. “They are the only ones I have to live for. But I always keep on thinking what will happen to them once I am gone,” a distressed grandfather shared. When his son died of Covid-19 last year in September, he was pushed to the brink. With small children to feed and take care of, he had shared how he had spent money on the treatment of his daughter-in-law and then on his son. “We used to have a small house of our own, but we had to sell that because of all these problems. Now we live on rent,” Pritam shared. He said, “All day he keeps on thinking about the future of his grandchildren who don’t even have a permanent shelter. Even his wife has suffered two paralytic attacks and is unable to do any work.” He said, “I am thankful to those who have visited me and provided me help. Pension has also started. I just want my grandchildren to live a respectful and happy life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aid-for-children-who-lost-their-father-to-covid-19-288007
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||Guru Purnima celebrated||Covid awareness driveThe student-teachers of Innocent Hearts College of Education visited the slum areas in the Jalandhar district with the objective to spread awareness amongst the slum dwellers about the precautionary measures against Covid-19 and to guide them on importance of vaccination. The main purpose of these visits was to make the slum dwellers conscious about the benefits of wearing masks, Covid vaccine, maintaining social distancing and frequent sanitisation. The students-teachers elucidated that “Hygiene is two-thirds of health”. So good personal hygiene should be practiced by slum dwellers which includes washing hands with soap before eating food, drinking uncontaminated water and food resources. People were motivated to get vaccinated and that vaccination is to be taken twice was highlighted. The student-teachers guided slum children about Covid-19 precautionary measures. They distributed masks and sanitisers to them. The problems related to their education were discussed with their parents. They thanked Principal Dr Arjinder Singh and staff members for motivating them. All student-teachers prepared a report on their experience and also recorded their visits in their field engagement files.Kargil Vijay Divas observedTo commemorate Kargil Vijay Diwas, the cadets of NCC, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, cleaned the statues of war heroes at War Memorial, Jalandhar. A documentary was also shown through online mode to the cadets with speech on the importance of Kargil Vijay Diwas by Lieut. Dr. Rupali Razdan. The event was organised under the guidance of Col. Narinder Toor (CO) 2 Punjab Girls Battalion NCC Jalandhar. Principal Dr. Navjot appreciated the efforts done by the NCC department.Rendezvous with a veteranTo salute the spirit of supreme sacrifice of the Kargil martyrs, a special webinar was organised by Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, on the occasion of 22 years of Kargil victory. The webinar was graced by Col. Ajay Singh, an army veteran who has served in the Indian Army across the country and overseas for 28 years. Presently a writer and speaker, he has written over 200 articles and four books. Principal Ritu Kaul extended special welcome and sincere thanks to Col.Ajay Singh for his esteemed presence to commemorate the special day with the school and share insights about the Kargil war and the real heroes with the students. She added that Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, has always tried to be instrumental in making DPSites thoughtful and sensitive towards the contribution of Indian Armed forces in the preservation of peaceful lives that we live each day. In the webinar, he unfolded the acts of bravery and sacrifices made by the defence forces of the nation as he lucidly explained about the Kargil war to the participants and the assemblage of the day. Col. Ajay Kumar patiently answered the curious questions put forward by the inquisitive DPSites. A minute of silence was observed to pay homage to the fallen heroes of Kargil.Tree Plantation driveThe DD Pant Botanical Society of the Post Graduate Department of Botany at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, organised a tree plantation drive to create enthusiasm and awareness amongst the masses for increasing the green cover of our nation. The tree plantation drive was carried out in collaboration with Rotract Club of Jalandhar City Youth. Ranveer Singh president, Srishti Sidana secretary, Manan Verma Project Director, Ankush Co-Project Director, Simran Sadana Supervisor, Nandini, Ritik, Sarabjit Singh and Samar Rathore helped in the tree plantation drive. 100 plants of indigenous trees like Kachnar, Putranjeevak, Papaya, Mango, Guava, Cassia were planted by the faculty members of HMV. On this occasion Principal Prof Ajay Sareen stressed upon the need of conservation and save our floral diversity. Dr Anjana Bhatia, Head, PG Department of Botany said that the contentment of joining hands to root new life in the soil is unique and very soulful. On this occasion Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur Dean Academics, Navroop Kaur, school coordinator Meenakshi Sayal School Coordinator, Dr Ashmeen Kaur, Dr Shaveta Chauhan, Ramandeep, Harpreet, Dr Shuchi and all the faculty members were present.Webinar on business and marketingKanya Maha Vidyalaya has initiated an international series with the aim to exchange knowledge on contemporary issues by bringing international academicians on the platform of the college. Continuing with the practice, the PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration organised a webinar on “Challenges of The Business and Marketing During and after Covid Pandemic” under the Commerce Chapter of KMV International Series. Dr. Laszlo Jozsa, Professor, Faculty of Economic Sciences, Department of Marketing and Management, Szechenyi Istvan University, Gyor Hungary, was the resource person for the webinar. More than 250 participants joined this online webinar. The inaugural address was given by Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi. She averred that the changes in education sector are taking place at a very fast pace and educational institutions must introduce new initiatives to be at par with international standards. Dr Laszlo commenced his session by introducing students to the culture of Hungary.Fab, fit and fun competitionKids from IVY School were made aware that sports also teach important life lessons like, working as a team, overcoming challenges, controlling emotions, taking pride in accomplishments. To cultivate the lifestyle of staying fit in our little Ivyians and keeping the vision of the competition, Ivy proudly offered this virtual sports competition ‘Fab, Fit and Fun’. Through this competition children performed different exercises with the help of trained coaches. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and appreciated the support and cooperation given by parents for the competition. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-purnima-celebrated-288008
25-07-2021||Jalandhar||15,000 jabbed after 3 days||After a gap of three days, as many as 15,000 people in the district received their vaccinations at nearly 100 session sites on Saturday. A huge rush was witnessed at the Civil Hospital while many other sites remained crowded with people keen to take the jab.DIO Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We received a supply of 15,000 vaccines last night. We had no vaccines in our stock. All of these have been administered. While there will be no vaccination tomorrow being a holiday, we now await supply for the vaccine drive to be carried out on Monday." —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-000-jabbed-after-3-days-288009
