26-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Vyapar Mandal Gaushala Bazar gets new cheif||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-vyapar-mandal-gaushala-bazar-gets-new-cheif-288499
26-07-2021||Our Correspondent||BSF men plant saplings at Kharkan Camp Subsidiary Training Centre||Hoshiarpur, July 25Under the First Line Defence of Environment project, a mass plantation drive was conducted on the premises of the BSF Kharkan Camp Subsidiary Training Centre. BSF IG Sanjeev Bhanot had started the campaign in which all officers, subordinate officers, jawans and trainees, including women trainees, participated. Over 400 saplings were planted on the camp premises under the campaign. Speaking on the occasion, IG Bhanot asked the jawans to dedicate themselves to the conservation of the environment by planting more saplings and nurture them. He said to make the environment clean, one should preserve the environment by planting more plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-men-plant-saplings-at-kharkan-camp-subsidiary-training-centre-288400
26-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district sees 3 fresh cases, no death||The district saw three fresh cases and no death due to Covid today. The tally in the district now stands at 63,059. Of the cases reported today, one is from another district. The district toll is 1,490. As many as 61,484 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 75.No case, death in KapurthalaKapurthala reported no fesh Covid case or death on Sunday.One dies in HoshiarpurAs many as eight new cases were reported on Sunday in the district, taking the tally to 30,632. One Covid death was reported in the district. — TNS / OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-3-fresh-cases-no-death-288401
26-07-2021||---||Wanted criminal arrested by cops||Jalandhar, July 25 An accused wanted in a 2020 murder and various other pending cases, was arrested by the Jalandhar rural police and the CIA today. Gurdeep Singh, alias Saini, wanted for the murder of Deepak Heera, alias Sunny, a Phagwara resident in July 2020, was arrested today. The police also seized a car from his possession. His gang included Sallu of Bhatnura, Ladi of Butran, Soni Lahoria of Chuhrwal village, Dhnidri of Lakhan Kala and Channi of Gore village. A case under Sections 302 and 210 of the IPC was lodged against him at the Dhilwan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wanted-criminal-arrested-by-cops-288402
26-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmer protest: Jalandhar women set for Delhi to make their voices heard||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25Jehra paate kapre paa ke, mitti vich libar ke tureya fire ohi kisan hai ehnan vaste. Atth mahine ho gaye, jihnan da gharon bahar nikalna mushkil si, oh baithe hai sial vich, garmi vich, meenh vich. Halle vi kehnde eh kisan nahi. Fer kaun kisan hai? Asi challe haan kisanan de modhe naal modha jor ke khadan layi. Asi kisanan de naal haan. (One who wears tattered, soiled clothes, only he is farmer for them. Eight months have passed, and they are still protesting in extreme cold, heat and rain. Still, they say they are not farmers. Then who is? We are going to stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers. We are with them), says Balwinder Kaur, panch of the Rurka Kalan in Jalandhar.She will head out from her village at 2am on Monday to be a part of the contingent of women who will head to Jantar Mantar tomorrow to participate in the ‘Kisan Sansad’.Balwinder is going to the Singhu border for the third time. She had been there in the winters twice. In yesterday’s fire incident, two trolleys and a shed near where she camped last time were gutted. Days ago, she also witnessed farmers wading in ankle-deep waters which entered into their tents. But it has only strengthened her resolve to go back again.Across the state, women contingents from various villages are heading out to participate in the ‘Women Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar on July 26 which will be run solely by ‘Nari Shakti’ (women) tomorrow in continuation of the ‘Kisan Sansad’ being held. The BKU (Rajewal) is sending contingents of five women from every district. Block level teams of women have also been set up to mobilise struggle in villages.Balwinder Kaur says, “It is a deaf and dumb government. Our progress has been stalled. We lost 400 to 500 farmers but they don’t listen.”She adds, “We are going there to assert the voice of women. We will lose livelihoods if the laws are not repealed. We can’t let it happen.” Speaking about depleting water table in villages and its effect on farmers, she says, “We will take to crop diversification if the MSP is given. But we are not even being given MSP on paddy. What to talk of diversification?”Amardeep Kaur, Assistant Professor, Guru Nanak Khalsa Girls College, Sagh Dhesian, is skipping the university exam duty specially to participate in the stir tomorrow. From Rurka Kalan, she will also be going for the third time, said, “The government might think farmers are helpless and illiterate people. But the farmer struggle is proof we are a group of organised, educated people who know how to fight for our rights. My grandfather and father toiled in fields to make me a professor. I am going to honour their struggle. We women are holding our own Parliament tomorrow. We won’t relent until the farm laws are repealed.”Dr Manjit Kaur, tehsil president, BKU (Rajewal) Mahila Morcha who hails from Kang Sabo, said, “While farmers are being called terrorists and hooligans, our fight is for our lands. We are protesting tomorrow to reclaim our rights.”‘Centre trying to instigate farmers’Garhshankar: The 45th batch of All-India Kisan Sabha, led by Bibi Subhash Mattoo, left on Sunday for Delhi to join the farmers' movement in Delhi. On the occasion, state vice-president of All-India Kisan Sabha, Darshan Singh Mattoo and state leader of Janwadi Istri Sabha Subhash Mattu said the Centre was trying to instigate farmers to end the agitation by defaming it. They said the farmers of the country have been demanding the scrapping of farm laws on the borders of Delhi for the last eight months and more than 500 farmers have been martyred in this struggle, but the Modi government at the Centre has retained its insistence. The farmers' struggle will continue until the three black laws are repealed and legal status is given to MSP. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-protest-jalandhar-women-set-for-delhi-to-make-their-voices-heard-288403
26-07-2021||---||Doaba farmers call the shots at ‘Kisan Sansad’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25The ‘Kisan Sansad’ being held at Jantar Mantar, near Parliament, where the Monsoon session is underway, has been witnessing active participation of farmers from the Doaba region.Manjit Singh Rai from Hoshiarpur played the role of deputy speaker on the first day of the ‘Kisan Sansad’. Langar service daily at the sansad was being managed by Davinder Singh, vice-president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), who hails from from Nawanshahr.He said the motive of holding the sansad is that they want to give a message that the farmers don’t only know about farming, but also about what happens in the Parliament. “We have been criticised by a certain section, but we aren’t going to stop no matter what,” Singh said.He doesn’t remember when he had a sound sleep. “I don’t even remember how many days I have not seen my family. even when I go home, I am on my mobile phone or making some plans and future strategies,” he said.“I have a 10-year-old son. He used to ask me why I do not come home often. But when the protest started, I took him with me and he also gave a speech there. Due to my routine, he has come to know that I am fighting for our rights, but he still misses me,” he added. When the protests were taking place at Behram toll plaza, Davinder along with other farmers would gather and start their speeches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-farmers-call-the-shots-at-kisan-sansad-288407
26-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Bus stand to stay closed for 2 hours today||Jalandhar, July 25Upset over the non-fulfilment of their demands, contractual workers’ union of the PUNBUS and the PRTC on Sunday announced to shut the bus stand on July 26. The government and PRTC buses will also remain off road for two hours between 10am-12pm.The workers in a joint meeting today announced to observe two days unofficial holiday from August 3-4, next month.“Despite submitting memorandum to the government on several occasions and raising our demands, the government failed to meet our demands.Therefore, we have no other option left but to intensify our protest,” said, Resham Singh Gill, president of the contractual and outsource workers union.Apart from that the union members will also hold three-day state level strike from August 9-11 and gherao the residences of CM Amarinder Singh and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.As many as 7,500 contractual and outsource workers are working in Punjab Roadways and the PRTC. In the district, the workers strength is nearly 450. It is decreasing every month due to the negligence of the Transport Department. Jasbir Singh, the district general secretary of the Thekha Mulazim Union, said we are seeking regularisation for the past several years but to no avail. The government seems to have turned its blind eye towards us. The strikes and protest would continue to be intensified, unless our demands were met, added Jasbir.The demands of the workers include fleet of at least 10,000 buses considering the free travel to the women and the population of the state, the contractual employees of PUNBUS and PRTC should be regularised in their respective departments, implementation of Supreme Court’s equal pay for equal work, repeal the condition of the report and reinstating the employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-bus-stand-to-stay-closed-for-2-hours-today-288410
26-07-2021||---||Commuters: Why should we pay taxes for bad roads?||Jalandhar, July 25While the monsoon brought respite from the scorching heat, the uncovered potholes and damaged roads in the city exposed the grim picture of the city roads. The ride on these roads is nothing less than a nightmare for commuters who rued paying huge taxes to the government for development for no reason.The poor quality concrete used to fill potholes and pits at several roads has come off. Waterlogging has made commuting on damaged roads a risky affair.It has become difficult to travel on the 66-ft road filled with huge potholes and stones. The road also leads to the constituency of MLA Parghat Singh, despite that the authorities failed to repair the road.Similarly, the service road on the Maqsudan Bypass to Sarb Multiplex or Pathankot Bypass Chowk stretch is crying for attention for the past several years. Due to the substandard quality concrete used in re-carpeting of the road, the problem stays the same every year. The nearby vendors claimed that even the sewage lies stagnant along the roads as the drainage system is defunct.Apart from the vehicular rush, the stagnant water is another lurking danger. Many mishaps have taken place on roads in the past. Due to its vicinity to the industrial areas, it's majorly used by traders, Jalandhar-Ludhiana travellers, transporters and labourers who fear losing their balance on the uneven road.Numerous potholes have made things worse. Aman Dhal, a local resident, even took to the social media, asking the MC authorities about when the condition of roads would improve in the city as they feared mishaps while commuting on the road. Residents call it a nightmarish experience to navigate these roads, especially during the night. The condition worsens on a rainy day as it becomes difficult for them to spot the potholes.“Many times, vehicles get stuck on the battered roads. People riding two-wheelers have been grievously injured on these roads in the past. On a rainy day, rainwater gets accumulated for a long time. There is no use lodging a complaint with the MC as we know nothing would be done,” said Manmeet Singh, a transporter.A commuter, Satnam Singh said, “The 66 ft road has not been repaired for the past several months. The condition of the stretch has worsened with the passage of time. If the government does not carry out development works on time, it has no right to collect development tax from us. “Rains have washed away the metalled layer of the road. Now, the stretch is riddled with potholes, loose gravel and soil. Dust flying due to the dilapidated condition of the road has further added to our woes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/commuters-why-should-we-pay-taxes-for-bad-roads-288414
26-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sitting in two different cities, Punjab girls pen murder mystery||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25All of 14 years, two girls – Baruni Arora of Jalandhar and Pratibha Sharma of Ludhiana – have jointly penned a novel, which is a murder mystery. The most interesting part is that two of them have never met each other in the past nine months ever since they conceived the idea of writing a novel together, planning its plot and jotting it down into a 116-page novel ‘Summer Enigma’.At a book release function here, Baruni and Pratibha shared, “While our friends used to play online games and indulged in unnecessary chats with their friends to break their monotony during the lockdown period, the two of us were happily engaged in the productive work.”Asked how the two came across with the idea, they shared, “We were both very fond of reading novels of Agatha Christie and used to share stories of her murder mysteries. Discussing her novels, it struck to us if we too could begin to write something of the sort. We discussed the plan with our parents and they readily agreed and we started on. We used to daily discuss the ideas on our Zoom meeting. There used to be daily additions and deletions till the time we both were satisfied with the final output.”About the novel story, they said, “The plot is based in Goa. Four friends are on a tour and they come across a murder incident and begin its investigation just out of curiosity. The two of them had their fathers as detective agents. This is the main idea around which the story sets in.”Both Baruni and Pratibha were students of Delhi Public School till the last year and the best of friends for almost two years. The duo got separated when Pratibha’s father, Varinder K Sharma, who was posted as Deputy Commissioner in Jalandhar got transferred to Ludhiana. Baruni’s dad Manhar Arora is working as MD at the St Soldier’s Group of Schools here.Manhar praised his daughter saying, “I knew that she had good writing skills since the beginning. Since she was a Class III student, she would pen poems for me, my wife and her elder sister on all special occasions including our birthdays and anniversary. I never knew that this skill in her would make her a novel author one day.” His daughter reciprocated saying, “I got the writing genes from my dad, who himself writes too well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sitting-in-two-different-cities-punjab-girls-pen-murder-mystery-288415
26-07-2021||Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Riyait and others participate in a cycle rally held by the Hoshiarpur MC on Sunday. The civic body held the rally as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. It started from MC complex and culminated at the same place. The rally was flagged-off by Mayor Surinder Kumar||Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Riyait participate in cycle rally||‘Improve POCSO conviction rate’Jalandhar: A state-level meeting of District Attorneys of Punjab was held at Jalandhar under the presidentship of Prosecution and Litigation Director Nirmaljit Singh. Apart from giving other instructions to the District Attorneys, Prosecution and Litigation Director specifically instructed to improve the conviction rate in Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act cases. He also instructed that computerised data of victims of POCSO Act cases should be prepared in the offices of District Attorneys. All witnesses in such cases should be examined even if the complainant/victim has turned hostile, he instructed. TNSAid sought for Sachin’s kinJalandhar: City traders have demanded an ex gratia of Rs50 lakh for the kin of a 32-year-old shopkeeper Sachin Jain, who was killed in a firing incident recently. The victim, a general store owner near Sodal Road, was shot dead by snatchers. They said: “At least three persons were killed when a private bus collided head-on with a Punjab Roadways and an ex gratia of Rs5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs50,000 to the seriously injured persons was announced.” Traders appreciated the step but they said no help was being provided to the family of Jain who was the only bread earner in his family. “We demand that monetary help of Rs5 lakh should be given to his family by the state government,” said Ravinder Dhir from the traders’ forum. TNSMan injured in mishap, 1 bookedNawanshahr: The police have booked a person for rash driving here. A Behram resident in his complaint to the police said he injured his right leg, when a car driver coming from the opposite direction hit his bike from the opposite direction. A case under various Sections of the IPC has been lodged. TNSDC inaugurates IVF centreHoshiarpur: The Deputy Commissioner, Apneet Riyait, inaugurated the city’s first fully hi-tech infertility centre (IVF) at IVY Hospital, Hoshiarpur. The centre will be managed by the hospital’s IVF experts team, including Dr Priyanka Sharma, an IVF expert, and Dr Amandeep Mann, consultant-gynecologist. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dc-apneet-riyait-participate-in-cycle-rally-288416
26-07-2021||Should the Govt wait for some more time before opening educational institutions?||Dispel fear of 3rd wave as many students yet to be jabbed||Open universities as soon as possibleEverything has opened in India except universities. I fail to understand the mind of the government by not allowing the university administration to open the universities. If influx of students is the reason, then government should see the huge rush in trains, buses and markets. The delay in the opening of university is adversely affecting the studies of student since online classes are not worth. Students have become lethargic and non-serious in the studies. The government needs to pay heed on this and allow universities to open as soon as possible but with guidelines.Saahil HansDon’t rush to open educational institutionsAlthough Covid-19 cases have started declining, the Punjab government should be in no hurry to reopen educational institutions as the move is fraught with several implications for students, parents and society. Going by the experience of the past year-and-a-half, the impact of the third wave could be disastrous. Hence, it is much better to wait for a while to see how the Covid-19 pandemic pans out before taking a decision on reopening schools and colleges. Till the vaccination process is not completed, we should not take any such risk with our children even though the new normal of online learning could never replicate the real school interactions.Akash KumarAdopt precautionary measuresUntil and unless Covid-19 vaccine is not available for students belonging to one to seven year age bracket, the educational institutions should not be opened for them. Those above 18 years of age and have been vaccinated can be given permission to study at educational institutions. Fear of the third Covid wave cannot be ruled out in the country. Only adopting precautionary measures is the remedy to keep safe from the Covid-19. Safety measures adopted by us will certainly yield positive results in coming future to keep ourselves protected from the third wave of Covid -19.Rajat Kumar MohindruDigital divide taking toll on studentsThe education sector in the country has already been severely hit by the pandemic. The closure of schools, colleges and universities has left a devastating impact not only on the quality of education but also on the physical and mental well-being of students. Whatever the claims, the forced shift from offline to online classes has been a near damp squib. While a majority of urban students lack seriousness in studies, the poor and those living in rural and remote areas could not have an easy, uninterrupted access to online teaching due to lack of digital infrastructure and other facilities. How long can people afford to pay fees while keeping their children at home under unbearable academic stress and pressure? After relaxing restrictions on various economic activities, the Punjab government should also reopen all educational institutions with precautions. It will keep students engaged in academic pursuits and make up for the loss of their studies, and enable these institutions to meet the prevailing infrastructural, human resources and financial challenges. Meanwhile, the state authorities should start vaccinating children. The education providers should become more vigilant and adopt all social and health measures to stave off the spread of the deadly virus in our temples of learning.Tajpreet S KangIt’s better to wait than to repent laterThe old adage —Discretion is better part of the valour — rightly applies to the opening of the educational institutions in the state. There is a lurking danger of impending third wave of Covid in the country. So the government should not be in hurry to open the educational institutions. Though many young children have developed antibodies to the virus still they are at risk of getting infected. So far vaccinations have been given to the people of 18 years and above. Scientists say that ACE receptors are not there in the lungs of the children to which the Covid virus attaches, so as such the risk to the children is less that way. So experts opine that primary schools should be opened first and subsequently higher educational institutions. Though the state government has relaxed the restrictions on social gatherings and opening of the hotels, gyms with 50 per cent strength, people don’t adhere to the Covid-appropriate behaviour. So, its better that the government waits for some more time for the Covid to abate before opening the educational institutions.Dr JS WadhwaThink twice before opening schoolsNo doubt, the UGC has released guidelines for the commencement of the new academic session across the country from October 1 with offline, online or blended mode. Keeping in mind the impending situation, the Punjab government should think twice before opening educational institutions in the state, including schools, colleges and universities, albeit with certain conditions. Since the exact extent of transmissibility of the new wave cannot be predicted, noted epidemiologists and virologists believe that it will put the younger generation at a higher risk. Unvaccinated small children will be more vulnerable and exposed to the virus infection. A majority of educational institutions are still ill-equipped to strictly follow safety protocols. Most parents will hesitate to send their wards for attending physical classes. As youth is the future of the country, maintaining its health at every cost should be our primary concern. The government should tackle the digital challenges such as availability of smart phones/computers and internet connectivity encountered by students during the earlier two waves. It should wait for some time more to see the impact of the third wave and decide opening educational institutions accordingly. Otherwise, the blame and responsibility for any calamitous repercussions will rest squarely upon the state government.D S KangSituation not fully under controlThe World Health Organization has announced the arrival of the third wave of the pandemic between August and October. The government has said that next 2-3 months will be crucial. As Covid-19 situation has improved in Punjab, the state government has announced to ease several Covid-related curbs and allowed reopening of schools for Classes X, XI and XII from July 26, 2021 with conditions that staff and teachers should be fully vaccinated. But the situation is not completely under control because we are far from achieving herd immunity through vaccination or natural infection. Hence, the risk remains. On the other hand, vaccines remain in short supply as it has run out of Covishield and government has been unable to cover even 50 per cent of state’s population. It may be quite risky for the lives of students as Covid 3rd wave is about to hit till the end of August. So government has to continue virtual mode of education until the situation becomes stable for students. Parent’s also have the mixed response on the reopening of schools because who would put their child’s life in jeopardise situation. Finally the need of hour is to prioritise inoculation to students and teaching fraternity.Parampreet KaurAny leniency will cost dearly to all of usGiven the facts that ongoing second wave is still not completely controlled and that the third wave appears imminent in a threatening form with magnifying implications, the opening of educational institutions under such circumstances is not advisable to the best interests of society. As per latest report of WHO, Covid surge can take global cases to over 200 million in three weeks. It is to be noted that children are still out of the safety arena of vaccination, any leniency will cost dearly. The supply of vaccines to the states to meet the targets of inoculating eligible groups is still inadequate and irregular also. In wake of these developments, the government needs more time to explore the options relating to educational institutions especially schools involving students with below 18 years of age.Jagdish ChanderVaccinate teaching, non-teaching staffParents are anxious to send children back to school. Now the third wave is speculated. It is assumed that this wave is going to affect kids. There is no such system to safeguard children. Neither they can wear mask all the time nor can they maintain distance. They are not vaccinated so the kids are at more risk. The health and well-being of children, siblings, staff and their parents and other family members are concerned.Closure of schools is must to reduce the circulation of virus. It is suggested to prioritise inoculation students and school staff first. If it is very necessary to open schools, let the senior classes 9th and 10th should start first, they are grown up able to handle the situation. We should wait for the situation to be normal first and no risk should be taken. Before reopening the schools all the students, teachers and non teaching staff should be vaccinated because the threat of pandemic is looming large. There is need for the mental health professionals in the schools to boost the morale of the children.Shashi KiranWork out a plan to open schoolsI am a student of Class XII and in my opinion schools should be reopened. Covid-19 unlock plan has put emphasis on reopening of most of activities. However, there seems to lack of attention on opening of schools. Schools have been shut for a long period of time and have affected children adversely. Authorities should work on opening of schools because it has really affected the young generation in terms of knowledge. Opening of schools is essential for students’ physical, mental, social and emotional well-being and development. Peer learning is the best form of learning and online compromises that. We children have become now quite well-trained in the Covid-19 safety protocols. Hence, schools should be reopened sooner. However, it must be ensured that school teachers and other support staff members are vaccinated.Rimplepreet KaurFocus on vaccination, maintaining hygieneAlmost the entire year 2020-21 passed under lock down and stringent protocols due to Covid. Academic curriculum at schools/colleges and universities too remained shut. Consequently, the class room studies suffered a lot and only online teaching, to the extent possible, was carried as a stop-gap arrangement. Apprehending the scare of contagion, the annual exams were cancelled. Among others in the age group of 18-44 years, it was prioritised to jab teachers and taught as a prerequisite to resume physical classes at schools and colleges. Ironically, the campaign continues to be disrupted due to the vaccine scarcity. As of now, the situation is bit under control and the government has relaxed the norms. All schools will resume physical classes for Classes X, XI and XII with effect from July 26 while colleges are likely to open in August. However, taking lesson from the past mistakes, there shouldn’t be any room for complacency. As such, our focus should be on vaccination, maintaining hygiene and avoiding social gatherings.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathEnsure norms are followed in schoolsCovid has played havoc not only with the health of the people but also on the education system. It is time to resume offline classes in all schools, colleges and other educational institutions. Fears of third wave of Covid-19 have to be overcome by taking all required precautionsCovid-appropriate behaviour will have to be adopted strictly not only by the students but by the entire staff. Heads of the institution must take upon themselves the responsibility of ensuring that masks wearing and other preventive measures are being strictly followed by allThe staff of every educational institution must have been inoculated against Covid infection before resuming their duties. All students have to be made aware of the urgency and benefits of wearing mask right after leaving their home till back home from their institutions. PL SinghQUESTIONDespite Covid wreaking havoc across the world, youngsters in Punjab are hell-bent on moving abroad for higher studies or work. How do you think we can check this exodus? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 29).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dispel-fear-of-3rd-wave-as-many-students-yet-to-be-jabbed-288419
26-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Olympics: 3 from Jalandhar's Mithapur village in Indian hockey team||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25Of the 19 players of the hockey contingent representing India in the Tokyo Olympics, 11 are from Punjab. Of the 11, four are from Jalandhar, of which three are from Mithapur village alone.When Manpreet Singh (29), Captain of the Indian hockey team, led the Olympic contingent with boxing legend Mary Kom during the opening ceremony on July 23, it was a record-breaking moment.Clad in the Indian team blazer, Manpreet is the second hockey team captain and second flag-bearer of the Indian contingent from Mithapur village. Olympian Pargat Singh, MLA from Jalandhar Cantt, was the first. There is jubilation and cheer in the village which has a history of hockey greats and is currently one of the most productive nurseries of hockey players in the state.Along with Manpreet Singh, players Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar also hail from the village. Another hockey team member, Hardik Singh, is from nearby Khusropur village.While Mithapur has had a huge section of population serving in the armed forces, it is most popular for its illustrious list of hockey greats.Village’s Swarup Singh was a member of the 1952 Helsinki Olympic gold-winning hockey team; Kulwant Singh was a member of the bronze-winning hockey team in 1972 and Pargat Singh was part of the hockey teams in the 1988, 1992 and 1996 Olympics.The 70 students who train at the hockey academy at the village seek inspiration from these illustrious Olympians.Balwinder Singh, a coach at the academy, said, “It is a proud moment for us. Generations of hockey players have sought inspiration from the village. Every house here has a player. But this moment is unparalleled. Manpreet trained here and at the Surjit Hockey Academy. The village’s Shaheed Darshan Singh Kaypee Stadium is filled with his memories. Till a couple of years ago, we had four players from Mithapur in the Indian team. The fourth was Talwinder Singh.”“The huge representation from Punjab after so many years is heartening. The future of the Mithapur academy is bright. We hope to see many more players from the village in the Indian team,” Olympian Pargat Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/olympics-3-from-jalandhars-mithapur-village-in-indian-hockey-team-288181
