27-07-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Mirabai Chanu effect: Budding weightlifter from Jalandhar village aims high||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu has become a household name after clinching a silver medal for India in the Tokyo Olympics. Within hours of the achievement, Chanu has become a role model for young girls who had taken to weightlifting recently.Urvashi (14), a student of Government Senior Secondary school, from Nathewal village started her journey in weightlifting last year. Before the pandemic hit, Urvashi was at her school when she saw a group of girls warming up and getting ready for a weightlifting competition. The whole scenario caught her attention and it’s when she decided to opt for this game.After reaching home she discussed her desire of doing weightligting with her father Sukhwinder Kumar, who is a tempo driver. Sukhwinder said his work got badly affected due to the pandemic, but still he was happy to know that his daughter had decided to take a plunge into sports. “Not even for a moment I felt that I should not allow her. I was more than happy,” he said.The father said if Urvashi does well in the game, she may get selected in the national team and perform like Chanu one day.Urvashi said she feels so proud when she lifts weights. “When I don’t do well in the first lift, it frustrates me and then I try to do best in my second attempt. And when I perform better, it gives me an immense satisfaction,” she said.Urvashi has been taking training under coach Lakhbir Lal, who is a Assistant Sub-Inspector at PAP. After he is done with his duty, he provides training to Urvashi at his home.Lal said such stories of women excelling in sports gives another level of motivation to young and budding weightlifters. “Urvashi is talented and a fighter. She is technically brilliant and has a great perseverance. Even when I am busy, she calls me and asks about her performance,” the coach said.Urvashi is the lone girl who is taking training at present. Earlier, Lal used to train players at Jandiala Manjki in Jalandhar. He said only boys were coming at Jandiala Manjki centre for practicing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mirabai-chanu-effect-budding-weightlifter-from-jalandhar-village-aims-high-288897
27-07-2021||---||A treasure trove of flora||Jalandhar, July 26Spread over a sprawling area at Choti Baradari part-1, every nook and cranny of Dr Amardeep Singh Sehgal’s has an aromatic vibe.Sehgal’s (54) garden, spread across the length and breadth of the house, is a sight to behold.All-weather plants, including bougainvillea, hamelia, golden phycuss, green and variegata phycuss, palms (areca and raphis palms), lantana in different colors, paragrass, arelia, safrella, minni chandni, pine tree to name a few and seasonal flowering plants, including chrysanthemums, petunias, dahlias, gerbera, dianthus, marigold, hibiscus, salvia, cinneria, single poppy, ice plants, bajri, English roses, vinca, zinia are enough to give garden goals to any plant parent.Those visiting his garden also speak volumes of his green space.“Right after building my house, I started making room for plants, which eventually turned into a dedicated garden space. It’s been 15 years since I have been maintaining my garden. He says jokingly, any empty space in my home is immediately covered with pots! I have over 250 different varieties of pots and planters.”Sharing some tips on gardening, he says, maintaining a lush green cover in the garden requires regular cutting of tips of the grass, which makes room for the growth of more healthy branches. Tips of the grass are rich in hormones which further promotes the vertical growth of plants,” added Segal.Popular as Dr Green Finger, Amandeep gains the adequate knowledge about the types of manure and soil content. “Experience and knowledge from different sources is a brownie point to maintain a garden. Since I have a limited space, my pots go up on the rooftop before every flowering season. The pots are emptied, mud dried and nourished again with fresh organic fertilisers as per the requirement. The saplings are planted and the growing plants enjoy full sunshine to produce abundance of blooms. This exercise is done thrice a year. It keeps me physically fit,” he adds.Apart from this, he also has a vegetable garden on his terrace where he grows organic vegetables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-treasure-trove-of-flora-288898
27-07-2021||Ajay Joshi||A beacon of hope for slum-dwellers in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26Sukriti Arora (22), a student of psychology and mental health, has become a beacon of hope for children, especially girls residing in the slums. It’s only been two months since she launched her NGO ‘Feed the Nation’, but the activities organised by her in the slums and the counselling sessions for women and children have already made her popular among slum dwellers in various areas of the city.With the help of the like-minded people, she has been organising skill development sessions, awareness camps on government schemes and helpline services for women safety, personal hygiene and grooming activities among others at various slums. While she herself is a student, she has adopted two girls of senior secondary classes at Kamla Nehru School. To promote women empowerment and importance of education among girls, she is bearing all expenses of the girls.“Nothing brings much change in the society other than the feeling of togetherness. Half of the battle is won when we lend our helping hand to the needy. It’s been five years since I wanted to run my own NGO to help people from economically weaker sections. Earlier, I used to arrange donations or conduct sessions along with other NGOs, however, after studying psychology and mental health, I realised its importance and felt how slum dwellers and poor are deprived of it. Considering the amount of suicide cases and violence faced by women in slums, I have tried to take the initiative of sensitising people living in slums,” said Arora.Sukriti organises awareness camps in collaboration with the local Sanjh Kendras. Jaspreet Kaur Syal, another member of the NGO, and her aware women about the helpline numbers. Apart from pushing the parents to send their children to the school, we help women in generating self employment.The idea to start her own NGO occurred to Sukriti, after listening to the plight of maids working in her area. She wanted to work for them and their children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-beacon-of-hope-for-slum-dwellers-in-jalandhar-288899
27-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: DLSA chief meets  children orphaned by Covid pandemic||Jalandhar, July 26The District and Session Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Jalandhar, Rupinderjit Chahal, today held a meeting with children orphaned by Covid-19 and their guardians. Books and stationary items were also distributed among the children.Chahal said of the 41 children who have lost their parents due to Covid in the district, eight have been receiving pensionary benefits monthly from the government and the DLSA was coordinating with the District Social Security Officer, Jalandhar, for providing pensionary benefits to the remaining children.To provide free education to these children, the DLSA was taking necessary steps by coordinating with the Education Department. “Such children will be provided free legal aid under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. If any guardian of these children is facing any problem to get the benefits of beneficiary schemes, they can approach DLSA anytime,” Chahal added.Dr Gagandeep Kaur, CJM-Cum-Secretary, DLSA, Jalandhar, the non-governmental organisations should come forward to help these children to provide education for their bright future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dlsa-chief-meets-children-orphaned-by-covid-pandemic-288900
27-07-2021||---||Hoshiarpur: Minister Sunder Sham Arora pays tribute to  Kargil martyrs on Vijay Diwas||Hoshiarpur, July 26Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora today paid tributes to the martyrs on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas.After the wreath-laying ceremony at the war memorial here, the minister said the entire nation is proud of the soldiers, who laid their lives in protecting country’s unity and integrity. He also pointed out that the Kargil Vijay Diwas was a symbol of exemplary courage and valour of our soldiers. The minister said 13 soldiers hailed from Hoshiarpur district, who laid down their lives in Kargil War.The teams of Guardians of Governance (GoGs) were visiting the homes of Kargil martyrs to meet their families. The minister appealed youngsters to tread on the path of patriotism and nationalism as envisioned by our great martyrs and soldiers to protect the country from external as well as internal aggressions.Meanwhile, the teams of GoGs met the family members of several martyrs. Naik Ranjit Singh in village. At the local war memorial, Mayor Surinder Kumar, ADC (Urban Development) Aashika Jain, Brig Surjit Singh, Major General OP Parmar, Col Malook Singh, Col Raghbir Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-minister-sunder-sham-arora-pays-tribute-to-kargil-martyrs-on-vijay-diwas-288901
27-07-2021||Jalandhar||BSP announces Lakhwinder Lakhi Gilzian as probable candidate from Urmar||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) today announced Lakhwinder Lakhi Gilzian as the probable candidate from Urmar. The seat falls in the share of BSP in its alliance with the SAD.The announcement was made soon after his joining today in the presence of party in-charge Randhir Beniwal and state president Jasvir Garhi. The party leaders said Lakhi hailed from the OBC category who has served as a sarpanch, block samiti and zila parishad member and worked for the welfare of the backward classes.Interestingly, he too hails from the same Gilzian village to which the new Congress Working President and Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian belongs to. Garhi said, “The four working presidents of the PPCC will prove to be a useless exercise.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsp-announces-lakhwinder-lakhi-gilzian-as-probable-candidate-from-urmar-288902
27-07-2021||---||Bus services hit as contractual employees observe 2-hr strike in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 26Contractual and outsourced workers under the banner of the PUNBUS and PRTC Theka Mulazim Union on Monday held a protest at the city bus stand. The bus stand remained closed for two-hour from 10am-12pm. However, the private buses operated from outside the bus stand.Neither any passenger nor any bus was allowed to move inside the bus stand. The strike was observed against the non-fulfilment of the demands of the workers.The workers during the protest also announced to observe unofficial holiday for August 3-4. They threatened to close the bus stand for four-hour if their demands were not met. The union members also announced to hold state level strike from August 9-11 and gherao the residences of CM Amarinder Singh and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The major demands of the workers include, regularisation of jobs, fleet of at least 10,000 buses and equal pay for equal work.Jasbir Singh, the district general secretary of the Thekha Mulazim Union said, we have been demanding regularisation of jobs for the past several years but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bus-services-hit-as-contractual-employees-observe-2-hr-strike-in-jalandhar-288903
27-07-2021||---||9 contract virus, no death in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 26A total of nine Covid cases were reported on Monday in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,068 cases. The toll remained at 1,490 as no Covid death was reported. As many as 61,509 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 69. TNS// 2 positive, no casualty in Kapurthala With two cases of Covid reported in Kapurthala on Monday, the district tally reached 17,730. No death from Covid was reported today. TNS//Jalandhar Round up New Cases: 9Total Cases: 63068New Deaths: 0Total Deaths: 1490Total Recovery: 61509Active: 69Helpline number of ambulance: 108Emergency Helpline: 104Jalandhar helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Distt Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in////1 +ve in Nawanshahr Nawanshahr: One case was reported from Nawanshahr on Monday. The case was reported from Saroya block. The tally of cases stands at 11,423 and toll is 373. At present, there is only one active case in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-contract-virus-no-death-in-jalandhar-288905
27-07-2021||---||Schools in Jalandhar abuzz with students, teachers after 4 months||Jalandhar, July 26As schools reopened on Monday after a gap of around four months, the government institutes recorded nearly 50 per cent attendance of children in the district. Some of private schools, which opened today, witnessed a far better response with students of board classes showing upto 80 per cent attendance. In the government schools, students were accompanied by their parents as a parent-teacher meet had been fixed up for today and tomorrow.District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh said, “Today, parents were shown the recent progress report of children, while they were also asked to fill a consent form for sending their wards to school. While some government schools also took a couple of classes, others allowed students to go back with their parents. Overall, it was nearly 50 per cent attendance today”.At Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, which has the highest number of strength, more than 400 students had turned up with their parents today.While Class XII students came today, those studying in Class XI have been called tomorrow, to ensure social distancing.Most private schools saw 80 per cent attendance. At Sanskriti KMV School, a total of 468 students of Classes X and XII had been called in, of whom about 372 turned up. The classes were divided into groups to ensure that there were not more than 24 students in one room. Tomorrow, Class XI students have been called to attend regular classes.Principal Rachna Monga said, “We sanitised the entire campus, ensured proper seating and followed SOPs. We will have offline classes twice a week. For remaining four days, we will have online classes only. Our sessions will be focused on concept application, work assessment, troubleshooting and most importantly moral counselling.” She also acknowledged the positive support of parents. A special prayer meet was also held. On the auspicious day when the campus again started to buzz with activity, Triveni –neem, peepal and banyan tree spiritually significant for growth, purity and virtuous deeds was planted by students.Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shikha Mandal, extended his good wishes with high hopes to the principal, staff and students on resumption of offline classes.Likewise at MGN Public School, Urban Estate-Phase 2, more than 50 per cent students of board classes turned up today. Since the school has a big number of students in commerce stream, they were split up to ensure that there were not more than 28 students in each room.Principal Jatinder Singh said, “All desks were placed at a safe distance. We had hybrid teaching as students who did not turn up today could get live relay from classes at their homes.”Regarding provisions made at the campus, he said, “No child was allowed to remove mask on the campus. Students attended classes for nearly four hours. We are also providing free bus service to them for 10 days, including to those who have never availed the service. Washrooms are being regularly sanitised throughout the day. I hope that when students and their parents will share today’s experience with remaining half of the students who did not turn up, they too will surely feel convinced with our arrangements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-in-jalandhar-abuzz-with-students-teachers-after-4-months-288906
27-07-2021||---||Sero survey in Kapurthala soon||Jalandhar, July 26In view of the anticipated third wave of Covid, the Health Department will carry out a sero survey in Kapurthala to check the presence of antibodies among residents. The Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, Dr Parminder Kaur, said the survey would be held for kids aged between 6 to 18 years. Blood samples of the children will be taken to know whether the level of antibodies developed in their bodies against the Covid.Dr Parminder Kaur said the survey will be held in various areas of the district. She said the results of the survey will go a long way in understanding the extent of Covid infections and immunity and will held in tackling the third wave of the Covid pandemic. She also exhorted everyone to carry out Covid-appropriate behaviour.While the Kapurthala district has 17,730 Covid cases so far, as many 19 cases are active and 17,159 have been cured of Covid in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sero-survey-in-kapurthala-soon-288907
27-07-2021||Jalandhar||BSF ‘Punjab Frontier’ headquartered at Jalandhar gets first woman IG||I-Day rehearsals from August 10Nawanshahr: A district-level function will be held at ITI Ground, Nawanshahr, on the occasion of Independence Day. Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said rehearsals would be held on August 10, 11 and 12 and full-dress rehearsal would be held on August 13. She said apart from the parade and march-past, tableaus showing achievements by various departments would be the highlight of the event. TNSOlympian meets hockey playersKapurthala: Dronacharya Awardee Rajinder Singh (Junior), on Monday visited the Hockey Center in Kapurthala and expressed happiness to see a large number of hockey players in the age group of 5 to 18 years. “It is a sign of the golden future of hockey in Punjab,” the Olympian said. He said he achieved great heights by working hard, staying disciplined and following the coach’s advice. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-punjab-frontier-headquartered-at-jalandhar-gets-first-woman-ig-288912
27-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Vajra Corps celebrates 22nd  anniversary of Kargil War||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26On the occasion of the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil War, Lieutenant General C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, offered tributes to the Kargil martyrs at a solemn wreath laying ceremony held at the Vajra Shaurya Sthal in Jalandhar Cantonment today.During the ceremony, homage was paid to the bravehearts who laid down their lives in supreme sacrifice to the nation during Operation Vijay. The event was attended by senior officers and serving personnel with restricted attendance as per Covid protocols. Similar functions to honour the Kargil martyrs were also held in all stations under Vajra Corps.Kargil Vijay Diwas is celebrated on July 26 every year to commemorate Operation Vijay wherein brave soldiers of the Indian Army overcame near insurmountable odds, hostile terrain, harsh weather and a determined enemy occupying dominating heights, to win the war.A pledge was taken by all attendees on the occasion to rededicate themselves to uphold the highest traditions of the Indian Army and honour of the Tricolour.17 families of Kargil heroes honouredThe Kargil Vijay Divas function was observed at War Memorial today by the Kashyap Naujawan Sabha. Led by Pawan Kashyap, the members of the sabha decorated the War Memorial, especially the Kargil gallery and the area where jyoti is lit up to commemorate the day.Around 17 families of Kargil martyrs attended the event. Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry also visited the site and paid respects to the martyrs and their families. Ex-District Sainik Welfare Officer Col Manmohan Singh also attended the event. All visitors, including the NCC cadets, garlanded the portraits of the martyrs.The sabha members donated a tricycle to a family member. Five needy families also received ration. School bag and stationery items were also distributed to the children of the martyrs. Unlike previous years, no cultural show was held today owing to Covid restrictions. Since it rained heavily at the time of the event, the entire function was held in a hall at the basement of the building.Among those who turned up were Dalwinder Kaur, wife of martyr Buta Singh, Kamaljit Kaur, wife of martyr Avtar Singh, Gulshan Singh, son of Shaurya Chakra awardee Lieut Joga Singh, Harjinder Kaur, wife of martyr Daljeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-vajra-corps-celebrates-22nd-anniversary-of-kargil-war-288913
27-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jasleen Kaur of Jalandhar's Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus 1st in BCom||Sapling plantation drive heldThe PG Department of Botany of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised tree plantation in collaboration with Saanjh Kendra, Punjab Police, Jalandhar. The chief guest of the occasion was ADC (Development) Amarjeet Bains. Nearly 100 saplings were planted on the occasion by Principal, faculty and staff of HMV. Representatives from PP Saanjh, Inspector Sanjiv Bhanot, Inspector Gurdip Lal, ASI Varinder Kumar, ASI Jaswant Singh, Saanjh committee member Praveen Abrol and Hemraj also planted trees. On this occasion, SVEEP awareness capacity building programme was carried out for faculty and staff of HMV. Admission form with voter form was also launched. Special masks carrying the voter awareness messages were also distributed. The masks were prepared by Fashion Design and Designing Departments. ADC Development Bains appreciated the efforts of the college.Webinar on mental healthDelhi Public School, Jalandhar, organised a webinar for students on “Mental Health during Covid Times” to address the increased need for mental health counselling during the pandemic. The webinar was aimed to help students build a resilient mind and boost their mental strength during these unprecedented times. The resource person for the session was Smriti Bhatia; psychologist and counsellor. She counselled the students as she patiently listened to their concerns. Students put forth a number of questions and sought answers to various queries like the difference between sadness and depression, anxiety and having butterflies in stomach, and how to ensure mental health and well being. Bhatia guided them that it was natural to feel certain anxieties and stress during difficult and uncertain times, but there are many things they can do that can help. Principal Ritu Kaul opined that students definitely need not only a sympathetic ear but also guidance to tackle the perplexities caused by the pandemic and such sessions were an initiative by the school to reach out to them.Kargil heroes rememberedKargil Diwas was remembered at Ivy World School. Principal S. Chauhan said that everyone should keep the virtues and solidarity of the nation intact so that no alien force can even think of infiltrating our boundaries. President of Vasal Educational Society KK Vasal, Chairman Sanjeev Vasal, vice-president RK Vasal, Director Ina Vasal, and CEO Raghav Vasal highlighted that it is the seamless and selfless love for your country that goes the long way in shielding the nation and keeping the enemies at bay. The endeavour of every Indian should be to retaliate against any nefarious design that aims at hurting the sovereignty of the nation.Kargil Vijay Diwas observedKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed Kargil Vijay Diwas to salute the soldiers who fought bravely and laid down their lives to protect the borders of our nation during the Kargil war. During the celebrations, NCC cadets prepared short video clips and posters. The students of KMV Collegiate Sr Sec School also participated in poster-making competition and slogan writing competition to pay their rich tribute to the great martyrs. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the nation should never forget its heroes and their proud remembrance and rich legacy should be passed on to the coming generations.In slogan writing competition, Jaspreet Kaur, Babanpreet Kaur and Lovepreet Kaur. In poster making competition,Ashu Mehta, Jaspreet Kaur and Lavanya Arora won prizes. Consolation prize went to Riya. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jasleen-kaur-of-jalandhars-lyallpur-khalsa-college-technical-campus-1st-in-bcom-288915
27-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Chandigarh: Lift broken, specially abled interviewed in corridor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 26A feted specially abled activist, who had applied for the post for Member, Child Welfare Committee, Jalandhar, had to undergo the ordeal of getting interviewed in the corridor, all because of a broken lift and the absence of a ramp to access the first floor office of the Social Security and Women and Child Development in Chandigarh.Vivek Joshi, Specially abledIt’s humiliatingInterviews aren’t held on roads. It’s humiliating. I was told arrangements will be made. I waited in an unkempt spot, while other candidates were sent upstairs.Vivek Joshi (40), with 100 per cent cerebral palsy, was interviewed in an open passage of the building outside shops amidst a slumbering stray dog and parked cycles.Joshi had to be lifted up by his 67-year-old mother and a student to the ground floor passage, as there was no other way to access it. He also had to relieve himself in his car (in a disposable urination pot) in the absence of a bathroom.On Friday, Joshi had sent an email to the department informing it about his condition and seeking “suitable arrangement”.Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Social SecurityWill have better infraWe have written countless letters to get the lift fixed. We are also shifting to a new office with better accessibility. We are improving the infrastructure.Vivek said: “It is all about dignity. Interviews aren’t conducted on roads, there’s a dog here. It’s humiliating. I was told arrangements will be made. My mother and a student had to lift me up to access the passage. I waited in an unkempt spot, while other candidates were sent upstairs. I was finally interviewed for about 5 to 7 minutes.”Amarjit Singh Anand, state disability activist, said: “It’s an irony, a social security office isn’t accessible to the disabled that it claims to represent. Joshi is an acclaimed fighter for the specially abled. At least a table could have been arranged.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chandigarh-lift-broken-specially-abled-interviewed-in-corridor-288619
