28-07-2021||Kapurthala||Sessions Judge visits Central Jail in Kapurthala||Meeting held to beef up securityJalandhar: Reviewing security arrangements at banks, goldsmith shops, money exchanges, and finance companies, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Tuesday asked the heads of these institutions to strictly adhere to security norms in their branches to address all kinds of safety concerns. Chairing a meeting with representatives of these institutions, the CP asked that all banks, finance companies, and loan providers to ensure adequate security measures including installation of CCTV cameras, safety alarms besides deploying armed security guards in their branches. He asked these branch heads to maintain regular communication with mobile police parties deployed in their respective localities. TNSJimpa alleges Rs125 cr scamHoshiarpur: Addressing a press conference here, Brahm Shankar Jimpa, constituency in-charge, AAP, Hoshiarpur, alleged misappropriation of Rs125 crore on the basis of the report given by the Auditor General, Punjab, and the legal opinion given by Advocate General Atul Nanda. Jimpa said the legal opinion has proved that the PSIEC intentionally forfeited profit of Rs161 crore. He said the report has proved that the Industries Department had not consulted the Advocate General office or the Finance Department on the bidding process. He alleged that on March 26, the minister concerned issued a letter to the bidder, in which the bid was approved. He demanded that the CBI should investigate the matter. OCPlantation drive at KangniwalJalandhar: On the occasion of the first anniversary of the EduYouth Foundation, an NGO, a plantation drive was held at Kangniwal village in Phillaur Tehsil on Tuesday. As many as 350 saplings were planted/distributed in the area. Kunwar Sartaj Singh, one of the founders of the NGO, said our organisation has been working for the welfare of society. Apart from this, contribution drives for people participating at the farmers protest were organised, free langar sewa was lauched for Covid patients and saplings were distributed among residents to promote greenery. TNSThree booked in two dowry casesHoshiarpur: The district police have registered two separate cases of dowry harassment and booked three persons. Gurpreet Kaur, a resident of Tanuli village, had lodged a complaint with the Mehtiana police that she was married to Onkar Singh, a resident of Banga Road, Nawanshahr, and has a daughter. She said her husband allegedly started harassing her demanding more dowry. When the demand was not fulfilled, her husband tortured her and threw her, along with her daughter, out of the matrimonial house. In another case Jatinder Kaur, a resident of Nangal Lubana village, Kapurthala, has lodged a complaint with the Tanda police. She told that she was married to Surinder Singh, a resident of Tanda. After marriage, her husband and mother-in-law Balwinder Kaur allegedly started harassing her demanding more dowry. The accused harassed her and threw her out of the house. The police have registered a case against both the accused. ocMaize drying now at Rs85 per quintalHoshiarpur: In view of the demand of farmers, the market committee, Hoshiarpur, has now taken over the dryer in Phuglana Mandi. Jugrajpal Singh Sahi, secretary, market committee, said the maize dryer was installed in the mandi spending crores of rupees. Earlier, it was being run by private players but farmers were not satisfied with it. Now, the committee has taken up the dryer operation in its hands and the charges for drying maize are fixed at Rs 85 per quintal. OCKohli applauds Lovely varsityJalandhar: Team India captain Virat Kohli congratulated Lovely Professional University on record participation in Tokyo Olympics. He took to his Instagram account to congratulate the university. As many as 10 students from LPU have represented the nation in Tokyo Olympics. The university has announced cash rewards worth Rs50 lakh, Rs25 lakh and Rs10 lakh for medal winners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sessions-judge-visits-central-jail-in-kapurthala-289433
28-07-2021||The Innerwheel Club||Phagwara Diary: Innerwheel Club feted for social service||Workers to be jabbedIn a function organised by small scale manufacturing units, Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur told the industrialists that more vaccination camps would be organised in the industrial areas for the safety of labours and workers working in industries. The camps would be organised on a priority basis to prevent the industrial workers from catching the workers. Apart from that, SI Narender Pal singh of the Sewerage Board was also informed about the sewerage problems being faced by the workers. Senior Medical Officer Dr Laimber Ram also assured to provide better medical facilities to Phagwara residents and industrial workers.Covid vaccination campNearly 70 doses of Covid vaccine were administered to the beneficiaries in a vaccination camp organised by Guru Ravidas Sabha Urban Estate. The camp was organised in collaboration with the team of ESI Phagwara. The organisers stated that this was their fourth camp and assured to organise more such camps in the future.World Skills CompetitionAs a part of the Punjab Skill Development Mission, under the leadership of District Employment and Business Bureau, the first round of district-level competitions of 46th World Skills Competition was held at Lovely Professional University. The competitions were reviewed by SP Angra Additional Deputy Commissioner and Development and District Employment Bureau Chief Neelam. Various skill trades events were conducted at the university. Rajesh Bahri, District Manager, Punjab Skill Development Mission said a total of six stages have been set up in these two-day long competitions. In the first and the second place candidates from each stage will compete at the state level. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-innerwheel-club-feted-for-social-service-289432
28-07-2021||---||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University starts green campus campaign||Kapurthala, July 27With a mission to establish maximum green area on all its campuses, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has started a green campus campaign with the theme of ‘Mini Jungle’. Prof Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, is leading this campaign at all the university campuses. He launched this campaign first at its Amritsar campus. A micro forest is an area of 10,000 sq feet area and vertical garden at Amritsar campus is being created with help of ‘the green couple’ Geetanjali Mehra and Rohit Mehra, who have earlier too promoted several green initiatives. The Mini Forest campaign has a variety of native, self-sustainable plants.Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma said there was an urgent need to build an abode for plants and trees through such projects in society that not only houses humans, but also houses other living species too. The VC assured that the university would take concrete steps for setting up such projects in various campuses and team would also inspire its affiliated colleges throughout Punjab to plant maximum in their campus under “Mini Jungle” campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-starts-green-campus-campaign-289431
28-07-2021||Jalandhar||Tribute paid to Kargil war heroes in HMV College, Jalandhar||Kargil Vijay Diwas observedEklavya School observed Kargil Vijay Diwas. It was explained to the students that on 26 July 1999, India successfully took command of the high outposts which had been lost to Pakistani intruders. Kargil Vijay Diwas is celebrated on July 26 every year in honour of the Kargil war’s heroes. Various activities were done in the school. The speech was given by the educator in the online Google Meet assembly. The students made flags. Students of Vth class sang a patriotic song “Ae mere vatan ke logo”. In primary classes, teachers explained that the Kargil war was fought for more than 60 days which ended on July 26 and resulted in the loss of lives on both sides. Senior school paid their homage by drawing beautiful posters and drawings. Some of them made digital cards too. The chairman of the school, JK Gupta, said that such kinds of days are very informative for the children as they get to know about the lives of our soldiers.Admn selects 7 students as internsIt is a proud moment for CT Group of Institutions as its seven students namely Ashmeen Kaur, Navdeep Randhawa, Devyansh Narula, Pooja Behl, Navneet Kaur, Sanjana, Nimish Kumar of different courses such as law, management and multimedia have been selected as interns by the district administration. The role and responsibilities of the law students are to support the disposal of MSME cases in the district along with the officers, handling zimini orders, purusing cases, summoning to respondents and other collective works. The students from multimedia stream will be working on design of banners, flex and other content. And moreover, they will be able to work on graphic designing, poster and certificate designing. Management students will support the day to day operations under the officer and they will be working in different capacities. The students have to maintain good relationships with the people. The students will be learning about the drafting skills along with some exposure to data analysis using MS Excel and MS Power Point.Workshop on micro skillsA seven-day free online workshop was conducted at Kamla Nehru College for Women under the guidance of college Principal Dr Savinder Pal. On the first day, convener of workshop Aman Lata, HoD, Department of English, held activities like micro skills of language learning, baking, table layout, beauty tips, sketching and shading, block printing, clay moulding, basics of computer, personality development and basics of music. The four sessions on day one, two and three were conducted by Swati, Nandini and Dr Lalit. On the fourth day four sessions were conducted by Dr Nimratdeep Kaur, Dr Palwinder Randhawa, Monika, Dr Priyanka,and Dr Neeti. On the fifth day four sessions were conducted by Dr Sudhamini, Dr Nimratdeep and Dr Neeti . On the sixth day of the workshop Dr Priyanka, Ms Monika and Mrs Geeta conducted the sessions. On the concluding day of the workshop,Tarranum 1st in BFAApeejay College of Fine Arts students brought glory by securing the first five positions in a row in Guru Nanak Dev University examination of BFA Sem III. Tarranum bagged the first position in the university with 572/600. Ria Mago secured second position with 571/600. Suminder Kaur got third position in the university with 564/600 and Harleen was on fourth position with 551/600 marks and Prabhsimran secured sixth position with 542/600. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to carry on hard work in future too. She appreciated Anil Gupta, Head, Department of Applied Arts, and other faculty for providing proper guidance to the students.Vaccination Camp organisedUnder Mission Tandrust Punjab Campaign, Red Ribbon Club of MGN College of Education, Jalandhar, organised a Covid vaccination camp in the college premises. During this camp, 100 doses of Covaxin were given to the students of the college as well as to the members of community. The college authorities also facilitated refreshment for all the vaccinated people. A team of four doctors along with medical staff from Civil Hospital, Jalandhar conducted the camp. On this occasion, Principal Neelu Jhanji thanked the medical team for their services. Dr Seema Rani coordinated the event.Himani Jain 1st in MAApeejay students of MA (English) Sem 1 and Sem III outperformed in GNDU examination. Himani Jain of MA (Sem 1) stood 1st in Jalandhar and 6th in the University with 242/400. Anmol of MA (Sem III) secured 2nd position in Jalandhar and 11th position in the university with 252/400.Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the position holders, encouraged and wished them to work hard in future to maintain their position. She applauded the efforts put in by Dr Sunit Kaur, Head, Department of English and other faculty in guiding the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tribute-paid-to-kargil-war-heroes-in-hmv-college-jalandhar-289430
28-07-2021||---||Kapurthala: 2 arrested with 180-kg poppy husk||Kapurthala, July 27In a major crackdown against drug menace, the district police today busted an inter-state racket of smuggling of poppy husk from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab and arrested two persons besides seizing 180 kg of poppy husk from a truck.The arrested accused have been identified as Jatinder Singh of Gurdaspur and Ravi of Mukatsar Sahib. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the district police is keeping a close vigil on the activities of narcotics smugglers active in Kapurthala. He said checking teams were formed under the supervision of SP (Investigation) Vishaljit Singh and DSP Kapurthala Surinder Singh constituting SHO Kotwali and Incharge police post Badshapur.He added that the police teams while patrolling in the area found a suspicious truck standing near Boot village and during search impounded the alum-loaded truck (PB-06-N-9671) along with two smugglers and 180 kg poppy husk.SSP Khakh further stated the accused revealed in preliminary investigation that Sukhdev Singh and Rajwinder Singh alias Raju residents of Gurdaspur area had smuggled this consignment from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.He told that every time, these smugglers adopted a new modus operandi to hide these drugs and to avoid foul smell of poppy husk. This time they loaded the truck with alum and hid the consignment in the canvas.SSP said that all accused were booked under various sections of NDPS Act in a case registered at police station Kotwali. He added that the accused would be produced in the local courts and would be taken on remand for further interrogation and to arrest the remaining members of the racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-2-arrested-with-180-kg-poppy-husk-289403
28-07-2021||---||Kapurthala: Inter-state gang of cattle thieves busted, five held||Kapurthala, July 27The police on Tuesday busted an inter-state gang of cattle thieves by arresting its five members and recovered eight stolen cattle. Besides a Mahindra Pick-up used for ferrying milk-yielding cattle was also recovered.The accused have been identified as Mushtaq, Mohammad Sadiq, Hasaf Ali and Swar Deen all residents of Bardwal, Dhuri and Shokat Ali of Malsoora, Ludhiana. Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Satinder Singh of Mirzapur Dhilwan village had complained that some unknown persons had stolen his cattle on the intervening night of July 16-17.The SSP said different police teams were formed.The SSP said during the investigation, the police teams got a tip off that some thieves who were involved in cattle thefts from Mirzapur were hiding in Dhuri of Sangrur. The police teams were immediately moved to the search the area disclosed by the source. The SSP said that there the police teams arrested five members of the gang and recovered eight cattle and a Mahindra Pick-up (PB-07-BD-6419) used for thefts from the spot.During the preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed of committing thefts of cattle for a hefty sum of money by selling in the market. Khakh said the all accused were booked under Sections 457, 380-B of IPC registered in Dhilwan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-inter-state-gang-of-cattle-thieves-busted-five-held-289405
28-07-2021||---||Enforcing norms: Nawanshahr dist  schools to have Covid care teachers||Nawanshahr, July 27In February, when the state government gradually allowed to conduct regular classes, 28 students of Government High School, Saloh, Nawanshahr, tested Covid positive. Later, hundreds of students tested positive. Nawanshahr was the first district in the state where students tested positive for the virus.Alarmed at the development, the Health Department and the Education Department remained on their toes and had issued directions to the close institutes with immediate effect. The students who tested positive had mild or no symptoms, thus they were quarantined at their respective homes. Now, after a gap of five months, schools have reopened once again. As a result, parents and officials were quite worried about the outcome. On Monday 15 per cent students had attended regular classes while on Tuesday schools witnessed 50 per cent attendance.The Education Department has taken extra measures to ensure that students do not contract the virus. Even a meeting was held between the Deputy Commissioner and the Education Department’s officials in this regard.In every school in Nawanshahr, a Covid care teacher would remain on duty. Teachers would share responsibility on the basis of a roster. The teacher concerned would ensure that students wear masks, and practise social distancing.“If any student is not well, Covid care teacher will report to the Health Department and the student concerned will be given leave immediately,” said District Education Officer Jagjit Singh.Moreover, principals have been asked too sanitise school premises on the weekends, to combat the virus. An undertaking was being taken from principals that their teaching and non-teaching staff has been fully vaccinated.The Sikhya Sudhar Team would visit schools to ensure situation remains under control. Surinder Agnihotri, who is the Nodal Officer in Nawanshahr, has been appointed in charge of the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enforcing-norms-nawanshahr-dist-schools-to-have-covid-care-teachers-289406
28-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: Doctors concerned as Covid infection rise among kids||Jalandhar, July 27Amid fears of a surge in Covid-19 among children in the potential third wave, kids under 10 years of age are reportedly contracting the virus in the district. In addition, for the last fortnight almost one or two fresh cases being reported include minors. As per the health officials, in the past week around five children between the age group 1-10 years were found infected by the virus. Similarly, 5-6 fresh cases were in the 10-18 age group.Though there has been a decline in cases, the infection rate among kids is worrying. Dr Rohit Sharma (RMO), in-charge, Covid Data Cell, said, “For the past few weeks, the daily cases have undoubtedly declined. However, the rise in the infection rate among kids is of a valid concern. Considering the estimated figures, 12-15 cases of Covid positive children were reported in the district in the last fortnight.” The vaccination programme cover only those above 18 years of age, so minors are at a higher risk of contracting the virus.Doctors treating Covid patients say that the Covid-19 cases being reported among infants and children is a serious challenge for the Health Department. Amid possible emergence of the third wave, the infection rate of virus among children could also pose a challenge for their family members.“Though its hard to predict, how the virus would mutate, as in the second wave too young people succumbed to the virus, but considering the vaccination drive, minors are at a higher risk of getting infected. Also, while there is a little evidence of fatality risk among children, post Covid complications can be diagnosed”, said Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA.The reason for rise in infection rate among children is also because they go out to play and more social activities could also pose a risk of catching the virus.Two-yr-old among infected in districtThe district on Tuesday reported four fresh cases, among which included a two-year-old child. For the past five days, no casualty due to Covid was reported and the total deaths at present are 1,490.Three +ve in HoshiarpurA total of three Covid cases were reported on Tuesday in the district, taking the total district tally to 30,637 cases. The toll remained at 975 as no Covid death was reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-doctors-concerned-as-covid-infection-rise-among-kids-289407
28-07-2021||---||BSP comes out in support of farmers, holds protest march||Nawanshahr, July 27 The Bahujan Samaj Party today organised a massive protest march in support of the farmers’ movement in Nawanshahr in which BSP Punjab President Jasvir Singh Garhi participated. The district-level dharna was led by state General Secretary Dr Nachhatar Pal, who took out a huge march from the Ambedkar Chowk. Addressing a massive gathering at Ambedkar Chowk, Garhi said the BJP government at the Centre was ‘anti-farmer’, ‘anti-backward’ and ‘anti-minority’. “After the farmers’ protest march at the Red Fort on January 26, the Prime Minister had said he was just a phone call away from resolving the farmers’ issue, while six months have already passed, the behaviour of the BJP government is still worse,” the protesters said. Taking a jibe at the Congress, Garhi said the statement of the newly-appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu that thirsty farmers are coming to the ‘well’ of the Congress, is highly condemnable.  He said, “The Congress party did not support the adjournment motion during the current session of Parliament, when the BSP and Shiromani Akali Dal wanted to draw nationwide attention to the farmers’ issues. Instead of taking up the issue in the Parliament, Congress is holding useless demonstrations on tractors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsp-comes-out-in-support-of-farmers-holds-protest-march-289408
28-07-2021||---||Columbus, break dance rides all set for revival at Jalandhar's Nikku Park||Jalandhar, July 27As a part of the expansion and rejuvenation plan for kids’ all-time favourite Nikku Park at Model Town, three more rides will soon become operational. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said within short span of time, Nikku Park would have an ultra modern balling court besides two major swings namely Columbus and break dance. Thori said nearly Rs 12 lakh would be incurred to complete these tasks, which would be also centre of attraction for hundreds of daily visitors.He said the balling court would also be made operational in four-five days at a cost of Rs 1.5 lakh while Rs 7 lakh is being spent to revive Columbus swing besides making break dance swing functional at a cost of nearly Rs 3.75 lakh. The Deputy Commissioner said these rides were out of order for the past eight years.Notably, Nikku Park, which is located at the heart of the city, was in dilapidated conditions due to lack of maintenance as it remained shut due to the pandemic for almost a year. Thori stated that a special drive was carried out in the last few months to repair all the swings besides giving this park a new facelift.He further added that all main swings and rides in the park that includes the amusement bus, fountains, train, music fountains, floodlights, and many more have been made operational lately. Further, CCTV cameras have also been installed on the park premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/columbus-break-dance-rides-all-set-for-revival-at-jalandhars-nikku-park-289410
28-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Group of armed youth attack Krishna Car Bazaar owner in Hoshiarpur's Hira Colony||A Congress leader and a party councillor, along with their accomplices, allegedly attacked Krishna Car Bazaar owner in the busiest market of the city, Hira Colony, in broad daylight today.According to the information, 15-20 persons created ruckus in the Krishna Car Bazaar at the Hira Colony near the bus stand this afternoon. As soon as they came, they started beating the people sitting inside the office of car bazaar and also vandalised the office badly. This incident was recorded on CCTV cameras. In the footage, one of the attackers could be seen throwing computer and other things at people sitting in the office. They also ransacked the expensive luxury cars parked inside the car bazaar.Owner of the car bazaar, Vivek Kaushal, said, he was sitting inside his showroom with some friends and employees when suddenly some people started attacked him. On it, he locked himself in a room, due to which his life was saved.He alleged that the attackers had swords, sticks and revolvers in their hands. The car market was badly vandalised. According to him, he suffered a loss of about Rs 40 lakh.Two of his accomplices Kamal Bhargav and Vipan Kumar were badly injured in the attack. Kamal Bhargava was taken to the Civil Hospital for treatment, where he has been referred to a specialty hospital, Jalandhar, in view of his critical condition. Car market owner Vivek Kaushal alleged that he had an old dispute with a Congress leader from Hoshiarpur, due to which he along with his associates, including a Congress MC, attacked his office in broad daylight.He said he repeatedly informed police about the threat to his life in writing two months ago, but they chose to ignore it. The police said investigation is on. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/group-of-armed-youth-attack-krishna-car-bazaar-owner-in-hoshiarpurs-hira-colony-289411
28-07-2021||---||Mirabai Chanu’s coach Inspector Sandeep Kumar gets a rousing reception in Phagwara||Jalandhar, July 27As Inspector Sandeep Kumar, who is Assistant Coach to silver medal winning weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, today reached back, he got a hero’s welcome.A grand function was organised at Ramgarhia College, Phagwara, to honour him as he is alumnus of the college. He was warmly welcomed by college principal Dr Manjit Singh, staff and other dignitaries. Gagandeep Singh Dhatt honored him with a bouquet and a momento.Sandeep Kumar hails from Bara Pind village in Jalandhar. He is serving as an Inspector at the Sports Centre of Punjab Armed Police headquarters here, where too he was warmly received late this evening. An international-level weightlifter himself, Kumar had participated in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. He had won a bronze in the 69-kg category in the 1998 Commonwealth Games held in Kuala Lumpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mirabai-chanus-coach-inspector-sandeep-kumar-gets-a-rousing-reception-in-phagwara-289413
28-07-2021||---||Jalandhar Mayor at receiving end over ‘shady’ unipole deal||Jalandhar, July 27The MC General House meeting was held after five months on Tuesday and it remained a stormy affair amid few councillors, including the senior ones, demanding resignation of mayor Jagdish Raja on a common issue of prevalent ‘Afsarshahi’ that has been troubling them for long.Notably, the issue of an alleged fraud in the entire process of installation of unipoles by a firm in the city was highlighted in the last meeting and it was alleged that the advertisement wing officials were hands in glove with the contractor in the fraud. After the allegations, the officials of almost every wing of the MC had protested and had not attended the meeting.The mayor had then said: “Absence of officials concerned is definitely not right. They should have defended themselves by taking part in the meeting. As they are not here, show-cause notices will be issued to them.” Today, the councillors asked the mayor what action was taken against those officials.Des Raj Jassal asked the mayor to resign if he could not do anything in this matter. “Mayor saab panj mahine ho gaye, je halle vi kuch nai kitta, te resign de deyo (It has been five months, if you still have not done anything, then resign from your post),” he said, adding that inaction was only affecting the image of Congress.BJP Councillor Viresh Kumar also said dominance of the MC officials in every work was not letting councillors do their work. “If this is how the corporation is going to function, then it is better that you should resign,” he said. Another Congress councillor Mandeep Jassal also raised the same matter and said amidst such an environment, either the councillors should resign or the mayor should take the responsibility and give resignation.Councillors ‘kept in the dark’ over Smart City projectRecently, the All Adhoc Committees Chairman of the MC had given a memorandum to the Chairman of Vidhan Sabha Committee in which it was mentioned that several works were being carried out under the Smart City Project about which the MC councillors don’t even know.“Whenever the work is not done properly, area residents blame the councillors. So, it is important that councillors must also be taken into confidence before taking up any kind of development works,” Congress Councillor Balraj Thakur said.The issue was raised again during the meeting where it was said the works that are being carried out under the Smart City are not up to the mark. “The roads being constructed are so poor that the area residents question us. Nobody questions the ‘so-called’ officials who actually get the work done and the onus is always put on the councillors. There was no involvement of the councillors and they are never told regarding the same,” said Mandeep Jassal.Fight of slogans: Cong, BJP councillors exchange barbsAmid the allegations, the BJP councillors sat on the floor and started raising slogans against the mayor. Raja mast, Jalandhar trast, corporation murdabad, these slogans echoed in the hall. The Congress councillors also started raising slogans Modi jumla sarkar murdabad. The Congress councillors also said the BJP councillors were only wasting the time of the House. “On one hand, you are saying that no development is taking place and on the other, instead of carrying out discussions, you are only aggravating the problem by taking out such protests,” one of the Congress councillors said. During the entire episode, the mayor Jagdish Raja didn’t utter even a single word and remained quiet and calm!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mayor-at-receiving-end-over-shady-unipole-deal-289418
28-07-2021||---||Kapurthala beat Patiala by 7 wickets, enter final||Mohali, July 27Kapurthala lads beat Patiala by seven wickets to enter the final of the Punjab State Senior Inter-District T20 Tournament at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today.After winning the toss, Kapurthala skipper asked Patiala to bat. The match was reduced to 14 overs a side due to light showers and poor light.Patiala scored 116/4 in the stipulated overs. Jiwanjot Singh (29 off 17 balls, five fours) was the top scorer for the side. He was ably supported by Prabhsimran Singh (26) and Karan Kaila (20). Ujjwal (2/19) and Krishan Alang (1/15) shared three wickets between them.In reply, Kapurthala reached home in 13.2 overs with Bikramjit Singh scoring a brisk 31. Krishan Alang (30) and Himanshu Satyawan (23) also made useful contributions to the chase. Kaila, Mayank Markande and Ikjot Singh scalped one wicket each for Patiala.Brief scoresPatiala: 116/4 in 14 overs (Jiwnajot Singh 29, Prabhsimran Singh 26; Ujjwal 2/19) lost to Kapurthala: 117/3 in 13.2 overs (Krishan Alang 30, Himanshu Satywan 23).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-beat-patiala-by-7-wickets-enter-final-289079
