29-07-2021||Nawanshahr district has secured top position in the state by ensuring 0.03 per cent pendency and providing smooth and hassle-free citizen services through Sewa Kendras. Hailing the efforts of entire team of district administration||Nawanshahr district on top in providing smooth citizen services||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-district-on-top-in-providing-smooth-citizen-services-289987
29-07-2021||Jalandhar||NRI loses $920 aboard bus from Delhi airport to Jalandhar||The victim asked the bus operators to check CCTV footage of the bus, however, due to lack of cameras, nothing could be done. She informed that money was there in her bag till Rajpura and she did not check her bag after that.Chaos were witnessed at the Indo-Canadian office after the vicitm and the bus staff accused fellow passengers of stealing her money. The Indo-Canadian management said CCTV camreas were removed recently to install new ones. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-loses-920-aboard-bus-from-delhi-airport-to-jalandhar-289980
29-07-2021||Jalandhar||Newborn found abandoned in Phillaur village, dies||NGO donates Rs2L to relief societyJalandhar: Extending help in the ongoing war against the Covid-19 pandemic, Hamco Cheritable Trust, an NGO, on Wednesday donated Rs 2 lakh to the district relief funds. While handing over the contribution to Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Shant Kumar Gupta, chairman of the NGO, said the pandemic can be won over only with collective efforts of society and being responsible citizens. It’s the need of the hour that every citizen works shoulder to shoulder with the local administration. Lauding the efforts of philanthropists during the ongoing crisis, the DC said such endeavours not only help the administration but also instill a sense of responsibility among others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/newborn-found-abandoned-in-phillaur-village-dies-289874
29-07-2021||BLM Girls College in Nawanshahr has been awarded the District Green Champion Award for sanitation and cleanliness by Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Education Council. Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal presented the certificate to the Principal of the college Taranpreet Kaur. She said this achievement would also inspire other colleges in the district. The principal said the college has been honoured for its outstanding performance in the field of sanitation which included formation of sanitation action plan committee||Nawanshahr Diary: District Green Champion Award for BLM Girls College||DC reviews anti-drug campaign progressDeputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal reviewed the progress of anti-drug campaign in the district during a meeting. Apart from evaluating the performance of the OOAT centres, she also reviewed the programmes like Buddy, Mission Red Sky and Drug Free India Campaign. All department heads were directed to expedite their anti-drug awareness activities. The Deputy Commissioner also asked the officers of the employment department to provide maximum self-employment opportunities to the drug addicts so that they could be integrated into the mainstream of society. More activities to motivate the youth towards sports and other constructive activities to keep them away from drugs was another suggestion that was given during the meeting. The DC asked to adopt special measures to increase the number of drug free villages in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-district-green-champion-award-for-blm-girls-college-289873
29-07-2021||Jalandhar||Phagwara's Cambridge International School organises declamation contest||Nature Conservation Day observedHMV Collegiate Senior Sec School celebrated Nature Conservation Day under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. Chief Guest Harpreet Singh, SDM, graced the occasion. Dr Sareen mentioned about different green initiatives taken by the college. The concept of Rakhi Sakhi is also one of the acclaimed initiatives in which the new dimension Vrikshabandhan has been added to tie the knot of protection to trees. She felt elated that the message of conserving and appreciating nature is disseminated in the society through the students. SDM Harpreet Singh appreciated the efforts taken by HMV and was highly elated to know about Vrikshabandha, eco-friendly garden maintained beautifully by waste products, solar power units and by the entire greenery and positivity of HMV.Principal invited at conferenceProf Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, was invited to speak at an international conference titled ‘Inclusion Beyond Borders’ organised by the prestigious Leeds Beckett University, UK. During the conference, Prof Dwivedi sharing her presentation on the topic “ Inclusiveness in Education: Impact beyond Borders — an Experiential Insight” averred that educational institutions are the lighthouses of the society as they provide direction to the society. She focussed on development of women across the country and their assimilation in mainstream life through futuristic education. Prof Dwivedi showcased the practical work done by KMV towards the goal of inclusiveness. She emphasised on the importance of inclusivity right from the grassroot levels in order to get best results.Cash awards for Olympics winnersHaving reportedly sent 11 students to Tokyo Olympics, Lovely Professional University, has announced cash rewards for its students who win a medal at the Tokyo Olympics. The university will be giving Rs 50 lakh to gold medal winners, Rs 25 lakh to silver winner and Rs 10 lakh for bronze winner. Ashok Mittal, Chancellor, Lovely Professional University said, “We are so proud of our team of students who are striving hard to bring glory to the country at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. Rewarding our sports stars will be a small token of appreciation for their hard work and accomplishment.” LPU provides 100 per cent scholarship to its promising athletes, which includes full fee waiver, free lodging and boarding, financial assistance for buying sports equipment, participating in various tournaments and coaching and infrastructure.Sankalp Diwas observedA ‘Sankalp Diwas’ was observed in the memory of Sudarshan Kumar Uppal, founder of the college MLU DAV College, Phagwara. Under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college, ‘Havan’ was performed to mark the beginning of new academic session 2021-22. On this sacred occasion, members of Local Managing Committee including Chairman Vikas Uppal, Pooja Uppal, Principal and staff chanted the vedic mantras. Dr Randhawa apprised the gathering of the reason behind observing this day. She said that college had completed 21 years and the land for setting up the college was donated by founder Sudarshan Uppal, who wanted to promote education. During function Covid-19 guidelines were followed by everyone. Dr Randhawa hoped for bright future and extended a warm welcome to the guests and staff members. She motivated everyone to aspire, achieve and stop not, till the goal is achieved. TNSBalloon soccer contestIvy World School is putting in tremendous efforts to improve the mental and physical health of students. Balloon Soccer competition was organised. The students participated enthusiastically in the event. Principal S Chauhan applauded the students for their extraordinary participation. She also acclaimed that games are an efficacious way to elevate our health. It enriches focus and sets the mind in the right direction and further suggested that we should give priority to ourselves and concentrate on our health. She added that the pandemic has created harmful effects on the health of the people and these little activities can stimulate our mind and body as health and happiness are inter-connected.Vaccination camp organisedAs many as 83 students above 18 years were administered the first dose of Covid vaccine at a camp organised for students in local Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala. Principal Dr Archna Garg said that as per directions of Punjab Ggovernment, college is fully geared up for the start of classes in the campus. “We have identified all those students who are ready for vaccination. Keeping in mind the examination schedule of university, the camps will be organised in future too. The students from commerce stream were administered the first dose of Covishield,” she added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwaras-cambridge-international-school-organises-declamation-contest-289872
29-07-2021||---||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University Vice-Chancellor empasizes on importance of NAAC & NBA accreditation||Jalandhar, July 28The quality sustenance and sustainability in educational institutions is possible only through National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) & National Board of Accreditation (NBA). It is the responsibility of all IKGPTU affiliated colleges to ensure it. It helps the institutions to know about their strengths, weaknesses and opportunities through an informed review, said Vice-Chancellor, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma.He was addressing a special workshop-cum webinar as a chief guest on the topic “The importance of NAAC & NBA Accreditation.” The aim of this webinar was to prepare directors and principals, faculty members of affiliated colleges for accreditation.VC Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma shared his views during the inaugural session and motivated the participants & faculty members to prepare themselves for accreditation. He updated the latest development and initiatives taken by the university for the benefit of the students of University and affiliated colleges.Director College Development Dr Balkar Singh welcomed the participants and the resource persons of the workshop. In its first session, resource person Prof Akshay Girdhar, Dean Academics, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, guided participants on the key components of Outcome Based Education and Vision, Mission, Programme Educational Objectives, Graduate Attributes and Programme Outcomes related to accreditation. In the second session, he talked about the necessary components. He clarified that to get UGC grants, financial aids, RUSA grants etc, accreditation is very important. He said it was made mandatory by the Government of India for all higher educational institutes. Ultimately, it offers a better direction and identity to the institute.The resource person on the second day for the workshop was Dr Nameesh Miglani, general secretary, STEPS. He was inspired by the words, ‘Quality is not a destination; it is a continuous process to maintain the standards of institutions.’ He referred to participants about the assessment methodology, guidelines, benefits, quality initiatives, and its advantages. Around 250 participants from more than 150 colleges participated in this webinar. It was organised by the University’s College Development Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-vice-chancellor-empasizes-on-importance-of-naac-nba-accreditation-289871
29-07-2021||---||Jalandhar-based spinner Raghu Sharma is all set to turn heads||Jalandhar, July 28Having started playing cricket around eight years ago, city-based cricket Raghu Sharma (28) is all set to participate in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. He is preparing for the domestic season of the tournament in Puducherry.Raghu Sharma, a right-arm leg spinner, is quite consistent with his bowling in the domestic circuit. “I developed my interest for cricket when I was 19. Subsequently, a year later, it became my passion. I’m thankful to Harbhajan Singh, who has given me the opportunity to be a part of Mumbai Indians and also be the part of Under-23 Punjab and Ranji. He supported me throughout my cricket journey,” added Sharma, a resident of Choti Baradari here.As the last cricketing season was cut short due to Covid, this time the BCCI has planned to have a full domestic season starting from October till March in which T20 (Syed Mustaq Ali), Multiday (Ranji) and ODIs (Vijay Hazare) is being scheduled and Raghu Sharma, who has represented Punjab in the Ranji from 2017-2018, 2018-2019, 2019-2020 is now going to represent Puducherry in the Syed Mustaq Ali and Vijay Hazare (2020-2021) tournaments. Earlier, he represented Mumbai Indians in the 2016 edition of IPL.“Now it’s a full season, so I’m working on my fitness, right nutrition and right practice in order to prepare well for the upcoming matches, so I hope this season I can do well for my local Side, Pondicherry and also it’s my target to be part of IPL this coming season”, said Sharma.Previously, he had played Vijay Hazare, Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy from Punjab and Puducherry in 2019-2020, has been part of Mumbai Indians team in IPL 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-spinner-raghu-sharma-is-all-set-to-turn-heads-289870
29-07-2021||---||Manoranjan Kalia alleges Rs 125-crore scam, seeks Punjab Chief Secretary’s resignation||Jalandhar, July 28BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia on Wednesday alleged Rs125-crore scam in the Industries Department and demanded the resignation of Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.Speaking to the press here, Kalia alleged, “A scam of Rs125 crore in the Industries Department has surfaced pertaining to the sale of 31 acre land of JCT Electronics. The stamp of ex-post facto approval of the single bid was initiated with the signature of then ACS, Industries Department, and now Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.”Demanded the resignation of the chief secretary, Kalia alleged, “It was her approval which set the ball rolling for this scam, the cancellation of auction and the CBI enquiry should also be made into the matter.”He further alleged, “When the plot of 31 acre was given on 99 years lease by Punjab Infotech, the payment of bid money should have been given to Punjab Infotech. Instead the GRG Developers, the bidder offered to make the payment directly to Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) and hence a suggestion was made by GRG developers to enter into a tripartite agreement which was accepted by the PSIEC in-principle and conveyed to ARCIL without involving Punjab Infotech. The bidder has no locus standi to offer a tripartite agreement to protect the interest of the PSIEC, when both Punjab Infotech and the PSIEC are State sponsored bodies.”He added, “The acceptance of single bid by Assets Reconstruction Company India Limited (ARCIL) in regard to auction of the plot of JCT Electronics raises a big question. When it is the general instruction from the government not to accept single bid in any auction/contract, why was a single bid in the aforesaid auction was accepted? Why was the said plot not re-auctioned?”Kalia demanded the dismissal of Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, S. Gurmit Singh Rana Sodhi, Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs, NRI Affairs and Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.The district president, Sushil Sharma, former mayor Sunil Jyoti, Raman Panbbi, Ashwani Diwan, Rajat Mohindru among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manoranjan-kalia-alleges-rs-125-crore-scam-seeks-punjab-chief-secretarys-resignation-289869
29-07-2021||Phagwara||One arrested on charge of murder of Phagwara-based shopkeeper||Solving the murder case of a Phagwara-based shopkeeper, the Kapurthala police on Wednesday arrested a youth besides seizing the crime weapon from him.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar (23) alias Babba, a resident of Bohani village in Kapurthala.Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said last evening the Rawalpindi police had received information about the murder of Gurdeep Singh, who runs a shop Prince General Store at Adda Bohani. The SSP said a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered on the statement of victim’s son Darshan Singh. The accused confessed to comitting the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-arrested-on-charge-of-murder-of-phagwara-based-shopkeeper-289868
29-07-2021||---||5 Covid positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 28A total of five new Covid cases were reported on Wednesday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,077 cases. The toll remained at 1,490 as no Covid death was reported today. As many as 61,523 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 64.No case, death at Kapurthala No fresh case of Covid or death were reported from Kapurthala on Wednesday.2 positive in NawanshahrTwo fresh Covid cases were reported on Wednesday from Nawanshar. The cases were reported from Saroya and Mukandpur blocks. The tally of positive cases stands at 11,425, while active cases are three.No case in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported from the district on Wednesday , keeping the total district tally to 30,637 cases. The toll remained at 975 as no Covid death was reported today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-covid-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-289867
29-07-2021||---||Panel approves pension, other benefits to 40 Covid-hit children in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 28A district-level committee headed by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday approved pension benefits to 40 Covid-hit children who have lost either one or both parents due to the disease.Presiding over a review meeting, the DC asked officials to ensure coverage of all children under the welfare schemes of the government. He added that such children are entitled for free education till graduation, benefits under Smart Ration Card scheme, Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, employment opportunities for third family members, and a monthly pension worth Rs 1,500. He said in case of death of the breadwinner of a family, the employment opportunities to be given to the husband/wife of the deceased.So far, 40 cases have been received by the administration and district social security officer has been asked to immediately start monthly pension to all the children. Besides, their education and nourishment will be taken care of.The eligible beneficiaries could directly call the DSSO office and DCPO office at their phone numbers 0181-2258199, 0181-2459634, 9914586494 for assistance. The DC asked officials to accord top priority to deliver benefits of welfare schemes to Covid-19 hit children as any kind of laxity in this task would be dealt strictly. Various departments have been directed to rope in anganwadi workers, ASHA workers and other field staff to cover maximum beneficiaries under the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-approves-pension-other-benefits-to-40-covid-hit-children-in-jalandhar-district-289866
29-07-2021||---||Members protest as Pritam Singh Narangpuri declares self as NRI Sabha (Punjab) chief||Jalandhar, July 28Members of the NRI Sabha (Punjab) took exception to its ex-president Pritam Singh Narangpuri’s act of declaring himself as the working president of the body and occupying the chair this afternoon.Narangpuri had been claiming since last evening that he had been appointed as the working president of the sabha since the elected president Kirpal Singh Sahota was residing in the US. The staff of the NRI Sabha said they asked him to show a letter from the government or the Department of NRI Affairs as per which he could occupy the seat but he told them that it was lying at his place and he forgot to bring it along.NRI Sabha in-charge Darshan Singh said he was not in the office on Wednesday when the incident took place. He said he too would have to take up the matter with higher officials tomorrow.Ex-president of the sabha Jasvir Singh Shergill said, “Narangpuri is cooking up a fake story. The sabha’s constitution does not allow any such arrangement. I have personally called up the minister and department officials to check if any such orders had been passed and they confirmed that no such decision had been taken.”He added that when he was the sabha’s chief in 2014, he had even started a move to cancel his membership as he could not produce the required documents to confirm his NRI status. So, he cannot in any way himself assume the charge as the sabha president.”Meanwhile, Narangpuri sent across a self-signed note mentioning that a meeting was held in the office of the NRI Sabha and that he had been appointed as the working president by the Department of NRI Affairs in place of Sahota. He said eight members — Jagjit Singh Sodhi, SK Chopra, Paramjit Singh, Amrik Singh, Sukhchain Singh, Jarnail Singh, Avtar Singh and Mohinder Singh — were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/members-protest-as-pritam-singh-narangpuri-declares-self-as-nri-sabha-punjab-chief-289865
29-07-2021||---||Rain brings relief from heat, but waterlogged roads in Jalandhar spoil charm||Jalandhar, July 28Heavy rain lashed the city since last evening, bringing the much-needed relief from hot and humid weather conditions. At the same time, it left some roads badly inundated.As the weather remained pleasant throughout the day, many youngsters and families preferred to frolic around and enjoy rides across the city. But, potholed, badly worn-out roads filled with huge puddles spoiled their plans. It was common to see vehicles getting knocked out by the roadsides or getting stuck in knee-deep waters on the 66-feet road and Basti Sheikh areas.The worst affected were residents of the old city, especially near the Domoria underbridge where there was maximum water-logging. While residents prefer zipping past across the overbridge, many have to use the underbridge for reaching access to closeby shops and offices.Residents of Khambra along Nakodar Road and Dheena near Jalandhar Cantonment said the roads dug up to lay sewer pipes at this time could prove to be very risky.Jagdeep Kaur, a health worker, said, “The road in the Dheena area is in such a pathetic condition that I had prayers on my lips as I crossed it today. Only a narrow strip of muddy road was commutable and there was a long row of vehicles on either side to cross over.”Residents of Ladowali Road too are facing a similar situation as here too sewer work has been going on for the past 15 days. Here too, only one side of the road is being used even as there are shops along either side of the road. “The entire stretch of the road was in complete mess today, especially during the time when the trains were to pass through the adjoining level crossing. There was muck flowing all over and no one could even step down from the vehicle. This is not the ideal time for the MC authorities to get the sewer work done,” rued Balwant Singh, a resident of the adjoining Preet Nagar area.MC Commissioner ration Karnesh Sharma said that the problem of water logging would be over once storm water sewer laying work would be completed in some low lying areas. This work has already been done in some parts of the city and is being undertaking along two more roads one starting from Babu Jagjeevan Ram Chowk and another near DAV Canal area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-brings-relief-from-heat-but-waterlogged-roads-in-jalandhar-spoil-charm-289864
29-07-2021||---||Political hoardings deface cityscape in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 28The recent political developments have led to complete defacement of the city. Illegal hoardings have been installed by supporters and political outfits throughout the city.It all began with billboards of ‘Captain dobara’ (meaning having Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM face once again) across the city by his loyalists during a month-long turmoil in the Congress. Since most MLAs, youth leaders and women activists wanted to show solidarity with Capt Amarinder, such posters were put up very prominently at almost all the locations, including Jalandhar Cantonment.While the issue was still raging, arrival of Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal and announcement of electricity sops in line with Delhi model led to another hoardings battle. Though a bit smaller in size, they were put up in all the markets.Amid the heated politics, posters surfaced over the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new PPCC chief. These posters came up at most prominent sites, including BMC Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Masand Chowk, Skylark Chowk, Kapurthala Chowk, Nakodar Chowk and Football Chowk.As religion and politics started to rage, another set of hoardings dotted the city. Put up by some activists, there has been a demand for having a Hindu face as the next CM. “Punjab ka agla CM Hindu kyon nhi? (meaning why can’t the next CM be a Hindu leader),” read the billboards. Since a lot of politics has been going around giving due representation to the Dalits and other sections of society in the government set-ups and party organisations, these hoardings put across the message by one such group.As a result, the city’s entry points, including PAP Chowk, Rama Mandi Chowk and centrally located BMC Chowk totally got defaced.Subhash Shukla, a resident, said: “The Assembly elections are still six months away, but the way various political and social groups have become active, it seems that poll are just around the corner. If civic body will not act, the cityscape will further get spoiled. Officials need to stop all such activities, even though most of these hoardings have been put up by leaders of the ruling party.”Some hoardings can fall apart anytime and pose constant risk to commuters. Supreet Kaur, a student, said: “While I was on way to the market near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, I saw one such hoarding falling onto the road during heavy rain. I do not understand why the authorities let such hoardings be installed when there are designated unipoles available on rental basis for the same.”Mayor Jagdish Raja seemed quite casual about the issue and said: “It has been a tradition of the city to come up with hoardings whenever a new development takes place. Since the number is far too high, it may take us a few days to get them removed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/political-hoardings-deface-cityscape-in-jalandhar-289862
29-07-2021||---||Enforcement Directorate attaches assets worth Rs 42 cr in irrigation scam in Punjab||Jalandhar, July 28The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued an order attaching assets of Gurinder Singh, a contractor who was booked by the Vigilance Bureau on corruption charges in 2017 in the multi-crore irrigation scam allegedly committed during the previous SAD-BJP regime.Got contracts at 50% higher rates.A case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act was initiated by the ED, Jalandhar office, over the corruption charges. In the investigation into five of the total projects so far undertaken by ED officials, proceeds of crime worth approximately Rs 42 crore have been attached in the case. This has been done from the amount detected in Gurinder’s bank accounts.ED sources said further investigation into the case was going on, whereas other immovable/movable assets of Gurinder were under scrutiny. The officials are also looking into the role of government officials and leaders of the then regime in the scam.The contractor had been booked for causing loss to state exchequer in irrigation projects of the Punjab Government on August 17, 2017, by the flying squad, Mohali. It has been found that officials of the Irrigation Department had allotted contracts to Gurinder at 10-50 per cent higher rates as compared to the departmental rates. Gurinder had allegedly acquired a lot of immovable properties at various locations in Punjab with the money obtained through illegal means.It was alleged that Gurinder in connivance with department officials caused a loss of crores of rupees to the government by twisting rules, not adhering to e-tendering procedure, making tailor-made terms for e-tendering to benefit himself and leaking secrets regarding developmental works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enforcement-directorate-attaches-assets-worth-rs-42-cr-in-irrigation-scam-in-punjab-289642
29-07-2021||Aparna Banerji||Lift fixed, but specially abled activist yet to receive apology||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 28Two days after specially abled activist and national awardee Vivek Joshi (40) underwent a humiliating ordeal at the office of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development (DSSWCD), Chandigarh, the latter maintains a studied silence. It is yet to respond to his email or apologise for the harrowing ordeal he went through.Also read: Chandigarh: Lift broken, specially abled interviewed in corridorVivek says the disabled constantly have to fight with society to be treated with respect. Disappointed with what he calls a ‘standard’ response from the authorities, Vivek says, “I’m used to it now since it happens every few months. Governments don’t care.” Vivek adds the behaviour meted out to him on July 27 was a violation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act.Vivek has been honoured with national and state awards in 2016 and 2011, District Honour, Jalandhar, in 2016, excellence award by ADAPT, Mumbai, in 2015, among many others.On Monday, he had to wait for over an hour in an unkempt passage of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development building at Sector 34 in Chandigarh and had to relieve himself in his car due to a non-functional lift and no bathroom.Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development, said, “The lift started functioning the very next day of the incident. Intimation regarding the activist’s email wasn’t received by me. We will be responding to him tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lift-fixed-but-specially-abled-activist-yet-to-receive-apology-289643
