30-07-2021||\||Jalandhar: Overflowing sewage spells misery for residents||Jalandhar, July 29Residents of Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Avenue and Surya Enclave here are an inconvenienced lot as the civic body authorities have failed to address the issue of choked sewers for the past several weeks.The continuous overflowing of filthy water has damaged main roads and streets leading to residential colonies. Despite lodging a complaint regarding choked sewer lines several times, the MC and the Improvement Trust have not bothered about meeting the residents’ demand.Rajan Gupta, president, Guru Gobind Singh Avenue Welfare Society, said, “Owing to the choked sewerage, sewage has accumulated on the road. What is abominable is that sometimes the rubbish reaches almost the entrance to houses, making life of residents miserable. We run the risk of contracting water-borne diseases. If immediate steps are not taken, it can lead to an outbreak of vector-borne diseases in the area.” Though MC officials have been reminded of solving the issue many times, they never cared to visit the spot.“The super suction machines installed around two weeks ago failed to discharge the filth, causing overflow in the sewer lines,” Gupta added.Kushwant Singh, a resident of Guru Gobind Singh Society, said the choked sewerage had made their life a hell. “The foul smell pervasive in and around the area and even in houses makes things unbearable for the residents of nearby houses. I urge the MC officials to take immediate steps to fix the problem,” he added.The overflowing sewage is also causing cracks on the roads which were repaired recently. These have also developed potholes, claim the residents.“The residents have been facing the problem for the past two years. The monsoon season has further compounded the problem. There is no proper mechanism to drain out the accumulated water. Dirty water comes out of the damaged sewer lines making it difficult for the residents to commute on the roads,” said Ranjit Singh, a resident of Maharaj Ranjit Singh Avenue.Meanwhile, the residents threatened that if the MC did not act on their complaint, they would talk to the DC, Jalandhar, in this regard. They also lodged their complaint with the police commissioner.Meanwhile, area councillor Shelly Khanna admitted that it had become a never-ending problem. Owing to the blocked sewer lines, virtual ponds have formed in the area. “Complaints have been lodged with the MC and the Improvement Trust, but to no avail,” added Shelly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-overflowing-sewage-spells-misery-for-residents-290422
30-07-2021||---||Jalandhar: CETP upgrade on way; cost-sharing mechanism upsets tannery owners||Jalandhar, July 29The issues of the leather complex in the city do not seem to be getting settled any time soon. Even as the district administration has issued the Letter of Intent to Chennai-based agency M/s Eco Protection Engineers Pvt Ltd to upgrade the Common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at a total cost of Rs 27.26 crore, owners of a majority of the 59 units of tanneries here have been asked to bear the 15 per cent of the amount.As per the proposal, the Central government, state, and the beneficiaries of the CETP have to pay in the proportions of 70, 15 and 15 per cent, respectively.But the owners say since their business is in complete doldrums for the past one and a half years because of sealing of their units by the PPCB and export business getting completely shut owing to Covid, they were not in a position to bear this cost. The owners have started demanding that their 15 per cent share should be borne by the state government in view of the severe financial crunch that they have been facing.The leather industrialists said they have been asked to pay up close to Rs 4.08 crore in four installments each and the average per unit cost coming to each one of them was close to Rs 7 lakh. Amandeep Sandhu, a tanner, said, “Like me, there are many others who are not in a position to bear this extra burden. We have not even been clarified as to how much will be the running cost that all of us might have to pay. The upgrade is only technological as its capacity will remain the same at 5 MLD. The actual need of the industry was to enhance its capacity. We, as the stakeholders, have not even been told as to what exactly is the new technology which is being introduced for water treatment.”Most unit owners said their drums got operationalised just four months back as they remained sealed for more than a year. The matter pertaining to the leather complex is being monitored by the Punjab and Haryana High Court with Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar supervising the working at the local level along with the senior PPCB officials.Administrative Officer of the Punjab Effluent Treatment Society (PETS) KC Dogra said as per guidelines, the Government of India is to release funds in four installments and likewise state government and beneficiaries/ industry are to share of 15% each of the total project too in four installments. “All 59 beneficiaries have been asked to deposit the first installment of their share out of four installments. The Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) will release the first installment only as soon as the industry share is collected and bank account statement is submitted to DPIIT, New Delhi,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the move to strengthen the CETP would be beneficial for the industry as well as for reducing the environmental pollution considerably. The CETP was set up in 2009 and needs to be upgraded according to the new standards which would help to curb the pollution.‘Government was supposed to bear the cost’An owner of a tannery unit here, Steven Kler said, "The leather complex was set up in Jalandhar in 1986 and all those who took a plot here were assured at that time that all provisions required for the cluster, including of treatment plant would be given by the government. We were offered 100 per cent subsidy on the use of all common facilities including the CETP. Our units remained shut for 1.5 years because of the government laxity in handling treatment work. When we restarted operations four months back, the industrialists spent over Rs 2 crore from their own pockets for making the CETP functional again and now we are being asked to pay up again, which is not possible at this stage."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cetp-upgrade-on-way-cost-sharing-mechanism-upsets-tannery-owners-290424
30-07-2021||---||Agitated staff to give salt to MLA Jalandhar Central to ‘rub on their wounds’||Jalandhar, July 29The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan/Mid-Day Meal Daftari Karamchari union will lodge a unique protest on July 31 against the government for their long-pending demand of not regularising them. They will go to MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri’s house with salt and will ask him to rub it on their ‘wounds’ that have been given by Congress-led government.Ashish Julaha, one of the leading members of the union, said, for the past four years, the government, in spite of listening to their demands, is only rubbing salt on their ‘wounds’ by not regularising them for years.He said employees were getting meagre salaries and it was not easy to survive in the present times amid inflation. They also released a poster that read, ‘Kache Mulazim Di Maadi Joon, Sarkar Paundi Zakhma Te Loon’.Recently, the union has released a poster depicting the Cabinet sub-committee. Notably, the union had been protesting against the state government for a long time now.The poster read: Cabinet sub-committee di soch: Kache mulazim vall na dekho, kache mulazim di na suno and kache mulazim layi kuch na bolo (Cabinet sub-committee’s approach: Don’t pay attention to contractual employees, don’t listen to them and don’t say anything for them).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agitated-staff-to-give-salt-to-mla-jalandhar-central-to-rub-on-their-wounds-290425
30-07-2021||---||Cong infighting to fore amid Navjot Sidhu’s Jalandhar visit||Jalandhar, July 29Even as the visit of the newly appointed PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to Jalandhar on Thursday was aimed at infusing freshness in the party workers, infighting came to the fore prominently during the event.Sidhu had very clearly told the workers before starting his Assembly-level meetings that they should not come to him for petty personal issues like seeking chairmanship of a body or other demands. “Come to me like a genuine party worker aiming at the overall development of Punjab. You should all have Punjab’s progress on your mind,” he told them as it were again personal issues that remained the central issues.Even as no Assembly-wise meetings could be held for Jalandhar owing to over-crowding, local workers had to go back home unheard. Fortunate were the Kapurthala workers whom Sidhu gave a hearing but three of the four MLAs missed the event. Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema did not turn up.In their absence, the party workers used the time to air all their grouse against the MLAs to Sidhu. Gora Gill, Bholath-based leader, reportedly told Sidhu that it was he who ensured that the entire flock of Congress stayed together and upbeat during a huge gap of over four years after Sukhpal Khaira left the party and rejoining. “So where should the people like me go now when Khaira is back. He, who spoke all ill against the CM, has been empowered again,” he fumed.From Phagwara, even as MLA Balwinder Dhaliwal was there along with his supporters to meet Sidhu, so was the coterie of his rival and ex-minister Joginder Mann. Both leaders and their supporters reportedly gunned against each other in front of Sidhu.Many workers from Kapurthala said only a limited number of people had been invited for the meeting. They said they kept on sending messages to Sidhu’s team and other people present inside for giving them a hearing, but they did not get a chance to be heard. Only the block presidents, councillors and office-bearers were allowed in.Jagbir Brar gives event a missEven as all MLAs and almost all party leaders of Jalandhar attended the visit of Navjot Sidhu, ex-MLA Jagbir Brar, who had contested from the Nakodar seat in 2017, remained conspicuously absent. He, however, was later seen with Finance Minister Manpreet Badal during his visit to Jalandhar and Nakodar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-infighting-to-fore-amid-navjot-sidhus-jalandhar-visit-290426
30-07-2021||---||Vaccination in Jalandhar district crosses 10-L mark||Jalandhar, July 29The vaccination figure crossed the 10-lakh mark in the district with 24,000 people getting inoculated here on Thursday. A huge rush was witnessed at the Civil Hospital and many other centres where people visited to take the jab.After several days of vaccine shortage, the Health Department received 24,000 vaccine doses on Wednesday night. The Covishield shots were administered across 110 session sites.Jalandhar has been facing the problem of shortage of vaccination doses again and again. At all session sites today, only 100 to 200 Covaxin shots were administered. The district has a population of over 21 lakh out of which even half has not been vaccinated yet.3 more test +veJalandhar: The district on Thursday reported three new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 63,080. One of the three cases belongs to another district. However, no Covid-19 death was reported. The death toll stood at 1,490. As many as 61,532 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 58. Meanwhile, five cases of Covid-19 were on Thursday reported in Kapurthala, taking the district tally to 17,738 cases. However, no death was reported in the district.Nawanshar reported zero case and zero death on Thursday. The total tally stands at 11,425 while active cases are three. In Hoshiarpur, three Covid cases were reported on Thursday in the district, taking the total district tally to 30,640 cases. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-in-jalandhar-district-crosses-10-l-mark-290429
30-07-2021||---||Former Jalandhar Mayor Sunil Jyoti alleges gross irregularities in civic body||Jalandhar, July 29Former Mayor and BJP leader Sunil Jyoti on Thursday alleged fraud in advertisement wing of Jalandhar Municipal Corporation. He said he would take up the issue with Union Cabinet Minister Hardeep Puri.Jyoti raised questions on shady unipole deal, which has rocked the MC General House time and again.Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja was cornered by councillors over the issue on July 27 in a House meet. Jyoti said despite a huge uproar, no action has been taken against erring officials. He also alleged mismanagement in funds for the Smart City project.Jyoti said, “We have sought appointment with Union Cabinet Minister Hardeep Puri to apprise him of the situation. Smart City funds are being misused and a team and nodal officers should be appointed by the Centre to check gross violations.”He said, “The MC House had unanimously decided that the tender (installation of unipoles) should be cancelled and vigilance inquiry should be initiated. Swift action should have been taken against officials concerned. On July 27, the entire House raised the issue, but the Mayor refused to act.”He also said the incumbent Superintendent of the advertisement wing is having charge of three departments. “What is the need to handover three departments to one person? He has charge of tehbazari, parking (cycle stands) and advertisement wing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-jalandhar-mayor-sunil-jyoti-alleges-gross-irregularities-in-civic-body-290430
30-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||20-yr jail term for assault||Man found dead at Aima JattanGarhshankar: Body of a man wrapped in a bedsheet was found near Bist Doab Canal at Aima Jattan village falling under the jurisdiction of the Mahilpur police on Thursday morning. According to information, the vicitm had a deep injury mark on his eye and was wearing a red T-shirt and black shorts. The passerby informed cops at Kotfatuhi police post. The vicitm has been identified as Jaspal Singh (30), a resident of Mazara Dingrian. Rashpal Singh, elder brother of the vicitm identified the body and said Jaspal went somewhere on July 28 around 11 pm, but did not return. The vicitm worked as a labourer. Satwinder Singh, in charge, Mahilpur police station, said the case seems to be of a love affair gone wrong. He said relatives of the vicitm’s girlfriend have been detained. OCBody recovered from canalGarhshankar: Body of Raj Kumar Rajan, owner of Rajan News Agency, who was missing from the last two days under mysterious circumstances was fished out from Bist Doab Canal near Ispur village. Mobile phone and scooter of the vicitm were found lying on the bank of canal at Adda Kotfatuhi. Vicitm’s wife Bhupinder Kaur, a resident of Ward No. 5, Mahilpur, said her husband was under stress from the last last 10 days. On July 27, he had dinner and left the house without informing anyone. Next day she got information that her husband’s Activa and mobile were found on the banks of the canal. The Mahilpur police have handed over the body to family after getting the post-mortem conducted from Garhshankar Civil Hospital. OCNarcotics seized, two arrestedHoshiarpur: The police have arrested two smugglers from different places and recovered a huge quantity of narcotics and drug money worth Rs55,000 from them. The Dasuya police have recovered 45-gm heroin and Rs55,000 drug money from a peddler. The accused has been identified as Kulwinder Kumar, alias Raju, a resident of SAS Nagar. In another case, the Mukerian police have arrested a smyggler and recovered 2.5-kg poppy husk from him. The accused has been identified as Raj Kumar, alias Raju, a resident of Purana Bhangala. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-yr-jail-term-for-assault-290433
30-07-2021||So revered is the hallowed soil of Mithapur that people from all over Punjab come to take it in order to mix it at their village playgrounds. Tribune correspondent Aparna Banerji and lensman Sarabjit Singh visit Mithapur hockey nursery||Flick it like Mithapur||It’s said Mithapur and hockey are inseparable. The village has produced six Olympic greats — Swarup Singh (1952 Helsinki Olympics), Kulwant Singh (1972 Olympics), Pargat Singh (1988, 1992 and 1996 Olympics) and three players, including Captain Manpreet Singh (also played in 2012 and 2016 Olympics), Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar, are part of Indian hockey squad presently playing in the Tokyo Olympics.On July 29, alarms went off at 6 am in every house to witness India beat Argentina 3-1, thus cementing their place in quarterfinals. As Varun scored the first goal in the match, the village let out a collective gasp of joy.Coach Balwinder Singh and member Hockey India said, “Hockey is in our blood. Generations toiled for this moment. From Swarup Singh to Manpreet Singh, numerous unsung heores have fanned the sporting passion. Coach Sarabjit Singh Sabi gave wsidom after playing for leagues abroad. Olympian Pargat Singh is always there to support us. We train at least 70 players and around four sportspersons will make it to the next Olympics.”Rick Charlesworth, who is a five-time Australian Olympian and runs Roundglass Academy, provides free hockey coaching to players at Shaheed Darshan Singh Kaypee Stadium.Surinder Pal Singh (72), who is the eldest living hockey veteran, and played six years for East Bengal Club, said, “Saria Singh Kairon started hockey fad in the village. Swarup Singh Olympian was the first product. Earlier, there was no field or stadium. Gurdwara Singh Sabha Mithapur’s front yard used to be our hockey ground. With hockey sticks and ‘khesis’ on shoulders, villagers used to come out in hordes to play the game in evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flick-it-like-mithapur-290435
30-07-2021||---||Will get power purchase agreements cancelled, says Navjot Sidhu||Jalandhar, July 29A day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asked Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cancel/revisit all one-sided power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous government, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Sidhu today claimed it was a step towards addressing the five priority areas — farm laws, power, sacrilege, employees’ protest and drugs — identified by him.To interact with workers regularlyChandigarh: To listen to party workers on a regular basis, Navjot Singh Sidhu will meet them at Punjab Congress Bhawan here every Tuesday and Friday. Sidhu will meet workers and leaders from Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur districts on Friday, besides holding talks with Dalit MLAs. A senior party leader said the first priority was announcements of the new district unit presidents by the party high command. TNSConsumer feeling the pinchOur domestic consumer is feeling the pinch of higher power tariff because of the wrong PPAs signed by the Badals. But we will get these cancelled. - Navjot Sidhu, PCC  ChiefAddressing mediapersons after meeting party leaders and workers of Jalandhar and Kapurthala, Sidhu said: “Our efforts to push the five-point priority areas have started bearing fruit.”Expressing satisfaction over the pace of work in the Congress government after months of acrimony with the Chief Minister, Sidhu reiterated the Punjab model on power supply was far better than that of Delhi. Punjab was perhaps the only state to offer Rs 10,000 crore subsidy to people as compared to Delhi, which was offering only Rs 1,700 crore subsidy, he said.“Our domestic consumer is feeling the pinch of higher power tariff because of the wrong PPAs signed by the Badals owing to which peak time fixed charges have to be doled out throughout the year to private power generation companies. But we will get all these agreements cancelled,” said Sidhu.He said the government would take up the cancellation of PPAs with the PSPCL with the same vigour as it did in the contentious issue of the river water sharing through the SYL.Sidhu said he would now be focusing on the task of strengthening the organisation. While Sidhu had reportedly invited 10 workers, including block presidents and councillors, from each Assembly segment for the meeting, hundreds of workers showed up at the venue.While all six Congress’ Jalandhar MLAs were present, only one of the four MLAs from Kapurthala — Balwinder Dhaliwal of Phagwara — turned up for the event. Rana Gurjeet Singh, Sukhpal Khaira and Navtej Cheema gave the meeting a miss even as some office-bearers, including block presidents and councillors from their Assembly seats, turned up to put across their message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-get-power-purchase-agreements-cancelled-says-navjot-sidhu-290281
