31-07-2021||Jalandhar||CBSE Class XII results: Akshita, Aaliah fly high in Jalandhar with 99.2%||In what could be called a proud moment, it’s the girls who have bagged the top positions in the Class XII CBSE exams this year in the district. Jalandhar girls Akshita and Aaliah topped the district, also topping in their respective streams. The district topper in the non-medical stream is Akshita Bansal with 99.2 per cent marks. Aaliyah Janeja with the same percentage — 99.2 per cent — has topped the commerce stream in the district. Akshita is a student of MGN School, Urban Estate, while Aaliya is a student of Apeejay School. Tarpan Soni of Police DAV Public School, topped the district in the humanities stream securing 98.20 per cent marks. Aastha Sarwal bagged top position in the medical stream with 98.40 per cent marks.Akshita (non-medical): Her success mantra is smart workA topper throughout her school, jubilant Akshita (18) said she had inkling that her results would be good as she studied very hard. Her father Sanjeev Bansal and mother Sneh Bansal are bankers. Akshita said it was a collective effort of her parents and teachers. Rather than toiling hard all day, Akshita relied on smart work. “I did not study all day. But when I did, I studied hard.” While she appeared for the JEE entrance exams earlier this year, she also scored 98.30 percentage in her JEE exams. Her mantra for studies is ‘Work Smart’. Akshita is keen on pursuing B Tech in Computer Science from a reputed college and eventually wants to be a software engineer.Aaliah (commerce) juggled studies with extra-co-curricular activitiesAaliah Janjeja, topper of the commerce stream in the district, with 99.2 per cent marks, has been a bright student throughout her academics. An Apeejay School student, she wants to make it to Delhi University to study economics. Her father Sharan Pal Janeja (an entrpreneur) and mother Rakhee Janeja are overjoyed at her success. Also the head girl of her school, Aaliah spent most of her pandemic juggling with studies and also giving lessons to the underprivileged kids with an NGO — Word Builders. She juggled studies as well as extra-curricular activities during the pandemic. Aaliah eventually wants to pursue MBA.Tarpan Soni (humanities) eying top law school for higher studiesTarpan Soni (18) has secured 98.2 per cent in the humanities. A student of the Police DAV Public School, Tarpan’s father, Dr Anil Soni is a professor at DAVIET and his mother Shamila Soni is a home maker. Tarpan, who plans to pursue law, says he did not face any inconvenience taking online classes during the pandemic. “Personally, I did not face many difficulties taking online lessons. I had a smooth sailing due to online lessons and our teachers were also very supportive. I also had a law entrance exam today so it was a bit hectic but the result made me forget everything. I am now looking forward to take admission in a renowned law school.” Tarpan, who has cleared his CLAT (Common Law Admission test with AIR 539 eventually plans to make it to the civil services.Aastha (medical), a Class X topper, does it again in Class XIIBagging 98.4 per cent marks in the medical stream, Aastha Sarwal from DAV Public School, who was also a Class X topper, has hit high again in Class XII results. The only child of her parents, Aastha (17) is also the youngest student of her batch. Her overjoyed parents Nitin Sarwal and mother Pooja Sarwal are beaming at her achievement. Aastha never took tuitions in Class X or even now and dreams to help others after becoming a doctor. I aspire to be a doctor. I am still preparing for NEET. Based on the results, I’ll apply for a government medical college. I am also interested in pursuing DNA and genetics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-class-xii-results-akshita-aaliah-fly-high-in-jalandhar-with-99-2-290789
31-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Dabbi Bazaar, Sheesh Mahal facelift soon||With commencement of beautification project at city’s old Dabbi Bazaar and Sheesh Mahal Bazaar in the coming days, this heritage street will get a complete facelift with uniform look from its entrance towards the market side.The blueprint to restore pristine glory of these markets is on the finalisation stage. An expert team from the Indian National Trust for Art and Culture Heritage (INTACH) will also visit Sheesh Mahal Bazaar to chalk out further strategy to develop similar facade in these areas. As Dabbi Bazaar is already a heritage street, the entire place will be given a new looking on the heritage pattern.Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, who visited these areas, situated in the heart of city, said, “The Punjab Government will provide sufficient funds for this heritage project once the blueprint is finalised. The beautification project will cover the entrance of Dabbi Bazaar. Entire market has similar facade based on the pattern of other heritage cities like Jaipur and Jodhpur.”“Both markets will have attractive look and heritage significance,” he said while adding, “The district administration and the Municipal Corporation are working in tandem to start and complete the project within next six months.”“Dabbi Bazaar and Sheesh Mahal Bazaar are known for wood inlay works and handicraft potential, which will be revived. Tenders of these projects will be floated shortly so that the work on heritage street can be started,” he said.Attractive gates would be fixed at the entrance of these markets so that daily visitor could see the heritage look of these places, he added. Besides roads will be recarpeted, floor lights and similar sign boards will be installed in markets, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dabbi-bazaar-sheesh-mahal-facelift-soon-290790
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||Eight niw Covid cases, no death reported in Jalandhar||Eight new Covid cases were reported in the district today, taking the total district tally to 63,088. None of the three cases belongs to any another district. No Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,490. Meanwhile no Covid case, no death was reported in Kapurthala today.Hoshiarpur logs no caseThe district on Thursday reported two new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 30,642 out of which 2,040 cases belong to other districts. However, no Covid-19 death was reported. The death toll stood at 975. As many as 29,645 persons have recovered from the disease in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-niw-covid-cases-no-death-reported-in-jalandhar-290793
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||PSEB Class XII result: Jalandhar records 98.14% result,10th in Punjab||The Punjab School Education Board declared Class XII results on Friday. Jalandhar district recorded 98.14 pass percentage. The district stands at 10th spot in stateThe PSEB compiled results on the basis of 30:30:40 formula (students’ performance in Classes X, XI and XII, respectively).Rupnagar recorded highest pass percentage of 99.57 per cent. The PSEB did not released school-wise list till the filling of the report.Last year, pass percentage of students in Jalandhar was 93.86 per cent. Out of 21,101 students, 20,708 passed the exams. Nawanshahr district recorded 95.50 passing percentage. A total of 6,258 students passed the exams.Sarabjit Singh, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Nawanshahr, said detailed results would be declared by tomorrow.With 7,929 students passing board exams out of 8268, Kapurthala district had 95.90 pass percentage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pseb-class-xii-result-jalandhar-records-98-14-result-10th-in-punjab-290795
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||Hearing, speech impaired athlete’s success speaks volumes||A hearing and speech impaired young athlete Ankit Kumar (23) has been making waves. Kumar, who is getting trained in Jalandhar, will be playing in the 4th World Deaf Athletics Games going to be held in Lubin, Poland from August 23-28. He has been selected for the 100-m run event.Communicating with coach a challengeOriginally from Delhi, Ankit has been taking coaching in the city for the one year. His coach Sarabjit Happy is proud and said one can gauge his mettle from his participation in the world championship. “The kind of hard work he has put in to achieve success can’t be put into words,” the coach said.This is not only the story of Ankit, whose resilience and perseverance has made him reach this far, but also about his father Kishor Kumar who has left everything just for his son and is living with Ankit in a rented apartment in the city. “I lost my job in Covid. I was in Delhi at that time. Then after the situation got a little better, I joined somewhere else. But then because of the championship, he decided to get his son trained by an experienced coach and thus left the job and came to Jalandhar. Since then, he has been living with Ankit, and taking care of all things.In Delhi, Kishor Kumar’s daughter has a great role to play. A doctor, she is the one who supports her family financially. Kumar said she is the one who is of great support amid these times.Even the coach praised the family and said it was not easy to leave your job and reside in a city on rent but the father has been doing everything to see his son growing.Kishor Kumar said Ankit aims to qualify and win a medal in the Olympics for the deaf that will be held next year. He also said he observed the potential in his son at a very young age because he was always a great sportsperson.The young and promising athlete has won several medals in the deaf category and has also participated in the games in the general category. Some of his achievements include, a gold medal in the 23rd National Deaf Senior Sports Championship in 100-m race event and bronze medal in the 22nd National Games of the deaf where he won the medal in 200 m and 4x100 m relay race.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hearing-speech-impaired-athletes-success-speaks-volumes-290797
31-07-2021||Hoshiarpur||Classroom for Jail inmates in Hoshiarpur||Two held with drug powderTalwara: The Talwara police have arrested two youths and seized intoxicating powder from their possession. The accused have identified as Amit Kumar alias Ladi, a resident of Bahat village, and Deepak Kumar alias Deepu, a resident of Chuno village. Sub-Inspector Bhagat Singh along with his police party laid a naka at Jhang Mohal village. Cops stopped two bike-borne youngsters for inspection and recovered 50-gm intoxicating powder from the duo. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act and initiated the probe. OC2 arrested for snatching Rs58KHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have arrested two persons for snatching Rs58,000. According to information, Jasvir Lal, a resident of Badla Khurd village, told the police that he was returning to his village from Hoshiarpur on his bike. He said when he reached near Harmoye village, he was stopped by Dharminder Singh, a resident of Kheda Kalan, Jatinder Singh, a resident of Harmoye, and Bindu, a resident of Bajrawar. He said the trio snatched Rs58,000 and keys of his bike. The police said Bindu was on the run. ocOne held for youth’s murderGarhshankar: The police have arrested a person for allegedly killing a youth whose body was found on the bank of Bist Doab Canal at Aima Jattan village on Thursday. Body of the vicitm, Jaspal Singh, a resident of Mazara Digriyan, was found wrapped in a bedsheet. The accused has been identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Aima Jattan village. The vicitm’s brother Rakesh Kumar had alleged that Jaspal had a love affair with daughter of Satnam. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/classroom-for-jail-inmates-in-hoshiarpur-290800
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||CBSE Class XII results: Pandemic fails to dent spirit of Jalandhar students||Class XII students were elated after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the results on Friday. Numerous students gathered on the campus of their respective schools for celebrations and to thank their teachers.MGN, Urban EstateAkshita Bansal, Sehajpal Singh Sarao and Vaibhav Bajaj of at MGN, Urban Estate, got top three ranks in non-medical stream. The trio got 99.2 per cent, 97.4 per cent and 96.6 per cent, respectively. In medical stream, Jessica, Loveleen, Gurleen Kaur and Ishita remained at the top with 98 per cent, 97.4 per cent, 96.4 per cent and 96.4 per cent, respectively. Ajay Swaroop Sekhri was the top scorer in commerce with 99 per cent. Arshjot Singh Aneja ranked second with 98.2 per cent and Shreya Setia got 98 per cent. Principal Jatinder Singh congratulated all the students and their parents.MGN, Adarsh NagarIn commerce stream, Rajnish Virdi got 99 per cent, Manivir obtained 98.2 per cent and Jayati Jain got 97.6 per cent. Siddharth Sharma, Osheen and Khushi Gandhi remained top scorers with 96.6 per cent, 95.8 per cent and 95.6 per cent, respectively in medical stream. In non-medical, Vinayak Kapoor, Aashray Gupta and Vanshika Jain got 98.4 per cent, 97.6 per cent and 97.2 per cent, respectively. KS Randhawa, principal, MGN, Adarsh Nagar, congratulated all the students.Innocent Hearts SchoolParika of Innocent Hearts topped in Commerce and brought laurels to the school by getting 99 per cent. Amiya Jain stood second by obtaining 98.2. The third position was bagged by Arshita Syal and Devika Padam with 97.4 percent. In non-medical stream, Aashim Sikka stood first (98.2 per cent), Mohit Nanda, Manya Kakkar and Garishma Rana got 96.2 per cent and bagged second position and third position is bagged by Rabia Bakshi and Sajal Jain and Lovya Bajaj with 95.8 per cent. In medical, Garima topped by getting 97.2 per cent, Tarush Dhawan and Chahat Jain stood second with 95.6 per cent and Jannat Saluja stood third by getting 95.2 percent. Dr Anup Bowry, chairman, Innocent Hearts, congratulated all the students and parents.Sanskriti KMV SchoolPalak Duggal of Sanskriti KMV School topped the institute by obtaining 98.4 per cent in non-medical. Palak scored 100 per cent in maths, 99 per cent in chemistry and 99 in physics. Aryan Arya from the same stream bagged 95.8 per cent. In commerce, Reman Malhotra got 97.4 per cent and Navjeet Singh obtained 95.8 per cent. In humanities, Kirandeep Kaur got 97.4 per cent and Priayanshi got 96 per cent. In medical, Geetika Sharma clinched the top rank with 96 per cent, followed by Harishika at 95.8 per cent. Chander Mohan, president, and principal Rachna Monga congratulated all the students.Apeejay School, Rama MandiClass XII students of Apeejay School, Rama Mandi, Jalandhar, made the school proud. Yashwi Behl and Vaishali topped the school with 95.6 per cent in commerce stream. Shaganpreet Kaur and Ranvir Singh Sangha topped non-medical stream with aggregate 95.4 per cent. Jasleen Kaur stood second in non-medical stream with aggregate 95.2 per cent. Pro-vice chairman Arun Thakur and principal Ritu Kaul congratulated all the students.Delhi Public SchoolIn Delhi Public School, out of 103 students in Class XII, 44 students achieved 90 per cent and above. Vanshika Chhabra secured first rank by obtaining 98.8 per cent. Soumya Gupta (non-medical) got 98.6 per cent and Jessica 98.4 per cent (medical stream) stood first. In humanities, Muskan Verma secured the first position with 96.8 per cent.Mayor World SchoolMayorites got top results in Class XII. In science stream, Gauransh Gulati and Bishop Malik got 97.4 per cent and bagged the first position, closely followed by Aditya Gupta at second position with 96.8 per cent marks. In commerce, Mahima Walia bagged the first position with 98.2 per cent marks, closely followed by Dhwani Sikka with 97.2 per cent. The third position was secured by Eshika Sehgal, who got 96.8 per cent. In humanities, Kashvi Jain bagged the first position with 97.4 per cent and second position was secured by Anish Malhotra with 96.2 per cent. Reet Arora scored 95.4 per cent and ranked third. Gauransh Gulati in English, Mahima Walia in economics and Eshika Sehgal in painting brought laurels to the school by scoring 100 per cent marks. Principal Harjeet Kaur Ghuman applauded and appreciated endeavours of the students.Cambridge School, PhagwaraIt was a proud moment for Cambridge International School, Phagwara, when the Grade XII result of 2020-21 was declared today. Nisha of humanities stream stood first with 98.2 per cent. Tanisha Sethi of commerce stream ranked second with 97.8 per cent. Jessica (humanities) stood third with 97.6 per cent. In medical stream, Ravneet Kaur secured the first position with 95.6 per cent. In non-medical stream, Tanisha Dhiman secured the second position with 96.6 per cent. A total of 19 students scored above 95 per cent and 57 students obtained marks more than 90 per cent.DIPS SchoolsSukhraj of DIPS School, Nurmahal, scored 97.6 percent in commerce, Jaskaran of Nurmahal scored 96.6 per cent in non-medical, Aryan in medical and Gurpreet in arts scored 95.6. Jaskaran from DIPS, Noormahal, scored 96.6 per cent, Bhumika (commerce) of Urban Estate 95.8 per cent, Vineet Kaur and Drishti (commerce stream) from Karol Bagh, Khushpreet from Kapurthala, Pragya from Kapurthala, Samarth from Kapurthala in-non medical, Aryan and Gurpreet from Nurmahal in medical 95.6 per cent, Priya (medical) from nurmahal 95.2 per cent, Ravideep from Kapurthala in commerce scored 95 percent.CT Public SchoolWith 95.6 per cent, Amanvir Singh and Sukriti Mehta bagged top positions in non-medical. Ayush Kumar scored 95.4 percent in medical stream. In commerce, Tanvee Bagga secured 95.4 per cent and stood first, Joyna and Jaspreet Kaur got 95 per cent. Principal Daljeet Singh Rana and vice principal Sukhdeep Kaur appreciated the stupendous achievements of the students and said 16 students bagged above 90 percent this year. Manbir Singh, managing director, CT Public School, congratulated all the students.Police DAV SchoolAum Gupta obtained 99 per cent. Aastha Sumra got 98.4 per cent. Siya, Akanksha, Shaina and Harratan got 97.6, 97.4, 96.2 and 95.6 per cent, respectively. In medical stream, Aastha Sarwal got 98.4 per cent, Palak got 97.4 per cent and Jaspreet Singh obtained 96.6 per cent. In humanities, Tarpan Soni got 98.2 per cent, Nimrat 98 per cent, Dhivya 97.6 per cent, Avneet Kaur 97.2 per cent and Armaandeep Kaur 96.6 per cent. In commerce stream, Gautam Gupta and Mehak Bhandari shared the top rank with 97.6 per cent. Jasleen Kaur, Hardil, Samiksha, Muskan Deep and Shreya Sharma scored 96.6 per cent. Pushti Sehgal, Monish and Snigdha, obtained 95.6 per cent.Dayanand Model SchoolStudents of Dayanand Model School got top notch positions. Shivam Mittu ranked first (97.7 per cent) in humanities followed by Payal (97.4 per cent) from commerce stream. From science stream, Amneet Kaur and Loveneet Kaur, securing 3rd position and bagged 95.8 per cent. Aastha Rakheja (humanities) got 4th position by securing 95.8 per cent, Gourish (commerce) got 95.4 per cent. Principal Dr SK Gautam gave a red carpet welcome to all the position holders along with their parents and faculty members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-class-xii-results-pandemic-fails-to-dent-spirit-of-jalandhar-students-290816
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar's HMV College awarded for 'Beat Covid Campaign'||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya students excelStudents of MSc (zoology) semester III of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have made their alma mater proud with their phenomenal result in the end-semester exams. Lipsa has stood 1st by scoring 92.42%, Aakanksha 2nd with 90.1% marks and Sonalpreet Kaur 3rd by scoring 87.37% marks. All students from this class have passed the examination with distinctions. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their outstanding performance and acknowledged the efforts of the PG Department of Zoology to constantly promote excellence in academics.Achievers all the wayTwo students of Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, Gauri Gupta and Ishmeen Kaur, cleared the NTSE (Stage 1) exam with flying colours. While Gauri Gupta secured 42nd rank by scoring 179/200 marks and Ishmeen secured 109th rank and scored 162/200 marks. The elated students attributed their success to the school and thanked the teachers for keeping their morale high even during the pandemic. Likewise, another student of the school, Ananay Mayor, has been selected as the NTSE scholar and a Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) fellow. Yet another student of the school Bhavya Jain of Class XII has been selected as the zonal winner of the VVM National Camp Examination.Journalism students bring laurelsDoaba College’s journalism students have excelled in GNDU semester exams and have brought laurels to the institution. MA Journalism and Mass Communication (sem 1) students Col Vinod Mehta secured 338 out of 400 marks and bagged the first position, Lieut Col Lakhwinder Singh secured 332 ( second), Lt Col Ajit Singh secured 319 (third), Sapna Soni secured 302 (eighth) and Shilpa secured 299 and bagged 9th in the university. Principal Dr. Pardeep Bhandari congratulated meritorious students, their parents, Dr Simran Sidhu, head, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, and faculty for this outstanding achievement. He said that college journalism students are excelling in different print and electronic media in the region over the years.Dr Arun Dev Sharma appointed DeanPrincipal of Lyallpur Khalsa College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra has appointed Dr. Arun Dev Sharma, head, Department of Biotechnology, as the Dean Research. Dr Sharma has undertaken a number of projects in the field of research and received grants from the government. Handing over the appointment letter, Principal Dr Samra congratulated Dr Sharma on his new responsibility and asked him to work hard in the field of research and study. He said Dr Sharma has published over 80 research papers nationally and internationally in the field of research and is also guiding many research scholars for their PhDs. He has also published research papers in the USA, Italy, China and Poland.Apeejay students make a markApeejay students of BVoc (Product Design Management and Entrepreneurship) Sem I secured first 10 positions in Guru Nanak Dev University examination and have done proud to their college. Among the position holders, Kashish stood first in the university with 367/400 marks. Gunveer Kaur was 2nd with 366/400 marks, Aradhna secured 3rd position with 365/400 marks, Ekam Hans got 4th position with 337/400 marks and Harpreet Singh stood 5th in the University with 335/400 marks. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the position holders for their brilliant achievement and wished them to work hard with devotion and dedication to maintain their position for future.Abroad Internship ProgrammeWith an endeavour to acquaint the students with international internship programmes, School of Hotel Management of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a webinar on “Internship and Career Abroad for Hospitality and Tourism.” The resource person for the webinar was Ankita Raj (Recruitment Officer, JOJO International, Mumbai). Ankita briefed about the career opportunities and internship programmes offered to students by United Nations and Dubai. The resource person shared the tips to crack interviews, total costing of internship and stipend provided to the students during internship. Ankita focused on internship process starting from the terms and conditions of their company followed by registration process, sponsor interview, offer letter, visa application process including flight charges.INTERNATIONAL TIGER DAYEklavya School celebrated the International Tiger Day through various online activities like mask making, poster making, painting, speech on tiger conservation. Chairman of school JK Gupta said: “Tiger is not only the national animal but it is the pride of nation. So they must be saved.” Director Seema Handa agreed that tigers must be protected from getting extinct .Further she admired the children on their hard work. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-hmv-college-awarded-for-beat-covid-campaign-290833
31-07-2021||Kapurthala||Officials collect samples of paneer from Kapurthala||Under the ‘Mission Tandrust’, a drive against adulterated food, was conducted in the district on Friday. The team was headed by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, along with Mukul Gill, Food Safety Officer.The team took samples from a vehicle carrying 110-kg cheese (paneer) after intercepting it at Bhullarai Chowk, Phagwara. The cheese was shipped from Dhaliwal Dairy, Qadian, and was to be sold in markets for Rs 180 per kg. It’s pertinent to mention that paneer is usually sold in the market at a minimum rate Rs 260 per kg. Two samples of cheese were taken on the spot.Harjot said, “As per regulation 2.1.1.1 of the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards &Food Additives) Thirteenth Amendment Regulations, 2017, milk product shall not contain any substance not found in milk unless specified in these regulations. As per regulation 2.1.16, paneer is the product, which should contain milk fat minimum 50 per cent of the dry matter and maximum moisture of 60 per cent.”He said, “All sweet shop owners and other food businessmen dealing in milk and milk products have been strictly directed to prepare paneer and khoya at their own premises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/officials-collect-samples-of-paneer-from-kapurthala-290837
31-07-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur DAV placed 3rd on list||DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, secured third rank among 3,473 colleges in the National Library and Information services Infrastructure for Scholarly Content (N-LIST) e-Resources Programme based on the June, 2021 usage.College managing committee President Dr Anoop Kumar, Secretary DL Anand (retd principal) and Director Dr SS Sharma congratulated Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla, college librarian Dr Harvinder Kaur and library users for this great achievement.The top users from M Ed and B Ed, who used this database, were also awarded as the best users. President Dr Anoop Kumar highlighted the significance of these e-resources in the teaching-learning process.Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla said the college had represented the state of Punjab twice at this national level N-List Programme this year. She lauded the efforts of the library staff for providing online and offline library services consistently to the faculty members and students of the college.Dr Harvinder Kaur said the DAV College of Education, was the member of N-list Programme since 2012 and the e-resources of the N-List programme were remotely accessed by the users during the Covid-19 lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dav-placed-3rd-on-list-290838
31-07-2021||Nawanshahr||Book on Guru Teg Bahadur released in Nawanshahr||A coffee table book “Spiritual Journey of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib” authored by Punjab-based lawyer Harpreet Sandhu was released in Nawanshahr on Friday.District and Sessions Judge Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa, Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal and SSP Alka Meena appreciated the work of Sandhu. They said the author highlighted historical gurdwaras related to the life of ninth Sikh Guru, who is often addressed as ‘Hind Di Chadar’” as he sacrificed his life protecting the religious freedom of others. Sandhu said the objective behind the book was to inform about holy shrines associated with life of Guru Teg Bahadur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/book-on-guru-teg-bahadur-released-in-nawanshahr-290839
31-07-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar residents jabbed with Covishield at 39 centres||After the arrival of nearly 24,000 doses of Covishield in the district, the Health Department, along with several charitable organisation, organised 39 vaccination centres in several areas of the district here.Due to the less stock of Covaxin, only 250 doses of Covaxin were administered at only one vaccination centre. Along with the mobile teams of the Health Department, the charitable organisations and the NGO welcomed 18-plus beneficiaries for vaccination at 9.30 in the morning that continued till 2.00 pm at most of the centres.Vish Karam Pal Singh Dhiman, who runs the ‘Vish Foundation’ said, to avoid any rush, a camp was organised at Apeejay College in which 100 doses of Covishield were administered to the beneficiaries. He said, after the availability of more doses, a mass-level camp would also be organised.So far, as many as 9.85 lakh people have been administered with the first doses of their Covid vaccines, including Covishield and Covaxin. Besides, over 2 lakh people have been administered with both the doses of the vaccines and the Health Department is also giving priority to people whose second doses are due. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-jabbed-with-covishield-at-39-centres-290840
