19-04-2021||India||Covid-19 peddled as an excuse to stop protests against agri laws: Farmer leaders||Farmer unions protesting the Centre's three contentious farm laws at Delhi's borders alleged on Monday the government was trying to "use coronavirus as an excuse to quell their agitation".The Sunyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmer unions, also said the date for their proposed march to Parliament is yet to be decided."The government is trying to use coronavirus as an excuse to quell farmers' protest. They used the same trick last year. We will not let it happen," farmer leader Yogendra Yadav alleged during a press conference at Delhi's Singhu border.He said, "The government's hypocrisy on coronavirus has been exposed. Ministers and leaders have been holding election rallies. They have no right to question others."Yadav said immunisation camps were being set up at all farmer protest sites for those willing to take the vaccine jabs. Oxymeters and ambulances are being arranged, health facilities are being ramped up, he said.An an awareness campaign will be conducted to encourage farmers to weak mask and a pamphlet on measures to keep virus at bay will be distributed, Yadav said. Another leader said the farmers protest sites at Delhi's border have not reported "coronavirus cases in large numbers" so far. "These are open, well ventilated spaces. These protest sites are not COVID-19 hotspots," he said. PTI GVS NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-peddled-as-an-excuse-to-stop-protests-against-agri-laws-farmer-leaders-101618848192348.html
19-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Traffic re-routed at Delhi borders over farmers' protest and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am on Monday (April 19, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi bordersSeveral borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. Read MoreFrom Rajasthan to Delhi, states ramp up measures to battle Covid-19The Rajasthan government has imposed a self-discipline fortnight, Maharashtra has called for train passengers from six states to produce a negative RT-PCR test report and authorities in Delhi will meet on Monday to discuss the continuation of restrictions among other things as Covid-19 cases have surged exponentially across these areas and the country. Read MoreRain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas till ThursdayWidespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region and some parts of the northwestern plains from April 20 to 22, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read MoreKerala is severely hit by Covid-19 yet helps Goa with 20,000 litres of oxygenKerala extended a helping hand to Goa with 20,000 litres of liquid oxygen amid its widespread shortage due to a rapid rise of Covid-19 patients across several states. Goa health minister profusely thanked his Kerala counterpart for the gesture on Sunday, when both the states registered the highest number of new Covid-19 infections and deaths. Read MorePriyanka Chopra comes to The White Tiger director Ramin Bahrani's support after he faces racist comments in USThe White Tiger director and Oscar nominee Ramin Bahrani has opened up about how he had to face a verbal, racial attack in Atlanta recently, during a QnA session. Read MoreSuhana Khan aces New York street style in ₹1.2 lakh aqua Prada bag, UGG bootsBollywood's superstar, Shah Rukh Khan and ace designer Gauri Khan's second-born, Suhana Khan may still be far from making her debut in Bollywood, if at all, but the 20-year-old daughter of King Khan still has managed to rake quite a fan following. Read More'He's nowhere near being the Big Show': Graeme Swann explains new role that 'suits' Glenn Maxwell at RCBFormer England off-spinner Graeme Swann believes Glenn Maxwell is no longer performing the role of the destroyer the world has known him to, but instead, the batsman is flourishing in his new role of being the 'third guy' at the Royal Challengers Bangalore camp. Read MoreDelhi couple stopped for not wearing masks, misbehaves with copsA couple misbehaved with Delhi Police personnel during the weekend lockdown. The incident took place in Delhi's Daryaganj area at around 4 pm on April 18. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-traffic-re-routed-at-delhi-borders-over-farmers-protest-101618799814343.html
19-04-2021||India||R-Day violence: Actor Sidhu in custody for damage to Red Fort||A Delhi court on Sunday sent Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu to one day in judicial custody in connection with the FIR against him by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for the damage caused to Red Fort in the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.Sidhu was produced before the duty magistrate in Tihar jail complex where the police sought four-day custody.However, according to advocate Jasdeep Dhillon, who appeared for Sidhu, the court did not allow that and posted the matter for hearing before the magistrate concerned on Monday.Sidhu was on Friday granted bail in another FIR registered for the violence at Red Fort. The court said that the police’s endeavour to make an example of Sidhu for the entire sequence of events since he is a popular public figure hazards a failure of justice due to “compromised objectivity”.However, the Delhi Police arrested him again hours later, in connection with another case related to the violence during the rally.The second case was also registered at Kotwali police station, but on a complaint filed by the ASI. The first case was registered on the complaint of the Kotwali police station house officer in which the actor was arrested on February 9.Sidhu is the first person to be arrested in the second case, the police said.Advocate Abhishek Gupta, Sidhu’s counsel, said his client has been sent to judicial custody and the matter will be heard on Monday. He said that they will oppose the police remand and press for his immediate release, adding that he will also move a bail application if the remand plea is allowed.The Delhi Police arrested Sidhu on February 9 for his alleged involvement in the January 26 violence. The agency told the court that Sidhu was the “main instigator” and one of the rioters, a charge denied by him.A tractor rally organised by farmers protesting against the three contentious farm bills on Republic Day turned violent with farmers breaking police barricades and clashing with the personnel at several places.Hundreds of farmers also stormed Red Fort, damaged property and clashed with the policemen there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-violence-actor-sidhu-in-custody-for-damage-to-red-fort-101618791287994.html
