01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta: Cop killed, several injured as bus hits Fort William gate||A police constable died and 13 others suffered injuries on Thursday when a bus carrying passengers hit the wall adjoining a gate of Fort William -- the Army's Eastern Command headquarters -- with its driver having lost control on the wheels, an officer said. The minibus, which was on its way to Howrah from Metiabruz, mowed down the motorcycle-borne police constable before it crashed into the brick wall of the British-era fort near Hastings area around 12.30 pm, he said. Vivekananda Dab, who was employed with the Calcutta Police Reserve Force, was declared 'brought dead' by doctors at the nearby SSKM hospital, the officer said. "We had to use a crane to pull him out from under the bus," he explained. Passengers who sustained injuries were also taken to the state-run SSKM hospital, and the condition of at least four of them have been stated to be "critical", the officer said. "It seems the brakes had failed, and the driver, in its bid to stop the speeding bus, hit a tree and then the brick wall," he added. Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra, who visited the site of the accident, said the matter was being looked into, and more details will be available after a thorough investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||What’s on & what’s off with Covid curbs easing from Thursday||Public transport, barring trains and Metro, is set to be back from Thursday following some relaxations in the Covid-19 curbs announced a couple of days ago. Gyms and salons have also been green-lighted to resume operations in a curtailed manner and the timings of markets and retail shops have been extended. The number of vehicles could be on the lower side on Day 1 because it is a state holiday. July 1, the birth anniversary of Bidhan Chandra Roy, celebrated as doctors’ day, has been declared a state holiday as a mark of respect to healthcare workers’ contribution to the fight against Covid-19. Here’s a primer on what’s on and what’s off from Thursday: Transport The state government has decided to partially lift the ban on public transport by allowing them to run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. But the spiralling fuel prices have cast a shadow on the resumption of private buses and taxis. Around 500 of the government’s fleet of 1,100 buses in Calcutta are expected to be on the road with the relaxation of curbs. But a significant section of the 7,500-odd private buses are expected to keep off the roads. Several taxi operators, bleeding because of the diesel price, are also likely to stay off the roads. In the absence of enough buses and taxis, autos are likely to be the saviour. Markets Shops selling vegetables, fish, meat, groceries, fruits, milk and eggs can remain open between 6am and noon. Till now, they were allowed to open from 7am to 11am. Retail All other retail shops, including those in malls, can open from 11am to 8pm, instead of 6pm. The existing condition on stores in malls and shopping complexes remains — 25 per cent workforce and 30 per cent visitor capacity. Gyms Gyms can open in two slots — 6am to 10am and 4pm to 8pm — from Thursday. They have to operate with a cap of 50 per cent visitors in each session. Shut for two months, many gyms in the city have downed shutters for good. The ones that are likely to open are sceptical about the footfall. “Our membership is dwindling. People are seeking refunds,” said the owner of a gym in south Calcutta. Salons Salons and beauty parlours can open between 11am and 6pm at 50 per cent capacity. Social assembly A cap of 50 people for weddings and 20 for funerals. Night curfew Remains from 9pm to 5am What’s off||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to set up two cancer hospitals in association with Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital ||The state government will set up two cancer hospitals in the state, at SSKM Hospital and the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, in association with the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Around 25 per cent of the cancer patients from the state go to the Mumbai hospital for treatment, Mamata said. Such patients and their families have to struggle hard to get appointments and arrange their stay in Mumbai during the treatment. The Bengal government, she said, wants to create conditions so the patients can be treated here. “Twenty-five per cent of our cancer patients go to the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. They face a lot of difficulties in finding a place to stay there, in establishing contacts and in securing dates in the hospital. Thinking about their plight, we contacted the Tata Memorial Hospital,” the chief minister said. “The government of Bengal and the Tata Memorial Hospital will jointly set up two cancer hospitals, one at SSKM and the other at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Cancer patients from Bengal will no longer need to go outside the state. They can undergo the treatment in Bengal.” State health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the basic in-principle approval for the joint initiative had come from the state government. “We will now work out the contours of how to set up the two centres at these two hospitals,” Nigam said. The Tata Memorial Hospital runs several cancer hospitals and centres across the country. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, a former student of the hospital, said the Mumbai institute had set up cancer hospitals in Visakhapatnam and Varanasi. It has also taken over and is now running a cancer hospital in Guwahati. The Mumbai hospital is run by the central government. The website of the hospital mentions that it is a grant-in-aid institution under the department of atomic energy. More government-run facilities are badly needed for cancer treatment because of their low cost of treatment, some doctors said. “Many patients start their treatment in corporate hospitals but are eventually forced to shift to a government hospital as they fail to bear the cost of treatment at the private set-up,” Mukhopadhyay said. “Cancer treatment involves many phases and takes about a year. After an initial surgery, the patient needs to undergo chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Many patient families fail to carry on with the full treatment at a corporate hospital. They shift to a government hospital mid-way,” said Mukhopadhyay, the clinical director of the department of surgical oncology at Peerless Hospital. It is advisable, he said, that the full treatment is done in the same facility and under the same doctor. According to him, between 80,000 and 85,000 cancer cases are detected in the state in a year. There are more than 3 lakh cancer patients in Bengal. Among women, the bur-den of breast and cervical cancers is the highest. Among men, lung, prostrate and mouth cancers account for the maximum number of patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC glare on Debanjan Deb’s blue light||Three public interest litigations moved by three petitioners seeking court's intervention in the fake vaccine camp case came up for hearing before the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee on Wednesday. A lawyer for the state informed the court that the government had initiated a probe and five persons, including key accused Debanjan Deb, had been arrested. During the hearing, the acting Chief Justice asked how a man could pose as an IAS officer and a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, referring to the allegations against Deb. “How was the person using a blue light atop his car and why did police not take action against him?” the acting Chief Justice asked. The state’s lawyer sought time till Friday from the court to file a status report on the case. The court granted the time and scheduled the hearing on the matter for Friday. According to the police, Deb had masqueraded as an IAS officer and CMC joint commissioner and organised a series of “Covid vaccination camps” in the city without the mandatory approval of the health department. The police suspect that at least some of the recipients were given an antibiotic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Spotlight on misuse of beacon lights, cops arrest one||A young man was arrested on Tuesday night for travelling in a beacon-fitted car and claiming to be a vigilance officer, which he was not. The light had apparently allowed him to escape pandemic curbs in the past, he has told police. This is the second arrest in a week of someone wrongly using a beacon. The two arrests have once again turned the spotlight on the rampant misuse of beacons and how they provide an easy way to bypass pandemic curbs. In a city where the chief minister does not use a beacon, instances of misuse of red and blue beacons are common: “It is not always possible to stop beacon-fitted cars and check the veracity of the person sitting inside. We often get rebuked or scolded if the person inside turns out to be one who is entitled to a beacon-fitted vehicle,” said a sergeant in south Calcutta. Beacons have always been a peeve point for ordinary citizens and even a section of the police but the pandemic has made them useful to a section of the people more than ever before. Not just vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, who allegedly moved around in a beacon-fitted car, or Asiful Haque, who was allegedly caught misusing a beacon-fitted vehicle on Theatre Road on Tuesday — there are several others who use the beacon as their “legitimate weapon to move around in the city” at a time when other cars are being prosecuted for being on the road. “I came across several beacon-fitted vehicles carrying families. Even if the car may belong to a government official, how can it be used to ferry their families? And who knows whether the beacon has been installed as an eyewash?” said a doctor who drives every day from Anandapur on EM Bypass to Alipore. An officer in the traffic department said the Tuesday night arrest followed an instruction from Lalbazar to clear up the illegally encroached “no-parking zones” before the volume of traffic increases from July 1. “The vehicle with a blue beacon was parked on Theatre Road last night. On inquiry, the occupant was found to be masquerading as a government official,” said an officer of the traffic department. Not a privilege A Supreme Court order states that “men in uniform, operational agencies which require unhindered access to roads for performance of their duty, those engaged in emergency duties… Emergency maintenance etc… and police vehicles used as…pilots or for law and order duties” will be entitled to lights other than red. A Calcutta police officer said: “The rule clearly mentions that beacons can be used only for official purpose in the presence of the official concerned. Else, the beacon should be wrapped in a black cover.” No vehicle with or without a beacon is eligible to jump signal or be parked in a no-parking zone unless it is an ambulance with a patient, a fire tender on call or a police vehicle in an emergency operation. Who’s eligible? The list of officials entitled to a beacon is long. “It is long because officials from the central government or other state governments who are of the rank equivalent to those mentioned in the list of eligibility for beacons in Bengal will be entitled to use the light during their visits to the state,” an officer said. Red beacon with flasher: A state transport department notification on June 19, 2014, and its amendment notified by the state on February 9, 2016, state that the governor, chief minister, chief justice of high court, Assembly speaker, cabinet ministers of the state, advocate-general, leader of the Opposition and judges of the high court are eligible to use the red beacon and flasher. An officer said there had been an amendment to the list by the Centre in 2017. But in the absence of a notification by the state on the amendment, city police are sticking to the 2014 notification and the 2016 amendment. Red beacon minus flasher: The state transport department notification states that the ministers of state, deputy speaker, mayor of Calcutta and the state chief secretary can use the red beacon without the flasher. Blue beacon with flasher: On the list are the additional solicitor general, state election commissioner and the chairpersons of the state administrative tribunal, state minorities commission, commission for backward classes and the state public service commission. Blue beacon minus flasher: On the list are 18 more categories of government officials like secretaries to the government of Bengal, heads of police agencies, directorates, commissionerates, district magistrates, SPs or officers of equivalent ranks. Ministerspeak: Transport minister Firhad Hakim on Wednesday instructed senior officials to pull out the list of entitled users of blue beacon and check whether the number had gone up. Officials said they would collect information on all officials using beacons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court issues interim stay on teacher recruitment process for upper primary schools||A high court judge on Wednesday issued an interim stay on the Bengal government’s ongoing process of recruitment of teachers for upper primary schools till Friday, when it will hear three petitions moved by three aggrieved aspirants. Because of the three petitions, the jobs of over 22,000 eligible candidates are at stake. In April, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the government would recruit 22,000 teachers in upper primary schools, many of them by October, on the basis of a list of successful candidates who had appeared in the 2016 TET (Teachers’ Eligibility Test). Accordingly, the merit list was prepared and selected candidates were being called. The three petitioners came to court with three different allegations of irregularities in the recruitment process. The first petitioner alleged that candidates who had secured less marks than him were called for interviews. The second petitioner claimed that the SSC had no authority to recruit teachers from the merit list prepared on the basis of the 2016 test, bypassing seven such lists prepared since 2008. The third petitioner claimed that even though her name figured on the merit list, she was not called for an interview. Justice Abhijit Ganguly decided to hear all three cases in detail on Friday and restrained the state from going ahead with the recruitment process till the date of next hearing. Asked about the stay, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was becoming “a pattern” in Bengal to move court whenever the state government was getting ready to appoint teachers. “I am watching this pattern…. Whenever students are going to be appointed as teachers, a case is being filed in the court instantly. Anyone can move court but those who are filing the cases are committing an injustice because they should not toy with the future of so many students,” she said. “Who are these litigants? Are they well wishers of the students? Are they well wishers of society? We don’t make any discrimination while making appointments. Everything was being made ready so that 35,000 boys and girls could be appointed. All of a sudden a case was filed.” Mamata asked school education secretary Manish Jain to plead the case in the court. “Instead of deputing a lawyer… I would want you (Jain) to plead in the court that our 35,000 students are waiting to get appointments. How long will they wait? I will also ask you not to waste any time. Whatever you have to do, do it immediately,” she said. On December 11, 2020, Calcutta High Court had quashed the process initiated by the school service commission to recruit nearly 15,000 teachers in upper primary schools. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get preference. On Wednesday, an education department official said: “The commission was getting ready to release the appointment letters. Now again the process has been stalled.” The chief minister said she was not commenting on court proceedings. “Still, I will say this, please look at the future of the students,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Rush for Covid-19 vaccine returns after dosage tweak||The rush for Covid vaccines, which had eased a bit after the Centre increased the gap between the two doses of Covishield, has multiplied manifold as thousands of people who were made to wait for 84 days are now desperate for the second jab. Many private vaccination centres are witnessing a huge jump in the turnout and most of the people queuing up are waiting for the second dose, officials said. At most private hospitals on Wednesday, people had to wait for two to three hours to get vaccinated because of long queues. Some hospitals said they had to turn away many prospective recipients because the infrastructure was not adequate to handle the sudden surge. Promila Ghosh, from Howrah, had to wait for nearly two hours for her second dose at Belle Vue Clinic. “The wait for the first shot was much less,” her son-in-law Pallab Biswas said. Bondel Gate resident Shyamaji Kumar Mishra had to wait for more than two hours on Wednesday at the same hospital for his second jab. “I had to wait for 45 minutes for the first dose. The crowd was much less then,” said Mishra. The Centre had on April 1 opened vaccination for everyone above 45. In Calcutta, most private hospitals were administering Covishield doses because of easier availability. Of those who took their first dose of Covishield on or after April 1, many have their second dose schedule coming up. The Narendra Modi government has changed the gap between two doses of Covishield twice. First, the gap was mandated at four weeks. Then it was increased to six to eight weeks. On May 12, the gap was again increased to 12 to 16 weeks following a recommendation from a government panel. Many had wondered whether the new norms were in line with international protocols or whether the announcement by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) was made in view of the nationwide shortage of Covid vaccine doses. The NTAGI had not suggested any change to the dosage interval of Covaxin. A problem that had been pushed back has now come back to haunt. The desperation for a quick second dose for those who have already completed 84 days stems from recent doubts expressed by a section of scientists about the long gap between the two doses. The Modi government’s decision to set 16 weeks as the limit for the gap between the two doses of Covishield “lacked scientific basis”, multiple medical experts have said. The Centre insisted that the decision to increase the gap was based on scientific evidence but allegedly relied on studies that had resear-ched the impact on efficacy for up to 12 weeks, not 16. “Earlier, when the gap between two Covishield doses was six to eight weeks, many people would have taken their second doses after 45 days and the crowd would have been lesser. But, since the gap was increased to at least 84 days, more people got clustered in one large group and they are coming together. That is leading to lengthening of queues and longer waiting period,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital had 220 recipients of Covishield on June 17 and most of those were between 18 and 44 years, waiting for their first dose. On June 28, it had recorded 550 recipients. On Wednesday, there were 513 in the queue. Mitra said the hospital had to turn away 50 people daily on an average because of crowding. A Kasba resident and his wife had gone to Peerless Hospital last Monday for their second dose. “I arrived at the hospital around 2pm and left around 4.30pm. There were hundreds of people in the queue and many of them were shouting at officials because they had to wait for hours,” said the man, who had taken his first dose on April 2. Mitra said the hospital had been starting the day’s vaccination programme at 8am, instead of 9am, which was the norm before. “From next week, we’ll open three more counters. Now there are only two,” he said. The scene was similar at Belle Vue Clinic on Wednesday. The hospital is conducting it’s vaccination drive at the adjoining La Martiniere campus. “A month back, we were vaccinating around 700 people a day, when there was a rush for the first dose among people between 18 and 44 years. The rush came down over the past month and the vaccine footfall had reduced to around 330,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. On Wednesday, the count shot up to 485. Around 90 per cent of the recipients had turned up for the second dose, said Tondon. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, around 800 people were being vaccinated daily for the past month. Over the last five days, the number has crossed thousand. “We were having barely 30 people taking the second dose of Covishield. Over the past five days, the number has been more than 200,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The hospital has three sites. When the turnout had come down, it was using one-and-a-half sites. “Now all three will be needed as the crowd is building up,” Venkatesh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government appeals to bus operators to resume services with fare assurance||The Bengal government on Wednesday appealed to private bus and minibus operators to resume their services on Thursday and assured the owners that their demand for a fare hike would be looked into. Beginning July 1, the state government has decided to lift the partial ban on public transport with 50 per cent passenger capacity. The owners of private buses and minibuses, which comprise nearly 72 per cent of the buses in Bengal, are not happy with the government’s stand. The owners want the government to allow them the freedom to fix fares, much like autorickshaw and app cab operators. “We understand the challenges private bus and minibus operators are facing. We have informed the state government about their demands. No decision has been arrived at as yet,” state transport minister Firhad Hakim said. “We would request the private bus and minibus operators to resume their services considering the plight of the daily commuters.” Hakim on Wednesday met senior officials of the transport department to assess the state of preparedness ahead of resumption of bus services from Thursday. “A mere appeal doesn't make sense. No bus or minibus owner is prepared to roll out their vehicles if the fares remain unchanged. The price of fuel has gone up and there won't be enough passengers since the suburban and the Metro rail services are yet to resume,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate. Senior officials of the transport department said a committee had been set up to look into the demands of fare revision by private bus and minibus operators. The panel will take some time to come up with recommendations. Bus and minibus operators said the state government could amend the Motor Vehicles Act and change the way fares were decided. Several government buses in various depots across Calcutta were sanitised on the eve of the resumption of service. Employees were called in to ensure that the service could resume early in the morning. A control room of the West Bengal Transport Corporation has been set up for police personnel and transport department officials. Officials involved in the operation of state buses said on Thursday that around 500 buses would be initially pressed into service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Uber, Ola decide to increase fares; state government not informed||App-cab aggregator Uber has decided to increase its fares by 15 per cent because of the rising fuel prices. The state government on Wednesday said the company had not informed the transport department about the revision. The company, which recently took the decision, did not make an official statement but its “drivers” said messages they got said the aggregator had put in place a new pricing system. Several users said the new pricing model would pinch them, more so during this period when options for mass transportation were limited. In the new model, Uber has increased the per kilometre rate from the existing Rs 10 to Rs 14.7 and the base fare from the existing Rs 47.25 to Rs 48. The charge per minute has been reduced from Rs 1.58 to Re 1. The minimum fare has been kept unchanged at Rs 85. What does this translate into? For a 10-km ride spanning 30 minutes, the new fare would be Rs 225 against the old one of Rs 194.85 — a 15.6 per cent jump. The aggregator has told its driver partners that in the new pricing system, 25 per cent of the total fare would go to the company’s account and the remaining to the partners. This would help the driver-partners as well as the car-owners absorb a part of the losses because of hike in fuel prices. On Wednesday, the price of diesel and petrol per litre stood at Rs 92.03 and Rs 98.64 respectively. On January 1, the price of diesel per litre stood at Rs 77.44 while that of petrol, at Rs 85.19. On Wednesday, the state government said the company had not informed the transport department about its new fare structure. “We are the licensing authority and according to the terms and conditions, it is upon the aggregator to inform the state government ahead of any fare revision,” said transport minister Firhad Hakim. “We have already sent them a letter.” Several drivers on the Ola platform also said the company had decided to increase its prices. Neither Ola nor Uber responded to queries. “This new system won't be of any help to the driver-partners or car owners. Instead, if the aggregators had decided to cut down on their commission from every trip, it would have helped both passengers and driver-partners,” said Indranil Banerjee, the secretary of the West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Time limit set for Jadavpur University BTech exams ||The faculty of engineering and technology at Jadavpur University has resolved that BTech students have to write and submit their ensuing semester examination on digital platforms within four-and-a-half-hours. The faculty council that met on Tuesday evening took the decision after a section of teachers last week had told vice-chancellor Suranjan Das that students “are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams. The teachers suggested that the stipulated test duration be enforced across faculties to curb the malpractice. In the engineering faculty, where students in the last semester examination held in May had taken as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — several instances of shared answers were reported, said a section of teachers. Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, a pro-VC and former dean of the faculty who attended Tuesday’s meeting, said, “It has been unanimously decided that students will have half-an-hour for downloading the question papers, three hours for solving the questions and an hour for uploading the answer scripts. This will be implemented in the first year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams due in July.” The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association had told VC Das last week in an email that “they strongly believe that the duration of an examination is an important factor for proper evaluation of students”. Last September, UGC had hold the universities — after the Supreme Court approved the regulatory body’s directive on holding final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30 — that the duration of terminal semester/final year examination could be timed for two or three hours. “However, the university may consider to give half-an-hour or so for downloading the question paper and uploading the answer sheet,” the guideline said. An official of the AICTE that regulates the engineering education across the country told Metro on Wednesday that whatever be the mode of exam — open book or the traditional pattern — instances of submission of identical answer scripts have to be dealt with strongly by the institutions. Several IITs and NITs are holding open book assessment over digital platform amid the pandemic. “But the institutions have to take steps so that instances of sharing of answers are not reported,” the official said. A teacher of the engineering faculty at JU said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. But in reality that they were misusing the option, by copying the answers solved by some bright students and holding consultations, he said. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ Association, said, “During the undergraduate first-year first semester exam held in February, a student took photos of the answer scripts of three other students and submitted them through a PDF file. He did not even want to waste time on copying the scripts.” The teachers of all three faculties — engineering, science and arts — said they gave the suggestions to VC Das last week on stipulating the examination duration so that nobody could raise question about the quality of the students or question the validity of their degrees from a legal point of view. “We expect that decision of the engineering and technology faculty will be able to maintain the sanctity of the examination system,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to 'wet lease' twin-engine aircraft ||The Bengal government has decided to take on a “wet lease” of three to five years a twin-engine aircraft with a “minimum seating capacity of 8-10 passengers”, according to a tender floated by the West Bengal Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (WBIDC). Senior officials of the transport department said the aircraft would be for ministers and senior bureaucrats on official trips. In a wet lease, the owner provides the aircraft as well as the crew to the lessee and is responsible for maintenance. The Bengal government will assure a minimum business of 45 hours every month, the tender document states. Senior transport department officials said several states, including Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, had this arrangement. They stressed that there was no scope for any irregularity as the e-tender was a public document and could be accessed by any willing participant. The tender, floated on June 11, invites an earnest money of Rs 10 lakh for a three-year contract, which could be extended to five years on “mutual agreement”. The WBIDC has spelt out that the aircraft operator should have a minimum of five years’ experience in operating a fixed-wing twin-engine aircraft with stand-up cabin space and capable of flying any distance within India. “The aircraft and crew as appointed to operate should be technically and appropriately qualified enough to undertake day as well as night operations..." the tender document states. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in the Assembly, tweeted: “Pushpak Rath for (self proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with helicopter's range, process of acquiring a 10 seater Airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical criss-crossing of the entire country for upcoming Loksava poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” Transport minister Firhad Hakim reminded Adhikari that the process had been initiated when he was the state transport minister. "The file (for hiring the aircraft) was moved during his tenure as transport minister." said Hakim. “The file bears his signature and today he is criticising the move.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-07-2021||Calcutta||Commissioner sign forged in job fraud, three persons arrested||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly forging the Calcutta municipal commissioner’s stamp and signature to purportedly recruit a group C employee in the government office. When the candidate who was fraudulently appointed went to join work, CMC officials told him that the appointment letter he was carrying was fake, police said. Based on a complaint lodged by the overseer of the conservancy department, officers of New Market police station initiated a case against a man named Rajib Mallick. Mallick had allegedly taken money from the candidate and provided him with a purported appointment letter carrying the CMC commissioner’s signature. Mallick, a resident of central Calcutta’s Eden Hospital Road, was arrested on June 27. Based on his statement, cops picked up his accomplices Joydeb Sarkar and Siddhartha Saha. Investigators seized a fake rubber stamp of a senior CMC official and six fake letter-heads of the corporation from them. Till Wednesday, the police said they had not found any connection with the Debanjan Deb case. The modus operandi through which Mallick had allegedly cheated the candidate bore a resemblance with that of Deb, who not just feigned the identity of an IAS officer posted as a joint commissioner in the CMC, but also gave purported appointment letters to several people using forged government documents, seals and stamps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
