02-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Block resident committees asked to be on watchdog duty after New Town security scare||The shootout at Sukhobrishti has once again raised concern about security in the twin townships. While New Town residents are rattled at the thought of criminals staying in their midst for months, those in Salt Lake are alarmed at learning that the gangsters killed in the June 9 encounter had lived in a CL Block guest house in May before moving out. The police and administration are now holding discussions with committees of blocks and complexes, asking them to collate and share details of all tenants living in their guesthouses and PG accommodations. The committees, however, say this is easier said than done. A meeting was held at the New Town police station on Wednesday evening where block representatives voiced their problems in presence of deputy commissioner, New Town, Bishop Sarkar, inspector in charge (IC), New Town police station, Sanat Das and IC, Technocity police station, Anindya De. Assistant commissioner of police, Rajarhat, Paresh Ray also attended the meeting. New Town security scare Some New Town blocks, like AE Block, had started taking protective measures even before the police meeting. “Right after the Sukhobrishti incident, we had asked residents on our WhatsApp group to submit details of their tenants. Barely six or seven responded. This Sunday, a governing body meeting was held to discuss ways of implementing the directives. We have seven-eight lanes of our block and will hold four camps to hand over the forms to each house. We will also float a Google form to collect details of presidents and secretaries of co-operative housings within a week,” said Debmalya Shome, assistant secretary of New Town AE Block Cultural and Social Welfare Association. CE Block has appointed a representative in each lane who will distribute the forms to the houses. “Though the police have asked information only on tenants and brokers, we have also added caretakers to the list,” said Alok Das, secretary of CE Block Cultural Association. But the police’s insistence on proof of their permanent address countersigned by the local panchayat pradhan is proving to be a hurdle. “If they now ask the tenants to produce proof of permanent residence as well, the process will get delayed.” Das suggests connecting Aadhaar cards to the forms in lieu of address proof. Blocks under duress CE Block is also appointing two night guards. “There was a theft in our block last night. That has expedited the decision,” Das said, adding that they expected the whistle-blowing guards to act as deterrents against wrong-doers and be in touch with the local police station in emergencies. “Mark my words, once the gated communities become hard to penetrate, miscreants will choose to stay in residential blocks where vigil is lax,” said Shome. Indeed the police had come to search a guest house in AI Block, New Town recently. “A combined team of New Town and Midnapore police reached the block around 11pm, looking for a miscreant in a guest house. Though he could not be found there, it struck us later that the manager of the guest house had misbehaved with our members when they went there to collect puja subscription last year. ‘Amader byabostha achhey. (Apnara) Dakleo keu ashbe na,’ they had said, dropping dark hints of connections in influential quarters. It is alright if people do not want to pay chanda but it is difficult to accept such rude behaviour. How will we make such people share information with us?” says Anjan Sarkar, general secretary of ALAKAI Block Cultural and Welfare Association, which comprises three blocks. AI Block, he pointed out, has a large number of individual plots. “There are 40-50 guesthouses in that block alone. The location is very convenient, being close to the Major Arterial Road and Salt Lake. Many people have bought plots or apartments simply as investment without any plans of settling here,” said Sarkar. The lack of information can lead to panic under the pandemic situation. “In AK Block, a big vehicle used to come at night, dropping off strangers and picking up a few. “This was at the height of the national lockdown last year. Much later we found out that they were staff members of Tata Medical Center, which had rented the house.” Missing landlord There is a building in AE Block where not a single owner lives. It has been handed to a company which lets out rooms to paying guests. “We have faced problems in such buildings. The paying guests do not listen to the caretaker and have strangers coming in. We failed to elicit any response from the owner. Now that the administration is also taking an interest, we will push for data collection,” Shome said. Many doubt whether the data collection drive will be a success. “We are toothless,” said Parthasarathi Adak acidly. The former assistant secretary of BD Block Cultural Association attended the police meetings with the current secretary. “They should have spelt out what we can do if residents refuse to comply.” Sarkar of ALAKAI pointed out that many residents either do not take membership of the block association or do not bother to renew the initial membership. “I have never seen the owner of the building opposite mine. All three floors are let out and even the tenants keep changing. Forget membership, we have no clue about the identity or whereabouts of the owners in such cases.” Shome pointed out that the block committees lacked authority. “If any landlord refuses to share tenant information with us, we can’t force their hand. Who knows who enjoys what kind of political influence! Will NKDA or the police protect us if there is an altercation?” he said. The only way there will be positive impact, he feels, is if the authorities provide adequate support. “I hope the police keep their promise of meeting us periodically. That way, the message will percolate, both to the landlords and the brokers.” Sarkar wants the authorities to keep strict vigil on buildings being used for commercial purposes. “People bought the plots at cheap rates and turned them into wedding venues and guest houses.” He also wants the police to knock at the doors of defaulters. “If they tick off the first few who fail to share information with us, the others will comply.” Lack of para culture Adak of BD Block feels the NKDA needs to make membership of the block association mandatory for the committee to have any voice. “Out of 200-plus occupants in 450-plus ready flats, we have 105 members. Of them, about 50 bothered to take membership only recently, lured by our vaccination initiatives and other help amid the pandemic. Unless we are invested with some authority, this handing of papers will be an eyewash.” The lack of a place to meet is something every block committee was itching to bring up in case they were given a chance to speak at the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre meet with the NKDA and police top brass. Adak, a former resident of EE Block in Salt Lake, misses the block association-run community centres keenly. He rules out holding meetings in residences of members amid the pandemic. “We have to meet in small numbers in the garage spaces of buildings or spend from our pockets to erect a pandal if we have to call everyone. Such is the situation that we might have to install a bamboo pole macha permanently at the street corner for us to sit on in the evening,” the BD Block resident adds acidly. Shome is ready to compromise to get a community hall. “If the NKDA is unwilling to hand over control to us, let them keep the booking rights but give us a place to meet. How else do they expect para culture to grow here?” he suggests. Banking on brokers Information on brokers is another responsibility the block RWAs are unwilling to shoulder. “Are we going to walk up to youths having tea at roadside stalls and ask if they were brokers? We can at best ask the co-operative buildings to share information on the broker involved if any of their members are letting off their flat,” said Das of CE Block. The muscle man-like profiles of the brokers also make many uneasy. “Golay chain, hatey bala… Who is going to face up to them?” Sarkar wonders. “Why don’t the police run background checks on them and issue identity cards instead of leaving it to us? We are just a bunch of retired folk volunteering for the job,” he says. Debashis Ghosh, who has been a broker in New Town for nine years, says the police has had a word with them after the shootout. “Ethical brokers always include details of both the landlord and tenant in the contract agreement and hand over a copy of the same to the police. There must have been some lacuna in the Sukhobrishti case,” says Ghosh. “Either way, we have become more vigilant after the incident. I’m entertaining only families of IT or government sector employees. Single men or businessmen are a no-no for the time being. We don’t want trouble.” Another broker, who operates in Salt Lake and New Town, said he always shares the identity documents of tenants with the police. “The cops even demand a bribe to give us the go-ahead,” he said, adding that he had not received any briefing from the police after the shootout. Police speak At Wednesday’s meeting with the police, the block representatives further pointed out that the guidelines handed to them at the meeting of block and housing complex representatives convened at the convention centre on June 24 were geared towards the gated communities. “We do not have the financial resources to install CCTV cameras at entry and exit points or maintain a register of visitors,” they said. Several also complained of non-cooperation from building owners or caretakers when they approached them with the forms to be filled up with details of tenants and brokers. DC, New Town, Bishop Sarkar, assured them that a fresh set of guidelines would be framed keeping the requirements of the blocks and co-operative housing complexes in mind. Officers of the police stations would visit the blocks at regular intervals to meet and maintain liaison with residents. “To minimise chances of forgery, you can ask tenants to download their Aadhaar card using the one-time password on their mobile number linked to the card and submit a colour photocopy of that to you.” He also promised to speak to the NKDA on the complaints voiced by several blocks of guest houses coming up on residential plots. “There is a practice of youngsters renting a flat in a group while the agreement of the landlord is with just one of them. In such cases, you might add a line in the agreement you draw up with your tenant or paying guest mentioning the names of the other adults who would be staying there. That way, we have a record of all the people staying there.” “You have to be our eyes and ears. We do not have a magic wand to gain access to information that even you do not have about your next-door neighbour. Report to us whatever seems amiss in the neighbourhood,” urged Sarkar. Salt Lake canal-side alert The blocks along the Kestopur Canal and Eastern Drainage Canal said they were rather vulnerable. “Ours is the last block in Salt Lake and criminals can easily escape by crossing the canal and heading any which way they please. No wonder the Sukhobrishti gangsters took refuge here,” said Dipankar Mitra, assistant secretary of CK-CL block. He added that the guest house in question had been a nuisance for years. “Their guests threw loud parties late at night, smashed liquor bottles outside…. We have been complaining about them for long but no action was taken.” The committee is now determined to turn things around. “Push has come to shove. We shall hold drives in the block and, if need be, assign volunteers in different lanes but we have to be up to date with information,” said Mitra, adding that they were also expecting a police post around the Metro station in their block to deal with the post-pandemic crowd of outsiders. Thefts have been reported over the past few days in blocks like CJ, CG blocks and Sarat Abasan. “The other night someone tried to steal the battery of a car parked in our block. The owner raised an alarm and the thief fled but we are living in fear. Our block has three footbridges across the canal and the canalside too has got encroached. Not just PGs, we want to know the antecedents of these slum dwellers,” said secretary of Sarat Abasan Soumen Kumar Dutta. “We want CCTVs and police patrol too.” Doubtful Response Salt Lake’s CD Block had tried to float a “know your neighbourhood” form in 2018-19, asking residents to submit details of domestic helps, their cars etc. “We didn't get back enough response to make a solid report and so there’s little hope of success now,” says executive committee member Arunabha Hazra. “Moreover, most landlords are elderly and will not make the trip all the way to the police station to submit documents. Had the form been online, they could have at least requested someone to fill it up for them.” Pabitra Biswas, secretary of AJ blocks, admits they may fail. “Salt Lake has two kinds of residents. Those who have lived here for decades have a sense of belonging and want to contribute to the community’s safety but the PGs only return home to sleep at night. They neither know the block committee members nor care to fill up any form,” he says. Tax trouble It’s an open secret that many homes in Salt Lake do not declare their tenants and paying guests, in a bid to save on taxes. “Such residents will get caught if they fill up the police’s forms now,” explains secretary of CA Block, Jibadip Bhadury. “We have no authority to force them. At most we can inform the police about these houses and ask them to keep a close watch.” HA Block executive committee member Tarasankar Chatterjee agrees. “Taxes are the reason no one wants to share details of tenants in their houses and garages. Plus, at a time when we aren’t even able to hold block meetings for fear of Covid, how can the authorities expect us to go ringing every doorbell asking for Aadhar cards and the like! I doubt the success of this initiative,” he says. Where there’s a will Then again there is Jal Vayu Vihar, a complex at the edge of Salt Lake bordering the EM Bypass and Eastern Drainage Canal, that has always been particular about safety. “I am proud to say that we have never reported a theft in our complex and we take many measures to ensure this,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice-chairman, board of directors, Jal Vayu Vihar. First, they do not allow brokers to find tenants and only go by personal references. “We prefer families with defence background and allow them in only after interviews and police verifications. Our domestic helps need to submit their ID proof, attested by the local councillor. I strongly encourage other blocks to enforce this.” What are your suggestions to ensure that a Sukhobrishti-like incident does not happen in your locality? Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||NKDA gets machine for free dengue tests||An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) reader was installed for testing of dengue at New Town Health Centre at the Utility Building last Friday. “We intensify our dengue clean-up drives in monsoon. Our door-to-door influenza-like-illness survey has begun with the onset of the rains. Since Aedes mosquitoes that transmit dengue breed in clear stagnant water, we are also creating awareness about not allowing water to stagnate on rooftops of people’s houses or at construction sites. We also monitor Metro Rail tracks using drones,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen after the inauguration of the machine on Friday. The first lot of reports were handed over on the day. The test samples will be collected from 10am to 12noon and reports will be given out the same day between 3pm and 5pm. “Emergencies will be attended to beyond this hour,” an official said. The test, which costs around Rs 1,200 in private laboratories, will be free here. So long, samples for dengue detection in New Town were sent to Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid screening camp organised at Labony containment zone||A screening camp was held for immediate neighbours and contacts on Monday after four residents tested positive for Covid-19 at Labony Estate. The building in D Block, facing the street outside, has been barricaded as a micro containment zone. With the administration trying to put a cap on the spread of Covid 19 in the township, this is the third such zone to come up in Salt Lake over the last seven days. While the first zone was demarcated on June 24, with four houses — BF 166 to 170 — cordoned off on First Avenue, two more were added the next day. The second is in the same block, at BF 315. Four pavement stalls have been removed due to their proximity to the first floor of the building which overlooks them. Three of the stalls, two of them selling milk and the other fruits, have been relocated but a tea stall has been asked to shut down. Tea stalls, where clients habitually take their masks off, have always been considered super spreader venues. “The lady running the stall had herself been infected with the virus last year, towards the start of the first wave,” a resident recalled. On Monday, rapid antigen tests were conducted by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on 56 people, including sweepers and stall-keepers of the area. Though the results came negative for everyone, the police is keeping strict vigil. Commissioner Supratim Sarkar himself visited the area on Saturday. PCR vans with two cops from the Bidhannagar north police station have been stationed at each of the three containment zones round the clock. Residents are happy with the arrangement. “Labony had been majorly affected in the second wave, with a period at the peak of the wave in May seeing as many as 20-22 families testing positive around the same time,” said Sumit Sarkar, general secretary of Labony Abashik Samity. The complex has 700 flats. At the BF Block containment zone, five members of a family had tested positive soon after another in the adjacent house got infected. “Though the first patient has recently recovered, we did not want to take a chance and included the neighbouring houses too in the containment zone,” said a police officer. The building at an extremity of the barricade houses a pre-school and offices, so is shut anyway. North 24-Parganas has the highest number of micro containment zones in the state, numbering 83.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||World Yoga Day marked through online events||A webinar held on World Yoga Day discussed how the practices can clear lungs, build immunity and also keep co-morbidities at bay. “The pranayam of controlled breathing through a nostril at a time — anulom vilom — has become quite popular during the pandemic and many are performing it, but there are others like jalandar bandha and sheetali pranayam that are beneficial too,” said Mriganka Sankar Poddar, an ardent practitioner of yoga and professor of philosophy at Mahadevananda Mahavidyalaya in Barrackpore. Poddar was a speaker at the webinar conducted jointly by the college and AB Block-based Rama Ghosh and Sunil Chandra Ghosh Memorial Trust. He explained how the jalandar bandha (chin lock) increases the capacity of the lungs, sheetali pranayam (cooling breath) increase lung power. “The bhastrika pranayam further clears congestion from the lungs,” he said, demonstrating asanas like noukasana (boat pose) and bhujangasana (cobra pose) that would help reduce obesity and control co-morbidities. “But yoga is not just about physical health. Consistent practice makes one spiritual.” A student, Sonali Nag, then performed a dance to Shivtandav stotra exclusively using yogic asanas. “While I have never learnt yoga formally, I learn Bharatnatyam, a dance that requires much flexibility. While choreographing the song, I realised many poses are similar. I used the Natarajasana and steps from the surya namaskar,” said the undergraduate student. Students of physical education demonstrated some asanas and explained their benefits and Pratiti Ghosh, head of the department of physiology, West Bengal State University, debated whether yoga and modern medicines are contradictory or complementary. “Modern medicine is used more in times of emergency. It is curative, used after one acquires a disease. Yoga, on the other hand, is preventive and, if practised consistently for some months, improves aspects like one’s cardio vascular and neurological state as also endocrine gland secretion, digestion, posture, immunity etc,” she said. She added that modern medical tests like MRI and EEG had scanned the brains of people in meditation and during pranayam, and found them to become calmer, more alert, with increased concentration. “Today yoga has been moulded into gymnastics, dance, Bikram hot Yoga… In its true form, the difference between sports and yoga is that the latter also provides mental and spiritual benefits.” Principal Nayan Kumar Sarkar advocated not just starting yoga young but incorporating it in one’s daily routine. “People are usually too lazy to work out, say they have no time or lack the motivation after one or two days. But if it becomes a part of your routine like brushing your teeth you will never skip it,” says the daily practitioner of asanas. “Also, just like many turn to Rabindrasangeet only on pochishe Baisakh, they turn to yoga only on June 21. This must change.” Arijit Karmakar, a teacher at the college and managing trustee of the AB Block-based Trust that partnered the webinar, said one of the aims of their group was to promote health and wellness. “If it wasn’t for the pandemic, we might have held yoga camps across blocks in Salt Lake but for now online events will have to do,” he said. On the eve of World Yoga Day, enthusiasts signed up for an online contest organised by the Uniworld City-based Art of Mind and Body Yoga. The centre is run by instructor Ritu Singh, who has shifted to online classes during the pandemic. “We held the contest on June 20 as it was a Sunday,” said Singh. “We had two categories — for those over and under the age of 40. Contenders had to perform a set of four compulsory asanas and one of their choice. I, along with two more judges, watched and marked the online event on Zoom.” The contest drew about 50 participants. Mukti Gupta, a resident of Rosedale Garden, won in the 40-plus category. “I was an athlete in college but my five years of practising yoga with Ritu has increased my flexibility and made me fit. That I managed all chores without a domestic  help during the lockdown is all thanks to yoga,” she said. Kirti Parashar of Uniworld City came second in the category and credited yoga for keeping her thyroid in check. There were participants from the US, Europe and Australia too. Ragini Bhowmik, a former student of the institute whose parents still live at Uniworld City, won best chakrasana, having performed it from Switzerland. The contest gave students something to look forward to, said Singh. “They started practising their asanas ever since the contest was announced. In fact, they perfected tougher asanas like Natarajasana and chakrasana while stumbling with easier ones like paschimottanasana and gomukhasana.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town Citizens Welfare Fraternity distributes oxygen, oxymeter at Rajarhat villages||Oxygen cylinders and pulse oxymeters were handed over to eight club representatives from villages on the fringes of New Town on June 24. “New Town will prosper only if villages around us prosper. Tackling this pandemic is a public health movement. So we need to work unitedly,” said assistant secretary of New Town Citizens Welfare Fraternity Sudarshan Ray at a programme held at Eastern Centre, the community hall of Eastern High on the Major Arterial Road. The forum of New Town residents also offered to hold awareness drives in the areas. “Many of you have suggested printing and distributing leaflets in the vernacular in simple language. We can also do announcements on loud hailers. We can also sanitise your area and do intensive sanitisation in homes of the Covid-affected,” said Lutful Alam, the forum’s joint convenor. Satya Gopal Dey of Vikramshila Education Resource Society urged the club members to enforce Covid protocol in the area. “We cannot change the world but I can change myself. Also inspiration works much better than force. If you inspire the local shopkeepers and shoppers to wear masks in your local market, there will come a time when you will see there are zero Covid cases in your area for months,” said Dey told the club members. Roy, a doctor, pointed out some home truths. “Vaccine is not a medicine but a shield. Even if we take vaccine, we need to wear mask. Also it is better to wash hands with soap than use sanitisers repeatedly.” The recipients, the organisers pointed out, had been handling oxygen cylinders as Red Volunteers in their respective areas and so would not need training. The cylinders would have to be refilled at their own cost and returned after six months. Surab Mondal, a member of Jagadishpur Amra Sobai in Rajarhat Bishnupur, was happy to receive the cylinder. “Six people have died of Covid in our area. We arranged for oxygen for over 30 residents. At the peak of the second wave, when entire families were getting affected, oxygen suppliers told us that they could refill only if we could arrange for empty cylinders. Once we had to hire an ambulance just for the use of the oxygen in it. Having a cylinder in hand will be a big boost,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||DM Sumit Gupta inspects micro-containment, “high-risk” zones for dengue, Covid measures||Not just Covid, the authorities are also taking measures to check the incidence of dengue in the township. District magistrate of North 24- Parganas, Sumit Gupta, went for an inspection of micro-containment and “high-risk” zones of Salt Lake and Duttabad on Tuesday and also looked into the the measures being taken by the corporation to counter the outbreak of dengue in the township. Gupta was accompanied on his inspection by Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, Biswajit Panda, sub-divisional officer, Bidhannagar, and other senior civic and health officials. “This inspection was organised as monsoon is here and the dengue-causing Aedes Ageypti mosquitoes breed in stagnant fresh water. After a spell of rain, water accumulates in tyres, flower pots as well as ditches,” said a senior civic official. “The district administration wanted to find out the steps taken on the ground to check the increase of dengue as well as Covid-19.” Gupta said that although the number of dengue cases was quite low in the areas falling under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's 42 wards, the review survey was carried out to ensure that cases do not increase anyhow. “We want to ensure that no water is allowed to accumulate. We shall spray larvaecide and conduct door-to-door surveys to keep tabs on the dengue situation. Last year, dengue was well under control and we want to ensure the safety of residents this time too.” The team visited the Duttabad area and also CK and EC block markets to take stock of the measures taken by the civic body. Nirmal Dutta, ward co-ordinator of Duttabad, pointed out to the team that there were multiple ponds in the area and requested for guppy fish to be released in the ponds. “I asked the officials to help me procure guppies so we can release them in the ponds. I have also undertaken a drive to clean the open drains in the area,” Dutta said. Chakraborty said they were indeed planning to release guppy fish in all ponds as well as the Kestopur and Eastern Drainage canals. Apart from the fish, larvicide will be poured in the canals using rowboats. “We are already spraying larvicide and will also start an awareness campaign. I will place a request with the irrigation department to release water from the Ganges into the canals,” Chakraborty added. Last year, the dengue count in Salt Lake was within 200. Chakraborty also has a roadmap to control Covid. “We are not taking any chances and are setting up micro-containment zones in areas where cases have gone up suddenly and are monitoring them regularly,” she said. “The number of fresh Covid cases being reported in the corporation area is less than 30 a day now,” a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation”s health department said. There are more than a dozen micro-containment zones in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Ashwininagar and parts of Rajarhat. Is micro-containment zone demarcation an effective way to control the pandemic? Write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Elahe Gupta on having ‘Indie’ dogs as pets||If Elahe Gupta starts giving Bhootu a belly rub, Casper comes running. If she gives Casper a belly rub, Bhootu comes running. And before long the girl finds herself sitting between two dogs, petting both on either side. Not that she’s complaining. Elahe has always lived with pets and calls them her best friends. Their previous dog Aasra passed away when she was in kindergarten and a couple of years later, they got Casper and Bhootu. “We found them as puppies outside our house and after some coaxing, my parents agreed to bring them in,” says the 12-year-old. She named them Bhootu, after a TV serial she would watch back in the day about a child-ghost, and Casper, another friendly fictional child-ghost. The jet black Bhootu was born smaller in size than the black-and-white Casper and so Elahe, who herself was knee-high then, would find it easier to handle the former. “I would practise my ballet steps holding Bhootu for support,” she laughs. The seventh grader has now switched to learning the keyboard and the dogs diligently attend her online music classes with her. “When the lockdown began, they were a little confused as to why I was cooped up in a room instead of being at school and why I would stare at a screen that emitted voices of my teachers. Now they have got used to it,” she says. The dogs are the best of buddies but also like to get back at each other. Bhootu is scared of thunder and once it strikes, scurries to hide under the bed. Casper will then pull her out by the legs. “Then again, if we are ever late in serving them lunch, Casper, the foodie, goes and chews leaves on the terrace. Then Bhootu goes and pulls her away by the legs,” Elahe laughs. The dogs have a convenient arrangement at mealtimes. Casper eats half her bowl and stops to see how Bhootu is faring. Usually Bhootu leaves mid-way without eating her entire share. Casper will then attack her sister’s portion first and then return to her own bowl at leisure. Elahe is quite proud of having “Indie” dogs as her pets. “Pedigreed dogs may be prettier,” reasons Elahe, “but Casper and Bhootu are as loving as they can get.” If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Travel travails for furry folk||Pet lovers were heartbroken recently to hear about Gultu, a Chow Chow dog, who died while being transported from Calcutta to Mumbai by flight. Travelling can be strenuous for animals but pet-owners often have no choice but to go ahead with it. Gultu was a patient of vet Krishanu Ghosh,  who runs the VetAssure clinics in Salt Lake’s AE Block and New Town’s BF Block. Ghosh himself isn’t a proponent of air travel for pets but in this case he says there was no choice. “Snoutless dogs like Chow Chows, Pugs and Boxers have difficulty breathing in high altitudes and one really doesn’t know of the oxygen level in the cargo of an aeroplane. But Gultu had corneal ulcer that needed immediate surgery in Mumbai. Alas! He died of a stroke,” says Ghosh. Risks of air travel Vet Abhiroop Banerjee says another problem in being sent to the cargo in a cage is separation anxiety. “Pets are extremely attached to their families and even a two-hour flight alone can be traumatic for them,” says the vet who sits at GD Block’s Pet Mall & Murphy Veterinary Hospital and Oh My Paws in Uniworld’s Downtown Mall. “Elderly dogs can have cardiac issues and flying isn’t safe for them either.” Airlines need a “fit to fly” certificate from a vet before allowing a pet on board. “For this, we check the pet’s medical history, determine whether he has any long-term chronic illness, if his reflexes are alert, if his temperature is normal, vaccines are up to date, periodical deworming has been done, lungs and heart are normal,” says Banerjee. In case of foreign travel, microchipping is a must. Upon landing at the airport, Banerjee says the first thing to do is to reunite the pet with his family. “Once the pet has calmed down, take him out for some fresh air and then give him water,” he says. Rail ride Ghosh prefers trains and has himself travelled with his Lhasa Apso on the Rajdhani Express. “One has to book all four seats in an AC first class coupe to take along pets. In my case, we had got great service with the pantry folk even cooking boiled chicken for my dog’s meals,” he said. Some dogs prefer to relieve themselves only in familiar corners and this can be a problem on trains but despite this, vets say trains are safer than flights. On the road Road travel is by far the best. “A journey of up to two hours is no big deal — I have patients travelling that much from Howrah to my New Town clinic. Any longer than that and you should pull over now and then to walk the dog and offer him water. You can call the vet if you need help and make a detour to a medicine shop in case of an emergency,” says Banerjee. “Feed them small meals to avoid nausea.” Ghosh has some standard guidelines for dogs on the road too. “I suggest canned food that is low in volume and high in calorie content. Consuming this, dogs don’t feel nauseous. I also ask families to carry medicines for vomiting, diarrhoea and a pain killer. Anti-anxiety pills are also available,” he says. Banerjee asks owners of snoutless breeds to be careful even on road trips. “Don’t keep the AC on for too long. Roll down windows once in a while for fresh air. Also, halt frequently and let him walk,” he says. Gone there, done that In the pre-pandemic days, vets in the twin townships would get 25 to 30 requests a month for “fit to travel” certificates. “That’s how common pet travel has become, especially in New Town, that has a large population hailing from other states,” says Banerjee. FE Block’s Vivek Vikram Singh travels extensively with his French Mastiffs, especially with Bruce, who would even take the train to Darjeeling. When the lockdown got called last year, Vivek and Bruce got stuck in Darjeeling. “We later managed a curfew pass and drove 12 hours home. I had a special mattress made for him to fit the back of our SUV and he was very comfortable on it,” says Vivek. Prasenjit Ghosh had such a harrowing experience flying their Shih Tzu Coco in from their previous residence in the US, that he has sworn never to do it again. “Many airlines would not allow pets and even fewer allowed snoutless pets due to their predisposition of respiratory issues,” says the resident of DLF New Town Heights. The formalities were labyrinthine, but in the US and Dubai, where the flight halted, they  got excellent service. “It was Calcutta airport that was a nightmare and we were allowed to take Coco him home 12 hours after landing!” Coco and their Lhasa Apso Sasha now travel long distance comfortably with them by car. Pratyusa Banerjee, who calls herself the sister of the deceased Chow Chow Gultu, urges for better facilities for animals on flights. “The flight charged us Rs 14,000 — double a passenger ticket — to ferry him and we had paid Rs 7,000 more to assure his safety. If they are charging us for it, they should provide a vet and oxygen facilities in the flight and airport,” she says. The family is distraught without Gultu and has decided to get two Chow Chow puppies from Chandigarh to help them cope with the loss. “But we have told the breeder the pups cannot come by air. They must come by road,” says Pratyusa, a student of Inifd Saltlake. Have you faced trouble in transporting your pet? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Tagore remembered||“I cannot see you, I cannot hear you, why is this live teleceast not showing on Facebook?” And so the celebration of Rabindrajayantis continued online for yet another year. Newtown Citizens Welfare Fraternity held their event recently and around 35 participants logged in. The evening began with Lutful Alam, president of the group, garlanding Rabindranath Tagore’s picture on behalf of all members. Taposhree Pramanik was the first to perform. The six-year-old sang Jagorone jaye bibhabori. Mousumi Bhoumick recited Duhsomoy, Sonali Chakraborty Ghosh sang Dui hate kaler mondira je. Anchor Kakali Majumder kept asking viewers to mute their microphones so the performers could be heard. The search for Pradeep Kumar Ghosh went on for long time and it was only after an hour that he could join. Even then there was an issue with the video. “We cannot see you dada, we can only hear your voice,” said Kakali. Eventually the CA Block resident sang Jodi tor dak shune keu na ase and was both visible and audible. Sreeja Basu and Ishani Basu danced to Prothom adi tobo and Angira Dutta danced to Gahana kusuma. “Online events have become a part of our lives now. The only problem is network — the audio often isn’t clear,” said Gargi Chatterjee, before singing Nai rosho nai. “If it wasn’t for the pandemic, we would have organised Rabindrajayanti in an auditorium but could have only entertained a limited audience. On the online platform, there can be unlimited participation. Friends and family living out of town can join too,” said Samir Gupta, secretary of the group. “People are locked at home for almost a year now and these events, even if for a short while, refresh our minds,” he added. Tribute to bards Residents of New Town CD Block came together and dedicated an evening to Tagore and Nazrul Islam in a show titled “Hridoye Rabindranath, chetonay Nazrul”. Amalabha Dutta made a special request to anchor Purba Kar to be allowed to perform early as he had a meeting to attend and began the show with the Nazrulgeeti Antore tumi achho chirodin. Sumi Pal recited Tagore’s Bhul swargo, Sithi Kana Ghatak recited Tagore’s Khadanaki and Chandrani Sanyal sang Nazrul’s Kon kule aaj bhirlo tari. When Gouri Sanyal was struggling with her video, others suggested that she log out and log in again. “Absolutely not!” she snapped. “I took great pains in logging in the first time. You don’t have to see me. I’ll be singing and so it’s enough if you hear me,” she laughed before crooning Ami ki gaan gabo je  bhebe na pai. When they realised they had some extra time at hand, Sathi Bairagi was requested to sing two songs. She obliged with Tagore’s Ganer surey and Khelichho e bishwa loye. A search for Rita Basu ensued, after which she concluded the show singing Ami bonophul go. Play time Township-based theatre group Britya put up three plays based on social issues, and no, they were not online. The event took place before the current restrictions and so was held at Rabindra Okakura Bhavan. “Our booking was actually for spring 2020 so the hall offered us a slot to conduct it this year in lieu. We had thought the seats would go empty but we got a decent audience,” said secretary Bijan Ghosh, who directed the plays along with Arup Ghosh. The first play Porichoy, scripted by Arup Ghosh, was about a failing businessman (played by Arijit Roy) about to commit suicide. A stranger (played by Arup Ghosh) stopped him and made him change his mind. In the comedy Hay Kopal, an elderly man and his wife (played by Soumitra Maity and Nibedita Dhar) were so desperate to settle down their unemployed son that they contemplated committing suicide so the son (played by Supantha Ghosh) got his father’s job on compensatory grounds. Se Esechilo, by Chandan Sen, was about marital discord between a couple played by Arup and Nandita Chatterjee. Their younger selves were played by Sanjay and Gargee Maitra. “Our group shall complete 35 years in December and if the situation normalises, we want to host a theatre festival,” said Bijan Ghosh. If you want to get a programme, even an online one, featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Autorickshaw fares almost doubled on Salt Lake routes||Autorickshaw drivers on four routes originating in Salt Lake charged nearly double the earlier fares on Thursday, Day 1 of resumption of public transport following relaxation of curbs imposed on May 16 as a precaution against Covid. A ride from the Sovabazar Metro station to Karunamoyee in Salt Lake cost Rs 50 on Thursday. It was Rs 29 in March. Commuters headed to Phoolbagan from the Karunamoyee bus stand were asked to shell out Rs 30. In March, the ride cost Rs 16. An autorickshaw driver charged Rs 30 for a ride till Ultadanga from the Sovaba-zar Metro station, while another took Rs 20 for a ride from Ultadanga to Karunamoyee. Passengers on multiple routes said they had no option but to shell out the extra money as buses were infrequent. Only a handful of buses rolled out on Thursday, with owners claiming that the government’s refusal to hike fares for now and rocketing fuel price have made their business unviable. “I had to travel from Karunamoyee to Phoolbagan. An auto driver told me the ride would cost Rs 30. The driver told me to pay or wait for a bus,” recounted Suresh Pandey, a resident of Phoolbagan who works at a Salt Lake shop. “I waited for nearly 15 minutes before deciding to pay the amount and travel by auto. I had travelled on the same route a few days back, be- fore autos were officially allowed to ply, and I had to pay Rs 40.” Drivers on the Karunamoyee-Ultadanga, Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan, Karunamoyee-Kankurgachi and the Karunamoyee-Beleghata Bypass routes said they were being forced to charge extra because of a rise in the LPG price and to compensate for the lack of passengers. The price of a litre of LPG on Thursday was Rs 51.65. A year back, it sold for Rs 35.71. “The price of LPG has been steadily increasing. Moreover, we have been told to ply with only two passengers, although at times we are ferrying three or four like before. But the number of commuters has dropped drastically,” said Bikram Dhali, an auto driver on the Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route. Many ran their autos on truncated routes. Nirmal Dutta, a leader of the Trinamul-affiliated auto union, said: “We have not hiked fares and no new fare chart has been issued. However, we have to keep in mind the rising fuel cost and the fact that people were stepping out only in the morning and evening,” said Dutta. Nearly all autos were spotted carrying more than two passengers, in violation of the state government’s Covid curbs. Most of the drivers were wearing masks and some had even kept sanitisers for passengers. “We washed the vehicles thoroughly in the morning,” said Dasarath Samanta, a driver on the Ulta-danga-Karunamoyee route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Shortage of doses makes CMC suspend vaccination for a day ||Many people who had booked their vaccination slots at select Calcutta Municipal Corporation facilities through a WhatsApp chatbot for Thursday learnt that jabs would not be administered during the day only after they arrived at the centres. The recipients said they did not get any message on cancellation of vaccination. A CMC official said the information was posted on the social media pages of the civic body. “Shortage of doses was the primary reason why the drive at all CMC centres had to be suspended for a day,” the official said. The vaccination at all civic body-run centres will resume on Friday. “With the available stock, we will be able to vaccinate a substantial number of people on Friday and Saturday. Sunday is a holiday. More vaccines are expected and vaccination will not suffer on Monday, too,” said another CMC official. An official of the state e-governance mission that manages the chatbot said all people whose appointments were cancelled on Thursday would receive WhatsApp messages about their new slots. “The time slots are the same. The date has been moved to July 5.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab shortage stalls IIEST vaccination drive||IIEST, Shibpur, has suspended the Covid vaccination camp it was running on the campus with support from the state government because of shortage of doses. A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in-charge of the institute’s hospital, on June 29 said: “The vaccination for the employees and their family…., scheduled on June 30 has been suspended. This is due to non-availability of required vaccines from the office of CMOH (chief medical officer of health), Howrah”. An IIEST official said the vaccination programme on the campus would remain suspended till further orders. The district health office told the institute on Thursday that doses would not be available. An IIEST official said they had enlisted 600 of its students for the first dose. “Many of our employees are scheduled to get their second dose from July 6. They cannot be vaccinated,” he said. “There is a shortage in supply of doses. Whatever stocks are available will be administered through the district and sub-divisional hospitals. We cannot allocate any of our stocks for the IIEST,” an official of the district administration said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times ||Focus on feathers This summer vacation has not been the same as other years since everyone has been locked in at home due to the Covid-19 outbreak. I have been spending my days doing many activities. One such is bird watching. Due to the lockdown, I cannot go out birding so I have to do bird watching from my Salt Lake residence terrace. My father and I started birding last summer. He started photographing birds and I used to help him with a pair of binoculars. Till now, we have spotted over 30 species of birds from our terrace, which include Red Vented Bulbul, Purple Sunbird, Red Whiskered Bulbul, Black Hooded Oriole, Black Rumped Flameback Woodpecker etc. I love watching the Rose Ringed Parakeets feeding on Guavas and the Purple Sunbird feeding on nectar of flowers. I have also seen a couple of mammals. The most interesting one was the Indian Flying Fox Bat perched on a tree and eating Guavas opposite my house. I also spend time on mobile gaming and listening to music. I used to play games earlier also on the mobile with my friends. I always used to listen to K-pop music of BTS (the South Korean boy band) and used to love them. But in this pandemic, I have become addicted to their songs and joined their fan club Army. One day, suddenly all of us got sick and tested Covid-19 positive but we had mild symptoms. We didn’t panic and isolated ourselves. We recovered soon by taking medicines at proper time. In spite of all the restrictions of lockdown, I really enjoyed my summer holidays and learned a lot of new things and gained many new experiences. Rupsha Datta, 11 years, AA Block Birth of a writer The lockdown of 2021 seemed boring initially. I can’t remember the last time I stepped out of my home or met my friends. Now online classes have also lost their charm, and it’s very stressful to look at the screen for long hours. I really miss being at those physical classes. Despite all this, I have found ways to keep myself busy and entertained. I have started spending more time with music, which earlier I couldn’t, due to academic pressure. Singing and practising with my harmonium always lifts my mood when I feel low. I take a stroll on my terrace in the evening while listening to some melodious songs. Since I can’t go out, the terrace has now become my favourite spot of openness. I have read quite a lot of books in this lockdown and look forward to reading some more. I’m also helping my mom with some chores and tried my hand at cooking new dishes. My father has brought in a lot of indoor and flowering plants for the balcony, and it’s really soothing to have them around. Recently there had been a micro story-writing contest on social media arranged by a popular author, and I discovered the writer in me while participating in it. Inspired by all the novels and fictions I have read to date, I have written quite a few micro stories and articles. I’m glad to have discovered this creative side of me, and look forward to writing more. I dream of publishing a book some day! Besides nurturing these hobbies, I am also focusing on my studies and preparing for all the upcoming exams. I hope that we all stay positive in this difficult time, and pray that this phase gets over soon and we all return to our old normal lives. Sinjini Sinha, 21 years, School Road, Rajarhat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Fare double standard on auto and bus in Calcutta||Distance between Ultadanga and Sovabazar: Around 3km Bus fare: Rs 7 Auto fare: Rs 20 The result: Many autos and only a handful of buses hit the roads on Day 1 of resumption of public transport following relaxation of Covid curbs. The sufferer: The “common” commuter Tens of thousands of people in Calcutta and its adjoining areas depend on private buses for their daily commute. But the state government does not allow bus owners the freedom to fix fares, a privilege auto operators are entitled to. On Thursday, auto fares on several routes were nearly double the rates commuters were charged before stricter Covid norms came into force in May. Auto operators on the Kidderpore-Hazra route charged Rs 20 for travelling the entire stretch. The fare was Rs 12 before the curbs were introduced. In the north, auto operators on the Salt Lake Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route charged between Rs 25 and Rs 30 for the entire stretch, compared with the earlier fare of Rs 15. Bus owners, however, are yet to be allowed any hike, though the diesel price has gone up from Rs 77.44 a litre on January 1 to Rs 92.03 on July 1. In Bengal, 72 per cent of the buses are privately owned. The government had on June 7 announced a three-member committee to look into the demand for a fare hike raised by private bus and minibus operators. That committee hasn't met even once. If the government wants to hike fares, it doesn't need a committee to do so. Many operators suspect the decision to form the committee was aimed at placating them. Between 2012 and now, at least four committees have been constituted to look into demands for a hike in the fares of buses and minibuses. Not one has come up with any specific suggestion. In 2018, the state government had last agreed to revise bus fares. “How many committees are we supposed to see?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “In 1990, the then trans-port minister had formed a committee to consider fare revision. The committee had recommended that autos should ply only within Calcutta and on meter. No one paid heed to it.” The organisation of auto operators in Calcutta has always been controlled by the ruling party of the state - first the CPM and now the Trinamul Congress. Asked about the auto fare hike on Thursday, transport minister Firhad Hakim said: “I can't comment about autos and their fares. The government doesn’t decide their fares.” And why no fare hike for buses? Hakim said: “The government can't decide in haste. Aaj bolley kaal ki kore hoye jabey (How can it be done tomorrow if you tell me today)? The private operators have already placed their demands with the transport department… We would like to talk to private bus and minibus operators and find out how much their operating costs have gone up because of the hike in the prices of fuel and other items.” Unlike autos, he said, the government has a fare-chart for buses. The chart is based on stages of journey. Auto operators said their fares for a particular route were decided by union leaders of that route. In the existing order, whatever the auto union leaders decide is final, a system that bus owners are demanding for themselves for their survival. Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association, said: “The state government is not realising that given the current fuel price, only a minuscule fraction of private bus and minibus operators will roll out their vehicles over the next few days....The passenger count has dwindled and except for the morning and evening office hours, there aren't much crowds on roads. What’s the point in bringing out a bus?” he added. Commuters were angry at the government. “They should allow a fare hike or run their own buses in larger numbers. We should not be made to suffer,” said a passenger at Esplanade, desperately looking for a bus to Sodepur. “I had to wait for over 30 minutes at Bansdroni in the morning rush hour on Thursday. A few government buses that arrived were full,” said Niladri Roy, a private bank executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Fear of public transport drives sales of small cars in Calcutta||Many people in Calcutta are buying small cars despite reduced income because they want to avoid the public transport for their daily commute to minimise chances of infection amid the Covid pandemic. Several car dealers have reported a spurt in sales. A 60-year-old Garia resident bought a Renault KWID last week. He is a retired state government employee and his wife, 55, works at MR Bangur hospital. “My son is pursuing higher studies and I have just retired. Despite that, we decided to buy a car because we don’t feel safe anymore travelling in buses and app cabs,” he said. Monotosh Sinha has a family of six — wife, two daughters and two senior citizen sisters. His mother died last year after contracting Covid. A sales executive with a multinational firm, Monotosh had been planning to buy a car for two years but financial difficulties made him shelve the plan repeatedly. Recently he took delivery of a brown Wagon-R. “I had to buy a four-wheeler despite my financial difficulties. I have had salary cuts. My sisters, who were school teachers, have retired recently. For us, a car was a luxury but now it has become a necessity,” said Monotosh, who has hired a garage for his car. There are others like Monotosh who have been forced to buy personal cars. Lack of garage space notwithstanding, people are opting for personal mobility to keep the virus at bay. “There has been an increase in first-time buyers by five per cent (from 44 to 49) and a rise in the demand for additional cars by three per cent (from 29 to 32), according to our survey. But there has been a drop of seven per cent in exchange of cars (from 26 to 19) as people are holding on to their old purchases,” said Shashank Srivastava, director, marketing and sales, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. In Bengal, inquiries for small cars are increasing every week. Maruti is recording 220 bookings daily in Bengal, compared with 135 last week. “We had no sales in May. In June, 55 of our rural outlets were closed. So most of our bookings are from our dealerships in Calcutta,” said Srivastava. Hyundai is reporting an increase in enquiries, too. Akhil Agarwal of Gajraj Hyundai said: “We are witnessing an increase in enquiries and bookings across our models. Demand for cars in the Rs 10-15 lakh price band is as good as the demand for hatchbacks.” Vinod Agarwal of Lexus Motors, a Tata Motors dealership, said: “We have been witnessing an increase in enquiries across the range, from Tiago, to Altros, to Safari. We have first-time buyers, additional car buyers too. We have a 10 per cent market share in the city.” Public health experts said the fear of Covid was preventing many from travelling by public transport. "Despite being fully vaccinated, many are scared,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Police constable killed in bus accident on Red Road||One of the few buses that rolled out on Thursday hit a biker in front of Fort William and crashed into the balustrades along Red Road on the way to Esplanade. The motorcyclist was Vivekananda Dab, a constable of the reserve force of Calcutta police. He died on the spot. At least 14 passengers on the minibus, plying on the Metiabruz-Howrah route, were injured. They were taken to SSKM Hospital, where doctors said the condition of some of the injured was critical. Several passengers told police the driver appeared to have lost control of the bus. “Many of the passengers are saying a brake failure led to the accident. But this can be ascertained only after the bus is subjected to a mechanical test,” an officer in the traffic department said. Witnesses said the bus and the motorcycle both were heading towards Esplanade, when the bus apparently hit the two-wheeler from the rear seconds before crashing into balustrades outside Fort William. The motorcyclist fell under the bus and could be extricated only after three cranes lifted the mangled remains of the bus. Such was the impact of the crash with the concrete guard wall that the seats of the minibus were dislodged. A critically injured Dab, 45, was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The police said all the injured who were taken to SSKM had been identified. None of them was apparently the driver. “The driver is yet to be identified or tracked down,” an officer said on Thursday night. Ten of the injured, some of whom suffered fractures, have been admitted to the hospital. The remaining four were discharged after treatment. Buses were back on the roads, though in far fewer numbers than expected, on Thursday for the first time since May 16, when a temporary ban was imposed on public transport as a precaution against Covid. Several automobile engineers and maintenance experts Metro spoke to said vehicles that remain stationary for weeks should undergo checks before they are allowed to ferry passengers. The rubber of the tyres tends to go dry if left unused for several weeks. So, the tyres need a thorough check. Else, the tube may burst or parts of the rubber from the edges will come off, resulting in a disbalance. “The mobile content of the engine needs to be checked and the steering must be examined to ensure it is properly lubricated. The steering may get locked or the engine may get heated causing various problems,” said an official in the transport department who oversees fitness tests of heavy vehicles. “There can be a world of issues starting with steering lock to uneven flow of fuel to the engine from the tank. Most bus drivers are aware which items demand maintenance but tend to overlook the issue,” he said. “The fatal squad of the traffic police has taken over the investigation of the case. A case has been started. The sequence of events will be clearer once the driver is found,” said an officer. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and deputy commissioner, traffic, Arijit Sinha went to the spot. The bus will be sent for a mechanical examination to ascertain whether a mechanical or a manual fault caused the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab boost for Day 1 at Calcutta salons and gyms||Covid vaccine has made a difference, showed day one of the reopening of salons and gyms in Calcutta. Despite the gloomy weather and rains, most gyms and salons were busy on Thursday. People, most of whom had at least taken one Covid-19 jab, shrugged off the hesitancy that was there a year ago and visited their favourite places after two months. One of them was Soumya Basu, 29, a New Alipore resident who dropped in for a haircut at the Eye Catchers salon at South City Mall. "I have taken both the shots. Covid is not going to disappear overnight. There is no point in living in perpetual fear," said Basu, a central government employee. Inside the store, Muskan Ali, the manager, kept answering a phone every now and then. The callers sought appointments. "The response has been very good. Several people who wanted a slot today had to be booked tomorrow or day after because of the 50 per cent cap on visitors," said Ali. Trisha Chatterjee, a beautician at the salon, said sitting at home for two months was "terrible". "We had been getting a partial salary. But the anxiety of an uncertain future was very much there," said Chatterjee, who lives in Howrah's Shibpur with her parents. Her father is a retired state government employee. Along with his pension, Trisha's income is crucial for the family. When salons reopened after two months in the middle of May 2020, many patrons hesitated to visit their favourite outlets. The unavoidable physical contact with stylists made people think twice before visiting salons and parlours. But the availability of vaccines seems to have changed that perception. "Premium salons are maintaining all the Covid-19 norms. Their staff are vaccinated. So am I," Bhaswati De, a Dhakuria resident, told Metro outside AN John in Park Street. She got her hair smoothened inside. Moumita Panda, the manager of the store, said they started getting flooded with calls and online bookings since the announcement of the relaxations on Monday. Till 4pm, the salon had catered to 25 customers. Salons have to operate between 11am and 6pm. Julie Chung, the business head of the Eye Catchers chain, which has six outlets in Calcutta, said the last two months had been very taxing. "We tried our best to help our staff to tide over the crisis. But since this is a service industry, their income is dependent on tip and commissions. That had stopped completely," said Chung. Day One at gyms was also reasonably busy, albeit not as much as it was at salons and parlours. The gym owners were bleeding because of the prolonged shutdown and several gyms in the city have shut down for good. But for those who reopened on Thursday, the number of visitors was a ray of hope. "In the morning slot, there were around 15 people at the gym in Dum Dum. I had not expected so many people," said Rupam Sinha, the owner of the Physiomax chain, with gyms in Salt Lake and Dum Dum. Monday's notification has allotted two slots for gyms - 6am to 10am and 4pm to 8pm. Sinha's assessment was that a gym session was a stressbuster for many. "They don't need a drink to have a sound sleep. An hour of solid workout is enough for that. The mental toll that the pandemic has taken on people has prompted many to bank on workout sessions more than ever," he said. Kronos, a gym on Sarat Bose Road, had five young men working out around 4.40pm on Thursday under the watchful eyes of Chinmoy Roy, a former strength and conditioning coach of the BCCI and the National Cricket Academy (NCA). Roy said the cash crunch created by the pandemic had dwindled the membership at several gyms, including his. "People are better off because of the vaccine but financially, their condition has worsened. Members are demanding that their membership fee for May and June is adjusted because the gyms were shut.  Despite our empty coffers because of rent and other fixed costs, we are having to give them what they want," said Roy. Addlife gym on Camac Street was also busy throughout the day. "We have been constantly getting calls since Monday from members," said Minu Budhia, the director of the Addlife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Shops across South Dum Dum to remain shut on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays till July 14 ||Shops and markets across Bangur, Kalindi, Sreebhumi, Dum Dum and several other areas under South Dum Dum Municipality will remain shut on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays till July 14 because multiple Covid cases are being reported from there. The authorities of the civic body took the decision following an alert from the health department. Some areas under the municipality are recording over 150 cases daily and there is a need to break the transmission chain, health department officials said. “On other days, shops and markets will be open till 2pm,” said Panchu Gopal Roy, the chairman of the board of administrators of the municipality. “After July 14, we will review the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
02-07-2021||Calcutta||Kite string injures Calcutta scooterist on Parama flyover||A scooterist was injured when he got entangled with a kite string, lost his balance and fell on the Parama flyover on Thursday morning. A major accident was averted because he spotted the kite string in time and pressed the brakes, police said. He was also lucky because there were no vehicles trailing him on the flyover that could have hit him, the police said. Rajeswar Banerjee, 42, a resident of Dum Dum, was heading towards Park Circus from EM Bypass around 8.25am when the accident took place. Banerjee was taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. “The only way to stop accidents by kite strings is to put up wire fencing along the parapet of the flyover at least in the accident prone stretches,” said a senior officer in the traffic department. Earlier this year, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had installed wired fencing on a 25-meter stretch near the Parama flyover and AJC Bose flyover connector as a pilot project to prevent kite string accidents. At least two letters have been set to the CMDA in the last four months, the last one less than 10 days ago, Lalbazar sources said. The letters requested CMDA officials to install wired fencing between the Topsia-cut out and Gobinda Khatick crossing. A senior official of the CMDA said the fencing project had started. “The tender process for selection of the agency that will carry out the work has already started. We are expecting to complete the project in two months,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
