03-07-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission caps private hospital test rates||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday fixed an upper limit on the rates that private hospitals can charge for conducting several pathological and radiological tests. A chest X-ray PA view cannot cost more than Rs 400, while the cap for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan) is Rs 5,200. Among pathological tests, Procalcitonin cannot cost more than Rs 4,000, the upper limit for IL-6 was set at Rs 3,500, for D-dimer at Rs 2,300, the maximum charge for Ferritin was set at Rs 1,600 and for CRP at Rs 1,000. The maximum charge for CK MB has been fixed at Rs 1,350. The order will take force “with immediate effect”. A doctor said that most of the radiological and pathological tests for which price limits were set are suggested for patients suffering from Covid-19, but the tests are also conducted in patients with other ailments. “We had formed two committees to determine the maximum charges for various radiological and pathological tests. When the committees submitted their reports, we shared it with the bigger private hospitals,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “Some hospitals said that since we only shared the recommendations of the committee and did not issue any order, they were not adhering to the maximum limit set by the committee. Today we issued the order. We are cautioning the hospitals that they have to abide by the capping,” Banerjee said at a news conference. An official of the commission said that the capping will be applicable to all patients, not only those who have tested positive for Covid. Though the need for fixing the rates was felt during the pandemic when many had complained about exorbitant rates of examinations at hospitals, the impact of such high rates has to be borne by non-Covid patients, too. The capping will be applicable to hospitals with more than 150 sanctioned beds. The commission’s order added that “such hospital will not enhance the rates immediately if the present rates being charged by them are lower than the rates suggested” by the order. The rates will be applicable to hospitals with National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accreditation. Earlier, the commission had fixed a ceiling on doctors’ consultation fees and charges for personal protective equipment, among others, after complaints emerged during the first wave of the pandemic last year that several hospitals were charging unjustified high amounts from patients. Senior officials of several private hospitals in the city welcomed the intention of the commission’s order on Friday, but wanted the commission to be more nuanced because they felt the charges were unrealistic for bigger hospitals. “A big private hospital has very high overhead costs. There are about 1,000 employees who manage kitchens, housekeeping and laundry. Besides, they have a very high number of doctors and nurses. We have to recover the cost to run the hospital. I am not saying rationalisation of rates is not required, but squeezing private hospitals from all sides will raise apprehensions about our sustainability,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “People prefer private hospitals because of the quality of service. We change our equipment every three to four years and try to procure the latest equipment, which are expensive, to conduct the tests,” he said. Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital, said that often, a hospital has to conduct a pathological test for a patient at night when there is only one sample to run in a machine. “Running one sample and running ten samples will cost the same. Diagnostic centres accumulate samples and run them on automatic analysers at the day’s end. But we cannot do so if a patient’s test results are required immediately. These are factors that have to be understood before setting a cap on rates,” he said. “I welcome the move to fix the maximum rates, but these should be limited to general bed patients who could find it difficult to pay more. Why should a patient with corporate mediclaim staying in an executive cabin during treatment pay the same rate?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||A veteran’s notes on the system for young doctors||A heart surgeon, commentator on public health and debater has written a book so that the younger lot of doctors get an insight into the system. The Sickness of Health, by Kunal Sarkar, was launched at a virtual session organised by the Bengal Club on Thursday. A freewheeling chat between Sarkar, neurosurgeon and fellow debater Sandip Chatterjee and cardiac surgeon Tapas Roychowdhury preceded the launch of the book at the hands of veteran physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who taught Sarkar and Chatterjee at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in College Street. “Kunal Sarkar, a heart surgeon and a debater. In his former avatar, he spends his time cutting into the matter of the heart, in his second avatar, he spends his time cutting into the heart of the matter,” said Chatterjee, a year behind Sarkar in school and medical college. The two are co-founders of the Calcutta Debating Circle. Not a fence sitter Chatterjee started with a quotation from the book where Sarkar says: “It is difficult to count whether I have done more debates or surgeries. But much is certain that I have pursued both with equal passion”. “Sarkar as a debater has either spoken fervently, feverishly, even ferociously, in favour of a motion or adamantly, assiduously against the motion. He has never sat on the wall,” said Chatterjee, before asking Sarkar if the book was his “impression of healthcare — past, present and future”. Sarkar spoke of something that “really tickled the little bit of my analytical self I possess”. “All these thousands of young boys and girls walking this path, dedicating their minutes, hours, days, weeks, years to it, that they deserve a little more insight as to what is happening around them... The succeeding generations, the young ones who are labouring day in and day out, as we see during Covid, they also need a little bit of perspective and insight into the deficiencies of the system, the healthcare economics. “I have never tried to sit on the fence and create neutrality where it does not exist,” he said. Home to hospital Chatterjee said the book discussed how healthcare moved from “Rabindranath Tagore having his prostate surgery in the veranda of his home to how he started actually frequenting hospitals”. Sarkar has dwelt on how medical treatment was something only the “rich sick” could afford. “Nothing seems to have changed,” said Chatterjee. Sarkar said things had changed. “It was really the way surgical skills improved, the way we learnt the tricks of the trade.... All these things put together really made an appearance that no matter how opulent your living conditions were, you were really better served at a hospital.” Medical college Sarkar called “a fascinating phase of history” the origins of his alma mater. Despite being the second city of the British empire, Calcutta did not have much by way of health facilities, said Sarkar. The PG (Presidency and General) hospital, which moved to its current campus after brief stints at Garstin Place and inside Fort William, had “no teaching, no training”. “The British were absolutely clear that they did not want any full-fledged medical education in India, period. Then there was a lot of activism. The activists of that generation were mainly spearheaded by two people — Raja Rammohan Roy and Vidyasagar,” said Sarkar. “They took a great exception, they questioned William Bentinck, who was the then governor-general. They accuse him that ‘look, you have been long enough and you refused to give us a medical college’. Bentinck gave them a compassionate hearing. It took quite a few meetings. Then, finally, they succumbed to the will of the Bengali intelligentsia. A proper medical college was set up,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||TV and Internet cables pose risk to motorists, pedestrians in Salt Lake||Bundles of television and Internet cables strewn along several roads of Salt Lake pose a great risk to motorists and pedestrians alike. The cables lie on pavements, along median dividers and even spill out on Broadway that connects Salt Lake to EM Bypass, in front of City Centre as well as the canal side  of the Eastern Drainage Canal that leads to Salt Lake from the Chingrighata crossing. On Tuesday night, Priyam Majhi, 38, a resident of HC Block fell off his two-wheeler after the bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of the canal side road of the Eastern Drainage Canal in front of the Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. “I ride to my workplace near Kidderpore everyday. While I was returning home, the front wheel of my bike suddenly locked up and it skidded,” said Majhi, who has received several cuts and bruises on his legs and arms. The accident underscores the danger pedestrians, motorists and two-wheeler riders in Salt Lake face from the eyesore cable and broadband wires hanging from street lights, trees and traffic guardrails and even left lying on the road. The Telegraph has reported on several occasions how the mess of dangling cables pose a threat to two-wheeler riders as well as pedestrians. In January 2018, a biker was killed after his motorcycle handle got stuck in cables hanging loosely on the Park Circus No. 4 Bridge. To add to the risk street lights along several arterial roads as well as inside the blocks have stopped working. The Telegraph drove around various blocks in all three sectors of Salt Lake on Wednesday evening and found that most lanes and even some of the arteries had plunged into darkness. The area in front of Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex in Salt Lake’s Sector III had a web of cables strewn across the road in several places. Broken street lights made them nearly impossible to spot from a distance. In FE Block, several roads were unlit because of dysfunctional street lights and had cables strewn on the pavements and road. In HA Block, too, a resident said half the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. Rahul Jain, 52, a resident of the block said the few lights that were functional only produced long shadows, instead of illuminating the streets. “The street lights and the lights in the block’s park that are damaged or have stopped working have not yet been repaired or replaced,” Jain said. Nearly all these places had a cobweb of wires wrapped around lamp posts and nearly all the posts serve as junctions for cables that are haphazardly gathered together and tied together at their bases. Low hanging cables were also spotted at major intersections of the township, including City Centre and the Karunamoyee crossing. Sector V, too, has hundreds of cables criss-crossing it’s skyline, many of which hang dangerously close to the ground. The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) had removed the cables from some stretches of the main road but a majority of the cables still remain. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they were in touch with the multi-system operators (MSO) in Salt Lake.“We have called them and asked them to remove the snipped cables. We have also removed some low hanging cables in some places.” Another civic official said they had planned to follow the New Town model to construct underground cable ducts. But the plan could not be implemented till now as it was met with stiff opposition from the representatives of MSOs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court extends interim stay on teacher recruitment at upper primary level till July 9||The high court has extended the interim stay on recruitment of teachers at the upper primary level till July 9 and said “apparently… there are irregularities in drawing up the merit list”. Justice Abhijit Ganguly directed the school service commission to upload on its website a merit list with marks against the name of each candidate on the list. The court has also asked the commission to explain to those whose names don’t feature on the list, why they fell short. Justice Ganguly said: “The officers of the (school service) commission are worthless. They should be immediately removed. Why was the order of the court passed in 2019 not carried out by the commission? This court has framed guidelines for selecting the candidates and preparing a list on the basis of that.” The stinging remarks came as the state’s advocate-general and the principal secretary of the school education department appeared before the court seeking vacation of the interim stay. “Apparently, the court feels there is lack of transparency and there are irregularities in drawing up the merit list,” the judge said. School education department secretary Manish Jain appeared before the court as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Wednesday instructed him to plead before the court that successive legal tangles were coming in the way of appointing thousands of students as schoolteachers. But the court expressed its displeasure over the way the merit list was prepared, allegedly in violation of an order passed in October 2019. On October 3, 2019, Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya had instructed the commission that the merit list would have to be prepared on the basis of how a teacher aspirant has performed in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET), his or her academic eligibility and BEd or DLeD (diploma in elementary education training). The same judge had on December 11, 2020, quashed the process initiated by the commission to recruit teachers in nearly 15,000 vacant posts and directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get first preference. According to the deadline set in December, the merit list was supposed to be prepared by May 31. As the commission was getting ready to call the aspirants for counselling based on the merit list, three petitions were filed on June 24, seeking a stay on the recruitment. Justice Ganguly had issued an interim stay on Wednesday, which was extended further on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||People pay for bus fare stand-off in Calcutta||Rabi Mandal of Sonarpur ended up spending around Rs 80 on Friday to reach his office in Beltala near Bhowanipore, changing auto rickshaws four times in between. On other days it would cost Mandal Rs 14 to cover the same distance on two private buses. If the Bengal government had agreed to a bus fare hike that the operators were pressing for, Mandal would have had to spend Rs 30 at the most. That is Rs 50 less than what he ended up paying on Friday. The state government’s ploy to somehow stall a bus fare hike is hurting people more. Several commuters like Mandal are being forced to opt for autos as their only mode of transportation since state buses are few and far and even the ones that are available have been running packed to their capacity. Across several routes in Calcutta, a section of auto operators have made full use of their near monopoly on the roads and demanded fares way higher than the existing ones. “I would usually take a private bus from Garden Reach to reach my office at Ballygunge Phari. Now I have to take at least three auto rides and that costs more than four times the amount I would have paid for bus fare,” said Md Anwar Hossain, who has to physically report for work on working days. Across bus stops there were scores of people looking for a commute. In the few buses that were on the roads, passengers were hanging from the footboards. The government does not seem to have a solution. An official said “we will wait and watch” that roughly translates to “we don’t have a clue”. “On Friday, the number of private buses was a shade more than what it was on Thursday,” the official added. “Private operators are also opting to wait and watch before some of them start bringing out their fleet.” The official also promised more government buses from Monday. Transportation experts said was unlikely to bring about much difference. In Bengal, private buses and minibuses account for nearly 72 per cent of the total fleet, unlike other large states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra where the share of the government buses is much higher. Several experts in transportation economics said as the dependence on private buses in Bengal, any attempt to corner private bus operators without creating viable alternatives would result in monopoly of other modes of transportation like autos and e-rickshaws who would fleece optionless passengers. Several academics said a regulatory commission should be in place to decide fares considering four broad parametres — the hike in the price of diesel over the past few years, the wholesale price index, the consumer price index and the cost of investment of the operators. “In August 2014, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced a task force on the bus fare structure would meet every time the diesel price changed by Rs 2 a litre,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “However, the task force never met even once.” In June, the state government had set up a three-member committee to look into the demands of private bus operators and draw up a recommendation for the government. The committee members haven’t met even once. During Unlock-1, several private bus operators had drawn up a fare chart with two broad options that suggested a three fold and a nearly two-fold rise in the existing fares. The state government had turned down the proposal saying bus operators had no right to decide their fares. “We are not proposing any fare structure this time. But since the passenger count is less than half now and price of diesel has shot up several times, the fare should be at least double the existing one,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Revival plan for Indian Botanic Garden ||A team of professionals from fields like biodiversity specialists, botanists, landscape artists and urban developers is putting together a rejuvenation programme for the Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur, one of the earliest botanical gardens in the world. The University of Edinburgh along with Asia Scotland Trust and the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) is participating and funding this programme. Neeta Subhrajit Das Associates (NSDA), a Calcutta-based architecture firm and Architecture Urban Design Academy (AUDA) are the local collaborators. A community participation scoping project (CPSP) under the rejuvenation programme was taken up by 11 selected interns from institutes such as  the architecture department of Jadavpur University, BIT, Mesra, botany department of Calcutta University, CEPT, Ahmedabad and IIM, Tiruchirapalli at the botanical garden  from March 13-17, 2021. The interns have studied and documented the existing edge conditions of the garden and presented their findings in a seminar on June 2. “The Indian Botanic Garden was laid out in Howrah but it was designed for Calcutta by an architect from Garden Reach. The revitalisation and rejuvenation programme is to put the garden under a lens and take it apart to see how it can be relevant for the present times and have a sustainable future. We have experts from various fields looking at the garden to see what should be preserved, what should be modified,” said Neeta Das, of NSDA, who is the local partner spearheading the CPSP. She along with Dorian Wiszniewski, senior academic representing the University of Edinburgh, and Jane Burridge from the Asia Scotland Trust are leading the programme. The botanical garden in Shibpur, founded by a Scot in 1786, has maintained strong ties with Scotland. However, in recent times the 273-acre garden has been plagued by multiple issues leading to its decline as a repository of rare and endemic species. Cyclone Amphan in 2020 has dealt a body blow to the garden and its most prized possession — the 270-year-old Great Banyan Tree — lost a considerable portion of its canopy besides a number of old and magnificent trees have also been felled. The ongoing pandemic has played its part leading to a reduction in government funds for the garden, fewer staff and lack of qualified personnel needed to maintain it. Fungal attacks to rare species like the Double Coconut Tree and other failures have dented the garden’s reputation. Overrun by weeds and decrepit maintenance, the garden is a pale shadow of what it used to be in its hey days. “The CPSP is a compilation of a series of academic, documentation, and sensitisation exercises that will lead to a greater understanding of what might constitute a vision to be framed as a Regeneration and Ecological Framework Plan (REFP) for the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah. The REFP will be available to all parties who have an interest in the revitalisation of the AJC Bose Botanical Gardens Environment,” said Wiszniewski. BSI director A.A. Mao welcomed the rejuvenation study but warned that “such study will remain in documents and files for lack of funds to implement it”. “Our budget in 2019-20 was Rs 76 crore, in 2020-21, it has been slashed to Rs 64 crore. About 80 per cent of the budget is spent on salaries. What development work can be undertaken in such little money,” he asked. The director stressed on involving corporates, availing CSR funds and finding other avenues of finance to rejuvenate the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Debanjan Deb’s security guard held||The personal security guard of Debanjan Deb, the prime accused in the fake vaccination camp case, was arrested late on Thursday from his Sonarpur home. Police said Arvind Baidya, a retired paramilitary jawan, was privy to Deb’s crimes and was instrumental in organising a fake vaccination camp in Sonarpur. Baidya’s family members said he was being framed. Baidya has been remanded in police custody till July 5. On Thursday, Baidya's name featured in a political debate when TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy showed purported photographs of him at a function in Raj Bhavan in the presence of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The BJP said it was an attempt to malign the governor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
03-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIEST cuts mess and overhead fees||The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur has decided to reduce mess establishment fees and overhead charges after students sought relief because of the financial toll the pandemic has taken. The institute last year had waived the mess advance and water and electricity charges. Now, students are saying they are struggling to pay even the mess establishment fees and the institute’s overhead charges. The students want the fees to be slashed by 25 per cent because of crippling financial conditions, an institute official said. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the outgoing students senate, said they had demanded that the mess establishment fees be reduced from Rs 500 to Rs 400 per month and the overhead charges from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,500 per semester. The students of the final year who are paying Rs 1,000 as the institute’s overhead charges, should be charged Rs 500, he said. “We want this fee reduction to be implemented from the semester that started in January... After the reduced fee structure is announced, the fees should be refunded to those who have already paid,” he told Metro. IIEST director Parthasarthi Chakrabarti said: “We want to give students relief on fees. The proposal on reduction has been sent to the institute’s board of governors for approval.” An official of the institute said the approval by the board was a formality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
