04-07-2021||Calcutta||Don’t act as BJP lackey, Derek O’Brien tells solicitor general||Trinamul Congress continued its tirade against Solicitor Tushar Mehta over his alleged meeting with BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. Bengal’s ruling party’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said the senior advocate should not act as the saffron camps lackey. O’Brien, in a tweet, said Mehta should not represent or advise an accused in any case. Adhikari, once a TMC heavyweight, is also an accused in Narada tapes case and Saradha chit fund scam. “Impropriety. Act in a fair manner. Not as a BJP lackey,” O'Brien said. Mehta, however, denied meeting Adhikari, and said the BJP leader had visited his residence unannounced. The Upper House leader, in a dig at the solicitor general, further stated, “You gave a post-facto explanation after story broke....” Pointing out that there was a “conflict of interest” he added, “Even a Public Prosecutor (leave alone high office of SG!) cannot represent or advise the accused.” O'Brien's TMC colleague in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, said he and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra would meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to press for the ouster of Mehta as the solicitor general. Roy had on Saturday said a letter demanding his removal has also been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The senior TMC leader, during a press meet, also slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre over the soaring fuel prices, and said the saffron party owes an explanation to the people of this country. "The price of LPG is set to touch the Rs 1,000-mark, but this BJP government appears to be unmoved by the plight of common people," Roy added. He also demanded a "transparent probe" into the Rafale aircraft deal. "Why did the price of Rafale fighter aircraft go up thrice the initial bid? Why did the defence ministry still strike a deal? We want an answer," the TMC MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Two suffer burns in Jaya cinema hall fire||The caretaker of Jaya cinema hall in Lake Town and his wife suffered burns after a fire broke out on the top-floor of mini Jaya on Friday night. Caretaker Sonu Singh was treated and discharged from RG Kar hospital. His wife Anita was admitted there. The projector room, chairs and curtains of mini Jaya have been damaged, a fire official said. On Saturday, a forensic team visited the cinema and collected samples, an officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said. As many as 15 fire tenders fought the fire that broke out at around 9.20pm on Friday, a fire official said. According to the official, it had taken them a long time to “cool down” the hall and they had sprayed water on the surrounding buildings to check the fire from spreading. “According to our preliminary findings, the fire possibly broke out from a stove on which Singh was cooking dinner,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Co-founder of Assembly of God Church Mission passes away in Oklahoma City ||Huldah Buntain, the co-founder of Assembly of God Church Mission Calcutta, passed away in Oklahoma City in the US on Friday. She was 96 and was living with her daughter. The mission has churches and schools. There are 14 schools in English and vernacular mediums in Bengal. “The last time that she came to the city was in January 2020 for the founder’s day programme just before the pandemic,” said Lionel Chellappa, principal, Assembly of God Church School, Park Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission works out admission process||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen prospective students based on a candidate’s performance in the secondary and plus-II board exams and online viva in some of the subjects. “Some of the departments think in the absence of the Class XII board exams, an online viva will help them screen candidates,” said principal Swami Ekachittananda. A meeting by the admission committee of the institute on Wednesday had decided that an undergraduate aspirant would be screened solely on the basis of marks in Class-X and XII board exams in three subjects — English, political science and economics. The institute has scrapped admission tests on the campus this year because of the pandemic. An official of the college said, from the faculty of science, physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, microbiology, zoology and industrial chemistry would conduct a viva over digital platforms to select the students from a pool of candidates shortlisted based on marks. In humanities, Bengali, Sanskrit, philosophy and history will hold the online viva. “We left it to the departments to decide what they deem fit to select a student. Some of the departments are of the view that since the boards and the councils this year will prepare the plus-II results based on performance of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively, holding an online viva was a must to screen a bright student,” Swami Ekachittananda told Metro. Swami Ekachiitananda said the dates of the submission of form would be announced once the boards announce the dates of publication of results. Asked on how the three departments — English, political science and economics that have decided not to conduct  online viva — would select their students in case the marks of the shortlisted candidates were tied, principal Swami Ekachittananda said: “In that case, a tie-breaking methodology would be applied. Details would be announced on the website of the college.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Accomplice’ of Debanjan Deb arrested in fake jab camp case||Police have arrested an alleged accomplice of Debanjan Deb, the prime accused in the fake vaccine camp case, for organising an alleged fake drive for the teachers and staff of a north Calcutta college last month. Indrajit Shaw, 46, a Tangra resident, was arrested in front of Central Metro station on Friday evening, the police said. Shaw, a former student of the same north Calcutta college, had introduced Deb to the college authorities and organised a camp where 72 persons including teachers, non-teaching staff and some students were “vaccinated” on June 18, sources said. The college authorities lodged a complaint with Amherst Street police station after Deb’s alleged fraud was unearthed. Deb and his accomplices had claimed that the camp was being organised on behalf of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and hence was free. Shaw was also the “head clerk” at Deb’s Kasba office, the police said. “Indrajit Shaw was extremely close to Deb and was part of his projects,” said an employees who worked at the Kasba office. Shaw, booked for cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy, was produced before a city court on Saturday and remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Caretaker held for stealing cash, bottles of liquor and paint drums from three houses in Salt Lake  ||The caretaker of a house in Salt Lake’s BE block has been arrested for allegedly stealing cash, bottles of liquor and paint drums from three houses in the same block. Police said Subhendu Bauria, the caretaker of BE 54 had targeted at least three houses in the same block over the past week. Bauria was arrested from his third-floor room of the BE Block house after the cops scanned a CCTV camera footage installed on a house opposite BE 113 from where he had allegedly lifted liquor bottles, paint cans and a personal weighing scale, an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said. Bauria had allegedly first entered BE 229 early on Sunday scaling the rainwater drainpipe to the roof of the two-storey building and entered a room on the roof whose door was left open. “He then took Rs 60,000 kept inside a briefcase that had the key right next to it before going downstairs and taking a wallet,” said the officer. Sudipto Roy stays with his wife and daughter on the ground floor of the building. Roy’s brother Sumit lives with his wife, son and his daughter-in-law on the first floor of the building. “All of us were in the house except my daughter. The room on the roof is occupied by one of my acquaintances. He raised the alarm after he noticed that the briefcase was open and the cash was missing. When we checked I found that my wallet had also not there,” Sudipto said. An officer said Bauria then went into BE 113 through an open window on the stairwell. From there bottles of liquor, juice cartons, several paint bottles, which owner Tapas Piplai had kept as house repair work was on, went missing, the officer said. A few days later the owner another house — BE 119 — found that some cash was missing from the house. He  and the others filed police complaints. During questioning, Bauria revealed that the owner of the house where he was employed as a caretaker had passed away. His wife, too, is no more, the officer added. “He told us that he had fallen under extreme financial trouble as his salary had stopped.” The police have recovered some of the stolen items and cash. Bauria has been charged under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. If proven guilty after a trial Bauria can be sent to jail for three years. He was produced before a court in Salt Lake that sent him to police custody. Stolen and returned A gearless scooter that was parked on the driveway of a CF Block house was stolen on June 27. Owner Mousumi Chatterjee had lodged a complaint at Bidhannagar North police station after she noticed that the scooty had gone missing. According to the complaint, CCTV footage from a camera installed on a wall of the house caught a man walking the scooter out. However, Chatterjee spotted the scooty parked outside her house on Friday morning. “We again checked the footage and spotted two men parking it before walking away. We tracked the men down and have arrested them,” an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to hold elections of students’ council over digital platforms on July 26||IIT Kharagpur will hold elections of its students’ council over digital platforms on July 26. Bhargab Maitra, a professor of the institute who has been appointed election officer, has issued a notice to announce that the elections would be held between 9am and 6pm through a specialised digital platform. The platform would be developed on the institute’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) portal. Since the elections will be held digitally, videos of the candidates explaining their proposals will be put on the official Technology Students Gymkhana (TSG) website and TSG Facebook page. The proposals will be posted after verification by the election officer. The students have been asked to join their relevant Google groups to get updates on the nomination and election process. All the election related notifications will be published on the website and the Facebook page developed for the purpose of elections. The TSG website will also provide details on how to file the nominations. The election was held last on the campus in 2019. Over the past 14 months a nominated council was operating as the students’ body. Now the institute will have an elected council. An official of the institute said since the classes and the exams were being successfully held on digital platforms over the past 16 months, they wanted to conduct elections over this platform. “An elected students’ body represents the opinion of students effectively. A nominated students’ council handpicked by the authorities cannot do that...,” the official said. All the students enrolled with IIT Kharagpur till May 1, 2021 will be eligible to vote for their respective candidates. After the submission of proposals, the institute will create an online platform called soap-box, where the aspirants for the posts of vice-president and general secretaries will address the electorate on July 23 and 24 regarding their candidature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||The untold story of Northern Ireland as it turns 100||In the same way an Indian diplomat in London represents West Bengal, Haryana, Kerala and Maharashtra, I represent the four nations of the United Kingdom: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Those on the island of Britain make up Great Britain. Hence, we use the brand “GREAT Britain and Northern Ireland”. We are celebrating the centenary of the creation of Northern Ireland. And believe me, as someone who has visited Northern Ireland and fallen in love with the place, it’s every bit as GREAT as Britain.  The history of the last century has certainly been complex.  Marking the occasion, Prime Minister Boris Johnson invited people to pause and reflect; but also to celebrate all the brilliant things Northern Ireland contributes. And there is much to celebrate. The basis of a happy and fulfilled life is education. So, let’s start there. Northern Ireland has the best performing education system for primary maths in Europe, and the sixth best in the world. Students consistently outperform other UK regions at GCSE and A-Level.  Queen’s University Belfast is a member of the Russell Group of 24 leading UK research-intensive universities and ranked in the top 1 per cent of universities worldwide. Ulster University has nearly 27,000 students and one of the largest provisions in computing in the UK and Ireland. It is in the world’s Top 150 young universities. Students flock to Northern Ireland. And so do investors. As Paul Vienneau, CTO of Cayan, puts it “the people of Northern Ireland are some of the most passionate, devoted, dedicated and skilled individuals that I have ever had the opportunity to work with.” Almost 900 international companies have invested in Northern Ireland and nearly 75 per cent of new inward investors reinvest. And why wouldn’t they? Operating costs are 20-30 per cent less than the rest of the UK and Europe. Belfast is the world’s most Business Friendly City of its size. Let’s talk tech. Belfast is the top city globally for fintech development projects and Europe’s leading location for new software development projects. Investors include Allstate, CyberSource, Fujitsu, Cayan, BT, Arris and WANdisco. That’s not all. Belfast is the leading destination city globally for US investment in cyber security development projects. Gary Steele, CEO of Proofpoint Inc., knows a thing or two about tech. He says “we have been very impressed with the technology ecosystem in Northern Ireland, which shares many of the characteristics of Silicon Valley, including access to world-class cyber security research at Queen’s University”. Northern Ireland has a strong engineering heritage with an international reputation. Its companies develop innovative components for the aerospace, automotive, technology, energy and space sectors. One in five of the world’scomputer hard drives has parts made here and Northern Ireland produces over 30 per cent of the world’s aircraft seats. CDE Global from Cookstown, whom you’ll find across the Hooghly from my office in Calcutta, is the world’s number one wet processing equipment company for sand, aggregates and much else. Innovation is in Northern Ireland’s DNA. Lord Kelvin, the father of modern science, was born in Belfast in 1824. John Boyd Dunlop invented the pneumatic tyre there in 1888. In 1917, Harry Ferguson patented the technology that led to the modern tractor. And the portable defibrillator was designed in Northern Ireland in the 1960s by Professor Frank Pantridge. It’s a tradition that continues with innovation in the fields of fintech, mobile telecoms, cyber security, digital imaging, AI and remote sensors. There’s more. Much more. Northern Ireland’s food and drink products are available in more than70 countries. It’s a £5 billion industry and Northern Ireland’s largest manufacturing sector. Did you know that Bushmills Distillery is the oldest licensed whiskey distillery in the world? Northern Ireland is also a global production centre for film and television. HBO’s legendary Game of Thrones was filmed in Northern Ireland. Other big names such as Universal Pictures, BBC and Disney have chosen Northern Ireland for recent productions; and Belfast’s Titanic Studios is one of the most modern film and television production studios in Europe. “But what’s it really like?” I hear you say. Well, research shows Northern Ireland’s people are the happiest in the UK. And with a low crime rate, stunning scenery, fabulous beaches, historical landmarks everywhere, great schools, world-class healthcare and the friendliest people you’ll ever meet, it’s not hard to see why. ⚫ The author is the British deputy high commissioner to Calcutta. He represents the UK Government in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura and West Bengal and in the Union Territory of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. He tweets at @NickDLow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council reduces syllabuses for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams||The ICSE council has reduced the syllabuses of English and other Indian languages for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2022 exams. The syllabus restructuring will not be limited to the languages. “...the CISCE has initiated the process of syllabus review for various subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels specifically for Classes X and XII, for the Examination Year 2022, to identify portions of the syllabus which may be reduced, without compromising on the quality of content,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), said in a circular to heads of affiliated schools on Friday. The council cancelled the ICSE and the ISC 2021 exams because of the pandemic. Schools have been shut since March last year as a precuation against Covid and classes are being held online. Schools across the country “continue to struggle to cope with the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns...,” Friday’s circular said. Aside from the loss of instructional hours during the past year, “teaching-learning processes have also been impacted due to the... alternate modes of syllabus transaction that needed to be adopted, due to the closure of schools”. Principals have been asked to intimate those concerned. For example, in ICSE English Paper 2 (Literature), the reduced syllabus for Class X is Act III, IV and V of Merchant of Venice, four poems and four short stories. In ISC English Paper 2 (Literature), the Class XII syllabus is Act III, IV and V of The Tempest, five short stories and five poems. Several English teachers said that the division can be watertight for prose and poetry but not for Shakespeare’s plays. “The plays require students to understand them as a whole and it is difficult to limit it to a few acts,” said a teacher. But principals said that given the current pandemic situation, the reduction would lessen the pressure. “No one knows how things will pan out in the next six months. There will be no pressure to complete the syllabus and instead, we have asked teachers to focus on language building skills,” said a principal. The circular to principals said that the CISCE “is also carrying out syllabus reduction in several other subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with its subject experts”. In February this year, the Bengal government had allowed schools to reopen and some of them conducted onsite pre-boards exams but after a fresh surge of infections, schools had to shut down. The council in the circular has said that there is uncertainty about when schools across the country will be able to return to normality. “In the eventuality of the need for further reduction in the syllabus, it is imperative that the concerned subject teachers transact the syllabus strictly according to the sequence of topics given in the syllabus. This will ensure that all CISCE affiliated schools are broadly teaching the same topics at any given point of time as well as facilitate subsequent reduction in syllabus, if required,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Yellow taxi crashes into private car near Calcutta Municipal Corporation, driver dead||The driver of a yellow taxi died after his vehicle crashed into a private car in front of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation garage on AJC Bose Road around 3.10pm on Saturday. Driver Sheikh Salam, 37, of Sonarpur, had slammed into the steering wheel and received injuries on his chest. He was declared dead at NRS hospital. A woman who was in the passenger’s seat was injured, police said. She was treated and discharged from the hospital. “We are trying to ascertain... if there was a mechanical fault in the taxi or if the private car had suddenly pressed the brake,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
04-07-2021||Calcutta||Spiralling LPG prices push owners of small eateries to the brink ||The price of a 19kg LPG commercial cylinder in July 2020 was around Rs 1,200. In July 2021, it comes at around Rs 1,600. The spiralling fuel prices have pushed the owners of many small eateries to the brink. The steep rise in the prices of raw materials, most notably edible oil, has only made things worse, they said. Saibal Ghosh, the owner of a fast-food centre in Behala, said a year ago, making a plate of mixed fried rice would cost him around Rs 85-90, including the overhead expenses. Now, making the same dish costs him around Rs 115-120. “There has been a 30 per cent rise in the production cost. From vegetables to chicken to eggs and prawn, everything has become costlier. But I have not been able to increase my price because that would further reduce the already dipping footfall,” said Ghosh. Ghosh needs around 25 cylinders (19kg) at his eatery every month. This time last year, he was buying 15 litre of cooking oil for Rs 1,700 from a wholesaler. Now, the same quantity costs him Rs 2,300. Across Calcutta, the owners of eateries shared a similar plight of dropping margins. Irfan Ali, who sells biryanis at a joint in the Dalhousie area, has been buying 17kg commercial cylinders at around Rs 1,400. The price was around Rs 1,000 last year. He had three employees, one cook, one to serve customers and one to wash dishes. Now, there are just two of them. The person serving biryani has been washing the dishes. “If things continue to be this bad, I will have to stick with just one cook and serve customers myself,” said Ali. The spiralling fuel prices have also contributed to the rise in the cost of raw materials. A litre of diesel cost a little over Rs 75 in Calcutta this time last year. On Saturday, it sold at around Rs 91 per litre. The rising transportation costs have had a cascading effect on the prices of vegetables across markets in the city. The Covid-19 curbs have reduced the number of off-the-shelf orders. Some people are still weary about outside food. The number of online orders has gone up but working with online aggregators is like a double-edged sword, said the owners of the joints. “Working with online aggregators ensures an increase in volume of orders. But the margin in each order is negligible. I have to pay a commission of over 20 per cent to the aggregator. The pricing is focused on discounts and offers to lure more customers...,” said the co-owner of an Asian eatery in south Calcutta. Till just before the pandemic, the eatery meant a 25-seater joint at Jadavpur. But the virus has forced the eatery shut for diners for good. The owners have converted it into a cloud kitchen to stay afloat. They are now dependent on online orders only. “The rise in the price of cooking gas and cooking oil has bled me the most,” said the owner. Sukalyan Datta, the owner of Crystal Chimney, a Chinese joint among the office crowd in Chandni Chowk area, summed up the mood. “Survival is primary now. Profit is secondary,” he said. Datta has not reduced his employee pool but has stopped giving yearly bonuses and hikes. “The bulk orders have gone down. I am focussing on customising the items on offer. Earlier, we used to serve four pieces of chicken in a half plate of chilli chicken and eight in a full plate. Now, we have started serving six pieces as an additional option. People are not ready to spend anything beyond their immediate needs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
04-07-2021||Calcutta||How city boy coped with Canada’s heatwave||As Canadians celebrate Canada Day, a national holiday to celebrate the formation of the Canadian confederacy, a searing and punishing ‘heat dome’, which has been gripping much of the Pacific Northwest this past week, has begun tapering off in western Canada. In the past week, the city of Edmonton, capital of Canada’s Alberta province, has witnessed some of its highest temperatures in 100 years, with each day since June 26 registering temperatures in the mid to high-30s and making multiple entries into Edmonton’s top five hottest days ever recorded. This led the city of Edmonton to activate its extreme weather response on June 26, which involves opening sites for people to take shelter from the heat, handing out water to those in need and more. For one of Canada’s northernmost metropolitan cities that experiences annual bouts of extreme snowfall and cold, a heat wave of this length and intensity was unexpected. It has led to a slew of panic buying of fans and air conditioning units. Parts of the city have also been instructed to conserve water-usage for shortages. Many Edmontonians have also been driven to book hotel rooms for the week to escape the searing and unrelenting heat that has, in some cases, cracked roads and melted plastic waste bins left in the sun. Students like me ran off from our one room stifling apartments to the cool basements of the university spaces and even the library. With daytime highs entering into the late-30s and nighttime lows barely going under 20 degrees, it has been very uncomfortable to sleep in the absence of a fan or some form of AC. I have even purchased a table fan in order to survive such extreme weather patterns. Though not as severe as areas like the US northwestern states of Oregon and Washington, or Alberta’s neighbouring province in the west, British Coloumbia (in some parts of which temperatures have reached nearly 50 degrees), the heatwave has proven to be a severely dangerous and, in many cases, a fatal phenomenon in Edmonton history over the past week. ⚫ The author is a student at the University of Alberta doing his masters in International Relations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
