05-07-2021||Calcutta||Parked minibus and two school buses gutted in Howrah  ||A minibus and two school buses parked adjacent to the Dumurjala stadium in Howrah were gutted on Sunday afternoon. Police said they were not sure whether someone torched the buses or an electrical short-circuit caused the fire. No one was injured because the buses were empty. Eyewitnesses told the police that they saw a minibus go up in flames inside the parking lot around 4.30pm. Within a few minutes, leaping flames from the vehicle spread to two school buses parked nearby. Some of the witnesses alerted the fire and emergency services department and two fire tenders reached the spot. It took over 45 minutes for the two to control the blaze. “I was riding past the spot on my motorcycle when I spotted the flames. A few people were trying to douse the fire by pouring bucketfuls of water on it. I got off my bike and joined them,” said Ujjal Mondal, in his 30s. "Within a few minutes all three vehicles were gutted." A number of buses, minibuses, school buses and other vehicles remain parked around the Dumurjala stadium. In Calcutta, buses and minibuses remain parked by the roadside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Loaded truck kills 1 on Vidyasagar Setu, hits Fort William wall  ||A city-bound loaded truck knocked down a motorcyclist on Vidyasagar Setu and fled before crashing into the boundary wall of Fort William near its South Gate on Kidderpore Road on Saturday night, police said. The motorcyclist, Sunil Sharma, 44, was critically injured and taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The driver fled the Fort William crash site, the police said. “The two accidents happened within a span of five to seven minutes. We checked CCTV footage and realised that the same cement-laden truck was involved in both accidents,” said an officer. “It was apparent that the truck was being driven rashly and the driver failed to control the vehicle. The vehicle was headed for Dum Dum.” A case under the IPC section related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part-II), which suggests the accused had full knowledge of the consequences of his act, has been initiated against the absconding driver. “The case has been started under a stringent section because it was apparent that the driver had full knowledge of his actions. He could have stopped and tried to help the victim. Instead, he fled and drove dangerously before crashing the truck into the Fort William wall.” The investigation into the twin accidents has been taken over by the fatal squad of the traffic police. The truck will undergo mechanical tests to ascertain whether there was any mechanical fault. The incident happened two days after a minibus had fatally hit a motorcyclist before ramming into balustrades outside Fort William. At least 14 passengers were injured and a number of seats on the bus were dislodged under the impact of the crash. Two more deaths One more fatal accident was reported on Saturday night and another the next morning. Scooterist Snehasish Ghosh, 28, a resident of Baranagar, was hit by a truck at the crossing of BB Ganguly Street and Central Avenue on Saturday night around 10.20pm. Officers of Bowbazar police station took Ghosh to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead. Ghosh was wearing a helmet. Around 4am on Sunday, an elderly pedestrian, whose identity could not be established till evening, was fatally hit by an unidentified vehicle on Circus Avenue, in the Karaya police station area. A case under the IPC section related to causing death due to negligence has been initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Armed bike-borne youths attack Trinamul office in Belgharia||A group of bike-borne youths turned up outside a Trinamul office in Belgharia on Saturday night and allegedly assaulted a few men seated inside and dragged some of them out before opening fire. Police said Manas Bardhan, one of the men who were inside the office, suffered a bullet wound. He has been admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass. Another man in the office, Sabya Gyne, was injured after being assaulted by the butt of a revolver. Investigators have spoken to Gyne a number of times to try and understand the sequence of events leading to the 10pm attack at Trinamul office. Six persons have been arrested. Witnesses said that while fleeing the spot, the attackers had fired a few rounds in the air. Madan Mitra, former transport minister and local Trinamul MLA, reached the spot with some of his supporters soon after the attack. “There is an attempt to create trouble... by some youths who are being instigated politically,” he said. A preliminary investigation has revealed that the two groups had clashed over their returns from a syndicate, officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination at Calcutta Municipal Corporation sites to begin on Monday||This week’s Covid vaccination at Calcutta Municipal Corporation sites is set to begin on a high note on Monday but officials fear the pace could slow down from mid-week because of inadequate supply of doses. “Our target is to vaccinate about 40,000 people from the 190 vaccination centres of the CMC,” a civic official said. “There are enough doses to achieve the target but we are not sure how many people we will be able to vaccinate daily from Tuesday if fresh stocks do not arrive on time.” Some private hospitals, which had kept their outreach vaccination on hold last week to comply with a new set of rules made by the state health department, are set to resume the drive this week. “Based on the vaccine allotment schedule for Monday, all vaccination centres of the CMC together will be able to inoculate about 40,000 people through the day. We have the capacity to vaccinate a greater number of people if there are enough doses,” said a CMC doctor. An official of the health department said the state had 10 lakh doses on Sunday morning. The stock would reduce by the evening as some centres in districts ran vaccination on Sunday. But after accounting for the reduction, there will be enough doses for Monday. But the picture could be different from Tuesday. Civic officials fear a repeat of last week when the CMC clinics could vaccinate only about 40 people each on Tuesday and Wednesday, compared to the usual 200 or more people. That happened because stocks had dried up. The health department is expecting about 13 lakh vaccine doses in four tranches by July 13. But the earliest tranche — of 3 to 4 lakh doses - will only arrive on Thursday, said Ashim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer. “More doses will arrive on July 10, 12 and 14,” he said. The vaccine manufacturers, Das Malakar said, have indicated that another 45 lakh doses would come in the second half of July. A senior doctor said lack of adequate doses meant frequent changes in vaccination numbers at CMC clinics and other centres. This is creating inconvenience for many, who are standing in a queue for hours only to be told that the clinic had run out of doses. R. Venkatesh of the RN Tagore hospital said they would launch outreach vaccination for at least two companies this week. “We had to keep these camps on hold because rules changed. State government officials visited the site for inspection and gave a written approval letter. We submitted this letter to the health department, who then created a new workplace vaccination site for each of these places,” said Venkatesh, the regional director of Naryana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Earlier, the approval letter was not required and the physical inspection of the site was not done by the government. Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital, said they would conduct fresh outreach camps for several IT companies from this week. “The companies helped us get the approval letter…” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Doctor and activist organise medical camp for kids in Topsia||Doctor and activist Kafeel Khan held a medical camp at Topsia in Calcutta on Saturday. Khan runs an initiative called Doctors on Road, which organises free medical camps for the poor and needy across the country. The initiative has been running for 81 days. Khan and his team of doctors treated around 300 kids on Saturday. He was felicitated by local Trinamul MLA Javed Ahmed Khan. The activist-doctor had been invited to Bengal by an NGO called the Just Yellow Foundation. Speaking to The Telegraph on the sidelines of the camp, Khan said he would like to see Trinamul Congress chief and Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee assuming a role at the Centre along with other Opposition leaders such as Sharad Pawar and Ashok Gehlot. He also said he would campaign against the BJP in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Online admission test route for Ramakrishna Mission Residential College||Several departments of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students on the basis of their performance in online admission tests and online viva voce this year. In physics and English, candidates shortlisted on the basis of weighted score from the board marks will be screened based on their performance in an admission test and viva. In political science, philosophy, Sanskrit and Bengali, the applicants meeting the cut-off in their respective subjects will be screened based on their scores in the admission test and the viva. The departments of chemistry, math and statistics are yet to announce their screening format. The college, which used to admit students through on-campus admissions tests till 2019, had last year admitted students based only on board marks in all subjects other than English. An official of the college said they had decided to introduce an online screening mechanism this year because they had gained expertise in holding classes and tests over digital platforms since April 2020. Principal Swami Shastrajnananda said details of how undergraduate aspirants in each subject would be admitted this year would be declared once the dates of the Class XII board results were announced. An official of the college said it was left to the departments to decide how prospective students would be admitted after it became clear that the Delhi boards and the state higher secondary council would not conduct the plus-II board exams this year because of the pandemic. A teacher in a humanities department said that in the absence of the plus-II exams, the boards and the councils might try to outperform each other while awarding marks generously to the Class XII students. “In such a situation, it is advisable to screen applicants through admission tests and viva,” he said. Several institutions have been applying newer ways to screen students. St Xavier’s University, for example, will admit students to its undergraduate programmes through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||Driver of killer minibus arrested from relative’s home in Baranagar||Police probing the minibus accident on the Maidan last Thursday that killed a motorcyclist and left 14 passengers injured have concluded that the vehicle had no mechanical fault and the crash was caused by a human error. The driver of the minibus, Syed Ibrar Hossain, 35, was arrested from his relative’s home in Baranagar late on Saturday. He has been booked under IPC sections related to causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part II), which signifies that the accused had knowledge about the consequence of his actions, rash and negligent driving, mischief and attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder. If convicted, Hossain can be imprisoned for 10 years. “A preliminary forensic examination of the bus suggested that there was no mechanical fault and the accident appeared to be the outcome of a human error,” said an officer of the traffic department. The minibus, most of whose seats were dislodged under the impact of the collision, has 84 citation cases pending against it. Traffic cops said the citation cases included those of traffic violations like jumping a traffic signal or violating the central line. The bus also has five “sticker” cases against it, which means it had been spotted parked in a no-parking zone at least five times. Witnesses had said the bus and the motorcycle both were heading towards Esplanade, when the bus apparently hit the two-wheeler from the rear seconds before crashing into balustrades outside Fort William. The motorcyclist, Vivekananda Dab, a constable of the reserve force of Calcutta police, fell under the bus and could be extricated only after three cranes lifted the mangled remains of the vehicle. Dab died on the spot. The accident happened on Day 1 of the resumption of public transport in the state following a curb that had been in force since May 16 as a precaution against Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
05-07-2021||Calcutta||City witnesses thunderstorm on Sunday ||An intense spell of thunderstorm came down on the city on Sunday morning. Accompanied by a series of lightning and rumblings of thunder, the rain started around 9.30am. The rain was not uniform. Cossipore received around 42mm of rain, Behala got 37mm and Patuli and Dum Dum, 20mm each. The rain was not uniform because the southwest monsoon currents are weak in south Bengal, as they are across most of the Indian heartland this week, said Met officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
