06-07-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to mark Shahid Divas virtually for second year in row||Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that she will virtually address the people of the state on the occasion of Shahid Divas (Martyrs’ Day) on July 21 in view of the Covid- related restrictions. One of the biggest annual events of the party, the TMC observes Shahid Divas in memory of the 13 Youth Congress workers, who were killed in police action in 1993. Banerjee, too, was a leader of the grand old party's youth wing back then. “With the blessings of the people of Bengal who have willed us to a landslide victory and a historic third term in government, I will be addressing my brothers and sisters on July 21st #ShahidDibas at 2 PM, virtually, owing to the restrictions to curb the pandemic,” Banerjee tweeted. Last year, too, the TMC supremo had delivered her speech online on the occasion amid the Covid-induced curbs. “ShahidDivas on every 21st July is a solemn occasion for us to remember our 13 bravehearts who were brutally killed in a politically orchestrated violence back in 1993,” the CM added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Saffron camp members lack courtesy, decency: Mamata||Sharpening her attack on the BJP, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said members of the saffron camp “do not know courtesy and decency” and that was evident from the ruckus they created during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural speech in the Assembly. Dhankhar had on July 2 tabled his address, after reading out a few lines of his 18-page speech, amid protests by BJP MLAs over incidents of post-poll violence in the state. The TMC supremo, during her speech in the House, further said that the incumbent governor, chosen by the BJP leadership at the Centre, should have been allowed to address the House by the saffron party's MLAs in the state. “I have seen BJP leaders like Rajnath Singh to Sushma Swaraj... This BJP, however, is different. They (BJP members) do not know culture, courtesy, decency and civility,” the chief minister said, after thanking the governor for the inaugural address.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Father Felix Raj remembers Stan Swamy||It is with a deep sense of pain and anguish I write these few lines at the unfortunate death of Fr Stan Swamy in judicial custody on July 5. As if the world has not suffered enough in these trying times of the invisible enemy, we are beset by the heartbreaking news of the sudden demise of tribal rights activist, Jesuit Fr Stanislaus Lourduswamy. I remember my association with him and his prophetic voice. People of goodwill across the world are disturbed and angry. The Jesuit Order is devastated by the loss of its illustrious and exemplary member, and I express my deep condolences to all the Jesuit fraternity and Fr Stan’s family members. I am confident that the Jesuit Society and his friends will take forward the legacy of Fr Stan’s mission for justice and liberation, particularly among the underprivileged and the tribals. As Jawhar Sircar (former Union secretary) has tweeted, “What terrible act did this ailing octogenarian Jesuit priest do to be led to die like this? Have Indian State and a section of the Judiciary become so inhuman? Who else will take responsibility but the State?” “A caged bird can still sing,” Fr Stan wrote from jail some months ago. Fr Stan belonged to the Jesuit province of Jamshedpur. He had been working through various civil rights organisations for over 50 years and was based out of Ranchi. “Can neither walk, write nor eat. Taloja Jail has brought me to this situation,” Fr Stan told the court. Fr Stan was presented on Friday, May 21, before Bombay High Court from Taloja Jail via videoconferencing. Fr Stan told the court that he would rather “suffer and possibly die” than get treatment at a state-run hospital in Mumbai. “I have suffered much while in prison.” “I was brought here eight months ago. When I came to Taloja, my whole system, my body was still very functional. But during these eight months, I have gone through a steady regression of all bodily functions,” Fr Stan said. There should be international uproar against such violation of human rights. The massive protests across the world in May 2020 against the police brutality on George Floyd are still fresh in our minds. I remember what Floyd’s daughter said: “Daddy changed the world.” I wish and pray that Fr Stan’s death in custody inspires us to bury the draconian laws and inhuman treatment of prisoners. Fr Stan had been in custody in Taloja prison for the past nine months in connection with the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. The octogenarian’s health had deteriorated and the Jesuits had recently appealed to the Maharashtra government seeking medical attention for Fr Stan. Fr Stan was arrested on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency from Ranchi, Jharkhand, and taken to Mumbai the next day. He suffered from multiple ailments and had fallen down in the jail several times. For the past few months, Fr Stan was not keeping good health. He was being constantly shifted from the jail to the J.J. Hospital and back. Some of the ailments reported included the imbalance of limbs, lumbo-sacral degeneration and some degree of hearing loss. Urgent surgical assistance was recommended for the hearing loss and physical assistance owing to his general weakness. Pursuant to the court’s May 19 order, Fr Stan was shifted to the Holy Family Hospital where he breathed his last. Fr Stan told the court that while he had been examined by doctors at J.J. Hospital, he had not been given a chance to explain his complaints. He emphasised that he was not able to perform daily activities such as walking, writing and bathing without assistance any more. He mentioned that he had to be fed, and his appetite had greatly reduced. He stated that his hearing was greatly reduced, and he was not able to converse normally any more. The entire country is in a state of disbelief at the unfortunate passing of a Jesuit committed to the cause of tribal development. His bail petition was rejected a number of times, and this proves the inherent weakness of a section of the judiciary. His life and endurance has left a message for the world. May his soul rest in peace. Fr J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College to continue free tutorials in July ||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, that had started free tutorials last month for underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, is offering them in July as well following demands from many guardians. In July, the classes on digital platforms will be only for Classes IX and X. Since Class XI students will be busy with the admission process after the secondary board announces the Class X results this month, tutorials for Class XI have been put on hold. The Class XII tutorials have been suspended as the undergraduate and postgraduate final-year students of the Narendrapur college — the teachers for the classes — will be busy with their semester examinations in July. Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college told Metro, “We got letters and emails from the guardians about the continuance of classes. However, classes at the HS level have been put on hold as the third-year undergraduate and second-year postgraduate students will write their exams this month and Class X board exams will be announced in July.” A notice signed by the principal on June 29 says: “The HS (higher secondary) classes will be temporarily suspended until the Madhyamik and HS results are announced. A decision will be taken by the college after the announcement. However, the classes for the 9th and 10th standard will continue in the month of July.” As many as 42,159 students from Classes IX to XII had registered for free tutorials between May 24 and 28 for attending the classes in June. These children could not attend school because of the pandemic. Classes on Bengali, English, Mathematics and physical science will be held four days per week between 8am and 10pm. The new time-table has been uploaded on the website of the college. Seventy students of the college, who had undergone training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, are taking these classes. An official of the college said the objective behind the tutorial was to help the underprivileged students who could not afford private tuition to compensate for the absence of in-person classes because their families’ financial distress had aggravated during the pandemic. “The demand from the guardians for holding classes beyond June reflects this requirement,” he said. The notice by the principal says: “Since all our classes are uploaded now on YouTube you may refer to them again anytime as and when required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals refuse to follow new rates fixed for pathological and radiological tests||Private hospitals in Calcutta have refused to follow the new rates fixed by the state regulatory commission for pathological and radiological tests and said they would seek a clarification. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had on Friday capped the rates private hospitals can charge for a number of pathological and radiological tests. A private hospital, the commission’s order states, cannot charge more than Rs 400 for chest X-ray PA view and more than Rs 5,200 for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan). The commission-mandated ceiling was to be implemented with immediate effect. However, no private hospital in the city revised their rates on Monday. “We have not implemented the new rates. We will appeal to the regulatory commission seeking clarifications on several points, like on what basis the rates were fixed,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal. The association will write to the commission on Tuesday. “There is no scientific basis for fixing the rates. The revised rates are comparable with those of some of the diagnostic centres. But the costs incurred by diagnostic centres and hospitals are not comparable,” said Barua, also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The operational costs of corporate hospitals, he said, are 40 to 50 per cent more than diagnostic centres. “Hospitals have to function 24 hours and have to conduct pathological investigations for critical patients at odd hours. In such cases the cost of a test is higher as a single sample is tested. The cost is much more than when samples are tested in bulk,” Barua said. “Patients come to private hospitals for better treatment and quality care. And for that costs are involved. We need more personnel. So, if there are more such cappings, at some point it will no longer be viable for us to run a hospital,” sauid Barua. The CEO of another private hospital said they did not get subsidies for power, maintenance and other infrastructure expenses. “So why should there be cappings on basic tests?” he wondered. Also, according to him, private hospitals have to treat patients under various government schemes, whose rates are 40 per cent of what other patients are charged. Officials of some private hospitals said the rates of most pathological and radiological tests are almost double the commission-mandated ceiling. A Procalcitonin test costs between Rs 7,000 and Rs 8,000 but the commission has capped the rate at Rs 4,000. A Ferritin test costs between Rs 2,700 and Rs 3,000, compared with the capping of Rs 1,600. “There are high installation costs of equipment. We have spent Rs 1.25 crore on installing a digital radiology machine for better X-ray images," said Sudipta Mitra, the CEO of Peerless Hospital. “The commission has asked hospitals not to charge differential rates of investigations for various bed categories. But if the rates are fixed at such a low level, we’ll be unable to sustain,” he said. Capping, Mitra said, should be there for a certain categories of patients. “The commission can fix the percentage for such patients. But it cannot be a blanket rate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||14-year-old student commits suicide in Howrah||A 14-year-old student apparently committed suicide at her Howrah home and scribbled six digits on her wrist with lipstick that appeared to be the passcode of her smartphone, police said. The family of the girl, found hanging on Sunday night, alleged that she was forced to commit suicide after a man who befriended her on social media was allegedly using some of her photographs to blackmail her. The deceased was a Class VIII student, who had also participated in state and national-level karate championships.  “My sister had told me about a friend who was disturbing. I can’t never imagine that the matter aggravated so much” said the girl’s elder sister. The family lodged a complaint with Bally police station but failed to give the details of the accused. A friend of the girl said she had never shared her mobile phone’s passcode with anyone. “It is significant that she wrote the digits on her wrist before ending her life.” Anupam Singh, the deputy commissioner (North), Howrah, said, “The girl’s phone (which has been seized) will be sent for forensic test.” Officers of Bally police station said they would examine the family members and the friends she had met through social media to get to the bottom of the allegations made by the family. Police have started a case under section of abetment to suicide against unknown person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Private bus and minibus operators ‘hike’ fares to resume service||A section of private bus and minibus operators has decided to resume their services on Tuesday charging fares that have been locally agreed upon, instead of the one approved by the state government. At a meeting of bus owners to discuss their course of action late on Monday evening, several operators said commuters across many routes in Calcutta had told them that they were ready to pay increased fares provided the hike did not pinch them too hard. Since the passengers are willing to walk the extra mile, bus owners said they would resume their services on Tuesday and charge fares that had been locally agreed upon taking into account the diesel price. On Monday, a litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27, compared with Rs 77.41 on January 1. If the new rates come into effect, a ride on a private bus from Baguiati to Ultadanga could cost Rs 12, instead of Rs 7. A trip from MG Road to Howrah station will cost Rs 10, instead of Rs 7. The bus operators’ committees on a few routes said on Monday they had drawn up their new fares, while others said they were in the process of doing so. “The bus owners on some routes have worked out a rate chart themselves, wherein for every 4km the fare has been increased by Rs 5,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “Please understand we are not opposing the state government on anything. But this is reality.” Private and government buses, along with other forms of public transport, had been off the roads since May 16 as a precaution against Covid. The state government allowed resumption of bus services from July 1 but the majority of the 5,000-plus private buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas are yet to roll out of the garage, with the owners demanding a fare hike. The government has been sending feelers and requesting operators to resume their service but most stuck to their demand for a fare revision following a steep rise in fuel prices. On Monday, transport minister Firhad Hakim met Swarnakamal Saha, Trinamul MLA and leader of the Bengal Bus Syndicate, and engaged him to find a way out after talking to bus and minibus unions. Hours later, representatives of several bus and minibus unions came together to strategise their next step amid mounting pressure from the state government to run buses. After rounds of heated deliberations, a section of bus owners said it was not possible to resume service if the fares remained unchanged. “The last time fares were revised was in 2018. How can we now force bus owners to resume service? If passengers are ready to pay increased fares, the administration should ideally regularise the hike with a government notification,” said Rahul Chatterjee, the general secretary of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity. Hakim said the government was trying its best to arrive at a solution keeping in mind the woes of private transport operators. “But it is our appeal to all operators to resume services before there can be any discussion,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Motorists opt for smaller refills because of steep rise in petrol and diesel prices  ||A phrase once common at pumps across Calcutta is among the biggest casualties of the spiralling fuel prices. From private vehicles to yellow cabs, “tank full” or “pura tanki” was the choice of a significant section of vehicles at pumping stations every day. Not any more. Motorists are now opting for smaller refills because of the steep rise in the prices of petrol and diesel. Several car owners said their fuel consumption had not gone down drastically but they were cutting down on travel wherever possible and their buying pattern had definitely changed. Many have been forced to curtail the use of cars. Instead, they have been sharing a car with colleagues to work. Some others have stopped going out on long drives. Rahul Das, a New Alipore resident who works in the marketing department of a direct-to-home (DTH) operator, owns a diesel engine five-seater sedan and has to drive around 80km five days a week. His journeys are mostly between his home and his Salt Lake office and dealers and distributors in north Calcutta, Salt Lake and North 24-Parganas. “A little over a year ago, a full tank would cost me around Rs 2,600. Now, it costs me close to Rs 4,000. My conveyance entitlement (Rs 4.50 per km) from office has not been revised for four years, when the price of petrol was around Rs 65,” said Das, 38. He is buying Rs 1,000 worth of diesel at pumping stations now. “It is difficult to shell out Rs 4,000 every now and then....I have almost stopped going on drives on weekends," said Das. At a pumping station at the intersection of Diamond Harbour Road and Burdwan Road, many private vehicles that turned up in the evening would opt for a full tank earlier. “The number has been consistently going down over the past two years. The 5pm-to-9pm slot is still the busiest. But only a few vehicles are fully loading their tanks,” said an employee. At another pump on Sarat Bose Road, the employees were sitting idle around 5pm on Monday. The pump is frequented mostly by private cars and taxis. “One in 10 or 12 cars now get their tanks full. Two years ago, the number would be one in two,” said an employee. Yellow taxis have “almost totally” stopped fully loading their tanks, he said. A litre of petrol sold at Rs 99.84 at pumps in Calcutta on Monday. A litre of diesel sold at Rs 92.27. A 40-year-old man who looks after “loan against securities” of a private bank had to travel between his home in Ramlal Bazaar near Kasba and his office in Park Street. “Unable to bear the fuel expenses, I have stopped taking the car to work for close to a year. I take public transport. If I don’t get a bus or a Metro, I take an auto till Gariahat and then take a taxi,” said the man, who requested anonymity. Rajesh Lohia, who lives in Howrah and works with a private bank in central Calcutta, drove around 10km between home and office every day in a budget hatchback that runs on petrol till last year. This year, he has been “carpooling” with three others to work and back. A full tank costs him around Rs 3,200 now, compared to less than Rs 2,300 that he used to spend a little over a year ago. “What I used to spend on fuel in a month is getting spent in 20 days now. There was no other option. Many colleagues are doing the same thing,” he said. The rush of vehicles at busier pumping stations has not disappeared. Around 4.30pm on Monday, a pump operated by women in Alipore, had over a dozen vehicles lined up at three refill points.  But most of the vehicles opted for a partial refuelling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
06-07-2021||Calcutta||IIM alumni contribute  Rs 3.24 crore to create chair professorship and develop hybrid classrooms||A batch of former students at IIM-Calcutta have contributed Rs 3.24 crore which would be used to create a chair professorship and develop hybrid class room — a facility whose absence was flagged by the institute’s students’ council in February this year. The amount was raised by the class of 1992. The PGPEx classroom L-52 in the New Academic Block has been renamed CLASS of 1992 — 27 FOREVER Seminar Hall in recognition of contribution during a ceremony on Monday. Director-in-charge Subir Bhattacharya attended the event. An official of the institute said interest earned from the contribution would go into developing technological infrastructure, including hybrid classrooms. In hybrid classes, lectures are live-streamed for some students, while others attend them in person. The institute's students’ council in a letter on IT infrastructure woes addressed to then IIM C director Anju Seth on February 16 had stated: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes". The lacking has prompted them to think of hybrid classrooms. Apart from blaming the absence of a stable Internet connection in their hostel rooms, the students referred to the absence of hybrid class-rooms posing hindrances to their studies. Yash Verma, the IT representative from the students council had written: “We have reached a point where there is a need to revamp and invest heavily in the IT infrastructure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
06-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Boatload of vaccines reach remote islands of Sunderbans ||A boat containing Covid-19 vaccines reached remote islands of the Sunderbans on Monday where most residents are yet to be inoculated because of lack of awareness, shortage of doses and absence of Net connectivity. Four boats have been pressed into service to vaccinate potential super-spreaders such as migrant workers in 12 Sunderban islands over the next few days, said an official of the South 24-Parganas administration. The boats are stacked with vaccine vials and armed with Wifi connection. Internet connectivity is a must to run Covid vaccination because all recipients have to be registered on the CoWIN portal. The drive started at Kumirmari, around 90km from the heart of Calcutta, where a boat loaded with vaccines arrived on Monday. “On an average, three out of every 100 people were vaccinated at Kumirmari today,” said a district official. To start with, the focus is on vaccinating super-spreader categories like migrant labourers, who will soon leave home and spread across the state and the country for work. Since they move around, they are vulnerable to infection and prone to spreading the virus. “We have started with targeted vaccination of migrant labourers. The target is to get them vaccinated before they leave home for work,” said South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulganathan. Although vaccination drives have been initiated across the district over the past few months, more emphasis has been laid on urban sectors. Unlike cities and towns, where many people have easy access to government vaccination centres, Sunderbans residents have to travel for hours to reach their closest health centre. Often, at the end of the journey, they learn that the day’s stock had been exhausted. For example, for residents of Kumirmari, the nearest health centre is in Gosaba, around 4km away by boat. An official said there were several reasons for the people in the remote islands to remain unvaccinated. “There are island villages where people are still unaware of Covid, let alone vaccination. People who know find it difficult to reach the health centres and access vaccines,” the official said. At present, the district administration is coordinating with gram panchayats to identify the target groups and get them enrolled on the CoWIN portal. With four boats, the government expects to cover Kumirmari, Satjeliya, Bally, Chandipur, Kachukhali, Gosaba, Chotomollakhali, Radhanagar-Taranagar, Mousuni, Ghoramara, G-plot and K-plot islands in a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
