07-07-2021||Calcutta||Fuel past Rs 100, expenses shoot up in Calcutta||The spiralling fuel prices have scalded most people whose livelihoods are inseparable from their vehicles. The petrol price will cross the hundred rupee mark in Calcutta on Wednesday, when motorists will pay Rs 100.23 a litre for the fuel. Oil marketing companies increased price by Rs 0.40 a litre overnight. The Telegraph spoke to two such people affected by spiralling fuel prices, for the second time since March this year. Sandip Kayal, 43Owner of a car rental business with three cars Kayal gets Rs 40,000 from the client for the 3,000km contract, like he used to in March. But the price of diesel has risen from Rs 84 a litre in March to Rs 92 a litre now. Kayal has to pay Rs 14,000 to the driver of the vehicle, similar to what it was four months ago. But in March, he had a margin of Rs 5,000 on the contract. Now, he barely has Rs 1,000 after paying Rs 25,000 for diesel and Rs 14,000 to the driver. “Paying for the EMI, insurance and maintenance from my own pocket makes no sense. So, I have stopped two similar contracts. Only one 3,000km contract is still active because the client does not travel more than 2,500km,” Kayal told The Telegraph. Usually, he rents out a car for 10 hours, with a cap of 100km, for Rs 1,500. The cost of diesel for 100km is around Rs 920. The driver’s commission is Rs 500. That means he is left with Rs 70. In March, a similar deal left him with around Rs 250. The rate was the same but the price of diesel was Rs 84 and the driver’s cut was Rs 400. “I have my back to the wall,” said Kayal. To cut costs, he has discontinued the services of a domestic help. He has also stopped English tuitions for his son, a NEET aspirant. Kapil YadavTaxi driver In Calcutta, the base fare for a metered taxi is Rs 25 for 2km, and thereafter Rs 12 a kilometre. If Yadav travels 100km a day, he goes without any passenger for at least 20km. In the metered fare, Yadav earns around Rs 1,000 for 80km and needs about 10 litres of diesel to run 100km. That means Rs 920 for 100km at the current rate of Rs 92 a litre. “Insurance, permits and taxes eat up my savings. Ideally, I should be able to pay them from my earnings. If the fare does not go up, I don’t know what lies ahead,” said Yadav. He has been earning some extra bucks ferrying people to Howrah and Esplanade over the past few days, in the absence of too many public transport options. He takes four people and charges Rs 75 from each for a ride from Behala to Esplanade. Yadav had to sell his wife’s jewellery for their son, who has started a training course to be a technician of electrical appliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||International Baccalaureate announces Class XII results||The International Baccalaureate announced the results of Class XII (diploma programme) on Tuesday, the first board to announce the results of a public exam that could not be conducted this year. The result is of the exam that was scheduled for May but was cancelled across the country because of the pandemic. Three schools — Calcutta International School, The Heritage School and Modern High School for Girls —  offer the IB diploma programme (for Classes XI and XII) in the city. Schools said the results were as expected. “The students submitted research papers in all subjects which were graded by IB,” said Tina Servaia, the IB coordinator at Calcutta International School. Modern High School for Girls sent out the second batch this year. “The final grades that our students obtained matched the school’s predicted grades,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||75-yr-old gifts an ambulance to St Xavier’s College on her birthday||A woman who turned 75 on June 19 did not host a party to celebrate the occasion. Shakuntala Lakhotia, instead, turned up at St Xavier’s College on Monday to give an ambulance to the institution. Lakhotia, from Lake Town, would have gifted the ambulance worth Rs 9 lakh on her birthday itself. Son Sanjay said the handover had to be deferred because the manufacturing company could deliver the ambulance only on July 5. “As she completed 75 this June, we were getting ready to throw a big party to make the occasion a memorable one. But my mother had some other ideas. She advised us to desist from wasting resources on hosting a party during the pandemic and suggested we find a way to make a contribution to an institution that has a history of carrying out philanthropic work,” said Sanjay. “She herself proposed that an ambulance be donated amid these trying times”. Many in the extended family of the Lakhotias, who run businesses over the years, have studied at the Park Street college. A homemaker throughout her life, Lakhotia told Metro: “This is not the time to host a lavish party. We see how people are suffering around us because they lack resources. After the Covid outbreak, getting an ambulance for a Covid patient or any other patient became so difficult. So I thought it was time to do something to help those in distress in whatever little way possible." She arrived at the college on Monday with son Sanjay and other family members. A small event was held on the quadrangle of the college in the afternoon. “We have earlier received donations in the form of funds, scholarships. But never have we received a donation like this. It is unusual. She sacrificed her celebrations. I just hope what she has done becomes a precedent. We want many more Shakuntala Lakhotias to help fellow citizens,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, told Metro on Wednesday. “Many of our students, from the college and the school, and staff come from economically weaker sections. During a health emergency, they cannot afford the cost of hiring an ambulance. They will benefit with this contribution. If required, we will make the service available to outsiders as well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Lawyer held for forgery, illegal use of blue beacon in Calcutta||A lawyer was arrested on Monday night on charges of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and unauthorised use of blue beacon on his vehicle. Police said Sanatan Roy Chowdhury, the accused, was masquerading as a CBI counsel as well as the state’s standing counsel in a purported attempt to sell a property in south Calcutta’s Mandeville Gardens. A resident of 8 Mandeville Gardens lodged a complaint with Gariahat police station alleging that a man who had introduced himself as the state’s standing counsel and CBI counsel apparently possessed forged documents to establish his claim on a part of the property. The accused allegedly intended to hand over the documents to a developer without the knowledge or consent of the owner of the property. “We contacted the competent authority in the state judicial department and found that there was no state standing counsel called Sanatan Roy Chowdhury. We also asked the CBI about the person. They, too, said there was no CBI counsel by that name,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The police found a board at the Mandeville Gardens premises that mentioned Roy Chowdhury as the state’s standing counsel and legal receiver of the property. An officer said they had dialled a phone number mentioned on the board and found that it did not belong to any state government office. During inquiry, the police found that Roy Chowdhury allegedly in connivance with a woman and a purported developer had forged court papers and posed as the “receiver” of the property after the death of the complainant’s father. The accused claimed he had the power to sell the property to a developer. After his arrest on Monday, the police apparently found Roy Chowdhury’s Ford EcoSport at a location in north Calcutta based on his statements. The vehicle was fitted with a blue beacon and had multiple boards claiming the car belonged to the state standing counsel and the CBI counsel. The resident of Mandalpara in Baranagar was produced in court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody. This was the third case in recent past in which an accused was allegedly found using a beacon on his car illegally. Vaccine scam accused Debanjan Deb, who had allegedly posed as an IAS officer, is said to have been found in possession of a car flaunting a blue beacon last month.  Days later, another man, who was arrested on the charge of posing as a central vigilance officer, was allegedly found in possession of a beacon-fitted vehicle on Theatre Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Bus fare hike at will in Calcutta, Bengal govt looks other way||The number of private buses on Calcutta's roads increased on Tuesday and operators said more would roll out over the next few days. The difference was made by an unofficial fare hike, effected by private bus operators but yet to be accepted by the government. Across thoroughfares, private buses came to the rescue of commuters during morning and evening rush hours with passengers paying more than the government-approved fares on most routes. Most commuters did not mind because even after paying the hiked fares, they coughed up less than what they used to over the past few days when autorickshaws were the only option. “I paid Rs 15 for a ride from Baguiati to Sovabazar on a private bus. At least buses were available and the wait was not infinite,” said Joyjit Mukherjee, a private firm executive. Private bus operators said they had circulated the new fare charts to most bus route committees across Calcutta. While they have already come into effect on some routes, they will do so on others from Wednesday. “Once the new fares are implemented on most routes, the number of private buses on the roads will increase further. Many more owners will roll out their buses from tomorrow,” said an operator. The new fares are Rs 10 for the first 4km, Rs 15 for the next 8km and Rs 20 for 4km thereafter. “We have distributed posters to bus route committees. They will be pasted on vehicles and on route charts,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “Since this is an unofficial fare chart, we have not informed the transport department. We can't.” Several bus owners said the new rates had been arrived at considering the price of diesel, availability of passengers and the government’s stipulation that buses and minibuses would run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. A litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27 on Tuesday, a rise of nearly Rs 15 since January 1. Some bus unions, though, said they were not in favour of drawing up such a rate chart without the consent of the state government. The Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, for instance, has convened a meeting of its members on Wednesday to discuss the demand for a fare hike. For many passengers, the new fares did pinch but not as much as the auto fares they had been paying over the past few days. Metro has reported that commuters, including those from the fringes, were paying nearly four times the bus fare for their daily commute by breaking journeys on autos. The government on Tuesday sent yet another appeal to private bus operators asking them to resume their services. "Please bring out your buses and resume the services first. Discussions can follow," transport minister Firhad Hakim had said on Monday. Sources said the issue of commuters’ woes would come up at a "special meeting of the cabinet" that the chief minister called in the Assembly on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Rising diesel price sets Calcutta market on fire||The rising price of fuel over the last few weeks has resulted in a hike in the prices of vegetables and other items that come to Calcutta from a distance. Capsicum, which cost Rs 60 a kg in March, is now selling between Rs 100 and Rs 110 a kg at retail markets. On Tuesday, green chillies sold for Rs 90 a kg, compared with Rs 50 a kg in March. Brinjal sold for Rs 80 a kg on Tuesday, compared with Rs 50 three months back. The price of chicken has gone up from Rs 180 a kilo a few months back to Rs 250 a kilo. Across markets in Calcutta, retailers said vegetable prices were unusually high around this time compared to previous years. Transportation of vegetables from wholesale markets — such as Koley market in Sealdah — is costing them nearly double even though lesser volume is being fetched per trip. “Earlier, we would bring around five tonnes of vegetables from Sealdah to Behala for Rs 600. Now we are paying Rs 1,200 for two tonnes,” said Sadhan Maity, a vegetable seller from Behala. “Transporters are citing the rising diesel price. Customers have stopped buying in bulk. We are forced to sell vegetables at a much higher price compared to wholesale rates for the sake of our survival.” A litre of diesel sold in Calcutta for Rs 92.27 on Tuesday, a rise of nearly Rs 15 since January 1. Not just vegetables like capsicum and beans that are sourced from Karnataka, even the ones that are grown in the state have become costlier because of the rise in the fuel price. Wholesalers across most mandis in Calcutta said the transportation cost of around six tonnes of vegetables from Bagdah and Basirhat in North 24-Parganas had shot up from Rs 5,000 a few months back to around Rs 8,000. As a result, the prices of pointed gourd and lady's finger in wholesale markets have gone up from Rs 20 and Rs 25 a kilo to Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kilo, respectively. In retail markets, the price of pointed gourd has gone up from Rs 40 a kilo to around Rs 70. Similar is the rise in the price of lady’s finger. However, the prices of some vegetables such as ridge gourd, bitter gourd and cucumber have gone down because of bumper harvest in North and South 24-Parganas and Nadia. The rising prices of most vegetables are burning a hole in the pockets of most customers. Retailers said bulk purchase was almost gone and customers who would earlier buy four or five kilos of vegetables are now settling for two kilos. “Earlier, around 150 trucks and Matadors would line up outside Koley Market at night. Now, there are barely 50 vehicles,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors Association. As for the rise in the price of chicken, poultry farmers are attributing the trend to the rise in the transportation of poultry feeds from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “A truckload of soy-feed would earlier cost Rs 60,000. Now, it’s Rs 72,000,” said Madan Mohan Maity of the West Bengal Poultry Federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal primary education board will hold online counselling from next week to appoint teachers ||The state primary education board will hold online counselling from next week to appoint teachers at the primary level (Classes I to V). Manik Bhattacharya, the president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education, said the online mode had been opted for because of Covid-19. A notice issued on Tuesday said counselling would start next Monday. During the counselling, the aspirants are required to opt for schools based on vacancies, as intimated by the district primary councils. An official of the board said if there were no vacancies in the district where an aspirant lived, she or he had to choose a school from other districts. “The vacancy figures have been uploaded. During the online counselling, the aspirants have to opt for the districts where they want to teach. They will finally be allotted schools based on their ranks on the merit list, which was announced in March,” Bhattacharya said. Around 5,000 aspirants had been appointed in schools located in their respective districts before the Assembly elections. The aspirants are being recruited based on their performance in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) held in 2014, personality test and interview. The high court had last Friday extended the interim stay on recruitment of teachers at the upper primary level (VI to VIII) till July 9 following complaints of irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-07-2021||Calcutta||Rage at ‘institutional murder’ of Father Stan Swamy||A rally in memory of Father Stan Swamy in Calcutta on Tuesday expressed “more rage than grief” at what speaker after speaker called a “planned institutional murder by the State”. The Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case in which rights activists stand accused of having Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. The rally, called by the Bengal against Fascist RSS-BJP, was initially planned as a march from Moulali to Esplanade. But police refused permission citing Covid-19 norms, forcing the organisers to stage a demonstration at the Moulali intersection, on a slice of CIT Road cordoned off by the cops. “Swamy was an anti-national. All others opposed to the policies of the BJP regime are indeed anti-nationals,” said Anirban Banerjee, one of the speakers. “There are multiple nations within one nation. For some, the nation starts and ends with a handful of Narendra Modi’s corporate friends. We are opposed to that nation. Stan Swamy was opposed to that idea of nation. For us, the nation means the country’s oppressed class of people,” said Banerjee. “Stan Swamy was arrested in October last year in Ranchi. He suffered from Parkinson’s disease. His health continued to deteriorate in jail. But he received little sympathy from the authorities. Basic human rights were dumped in garbage in Stan Swamy’s case, in clear violation of international norms,” said rights activist Sujato Bhadra. Binayak Sen, a doctor and rights activist who spent more than three years in jail on the charge of having Maoist links, was among those who attended the rally. The assembly observed a minutes’ silence in memory of the priest, after which one of his messages was read out. “I would just add that what is happening to me is not unique. Many activists, lawyers, writers, journalists, student leaders, poets, intellectuals and others who stand for the rights of adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and express their dissent to the ruling powers of the country are being targeted,” Father Swamy had said in the message. Mahasweta Samaddar, a convener of the forum, said Stan Swamy was part of a “freedom struggle”. “He was part of the freedom struggle to ensure freedom for all sections of people of the country. His arrest and the treatment meted out to him is an attempt by the State to instil a sense of fear among people like us, protesters who are out of jail,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
