08-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government decides not to conduct admission tests at colleges and universities||The Bengal government has barred state-aided colleges and universities from conducting admission tests, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Autonomous institutions like St Xavier’s College and colleges under the Ramakrishna Mission do not come under the bar, officials of the higher education department said. The Presidency admission tests were scheduled for August. The department will send an advisory to the universities soon regarding admission. It was decided on Wednesday that the universities in Bengal would open their portals enabling undergraduate aspirants to submit their application forms from August 2. Aspirants will not be charged any application fee because scores of families are encountering Covid-induced financial constraints. Education secretary Manish Jain informed vice-chancellors about the government’s stand on admission tests during a virtual meeting on Wednesday evening, which was presided over by education minister Bratya Basu. Some institutions had preferred admission tests this year because they did not want to rely entirely on marks in the absence of board exams. Presidency VC Anuradha Lohia said: “The (state JEE) board (which conducts the Presidency admission tests) had on June 22 confirmed through an emailed communication that they would conduct the admissions tests in August. I will hold discussions with the department to decide the next course of action.” Sources in the government said the education department announced its opposition to admission tests when Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das sought to know at the meeting whether the tests could be held to screen candidates. Jain is said to have told Das that tests could not be held this year because of the pandemic and the digital divide. That ruled out both on-campus and online exams. Lohia then said the state JEE board was scheduled to conduct the undergraduate admission test of Presidency on August 7 and 8. “Jain then said the board had been informed as far back as mid-June that it would not conduct any admission test for Presidency this year,” said a VC who attended the meeting. Board chairman Malayedu Saha was contacted in the middle of the meeting to clarify the situation. “The board chairman admitted on Wednesday that during a news conference on June 22 he had said in response to a question that Presidency’s admission tests would be held in August. When Jain sought to know how he could make such an announcement despite instructions from the department, he kept quiet,” said the VC, who did not want to be named. Repeated calls to Jain, Saha and the JU VC went unanswered. At JU, arts and science teachers had sought admission tests on the campus or over digital platforms because Class XII board exams had been scrapped. The Class XII students will be evaluated largely on the basis of their performance in the Class X board exams, Class XI exams and internal assessment or practical-project in Class XII. “In such a situation, it is advisable that the prospective students are screened through some form of admission tests,” said a JU teacher. JU till 2019 used to admit students solely on the basis of admissions test or by giving equal weightage to the admission test and plus-II board marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Petrol price breaches Rs 100 mark per litre across city, essential items become costlier||The price of petrol breached the Rs 100 mark per litre across city pumps on Wednesday. But it’s not fuel price alone that is burning a hole in the pockets of people. Over the past year and a half, the prices of several essential items have shot up to an extent that tens of thousands of households have their backs to the wall (see chart). From eggs to milk to pulses and edible oil, items that are part of everyday lives have become far costlier than they were just before the start of the pandemic. The price rise hits harder because the virus has robbed many of their income and stalled the income of many more. “I used to spend around Rs 2,500 per month on groceries before the pandemic. Now, the bill has shot up to around Rs 4,000. My consumption has not increased. We are still three people,” said Debasree Chatterjee, 32, a Tollygunge resident. Chatterjee lives with her husband and a seven-year-old daughter. Her husband works in the automobile sector and she runs a bakery from home. In February 2020, she bought eggs at Rs 4.50 apiece. Last Sunday, the price was Rs 7 apiece.  Half a litre of milk cost her Rs 22 in February 2020. The same thing comes at Rs 26 now. “Most of the items that are needed every day have become so much costlier. Our income has not gone up but the expenses have jumped manifold,” she said. Angshuman Boral, a 58-year-old Behala resident, has been finding it hard to manage the grocery expenses of his large family. He lives with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, two grandchildren, an unmarried sister and a 24X7 domestic help. “My monthly grocery bills have been crossing Rs 7,000 for several months now. Two years ago, it used to be between Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,000. Even rice and pulses have become so much costlier,” said Boral. The sole source of the family’s earnings is an electrical hardware store in Behala, which is managed by Boral and his son. Just before the pandemic, Boral used to buy regular Banskathi rice for Rs 40 a kilo. The same rice now costs him Rs 55 a kilo. “We have almost stopped having mutton and costly fish. But the way things are turning out to be, even daal-bhaat (rice and lentil) is proving to be challenging,” said Boral. Grocery store owners said their hands were tied because they were having to buy stuff from wholesalers and distributors at a much higher rate than before. Krishna Saha, who runs a grocery store in Garia, sells a litre of mustard oil at around Rs 200. He used to sell the same at Rs 140 a litre in February 2020. Back then, he used to buy a litre of mustard oil at Rs 120. Now, the distributor charges Rs 185. “The Rs 15 margin is not all mine. I have to take care of carry-bags, credit to some customers and, occasionally, the transportation cost from the distributors’ godown,” said Saha. Usually, he does not need to pay for transportation. But on occasions when he needs an urgent replenishment or during an emergency, like the lack of transport options during the strict Covid curbs, he has had to arrange for the transport. The buying pattern of people has also changed because of the surge in prices, said some grocers. “A customer who would take a crate of eggs at one go earlier is taking a dozen now. Another customer who used to buy two kilos of ghee a month has been buying one kilo now,” said Biswajit Saha, the owner of a grocery store on Hindusthan Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Weather: 50-km-wide cloud mass triggers heavy downpour in the city||An intense spell of thunderstorm hit the city on Wednesday afternoon, triggering heavy rain that flooded several areas. The downpour continued from 2pm to 4pm. Before it started raining, darkness descended on the city and around 2.30pm, it looked like evening. G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta, attributed the darkness to the density of the cloud mass. “The diameter of the cloud was around 50km and the thickness over 12km, at least a few kilometres thicker than a usual mass of cumulonimbus cloud,” he said. Parts of Calcutta received more than 100 mm of rainfall. Calcutta Municipal Corporation recorded 107 mm of rainfall at Jodhpur Park. The Met office recorded around 97mm of rain in Alipore, 91mm in Dum Dum and 72mm in Salt Lake. The Met office has predicted more rain in the next few days but the intensity of the showers is likely to be on the lower side. “A trough of low pressure extends from Uttar Pradesh to the northeast Bay of Bengal, passing over Calcutta. The trough and the significant moisture accumulated in the atmosphere over the past few days led to the formation of a large and dense cloud mass…. That cloud emptied itself in the afternoon,” said Das. The trough of low pressure is the monsoon trough — in Met parlance, it is not called monsoon trough till it covers the farthest corner of the Indian heartland in the west — that was over the foothills of the Himalayas till a few days ago, triggering heavy rain in the northern districts of Bengal. A nascent weather system over the Bay of Bengal that is expected to take the shape of a low-pressure area later this week has pulled the trough down, said a Met official. The same density was also responsible for the relentless lightning that accompanied the rain, he said. The lightning prompted many Calcuttans to unplug electronic appliances. The intensity of the thunderstorm disrupted connectivity for a brief spell at several houses across the city. “I did not have Wi-Fi connectivity for at least 40 minutes from 3.30pm,” said Sayantan Mitra, a Thakurpukur resident. Between June 16 night and June 17 morning, the city had received close to 150mm of rain which led to large-scale waterlogging.  But Wednesday’s showers had more sting. Raju Das, a driver, had taken an elderly couple to an eye clinic in Minto Park on Wednesday. He had parked the car behind the La Martiniere for Boys when the rain started. “I had fallen asleep inside the car. I woke up to the rumblings of thunder. Within 30 minutes, the road was waterlogged and water started entering the car. I drove away and found another spot. It was scary, driving in the torrential rain,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Many parts of Calcutta flooded as heavy rain lashes the city||Several parts of Calcutta went under water after heavy rain lashed the city on Wednesday afternoon. The distribution of the showers was skewed as south Calcutta received more rain than the central and northern parts of the city, the officials said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s drainage pumping stations at Jodhpur Park and Mominpore received 107mm and 100mm of rain between 3pm and 4pm. The stations at Kalighat, Ballygunge and Behala received 95mm, 80mm and 70mm of rain, respectively, during the period. In the afternoon, the northern end of the Dhakuria bridge was under knee-deep water, causing a number of vehicles to break down. A police officer said six cars had to be towed away after they malfunctioned while crossing the waterlogged stretch. A few metres away, at the Golpark crossing, around one foot of water accumulated on the road. In Park Circus, Suhrawardy Avenue was under waist-deep water in front of Lady Brabourne College. By late on Wednesday, water had receded to the shin level on many roads. Water inundated many homes in low-lying areas and also accumulated over reservoirs in a number of houses. “It is true that it rained heavily. But it did not rain intensely after 4pm. Yet the water did not recede by late on Wednesday,” said a Kasba resident. He complained that the civic body had desilted only the manholes on the main road but did not clear the muck from the gully pits. “The civic body’s main concern is to clear the main road so that traffic is not halted. So they did not bother to clean the drainage network inside neighbourhoods,” the resident said. Twigs and leaves were found floating in the water in large numbers, along with plastic. “The plastic bags clogged the mouth of many gully pits and delayed the draining out of the water from roads,” a Dhakuria resident said. Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the drainage department, said water had receded from most places by the evening. “The water level in the Hooghly was not very high when it rained on Wednesday. So we could keep the sluice gates open and this helped drain out water from many parts of the city fast. The pockets where roads were still waterlogged on Wednesday evening must be having some local blockage or other issues,” he said. Singh said 27 pumps were operational at the Chowbhaga pumping station, which drains out water from Jadavpur, Lake Gardens and Kasba. “Places like Mominpore and Jodhpur Park received more than 100mm of rain in one hour. Draining out such a high volume of water takes some time,” he said. Officials said they were expecting water to recede from almost all places by Thursday morning if it did not rain at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Test rate cap not for insured patients, clarifies Bengal regulatory body||The ceilings for the charges of various pathological and radiological tests, fixed by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, will be applicable to patients not covered by health insurance, the commission’s chairperson clarified on Wednesday. After the commission fixed the rates last Friday, hospital officials had said the capping should not apply to patients entitled to benefits under corporate medical insurance. The Telegraph reported on Tuesday that private hospitals in Calcutta had refused to follow the new rates, saying they would seek a clarification from the commission. “We would like to clarify that the price cap fixed by the commission for pathological and radiological tests would be applicable only in cases where patients’ families have to pay by cash. Those who are covered under corporate health insurance or have their own medical insurance will not get this benefit. All our advisories are aimed at protecting patients who pay by cash,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “There are many patients whose treatment cost is paid by the employers. Similarly, those who have a medical insurance policy get the benefit of cashless hospitalisation. In such cases hospitals charge according to the agreement with the insurance company or the employer.” Among pathological tests, the commission has ordered that the procalcitonin blood test cannot cost more than Rs 4,000. The limit for the D-dimer test is Rs 2,300. Among radiological tests, the rate for an HRCT (128 slice CT scan) has been capped at Rs 5,200. If a part of the treatment cost is not covered by the insurance company and has to be borne by a patient, the rate cap will be applicable to the payment made by the patient, the commission said. “This will only create confusion because insurance firms always pay the costs for radiological and pathological tests, thorough patients may not know it. They will think hospitals are deliberately not reducing the bill,” said Sudipta Mitra, the CEO of Peerless Hospital. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India had written to the commission on Tuesday seeking clarification on its order capping the pathological and radiological test rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Schools fight Covid with jab drives||Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy, in association with Medica Superspeciality Hospital, recently organised a vaccination camp on its Taratala campus. The eligible students, staff members and care givers were happy to return to the campus, even though just for a jab. Despite rain and lack of local transport, there was a huge turnout. More than 300 persons with disabilities and their family members received the first or second dose of the Covishield vaccine at the day-long programme. Sixty members of Mentaid, sponsored by the Calcutta Foundation, were also part of the drive. “Persons with cerebral palsy and multiple disabilities have compromised immunity and are at a far greater risk of getting infected by the virus. Many of our service users, who are above 18 years of age and have profound disabilities, are wheelchair users. Transporting them to a government hospital or urban health centre for vaccination and waiting in long queues was not a feasible option. Many are unable to express their anxieties and some of them will not wear a mask because of their intellectual disabilities. They are, therefore, extremely vulnerable in any public place. Given the issues, parents and guardians welcomed the IICP’s initiative,” said Sonali Nandi, the chief operations officer and director-technical services of the organisation. Indus Valley World School Over 240 people got their first or second dose of the Covishield vaccine at a five-day vaccination camp, organised by Indus Valley World School, in association with Narayan Memorial Hospital. The camp was also open to the common people. Several teachers and staff members were vaccinated at the camp. “I received my second dose at my school. It is essential for the entire teaching and non-teaching staff members to get their shots before the school reopens. We have organised two camps till date,” said principal Reshma Bhattacharya. MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School The state education department recently initiated a two-day vaccination camp on the premises of MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. The first and second doses of the Covishield vaccine were given to around 600 beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 45, which included both teaching and non-teaching members from different private schools of the city. The department had divided the city into five zones. Apart from MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, vaccination camps were also set up in several other schools of the city. On the first day, 199 individuals from 17 schools were vaccinated, while on the second day 388 individuals from 20 schools took part in the drive. “We are glad that the government selected our school to put up this drive. We expect to get more such opportunities from the department. And I hope that the government will soon announce such a drive for the students falling under the age group of 12 to 18, so that the middle and senior school students can get back to school,” said vice-principal Purnima Chatterji. Asian International School Asian International School recently conducted two vaccination drives – one in association with RN Tagore Hospital and the other in collaboration with Woodlands Hospital - for its staff members and their near ones. The school ferried around 120 staff members to RN Tagore Hospital for the shots during the first drive, while they organised the second one on their own premises for more than 150 participants including students above the age of 18, ex-students, parents, employees and their close dependents. “Asian International School is ensuring the safety circle of ‘Me, us and nation’ by organising the vaccination drives. In today’s times when vaccination centres are not readily available, our effort has allowed a safe and secure platform to the alumni, the parents of our school and the dependent members,  in combatting the pandemic,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
08-07-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College pays tribute to Father Stan Swamy||Jesuit priests, students, teachers, support staff and alumni gathered at St Xavier’s College to pay tribute to Father Stan Swamy, who passed away in a hospital in Mumbai on Monday waiting for bail at age 84. A prayer meeting was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association at the foot of the statue of St Francis Xavier on the Park Street campus on Wednesday. Floral tributes were offered to the Jesuit priest and a minute’s silence was observed in his memory. “Father Stan sacrificed his life in the true sense for his commitment for the poor, marginalised and tribals. Through his life he inspired many people by his commitment for justice and reconciliation,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College and the president of the alumni association. He said the best tribute to Father Stan would be to continue and strengthen his crusade for ensuring justice, eradicating poverty and establishing legitimate rights of all sections of society, especially the marginalised and the downtrodden. Father Savio said every individual in their own way, even if it was a “small way”, should work for peace and justice. Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, was present at the prayer meeting. “Father Stan was a true prophet who released the voice of the voiceless — the tribals. He did so not just in words but in action,” said Father Arulappan. The prayer meeting was limited to a small gathering and the authorities decided against holding a candlelight procession because of the pandemic Prayer meetings are taking place at the college and other places to pay tribute to Father Stan Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Special CMC vaccination camp for LGBTQIA+ people||One-hundred-and-seventy-seven members of the LGBTQ community were vaccinated at a special camp on Wednesday, organised by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the state women and child development and social welfare department. The one-day camp was held at Jadavpur’s Bidhanpally. The health department had identified transgenders and sex workers as priority groups for Covid vaccination. “LGBTQ persons face a lot of discrimination in society. They do not feel very comfortable getting vaccinated at a ward health clinic or in a hospital. But they always feel comfortable to get jabs in special camps,” said Amrita Sarkar, the assistant secretary of Samabhabona, an organisation of the LGBTQ community. Second dose The CMC has decided to administer only second doses from all its 190 jab centres on Friday and Saturday because of a shortage of vaccines. Each ward health clinic will get about 100 doses on Thursday. Both first and second doses will be administered on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||26-year-old woman gang raped by robbers in locked home||A woman who was alone at home, locked from outside as a routine practice as her parents were out on work, was allegedly gang raped, the family has complained to the police. Cash and valuables worth Rs 15 lakh were allegedly stolen from the house. The incident happened in the Port area between noon and 1pm on Tuesday. It was reported to the police on Wednesday. According to the complaint, a group of two or three unknown persons broke the lock on the main door of the apartment on the second floor of the four-storey building and barged in. They allegedly tied up the 26-year-old to the bed and gang raped her. A cupboard in the adjoining room was ransacked. The police said when the victim’s parents, who run a garments business not far from their house, returned home, they found the house ransacked and their daughter allegedly sexually abused and traumatised. After the matter was reported to the police, the victim was taken to SSKM Hospital for a medico-legal test. A forensic team inspected the spot. The detective department of Calcutta police has taken over the case. “We are trying to find out who all knew that the apartment used to be kept locked from outside,” said an officer. A case under IPC sections related to robbery, gang rape, trespassing and common intention has been registered. No one was arrested till late on Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||Arrested Calcutta High Court lawyer’s BRICS claims||Sanatan Roy Chowdhury, a lawyer who had allegedly been posing as the state’s standing counsel and the CBI’s lawyer, told investigators that he had travelled to various countries pretending to be a representative of the Union home ministry, police said on Wednesday. A purported photograph has emerged showing Roy Chowdhury standing at a podium with “BRICS” written on it. BRICS is an international conference attended by the head of government of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. An officer said Roy Chowdhury, who is in police remand, had said that he was part of an entourage that participated in one of the BRICS conclaves. The police said they would write to the ministries of external affairs and home affairs seeking details of the members of the entourage who toured with the Prime Minister and represented India at the international conference. Roy Chowdhury was arrested on Monday. He, in connivance with others, had allegedly impersonated the state’s standing counsel and tried to sell a property at Mandeville Gardens to a promoter without the consent of the owner. The police said they had also found that Roy Chowdhury had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha polls from the Dum Dum constituency on behalf of the Lok Janshakti Party. A senior officer said they were trying to find out whether Roy Chowdhury was involved in more such cases of cheating and forgery. The police said they had come across at least one instance where Roy Chowdhury had masqueraded as an official in the chief minister’s office and called the officer in-charge of a police station to give instructions on a case. Realising that it was a fake call, the officers of the police station started a case against the person based on the phone number from where the call had come. Later, it was allegedly found that the call was made by Roy Chowdhury. He was also allegedly found in possession of a beacon-fitted vehicle that had multiple boards attached on it claiming that it belonged to the state’s standing counsel and the CBI’s counsel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Protected’ bird rescued from dad and son in North 24-Parganas||An Oriental Pied Hornbill was rescued from Barasat in North 24-Parganas. A team of officers from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) got in touch with a father-son duo who were allegedly trying to sell the bird and arrested them. The Oriental Pied Hornbill is native to several places across India, including the forests of Bihar, Odisha, Bengal as well as Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia. The bird is protected under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. Animals and birds listed under Schedule I enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a Schedule I animal faces at least seven years in jail, a forest department official said. The accused - Shyamal Adhikari, 43, and Subrata Adhikari, 22 - were produced in a court in Barasat and remanded in judicial custody. They have been charged under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. A conservationist working for an NGO said birds were smuggled in very small cages and in inhuman conditions. "Many birds don’t survive the long journeys they are forced to undertake in cramped cages", the conservationist said A WCCB officer said they had got in touch with the Adhikaris posing as buyers. A deal was struck and the men allegedly agreed to come with the bird near Lebutala in Haroa, in North 24-Parganas. “The men came on a motorcycle. One of them had the bird's cage on his lap," said the officer. While a couple of officers started talking to the Adhikaris, others swooped down on them from behind and nabbed them. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, said the men had been trying to sell the bird for the past few weeks. "A preliminary investigation has revealed that the bird had been smuggled in from Bangladesh," said Mitra. The website of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Malabar Pied Hornbill as "near threatened". The bird is listed under the IUCN's Red List. It has a small population that is decreasing rapidly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
