09-07-2021||Calcutta||The bus route conundrum||It's a cruel paradox. Some routes have buses galore but they are going empty while others have too few buses, and passengers are travelling packed like sardines, flouting every social distancing protocol in the book. Since July 1, the state has lifted restrictions on public transport but a mismatch has ensued and no one is satisfied. Government buses are plying but many private ones are reluctant unless their fares are hiked. Some auto drivers rue lack of passengers while some passengers accuse the drivers of quoting exorbitant fares. Seeking passengers Karunamoyee was beyond recognition on Monday morning. Time was when pedestrians would spill on to the roads during rush hour and the streets would be clogged bumper-to-bumper with buses, cars, autos, rickshaws… But on Monday at 8.45am, the only heavy vehicle at Karunamoyee was a garbage truck. After a long wait, AC 9, a government bus, came from Sector V and waited for passengers while the conductor cried out “Jadavpur, Jadavpur!” several times. There were hardly any takers. In fact, there were hardly any commuters waiting in the first place. “The government has asked us not to let in passengers beyond 50 per cent capacity but we are getting way less than that anyway,” said the conductor. The private AS3 buses have been leaving from New Town bus terminus to Garia ferrying all of five, or even two, passengers. “We are plying just four of our 30 buses,”  said Subrata Naskar, a member of the consortium that runs the fleet. “After last year’s lockdown, people had thronged the streets out of boredom but the second wave has changed their attitude. Previously many labourers would come to work at construction sites in New Town but now even those haven’t reopened.” Most stakeholders felt their fortunes would revive once the local trains started. No space for toehold A diametrically opposite picture, on Monday, was Ultadanga and the Haldiram stoppage at the VIP Road junction of New Town. Buses to Sealdah, Dalhousie and Howrah were few —  no more than one bus in an hour — and they were packed to the rafters. No social distancing was being maintained and no matter how many masks passengers wore, they had no option but to stick to each other with hardly space to breathe. Ila Das, who travels to Dalhousie everyday, was stuck at Ultadanga for almost an hour. “There are no buses. I saw five or six go by on the Bypass route but nothing towards the office para in the city. I have been taking a shuttle for the last couple of weeks but they charge Rs 100. They’re sucking us dry,” she said. Priyajeet Chakraborty, conductor of an electric bus on the Shapoorji-Howrah AC 12 route said they were struggling to maintain distancing. “It's most crowded between Topsia and Dalhousie and we do not stop if the bus is half-full already. If we do stop to let someone off, others force their way in,” he said. Soumen Kauri, driver of an S4 bus from Karunamoyee to Behala, said this was because there were not enough private buses on the street. “We can’t push people out if they have already entered. And how do they get home if there are no buses?” he asks. Mismatched Then again there was a section of commuters that struggled to find a bus — crowded or otherwise. Phoolbagan resident Monalisa Bera said she was petrified of not getting a ride home from her Unitech office in the evening. “There are no buses or autos there at that hour. Last week I had to plead with an auto driver who was ferrying a ‘reserve’ passenger to Tata Medial Center to take me along else I would have been stranded. And how many days can I ask my boss to let me go home early?” she said, waiting at Karunamoyee for a bus to take her to work in the first place. Arunava Pal Choudhury of EC Block no longer has a direct bus route to take him to his Wipro office. “I now have to break journey by auto costing me Rs 80 one way. App cabs are even more expensive. How can we afford such a lifestyle when we have had 30 to 40 per cent salary cuts in the pandemic?” he asks. Empty autos Autos on routes like Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan, Ultadanga-Karunamoyee and Karunamoyee-New Town had few takers on Monday. “I’ve been waiting for 40 minutes with a single passenger seated in my auto. I need three people before I can leave,” said Samares Pyne, a driver on the Karunamoyee-SAI Complex route. “Sector V is as good as dead. None of their employees come to work anymore. We are now dependant on the government office employees around Karunamoyee.” The drivers said they were getting crushed under the ever-rising prices of LPG but that they weren’t raising prices as passengers would protest. “As it is, no one will take autos once private buses return to the streets,” said Raju Porey, a driver on the Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan route. Bapi Mondal, on the Karunamoyee-New Town route, said that while they would previously make Rs 500 to 600 a day, they were now struggling to make Rs 300. Fleecing autos “Autos that used to charge Rs 10 before the pandemic and Rs 20 before the second wave are now demanding Rs 50 to ply from Ultadanga to Basiakhi,” lamented a college-goer who lives in the complex. “A ride to CRPF Island — two stops away — would cost Rs 7 or 8 previously and now it costs Rs 15. Autos are fleecing us.” Autos from the Haldiram crossing were charging more than the regular fare and with —  not three but — five passengers aboard! Traffic sergeants turned a blind eye to it all. The usual routes of these autos was to City Centre 2, Eco Park or Hidco Crossing but now they were plying up to Axis Mall, Sector V and even College More as per the passengers' wish, charging Rs 50 to 100 per head. Rising fuel prices The petrol pump opposite City Centre said not a single bus had come to refuel with them since the restrictions lifted. “Government buses have their own fuel stations but we used to cater to private ones. They are all missing now,” said Tapas Mondal, a staff member. “We are the only station in the Salt Lake that provides LPG for autos but again, only 40 per cent of them have returned to the streets, by our estimates.” The soaring prices of diesel is one of multiple reasons why private buses wanted a fare revision before hitting the streets. “Owning a bus is like owning an elephant these days,” says Sourav Sadhukan who owns two buses, including one on the 215A route (Sector V to Howrah) that is not plying yet. “Our bus’s insurances have expired, batteries have died and the seven tyres are spoilt by sitting immobile during the lockdown. To top it all, the bank is calling up every day asking me to pay the next EMI. Even after a fare revision, I will have to shell out tens of thousands of rupees to make the bus road fit.” Bus owners have since agreed amongst themselves to roll out services based on mutually agreed fares to cover their costs. “We, 215A owners, have decided, for instance, to raise the minimum fare from Rs 7 to 10. If fuel prices rise again we shall have to raise the rates again,” says Sadhukan. At present, the 80 buses on the 215A route are lying at the terminus in Sector V. Owners believe they shall start plying from next week, depending on the condition of individual buses. Other ways Till then, the void is being filled in by miscellaneous modes. Md. Wahi started using his van as a shuttle from Karunamoyee to Exide from Monday. “Previously I used to charge Rs 30 for the seven passengers but now it’s Rs 50 for five. But commuters are so few that I’ll leave even if three or four people land up,” he said. Drivers of electricity-run totos do not have to worry about fuel prices but they said they had to replace all four batteries every six months at a cost of some Rs 25,000. “Besides, even if we are on full charge, there are no passengers to ferry,” said Amol Ghosh, who was waiting outside the vaccination centre behind Pride Hotel, in wait for commuters. Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Gyms open doors but in crisis mode||After weeks of lockdown, gyms have started opening up. Enquiries are being made, new membership plans offered but gym rats as well as gym owners have worries at the back of their minds. Earlier this week, two teenagers - Mayur Singh and Arihant Chatterjee — were visiting Anytime Fitness in DD Block to check out the facilities. “We are final-year students of DPS Newtown and till the pandemic, were heavily into basketball, football, cricket and swimming. With hardly any option for outdoor sports now, we are considering joining a gym,” said Mayur, a resident of Sanjeeva Town. But they confessed that their parents were a tad worried about taking an annual membership in case another lockdown gets declared. Fee worry Naved Ali, who runs the EC Bock gym Endorfins, confesses that this is a worry dogging members. “So we are promising them extensions in membership in case more lockdowns get declared,” says Ali. It also helps that their three-storey building is not rented. Since they do not have to pay rent through locked down months, members need not worry about them shutting down. In a township where several gyms have had to close down in recent months, the FitNet Muscle Den chain has taken over another one in CF Block in April. “Our research shows that many people have been searching for gyms in this area and so we took the plunge,” says general manager Prasenjit Sinha. They even offered a 50 per cent discount on a yearly membership days before opening up. “Now we have a 30 per cent discount offer on but have to be careful about the number of people we take in as we cannot allow over-crowding in Covid times either.” Covid protocol Anytime Fitness has an elaborate sanitisation programme in place. “We are fumigating the air, mopping the floor with chemicals, have installed a ‘coronaguard’ machine. When the gym is empty we are switching on UV lights,” says assistant manager, Raja Nandy. Both supposedly disable or kill the virus, he claimed. Endorfins has chosen to keep its spa, jacuzzi, steam bath and even yoga section shut so as to avoid gatherings. BD Gym, that is run by the ward atop BD Market, is encouraging members to wear gloves while using equipment. “We had about 90 members before the lockdown and in the first six days of opening, half of them have rejoined. Most of our members go for monthly payment instead of long-term ones. Our ward coordinator Ratna Bhaumik came down in the initial days to brief staff and members about Covid protocols,” said ward assistant Subhasish Ghosh. Timing trouble The USP of Anytime Fitness, before the pandemic, was that it was open 24 hours a day. Sector V employees with odd work hours are known to have hit the gym even at 2am. “Now the government mandates us to operate only from 6 to 10am and 4 to 8pm,” says Nandy. “The timings are certainly not long enough. Homemakers, for instance, would prefer coming around noon but now we have to shut then,” says Ali of Endorfins. It doesn’t help that many gyms are shut on Sundays. Shutters down Some of the biggest names in the gymming business have closed down during the pandemic. One in GD Block has a padlocked gate and the driveway is strewn with withered leaves. Another one on a DD Block highrise is locked too, with the equipment visible through glass doors. A BE Block building that would house another renowned gym has even removed its nameplate outside. “I shut The Fitlab last year itself. How long could I go on paying rent without any returns,” asks Arunava Nandy, himself a nutritionist and wellness consultant now serving clients online. “I lost Rs 8-9 lakh. I had invested heavily in the interiors of the gym and the expensive equipment had to be done away with in a distress sale.” Arunava does not see a revival in the industry till Covid is completely wiped out. “Before that, I could restart the business but what if there’s another indefinite lockdown?” asks the HA Block resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Remembering former MLA Sultan Singh||Former Trinamul Congress MLA and retired IPS officer Sultan Singh died at a private hospital on the EM Bypass on Sunday. The resident of FE Block was 76 and is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. According to family sources, he had fully recovered from cancer but had a bout of pneumonia last week. He was hospitalised on Friday after a drop in his oxygen level, though his Covid-19 test report came negative. He passed away after a cardiac arrest. Singh was known as a daring police officer and had served in several key posts — as deputy commissioner, headquarters, and south as well as joint commissioner, Calcutta Police. He later became superintendent of police, Murshidabad. But he is best-known as superintendent of police, Howrah, a job for which he was hand-picked. He is credited with breaking a criminal racket in Golabari police station area during his tenure in the district. He joined active politics after his retirement from the police force in 2004 on invitation from Pranab Mukherjee and unsuccessfully contested the 2004 Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket. He later shifted allegiance to the TMC and was elected in the 2011 Assembly elections from Bally. According to family sources, he dissociated himself from politics from 2015 and did not want to contest the 2016 Assembly election. He was made the chairman of the Howrah Improvement Trust thereafter. He attended office regularly till even a month back, after which his health deteriorated. He was a keen golfer and was a good athlete. “He used to run so fast that his colleagues nicknamed him Ghoda Singh. He was very popular in Howrah. Someone who visited us from Bally pointed out that he shared his birthday with Swami Vivekananda, on January 12. Even in death, the date coincides with the death anniversary of the monk,” a family member said. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted in condolence, minister and local MLA Sujit Bose dropped by on Sunday. On Monday, the governor and his wife also visited the bereaved family. Did you know Sultan Singh? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||CJ Block gets place to meet & meditate||The women of CJ Block have been gifted a meditation centre that is as swanky inside as it is serene outside. Named Gautam Buddha Meditation Centre, the single-storied structure was inaugurated in their park, opposite the community hall, on July 4. “Women of CJ Block had been requesting me for this hall for years and I’m happy to finally hand it over to them,” said Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of the corporation, who funded the project from her councillor’s fund while in office. Chakraborty named the centre after the Buddha since he is synonymous with meditation and drew attention to the fact that it was being inaugurated on the death anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. “The monk had died in his meditation,” she said. Also present was Aditi Munshi, the singer who earlier this year won the Rajarhat Gopalpur assembly constituency seat. “Elderly men are still going out to markets during the pandemic but most elderly women are stuck indoors. This is affecting their well-being. By coming to this centre for yoga and meditation, they can look after their physical and mental health,” said Munshi, before singing a couple of devotional songs. Aesthetic and functional The meditation centre is a sight to behold. The facade bears a painting of the Buddha, deep in meditation, seated on a floating lotus with a Himalayan backdrop of coniferous trees and snow. A fibre statue of the enlightened one has also been placed next to the entrance. Another wall of the building bears a painting of the Buddha seated in a waterfall but his look, is unusual. He is shown with long hair and an end of his ochre robe is blowing gracefully in the wind. “The centre has come up on what used to be a pile of garbage. We cleared it out and built the hall as well as a kids’ corner with play equipment next to it,” said Ankit Prahladka of the BB Block-based Manturam Infrastructure that did the construction and finishing. Work on the 2,000sq ft centre had begun last year before the pandemic. Besides a large hall, the centre has a toilet and changing room. “The walls are made of bricks but the top is of fibre tin, to keep costs at a minimum,” said Prahladka. To prevent over-heating during summer they have made a false ceiling too. Besides, the hall is air conditioned. When a banyan tree was coming in the way of the construction, the builders worked around it without felling it. “The building isn’t a perfect square because of this, but it was important to save the tree,” Prahladka said. Planning ahead The happiest are the women of the block who will now get to use the facility. “It’s way more beautiful than we had imagined,” smiled Swapna Saha, a member of CJ Block’s ladies club. Her neighbours Amita Dave and Shanti Agarwal were trying to plan the activities they could now hold here. “The first floor of our community centre would hold yoga classes till before the pandemic but I stopped years ago due to pain in my legs,” said Mohua Majumdar, a senior citizen. “I’m excited to rejoin the classes once they are held on the ground floor here.” Secretary of CJ Block Welfare Association, Rajkumar Ghosh, was happy for the ladies. “While we have a community centre, ventilation is a major problem on the ground floor, he explained. “For adequate air circulation, we have to roll up the shutters of the front gate. How can privacy be maintained thereafter? As for the first floor, the steps are nine inches high and elderly women cannot trek upstairs for yoga class,” he said. The centre would be for the exclusive use of women, although the block ladies said they would consider it if women from other blocks wanted to join them. They were, however, particular about allowing entry only to those who have had both doses of their Covid vaccines. Ghosh said the hall would not be used commercially, the way their ground is rented out for wedding receptions and the like. Write to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Footbridge frame on Bypass||Commuters crossing the Chingrihata area would have noticed the steel skeleton of a bridge installed overhead. Once ready by the end of the year, this foot over bridge will connect Chingrihata to the Chaulpatty Road, Beleghata, over the EM Bypass. The structure was erected on July 4 after traffic was shut for the night. The work is being carried out by engineers of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). According to a senior CMDA official, the project cost is around Rs 7 crore. On the Salt Lake side, it will connect near the Jal Vayu Vihar housing complex in Salt Lake. The official said there will be escalators as well as stairs to help pedestrians cross over EM Bypass easily. “We decided to install escalators as pedestrians often avoid foot over bridges as they do not want to climb stairs,” said the official. The decision to build the bridge was taken after a bus mowed down two cycle-borne college-goers who were crossing the road near the Chingrihata crossing in 2018. Following the incident, residents of Sukantanagar, where they boys hailed from, and adjoining areas torched five buses and fought a pitched battle with cops using stones and bricks. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said the crossing is one of the busiest ones on the 29km EM Bypass that poses a series of complex problems. “As it is, this area has heavy traffic load throughout the day and night. Moreover, a lot of people who stay in Sukantanagar and Shantinagar, where fresh water supply still poses a problem, cross over to Beleghata to fetch water on foot and bicycles. Most of them don’t adhere to traffic signals,” said the officer. On Wednesday, The Telegraph Salt Lake spotted several men and women crossing the EM Bypass even as cars and bikes whizzed past. A traffic policeman on duty at the intersection said that despite creating bicycle lanes and a designated crossover point near the base of the Salt Lake-bound end of the Chingrihata flyover, few adhered to the norms and people cross the road wherever they please. As of now, the prefabricated landing point and steel steps have been erected on the bank of the Eastern Drainage Canal at the start of the Chaulpatty Road while a similar set up has been completed on the canal-bank in front of the Jal Vayu Vihar. Workers were seen welding together another steel structure. “We will join this structure at the landing base,” a site supervisor said. According to another CMDA engineer, they are using prefabricated steel structures and joints as they last longer than conventional concrete ones. “These are weather-proof and have a life expectancy of more than 50 years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Parlours booked or shut down||It’s been about a week that beauty parlours reopened and most of them are already booked for weeks to come. “There’s a huge rush for treatments, especially repair jobs,” chuckles Jolly Chanda of FE Block’s Satin Rose Salon and Spa. “There are couples who tried to chop one another’s hair and messed up and teenage boys coming in, furious at how their mothers ruined their hair. Many had summoned beauticians from an app to cover their greys and it went awry. These women now have stylish blonde shades at the bottom of their tresses but the top looks like it was coloured with cheap sachet black dye. Clients are now coming in the morning and leaving in the evening after head-to-toe makeovers.” Blame it on wfh Green Trends, in BE Block, is being frequented by more men than women. "Since men wear their hair short, they need a trim every month or it goes wild. But women, in the work-from-home mode, can just tie their hair and put off colouring, straightening, waxing and threading for later,” observes cluster manager, Sourav Bardhan. Azone, a ladies parlour in IA Block, has the same complaint. “The most common treatment now is shaping the eyebrows,” says Asha Rana from behind the counter. “Women are shying away from all other treatments saying they don’t need to keep up appearances as they have no where to go. Even if they go, the face is covered by masks. Frankly, I don't blame them. Faced with job losses and salary cuts, will people eat or dress up?” Safety protocol Not only is Satin Rose ensuring that their clients are vaccinated, but they have also ferried their staff to different health centres to get them vaccinated before opening up. “It would have been awkward if a client challenged if my beautician was inoculated when she wasn't…I wanted none of that and paid for everyone's jabs well in time,” said Jolly. Priscilla Corner, on behalf of the June Tomkyns salons, explains an elaborate protocol they maintain at the entrance itself. “We are asking the client’s Covid history, present condition, offering them disposable footwear, giving masks…. For treatments like facials, when the client has to remove her mask, we, the staff members, are wearing face shields,” says Priscilla. Also, they are taking clients only by appointment. It is because of the pandemic, in fact, that June Tomkyns closed down, or rather, shifted their parlour from The Stadel to a second unit at Silver Arcade on the EM Bypass. “Silver Springs is a stone’s throw away from Salt Lake and our clients have no qualms driving down. With two units under the same roof we have greater control to ensure Covid protocols,” says Priscilla. Business down Salons like AD Block’s The Princess Diary salon have closed down. “The last 18 months have come down heavily on the beauty industry and people have got used to doing things themselves at home,” says proprietor Indrani Saha. “The eyebrow-plucker gadget, for instance, became popular in the markets during the pandemic. People are working from home, there are hardly any get-togethers and so women are spending their days in nighties. Salt Lake clients typically weren’t very young and the 50-plus are hardly stepping out of home now.” Feel good June Tomkyns is booked for weeks ahead and Priscilla says it’s a revelation that despite masks and hair nets, very many people still care about looking good. “I guess they want to look good not to show off to others but to feel good about themselves,” she smiles. Jolly agrees. “The other day a client was complaining that her NRI son saw her on video call and said she was looking weird after a beautician booked through an app had ruined her hair. Despite the death and despair around, the lady wanted to look good. And that’s important for their mental well-being. People want to be well groomed so they can look at the mirror and smile.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdowns: Idle and unpaid, bus driver found dead in Dhakuria||A bus driver in his late 50s was found dead inside his bus in Dhakuria on Thursday morning amid a suspicion of suicide at a time lockdowns and dwindling passengers have devastated the public transport industry. Like many private buses in Calcutta, the bus that Ranjit Das drove had been off the roads since May — first because of pandemic restrictions and later because it didn’t offer viable business to the owner any more. This apparently left the unmarried Ranjit unable to meet the living expenses of his extended family, his employer said. Ranjit had been idle and unpaid since May when the Bengal government stopped public transport to deal with a surge in Covid infections. He didn’t earn anything even after the restrictions were withdrawn from July 1. Most bus owners have decided not to resume service, arguing the government’s restriction of passenger occupancy to 50 per cent of capacity and a simultaneous refusal to hike fares had made the business unprofitable. A few bus owners have hiked fares without government approval. Like hundreds of other private bus drivers, Ranjit struggled to send money to his family — his elder brother, sister-in-law and nephew — at Rajpur, South 24-Parganas. He would spend his nights inside the bus that he once used to drive on the Dhakuria-Howrah route, his employer Somnath Dutta said. Ranjit had been the family’s sole breadwinner since his elder brother lost his job during the pandemic. A private bus driver for over 12 years, Ranjit had six months ago taken up employment with Dutta, driving one of his three buses. “On Wednesday, he asked for Rs 500 and I gave it to him. He used to call me bhaipo (nephew),” Dutta said. “I had arranged for him to have his lunch every day at a local roadside eatery. But possibly he had pressing demands back home.” Ranjit’s colleagues spotted him lying inside the bus near Dhakuria bridge and informed Dutta. The police later took the body away for a post-mortem. “This appears a suicide. The post-mortem report will specify the cause of death,” an officer at Lake police station said. Several bus drivers said that like Ranjit, they had not been at the wheel for a long time, either. “Our employers are unsure (when they might resume plying buses). Will the government allow a fare hike? Will passengers agree to pay enhanced fares?” Alok Mondal said. Private bus drivers like Ranjit have no fixed salaries, their income being a proportion of the day’s sales. “Several bus owners had tried to pay small amounts to the drivers and conductors but most have stopped doing so now. The owners haven’t got the money to pay for anything, not even their EMIs,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Oxygen gifted to sub-divisional hospital on BC Roy’s birthday||Four oxygen concentrators were handed over to the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital on Doctors Day by the Rotary Club of Aarohee Calcutta. “Most oxygen concentrators in the market can produce only five to six litres of oxygen per minute. These are more expensive ones with a flow rate of up to 10 litres per minute, which can otherwise be achieved only through high flow nasal canula,” said hospital superintendent Partha Pratim Guha. The hospital treats post-Covid complications in patients discharged by the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute. “We take them in if they have complications after they test negative for Covid. Often they need high flow oxygen. So these concentrators are really going to be of use in their treatment,” he added. The machines were handed over by president Swapan Basu and project co-ordinator Subrata Munshi of the New Town-based club. “Ours is a new club, chartered only in February. This year we have been advised by Rotary International to work for Covid relief. We have donated another nine concentrators to a Khardah hospital,” said Basu. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose recalled his own Covid experience. “I was the first among the ministers to catch Covid. I was in the ICU (intensive care unit) for nine days. I saw how doctors and nurses were fighting to get us fit. Still some of my colleagues did not make it, like Tamonash Ghosh, who was next to my bed in the ICU.” Referring to the oxygen crisis during the second wave, he lauded the work done by NGOs. Sub-divisional officer Biswajit Panda and inspector in charge of Bidhannagar north police station Somdeb Banerjee were also present at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Call to arms for third wave on Doctors Day||On Doctors’ Day, instead of celebration, there was a renewed pledge to fight and a call to arms ahead of the third wave of Covid-19. “We have to be ready for the third wave. We are working with NGOs in the districts on a platform that we have named Bengal Covid Care Initiative. We are planning to build 100 Covid care facilities comprising a minimum of 10 to 30 beds with oxygen support,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of New Town Forum & News, a residents’ group that had organised a programme at the Eco Park Food Court. There was also a pat on the back in the form of a felicitation for the 35 doctors present, who are all linked to New Town. “All of us, doctors, usually enjoy ourselves on this day but there can be no celebration this time, given the nightmare that we are passing through.” The words of Somnath Chatterjee, director of Suraksha Diagnostics, set the tone of the programme. He lauded the doctors for continuing with their responsibilities as well as making time for the medical camps that the forum held. Chatterjee pointed out that the medical fraternity knew little about Covid-19 during the first wave. “We fought better in the second wave. These 14 months were a trial by fire for the doctors, nurses and phlebotomists. The work pressure was tremendous. Whatever little spare time I had, I simply prayed,” he said. Sanjay Kapoor, deputy director, Tata Medical Center, described Covid as a once-in-a-lifetime challenge. “The nine weeks of the second wave did more harm than nine months of the first wave. The virus will not go away. We have to learn to live with Covid. Last time, we let our guard down too soon. We have to work hard to ensure everyone is vaccinated. Vaccines are not reaching the rural areas or the slums fast enough,” he said, praising the “good work” that has been done in New Town where “every citizen came forward”. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen pointed out that if average life expectancy had increased from 45 years during Independence to 85 years now, the credit should go to the medical fraternity. “Right from birth, we are indebted to doctors even in non-Covid times.” He also praised New Town residents for volunteering at blood donation camps or for cooking meals for Covid patients. “We could provide free meals for Covid-affected senior citizens of New Town without spending any government money, so many had come forward with donations,” he said. Lauding private facilities for working shoulder to shoulder with government medical units in the vaccination drive, he stressed on the need to achieve universal vaccination by December. He admitted that some hesitancy had crept into people’s minds about private vaccine camps after the Debanjan Deb scam. “That’s why the pressure is more on us (NKDA vaccination sites) now,” he said, announcing the commencement of drive-in vaccination at Eco Park gate no. 1 to add to the two other existing centres. Senior consultant paediatrician Soumitra Dutta said the pandemic had shifted the focus of doctors from a search for livelihood to a search for life. Indicating his willingness to serve at odd hours, he said: “Ami modhyoratreo bneche thaki.” Most of the doctors present are already walking the talk, finding time beyond their working hours to serve society. Bratati Bera and Sreetama Sanyal had offered free teleconsultation. Ankita Haldar, a paediatrician, had attended medical camps. “If your child develops conjunctivitis, rash or fever, please consult a doctor,” she said, amid apprehensions of the third wave affecting children. Urologist Tridibes Mandal drives to backward regions, like Minakhan in Basirhat, to provide medical treatment. Public health specialist Pragnajyoti Mukherjee not only provided teleconsultation and attended camps for the underprivileged, but also carried food for his patients. Dental surgeon Priyadarshi Vaibhav teaches biology to underprivileged children who are tutored by NTFN’s education wing. Paediatrician Achintya Sanyal urged for enforcing strict containment to check the spread of infectionto avert the third wave. Internal medicine specialist Rakhi S.D. Sharma expressed anguish that doctors and nurses were becoming fatigued physically and mentally. “It takes me four hours to see 15 patients on a round. Junior doctors, working as senior residents, are bearing an even heavier load, working 14 hours a day. “They are becoming careless. Many are not wearing full PPE (personal protective equipment) even in surroundings where high aerosol is being generated like near patients on high-flow nasal oxygen therapy or ventilator. I see them taking masks off and chatting outside the ICU. If we, doctors, do not maintain Covid protocol, how can we ask others to?” If doctors had offered tuberoses, procured from New Town’s own flower bed at the Biswa Bangla Gate, in memory of their martyred colleagues at the start of the evening, the programme ended on a lighter note, with Sharma’s husband Goutam Dutta Sharma singing Dhitang dhitang bole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town teen bags Diana Award 2021 for social work||Seventeen-year-old Arushi Pant is proof that you’re never too young for social work. The resident of New Town’s Rosedale Garden started Children’s Armour two years ago that, among other achievements, raised over Rs 1 lakh for Covid charity last year and helped raise another Rs 7 lakh worth in cash and kind for cyclone relief. She is also one of the recipients of the Diana Award 2021, declared last week. Established in memory of Princess Diana and conferred by a UK charity to those in the 9-25 year age group for humanitarian efforts. the award was relaunched in 2007 by Gordon Brown, then the UK Prime Minister, and has the support of the House of Windsor. “My parents have always given back to society and these values have been instilled in me since childhood. I want to do my bit too,” says the teenager who worked with the NGO Association for Social Health and Advancement (Asha) in Class VIII and got inspired. “I worked with them on a child protection project and realised I was connecting with them better as I was the same age as them. So I started my own group.” She runs Children’s Armour (CA) with the help of about 40 volunteers, all school students. “I posted about the group on social media and students from other schools started applying. I was strict about the selection and for the core committee chose 10 out of the 50 who had applied. The teams were then divided into graphics, content and outreach, who look to collaborate with others for projects,” she says. Besides volunteers from reputed institutes of Calcutta, they even have a girl from Bangladesh chipping in. A residential student of Pathways World School Aravalli, Gurgaon, Arushi wants to pursue a double major in music and economics. She has been learning western music since she was five and used her talent to raise funds last year. CA had organised online concerts with performances by herself, other musicians, poets and stand-up comedians from across the globe. The week-long shows raised Rs 1.4 lakh, that was donated to the chief minister’s Covid relief fund. The young girl works on youths’ mental health issues and tries to raise awareness among them about topics like trafficking, abuse and child marriage. She’s also adept at meeting business head honchos and seeking corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. “We have recently got Rs 6 lakh that is being used to set up centres across the state to counsel students and their parents to stop school drop-outs,” says Arushi, whose group is now affiliated with Asha. Another project she is highly kicked about is on menstrual health. “A company had given us 200 sanitary pads a few months ago and I was part of the team that went to Ultadanga to distribute them among adolescents,” she recalls. Initially it was awkward. Men in the area were giving them looks and the girls themselves, were taking the pads, hiding them in their dupattas and fleeing the scene. “While they wanted the pads they were too embarrassed about it,” says Arushi. The girl then stopped the distribution, held up some pads in her hand and showed the girls there was no shame in it. “Eventually the girls took their pads out of hiding, even if they weren’t ready to flaunt them. It will take more to change their attitude but such interactions are the way to do it. And it helps if they are spoken to by someone their own age.” How the twelfth grader manages so much alongside schoolwork is anyone’s guess. “Time-management and prioritising are important. I set schedules and stick by them,” says the girl who never procrastinates. “Besides, we always find time for things we like.” Do you have a message for Arushi Pant? Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Management fest goes online||It is not just classes that have gone online in this pandemic season. So have college fests. Techno Main Salt Lake, the Sector V campus of Techno India, is holding its techno-management festival Edge 21 on July 10, 11 and 12 virtually, rather than on its main campus. "Most colleges have not managed to hold a fest since the start of the pandemic. But for a year and half, students are sitting at home. We need to inspire them to innovate,” said Swayam Das, a third year student residing at Falguni Abasan who is in the organising committee. Edge 21, organised by the college’s science and technology club Geekonix, will have 33 events spread across 11 categories. Despite the pandemic, the prize money pool is a robust Rs 4.5 lakh, to be distributed in cash and kind. To encourage online participation, organisers have announced cash awards for the top five in certain events and prizes in kind to the top eight in some others. This is the second time that the fest is being held online. A core group of 11 fourth year students is calling the shots. “We need to increase our reach. Commercial viability of an online event is much less in the sponsors' eyes. We are not getting the usual title sponsors,” said Sayan Roy of BD Block, who is heading the sponsorship committee. Even then, things are better than last July when the fest went online for the first time. “The publicity campaign has to be run virtually but people then were still struggling with video conferences. But now everyone is used to the idea. No sponsor asked me to meet in person,” Sayan added. Another stream of revenue generation is registration fee for participants, ranging from Rs 65 to Rs 30. “Ours is a non-profit initiative. All earnings are ploughed back to the event itself and our social work,” added fest co-convenor Anubhav Talukdar. Workshops on coding, robotics and gaming are held free of registration cost for freshers about two-three months before the fest. “Newcomers have a lot of enthusiasm but not much knowledge. We teach them things that are not part of their syllabus -- coding, programming, web design, software development, cryptography... It helps them get jobs later. We learnt from our seniors too,” said Anubhav, who has returned to his Guwahati home from where he is attending classes online and managing his fest organisational responsibilities. The last batch that spent seven months on campus before lockdown and are now in the second year learnt to make autonomous robots. “The knowledge passed down by seniors is very handy. In last year's fest, we had to make a robot to help people in the pandemic. I made a Social Distance Keeper,” recalled Swayam, who is now part of the robotics division of Geekonix that is organising the robotics contests. “We will hold it over Webex.” Robotics is a key area of interest in the Techno India fest with handsome prize money. “We need to ensure that the designs given to replicate in the contests are doable at home. Also for events like Robot Race and Robot Soccer, participants have to prepare the obstacle course at home using what they have at hand,” said Swayam. Another popular event requires civil engineering skills to design a bridge with popsicle sticks. “The winner is the best design which can take the maximum load. In Edge 19, I had seen designs that could take 40-50kg load. Getting ice cream sticks at home is possible. Participants will design the bridge on Zoom in our virtual presence,” says Swayam. The organisers are trying to leverage the virtual status of the fest to increase reach. “We are trying to go international. Last year, our photography contest got entries from France,” says Anubhav. Bhoomi frontman Soumitra Ray, Olympian shooter Joydeep Karmakar and wildlife photographer Rathika Ramasamy will be the guest speakers this year at Edge Talks, on July 10 at 7pm, July 11 at 6pm and July 12 at 7pm respectively. “One can log in free to our Facebook page to listen to them,” says Swayam. Stand-up comedian Harsh Gujral will perform on July 10 at 8pm. The students of Techno Main Salt Lake do social work under Edge Deeds. “We organise a walk to create awareness about social issues. We spend a day at an orphanage or an old age home, have lunch with the inmates and gift books, food packets, crayons etc. We have even installed a sanitary napkin vending machine in our college,” said Anyesha Halder, who is heading the fest’s member acquisition team. The walk could not take place this year amid the pandemic. “But we did sanitise our college campus and the orphanage Nabatara, where we also distributed masks and sanitisers,” said the IA Block girl. Edge 21 will be inaugurated on its Facebook page on Friday at 4pm. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||MWM Cafe relaunched as Kolkata Streetfood||While pavements of New Town are still largely encroachment-free, this also means there is no phuchkawala or chaatwala parked at every street corner, leave alone a hot tawa sizzling with paratha being pasted over egg yolk for the quintessential kathi roll. The lack of streetfood on the streets has been addressed by an eatery right on the Major Arterial Road. And in case you missed it all these months, it has now been rechristened Kolkata Streetfood. A cosy eatery on the grounds of the Mother’s Wax Museum complex was opened on February 2 with the name MWM Cafe. "But the spirit was missing in the name. So we are rebranding it, including streetfood in the name to highlight the character of the food being served," said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen at the relaunch of the café. The place also has a dedicated entry now with its own signage that catches the eye from the road. The revamped eatery, Sen said, will be what Misti Hub across the road is to connoisseurs of sweets. "Just as you get all varieties of sweets under one roof at Misti Hub, we are bringing the entire range of streetfood here," he added. Thus there are all kinds of rolls, priced Rs 42 to Rs 84, there are streetfood items with roots in other states but relished in the city, like Litti Chokha of Bihar (priced Rs 126) of Momos of Sikkim (Rs 84, vegetarian, or Rs 105, non-vegetarian). Moong Dal Chilla, a north Indian favourite (priced Rs 105) is highly recommended. "We have retained popular items from the earlier menu like Chicken Stew, Mughlai Paratha, Momo and Dahi Vada," said Snehasis Sinha, additional general manager, tourism, Hidco. Chaats and kebabs will be on offer as well. The streetfood character of the menu is evident in the beverage section too, with Nimbu Shikanji and Masala Cola (both Rs 53) making an appearance beside Masala Tea, Lassi and canned soft drinks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal school service commission uploads teachers’ interview list ||The state school service commission on Thursday uploaded on its website a list of candidates who have qualified for interview for the job of teacher at upper primary schools and those who have not, with marks against the name of each. The list was uploaded a day before the high court hears a case to decide the fate of a recruitment process for teachers from Classes VI to VIII. The court had on July 2 asked the commission to come up with a comprehensive list so that those whose names did not feature among the interviewees could be explained why they fell short. Justice Abhijit Ganguly had last week extended an interim stay on recruitment of teachers till July 9 after observing that “apparently… there are irregularities” in drawing up the list. If the court lifts the stay, the commission will come up with another list following the completion of interviews and start recruitment. Hours after the commission came up with the list at noon, a section of candidates assembled in front of the commission’s office in Salt Lake and complained that the new list, too, lacked transparency. The commission has also uploaded a list of the candidates who have been rejected for interviews because they failed to upload documents like the training certificate and academic qualifications by the deadline. Also published is a list of candidates who had written TET in 2016 but did not have any training to function as teacher. An official of the commission said: “We have uploaded details of all the 1,32,000 candidates who had written the test, based on four categories, for the sake of transparency.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Kin blame three Calcutta hospitals for pregnant woman’s death ||The family of a 32-year-old pregnant woman, who died after three city hospitals allegedly did not admit her citing various reasons, has lodged a complaint against them with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. They blamed the hospitals for her death. The commission heard the matter on Thursday but reserved its judgment for a later date. The woman, a doctor herself, developed complications on April 24. She contacted her gynaecologist who advised her to go to a private hospital. The family had reached this hospital around 7.45pm. “The hospital’s officials said they could admit the woman but added that the hospital was filled with Covid patients. This scared the family and they took the woman to another hospital,” said Asim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. The hospital, where the woman’s gynaecologist is attached as a consultant, too refused admission, Banerjee said. The hospital told the commission that the patient “required better infrastructure”. The family then took the woman to another private hospital. This hospital, too, did not begin any treatment for 30 minutes while the patient’s condition kept deteriorating, the family stated in their complaint. “It was then that the family members started to do a Facebook live to highlight their plight. This stirred the hospital’s officials and the emergency doctor took the woman inside. The family said they had reached the hospital around 12.30am. The woman passed away a little after 1am,” Banerjee added. Banerjee said the woman had not booked place for delivery at any hospital. The woman was in the 35th week of her pregnancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Former cop arrested for involvement in ‘fake job racket’||A former Calcutta police constable was among four persons arrested on Wednesday for allegedly promising six youths jobs as home guard against a payment of Rs 35 lakh. One of the four accused, Masud Rana, had allegedly impersonated a deputy superintendent of police of Bengal police to lure the youths. “Another accused, Rabi Murmu, is a former constable of the Calcutta police,” said an officer. Murmu was dismissed in 2012 when he was allegedly caught in connection with a similar job racket. As a part of their racket, the accused men had provided purported appointment letters to the youths, given them khaki berets and belts. They assured them that their joining date was July 8. The six youths, who are from West Midnapore, were brought to Calcutta and stayed in a hotel in Chandni Chowk area for the past few days. “Initially the racketeers were paying for the hotel fare and the food bill. But they had switched off their phones in the last 48 hours arising suspicion among the youths,” said an investigator. The police arrested Rana, Murmu and two of their associates — Subhro Nag Roy, from Gaighata in North 24-Parganas and Paritosh Burman, from Pingla in West Midnapore. The four were booked under sections of cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy. The police said cash Rs 1.85 lakh, incriminating documents like fake identity cards as the DSP in name of Rana, purportedly forged appointment letters for the post of home guards in Bengal police and khaki berets and belts were seized from their possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Twelve held for posing as Amazon workers in Calcutta||A dozen men who were allegedly running a call centre fraudulently posing as representatives of global e-commerce giant Amazon from an office along EM Bypass have been arrested. Police said people would receive a call and hear an automated voice talk about various “offers” available on Amazon. If a person showed interest, the call would be transferred to a “representative of Amazon” who would share a few steps to make the online payment for the purchase. “These youths would introduce themselves as Allen, Peter or Duke and convince the customer to download a software on his or her phone to make the payment. The racketeers would then gain access to the customer’s device by asking them to share a code generated on the device,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Officers of the detective department conducted a raid on a third-floor flat of a building on Chowbhaga Road in Tiljala, off EM Bypass, early on Wednesday and arrested the 12. A CPU, three hard disks, two Wi-Fi routers, an attendance register and some documents were seized. The accused, aged between 20 and 43, are from Tiljala, Topsia, Phoolbagan and Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Lake Town Road and Jessore Road crossing cave-in triggers snarls||A section of the road that leads to Jessore Road from Bangur Avenue caved in at the crossing of Lake Town Road and Jessore Road on Thursday afternoon, a day after the city was lashed with heavy rain. Buses, cars, two-wheelers and autorickshaws crawled as police erected guardrails around the caved-in portion. The section that caved in measured more than six feet in width and was at least three feet deep. “We immediately alerted South Dum Dum Municipality and asked them to send a team for repairs,” an officer of the commissionerate said. A team of labourers and an earthmover arrived at the spot around 12.30pm and started repairs. The labourers first laid a layer of bricks on the caved-in portion, after which the earthmover placed some soil to level it out. “We have done temporary repairs. We will do patchwork repairs at night and we might have to shut down the road for it,” said an official of South Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-07-2021||Calcutta||Demonetisation and lockdown snatch jobs, man soldiers on at 51||A man lost his first job in 2017, amid the slump triggered by the demonetisation. The Covid-19 lockdown robbed him of his second job, a contractual one. At 51, the man started another rigorous job. But now, the soaring fuel prices have crippled his income. He has been working as a delivery executive with an online food aggregator since April, when the price of petrol was around Rs 90 a litre. He rides around 80km every day, the bulk of it between eateries and delivery points in central Calcutta. He lives in Kamarhati, around 13km from Esplanade. The delivery executive earns around Rs 600 every day in commissions and incentives. But a third of the income is spent on petrol every day. He owns a scooter that offers a mileage of around 40km per litre. The price of petrol breached the Rs-100 mark across pumps in Calcutta on Wednesday. The executive has been trying to trim his daily expenses to the extent possible. But he is out on the road from noon to close to midnight and eating outside costs him around Rs 50 every day, which means he is left with around Rs 350 daily. If he works 25 days a month, his earning is Rs 8,750 every month. “At my age, it is not easy to be on the road for such a long time. But I have no other option. Zindagi patri se chhoot gayi hai (My life has got derailed),” he said. He lives in a rented house with his wife and a 15-year-old daughter. His monthly rent and EMI for the two-wheeler — he bought a scooter for his new job — add up to Rs 5,500 per month. The rising prices of groceries and other essential commodities have only aggravated his crisis. He has been forced to discontinue his daughters’ tuitions. The family has rice or roti and one curry for both lunch and dinner, most days of the month. “For the past three years, I have not been able to buy new clothes for my daughter on Id. Earlier, we used to go for movies and eat out at least once a month. I was planning to buy a small flat. Those things seem like a distant dream now,” he said. The delivery executive started working in a leather unit in Howrah in 2006 and rose through the ranks swiftly. When he joined work, his salary was Rs 3,200. When he was laid off, he earned Rs 18,200 a month. At the time of his exit in August 2017, he was given a one-time sum of Rs 1,20,000, which saw the family through the next couple of years, during which he kept looking for jobs. Just around Puja in 2019, he found work as a freelancer. “I had shifts at several units till March 2020,” he said. After the contractor’s cut, he earned Rs 300 every day. But he had no fixed salary and no work meant no pay. By the time the first lockdown started in March 2020, he was jobless again. He joined the food aggregator in April this year. The rise in the price of petrol has come as a lethal blow. He is constantly looking for new orders on his phone. But the surge in the number of delivery executives means he gets limited orders each day, despite being out on the road for a long time. “It is still better when I am riding to pick up or deliver food. Every time I sit idle in between, all sorts of anxiety creep into my head. I keep thinking of the past,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
