10-07-2021||Calcutta||23-year-old woman trafficked with job promise, rescued||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly forced into prostitution after a woman she knew lured him to the city from an adjacent district with the promise of a job, police said. The young woman managed to access a mobile phone and dial 100 to report her plight to the Lalbazar control room. New to the city, she failed to share her address but the police could track her down using the tower location of the phone. She was rescued from the stairs of Sealdah station, where she was waiting after escaping the captivity of a small room in Burtolla in north Calcutta. The woman has purpor-tedly told the police that she is from Nadia and was convinced by an “aunt” from her neighbourhood to accompany her to Calcutta for work. “The victim was promised the job of a nurse in the city. Given her financial condition, she had agreed and trusted the woman whom she called ‘aunt’. The older woman brought the victim to the city on Monday night and took her straight to Burtolla,” said an officer of the eastern suburban division. The victim apparently sensed foul play and tried to resist, the police said. Early on Tuesday, the woman, who is a school dropout, managed to get hold of a mobile phone at the place where she was confined and dialled 100. “She got connected to the Lalbazar control room. She narrated her plight to an officer but failed to give her address because she was new to the city and had no clue about where she was,” said the officer. “The mobile number from where she had made the call was tracked and its tower location was identified. The woman was carrying the phone and we were tracking her movement,” an investigator said. Based on her name and the tower location, officers of Entally police station started looking for her in front of Sealdah station. “She was found sitting on the stairs. She had no money and didn’t know where to go. Based on her statement, the place in Burtolla where she had been held captive was raided. Three women, including her ‘aunt’, were arrested on the charge of human trafficking,” said a senior officer. The accused have been remanded in police custody. The victim’s family members were informed and they came to Calcutta to take her home. Several women and young girls from villages and small towns are often tricked by people they know and trafficked with false promises of jobs in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Couple from Bengal savour football fever next door to Wembley stadium||When Harry Kane stepped up to take the decisive penalty in the Euro semi-final against Denmark, Rajarshi Sarkar was watching the match live at home on TV with wife Suklatithi Chakraborty. But unlike the rest of the audience worldwide, he already knew that the captain of the Three Lions had scored. Rajarshi is no soothsayer. It was the roar of the 60,000-plus spectators in the stands on Thursday that had given away the answer. “We stay on the approach road to the stadium, which is a five-minute walk away. The Wembley arc can be seen from our balcony. There must be a lag of a few seconds between the on-field action and the telecast,” he told The Telegraph from London, adding how festive the atmosphere was that night. “Though Durga puja evokes a different emotion in us, the jubilant march of the supporters was somewhat like the stream of pandal-hoppers on the streets on Ashtami night in Calcutta. It is difficult to decide which is noisier,” said Suklatithi, a Tollygunge girl. The IT professional from Kharagpur and his wife purchased the Wembley Park apartment six years ago. Since then, their life revolves around matches in the stadium or concerts in the adjoining Wembley Arena. An email from the residents’ association alerts them about the date and time when no parking would be allowed in the local parking lots. The Euro matches have triggered stricter restrictions. “Engineers Way, the street in front, gets taken over by police vans. Blockades for vehicles are put up at both ends. Only we residents are allowed in through a circuitous route,” Rajarshi said. But the couple do not mind. “It is refreshing to see so many people on the streets after a year of silence during the lockdown.  We are feeling so positive ever since the tournament started being hosted here,” Suklatithi pointed out. Rajarshi has been inside to watch a few matches of Tottenham Hotspur when they played their European home games at Wembley in 2016-17. The Wembley Park Underground station is five minutes away and Suklatithi clicked pictures of it, decked out  for the tournament, on her way to work. “Most fans come by metro. Some hire a bus and come in a group. Everyone wears the team jersey,” she added. Tickets for the semi-finals and finals cost a bomb (upwards of £5000 for Sunday), especially after England made the cut. But even if they cost less, Rajarshi would have been unwilling to venture out. “There is a big food court called Box Park outside the stadium where they have a big pub and lots of smaller eateries around. Had the pandemic not been a factor, we could have gone there. But there is no need to take a risk now.” Watching the legions of maskless spectators walking by has not inspired confidence. The pandemic-induced anxiety is not affecting the celebratory mood though. “Every other house or car has the St George’s cross fluttering. Whenever England scores a goal, people dash out to the balcony, beating a drum or blowing a whistle. We too waved the flag at the fans when they were passing by after the semi-final, chanting ‘England, England’ and singing ‘It’s coming home’,” Rajarshi recalled. Now all they seek is another winning strike from their talisman Kane to hear the Lions roar and bring the Cup home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Owner: What’s the point in rolling out buses if we end up incurring huge losses? ||A union of bus owners has written to the transport minister that an owner who earned a daily profit of Rs 589 in March 2020, before the lockdown, now incurs a daily loss of Rs 2,992 if the vehicle travels the same distance as before. The price of diesel has shot up from Rs 64.60 a litre to Rs 92.65 during the period. While calculating the profit and loss, the average distance travelled by a bus in a day has been kept at 150km and the diesel consumption pegged at 45 litres. The letter to minister Firhad Hakim was first sent by the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannay Samity in end-June, when the price of diesel was Rs 1.52 less than Thursday’s Rs 92.65. It was sent again on Thursday. There is no mention about the need for a fare hike in the letter. “The calculations are based on the average number of trips a bus would make and the average number of passengers it would ferry before the lockdown in March last year. That was compared with the current number of trips and passengers, both of which are much less compared with pre-March 2020,” said Rahul Chatterjee, of the Samannay Samity. “The idea is to lay bare the facts so that the state government can decide whether the demand for a fare revision is justified or not.” The majority of bus and minibus owners across Calcutta and its adjoining areas have not taken out their vehicles since July 1 — the day the state government allowed resumption of public transport with 50 per cent passenger capacity — pressing for a fare hike. Most of them have said their business is not viable anymore and the returns aren’t enough to meet the family expenses. On Thursday, a bus driver in his late 50s was found dead in Dhakuria inside the bus he used to drive. Ranjit Das was unable to meet the expenses of his family. “What’s the point in rolling out buses if we end up incurring huge losses? It is better to keep them parked,” said Somnath Dutta, the owner of the bus that Ranjit drove. “I have defaulted on the EMI for my three buses for three months. The banks will probably take away the buses.” The Samannay Samity’s letter to Hakim shows that on May 15 — when the state government announced a fresh restriction on public transport — a bus owner incurred a loss of Rs 2,754 a day by running a bus. The price of diesel then stood at Rs 85.85, up by around Rs 22 a litre since March last year. By the time the state government decided to withdraw this temporary restriction on July 1, the diesel price had gone up to Rs 91.13 a litre. The state government, while resisting any talks on fare hike, has announced a waiver of road taxes for transport operators till December. “We have been telling the state government that 60 per cent of the operational costs of bus operators is directly related to the fuel cost,” said Tapan Bandopadhyay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “If the price of diesel is up by nearly Rs 26 a litre within a year, how can any dole help us offset this hike?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Roads leading to private hospitals in Mukundapur remain waterlogged||Stretches of roads leading to several big private hospitals in Mukundapur, off EM Bypass, were waterlogged for most of Friday, more than 24 hours after it had stopped raining. Outside one hospital the stench of sewage filled the air, causing discomfort to patients, their families and the staff. There was water in the parking area of another hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation blamed Metro Railway construction for the waterlogging. The railway authorities, on the other hand, blamed the state government. Some of the major hospitals in the area are AMRI’s Mukundapur unit, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and Sankara Nethralaya. There was ankle-deep water outside the exit gate of AMRI Mukundapur. An official of the hospital said the situation was extremely bad on Wednesday and much of Thursday. The entrance to the hospital was flooded and visitors and patients’ family members had to wade through water to enter the hospital. “Many patients complained to us about waterlogging, but this was beyond our control. We had informed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. They had deputed personnel who installed pumps to drain out the water,” official said. “I saw water spilling out of the underground sewer line near the hospital exit. I suspect that is the reason for the stretch being still waterlogged.” The Telegraph found the canal running along EM Bypass at Mukundapur filled to the brim and plastic, thermocol and other items were floating in the water. The basement of one wing of a private hospital in the area got flooded and so the authorities had to shift the offices to another wing. On Friday afternoon, Metro found the parking area on the campus of the RTIICS flooded. An official of the hospital said cars were taking much more time to negotiate their way through the campus because of the waterlogging. “Because of the waterlogging, cars are leaving the campus at a pace slower than usual. Often a long queue is forming when many cars are trying to leave the campus at the same time. The queue is stretching till the entrance and those waiting to enter the hospital are being held up,” said the official. The hospital authorities had installed pumps to drain out water from the campus. Those arriving at the hospital’s emergency department and the Covid vaccination site were the most inconvenienced as both units were on the way to the parking area. The main road leading to RTIICS from the Bypass, the one running along the Avidipta housing complex, was flooded on Friday afternoon. On Wednesday and Thursday, the water level on the road was so high that rickshaws and autorickshaws could not move through the stretch. As a result those going to RTIICS or Sankara Nethralaya, located on the road, and did not have a car had to walk through the waterlogged stretch to reach either hospital. An official of Sankara Nethralaya said patients and their families, and doctors, nurses and other employees of the hospital had been wading through water on the road to reach their campus since Wednesday. Just outside the hospital, the water had receded by Friday morning. All hospitals have either verbally complained to the CMC or written to the civic authorities complaining about waterlogging over the past few years. “Two years back, the CMC raised the level of the road but that did not solve the problem,” said an official of a private hospital in Mukundapur. A senior CMC engineer said that one reason for the waterlogging at Mukundapur was that the canal that drained water out of the area had been blocked in places because of Metro Railway work on the Garia-airport link. Besides, he said, the underground drains could not be properly desilted before this and last year’s monsoon because of the Covid epidemic. Inadequate desilting reduced the capacity of the network to drain out water. “There are seven channels of the Tollygunge-Panchannagram canal, which drains out water from Jadavpur, Mukundapur and other areas. Four of these channels are blocked to facilitate the construction of Metro Railway stations and elevated corridors. This has delayed the draining out of water,” said the engineer. An official of Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd, which is executing the Metro projects across Calcutta, said they received permission to start work two months back. “Some of the Metro piers are constructed on channels, so they have to be partially blocked. If we had received the permission earlier, work could have been completed before the monsoon,” said the official. He said the blockades would be removed in a couple of weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts stay on teachers’ recruitment for upper primary schools ||The recruitment of 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools in Bengal can resume after Calcutta High Court on Friday vacated its stay restraining the school service commission from continuing the process. Justice Abhjit Ganguly said on Friday that henceforth the aggrieved candidates would have to individually submit their grievances to the commission, online or offline. He asked the commission to appoint officers, not below the rank of secretary, to consider the pleas of the appellants. Justice Ganguly gave two weeks to the aggrieved candidates to lodge their grievances and directed the commission to complete the process of considering the appeals within four weeks thereafter. The whole process will have to be completed within six weeks. The court said the upper age limit of the candidates would be 45 years. “I hope and trust (that) the commission would sympathetically consider the case of those who crossed the requisite age limit due to the exorbitant delay in the process of recruitment, which started in 2016," the judge said. The court had on June 30 issued the interim stay on the recruitment. The stay was extended on July 2 for a week following petitions filed by several candidates, who alleged lack of transparency in drawing up the list of candidates to be called for the interview. After being prodded by the court, the commission on Thursday uploaded on its website a list of candidates who have qualified for interview and those who have not, with marks against the name of each. The commission also uploaded a list of over 9,000 candidates who have been rejected for interviews because they failed to upload documents like copies of the training certificate and academic qualifications by the deadline. “Some of the candidates are alleging that the commission erred in putting their names on the list despite the fact that they had furnished all the documents within the deadline. Once these appeals are filed, the designated officials of the commission, as identified by the court, will have to go through the merit of the appeals within the deadline,” said the official. An official of the commission said the candidates who had qualified for the interview would be called to face the final screening, which would be of 10 marks. “After the process is completed, a merit list will be published. The aspirants whose names will figure on the merit list will be called for counselling, where they will be given the option of choosing schools,” he said. When the case came up for hearing before Justice Ganguly on Friday, state’s advocate general Kishore Datta told the court: “Since electronic process has been adopted in preparing the list, there is little chance of error.” An official of the commission said the lists of successful and unsuccessful candidates were uploaded after computing aspirants’ scores in the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) of 2016, and the marks allotted for academic qualifications and training (BEd or DLeD). After hearing the advocate general, Justice Ganguly withdrew the stay order. On October 3, 2019, Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya had instructed the commission that the merit list would have to be prepared on the basis of how an aspirant had performed in the TET, his or her academic eligibility and BEd or DLeD (diploma in elementary education training). On July 2, 2021, the court had expressed its displeasure over the way the merit list was prepared, allegedly in violation of an October 2019 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court declines to immediately order CBI probe into fake vaccine camp case||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday declined to immediately order a CBI probe into the fake vaccine camp case. The bench of Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Aniruddha Roy held there was no need to hand over the case to the CBI at this stage of the investigation. “The court, if needed, may consider transferring the investigation to the central agency in the future. At present, police are directed to continue their probe,” the division bench said while disposing of four PILs, three of which called for a CBI probe. Arguing for one of the petitioners, senior advocate and CPM MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya said prime accused Debanjan Deb and the other accused had connections with the civic body and its office bearers. “There is apprehension that a fair probe would not be conducted. Moreover, the crime that the accused had committed was serious in nature. People have no faith in the police or the CID. So it would be wise for the court to ask the CBI to conduct the probe," he said. Billwadal Bhattacharya, counsel appearing for another petitioner, pointed out that Deb had committed several other crimes. Appearing for the state, advocate-general Kishore Datta said: “The government is well aware about the gravity of the crime. A special investigation team has been constituted to probe the issue. A chargesheet will be submitted by the investigators soon.” Datta also assured the court that the government would inform the court about the progress of the investigation. Deb was produced before a court on Friday and his police custody was extended till July 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||70-year-old man commits suicide in Chandni Chowk ||A 70-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room on the third floor of a five-storey building in Chandni Chowk on Friday morning. Nepal Das stayed with his family comprising wife, son and daughter-in-law at the rented property and worked in a shop. Police have found a voice message in which Das had purportedly said he was killing himself unable to pay EMIs of multiple loans. “We are trying to find out whether the pandemic had made it difficult for him to repay the loans,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Council reduces syllabi for ICSE and ISC 2022 exams||The ICSE council has reduced the syllabi of more subjects for the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2022 exams. Last week, the council had reduced the syllabi of English and Indian languages for Class X and XII. The reduced syllabi have been posted on the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) website under the publications section. In Class X, besides English and Indian languages, the syllabi for history and civics, geography, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, economics, commercial studies, computer applications, economic applications, commercial applications, environmental applications, home science, physical education and yoga have been reduced. In Class XII, apart from English and Indian languages, the syllabi of accounts, commerce, economics, business studies, history, political science, geography, sociology, psychology, computer science, biotechnology and environmental science have been cut. “The CISCE will continue with the process of syllabus reduction in the remaining subjects at the ICSE and ISC levels, in consultation with subject experts. The same will be made available on the CISCE website soon,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE, in a circular sent to heads of affiliated schools on Friday. The council has said that “project work already completed/initiated by the candidates in different subject/s, on topics which have been removed from the Syllabus, is to be accepted and marked”. The council has asked the subject teachers to strictly follow the sequence of topics given in the syllabi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur works on schedule for ‘speedy return’ of students to campus||The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has demanded that the students who are facing resource constraints and not being able to attend online classes be called back to the campus at the earliest. The authorities have said they are working on a schedule for the “speedy return” of such students to the campus. Classes at the premier tech institute are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid-19. Several representatives of the senate, which represents all students on the campus, told the authorities during a meeting on July 5 that scores of students were facing financial constraints because of Covid-induced curbs on economic activities. Many are also facing unstable connectivity while attending classes from home. An office-bearer of the outgoing students’ senate told The Telegraph that such students were eager to return to the campus so they could use the institute’s connectivity and attend classes. “Many are facing acute financial distress because of slump in business or salary cuts. Attending online classes and writing exams throughout the semester involve a substantial cost. Many students are finding it difficult to bear the cost,” he said. Dhrubajyoti Sen, the dean of students affairs at the IIT, wrote to the students after the July 5 meeting: “For students who are facing constraints of resources, the data for which was collected in March… plans are being made for their speedy return to the campus, provided that all criteria regarding vaccination are satisfactorily met as per the protocol dictated by the administrative, medical and security authorities.” Sen told The Telegraph: “We will take a decision on the recall following discussions with competent authorities.” At the IITs and the NITs, students whose parents earn less than Rs 1 lakh per year are allowed full waiver of the tuition fee. If the family income is between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, two-thirds of the fee is waived. “These underprivileged students must be called back to the campus first. Buying a laptop or a desktop is a big ask for them. Add to that the internet expenses. They are in a very difficult situation,” a senate member said. Teachers pointed out that students were also being inconvenienced in several parts of India because of the local administration's decision to shut down the internet ostensibly to quell social unrest. An IIT official said they had decided to call students back to the campus from March this year. But the plan had to be shelved following a renewed surge in Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
10-07-2021||Calcutta||Sister Luciana passes away at 105||Sister Luciana of the Congregation of the Daughters of the Cross who worked as a teacher, a headmistress and also in administrative roles passed away in the city early on Friday. She was 105. She was born on January 15, 1916, in Kerala. Sister Luciana spent most of her life in north Bengal. After turning 100, she moved to St Catherine’s Home in Kidderpore. She participated in all community activities till she could walk on her own and kept herself “abreast of all current events”. “Sister was very concerned for the poor. She helped people in various ways,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general, archdiocese of Calcutta. The funeral Mass for Sister Luciana will be held at St Vincent’s Home at 2pm on Saturday. A tribute to her said: “Till the age of 104, Sister prayed (at) the Stations of the Cross daily, kneeling at every station.” Sister Luciana had been missioned to Howrah, Kurseong, Basanti and Matigara (north Bengal), among other places. Her longest mission was at Matigara, where she spent 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
