11-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police arrest 37 for partying at Park Street hotel||At least 37 people were arrested in the early hours of Sunday from a five-star hotel in Calcutta for partying, defying the Covid-related restrictions, police said. Two high-end cars and 38 mobile phones were among the several items seized in the raid at the Park Hotel on Park Street in the heart of the city, they said. "Acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at Park Hotel around 1.15 am and 37 people were arrested from the second and third floors for partying with loud music amid the Covid-related restrictions," a senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. "During the raid, some of those arrested pushed and manhandled police officers," he added. The police also seized two Pioneer DJ discs, an amplifier, two sound boxes, a DJ light, three hookahs, four liquor bottles and a ganja puria, the officer said. A case was registered at the Park Street police station under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Rs 12 lakh con on medical seat at Calcutta Medical College ||A police team from Jhargram on Saturday arrested a man in Lake Town for allegedly duping a medical aspirant of Rs 12 lakh by promising him a seat at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Shyamal Das, 38, was picked up from his rented accommodation in Lake Town by the police team from Jhargram and a Calcutta police team after they tracked down his mobile phone number. Das had posted several advertisements offering medical seats to students, a police officer said. “The accused used to frequently put up advertisements and posters at various places including railway stations offering admission to medical colleges,” said the officer. A few months back, a young man got in touch with Das who promised him admission to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the officer said. “The accused took Rs 12 lakh from the medical aspirant and said that he will ensure that he gets admission to the medical course. However, he stopped all forms of communication and switched off his phone after he got the money,” said the officer. The medical aspirant waited for several months before realising that he was duped, after which he lodged a complaint with police. “We are trying to track down other members of his gang,” said the officer. Another investigating officer said, during questioning, Das said he had cheated other men and women in a similar manner in several states. “This racket has been active for sometime. We are trying to zero in on the others and will get in touch with the other victims as well,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
11-07-2021||Calcutta||SSC starts accepting complaints from teacher-job aspirants||The school service commission on Saturday started accepting complaints from teacher-job aspirants who are aggrieved because their names don’t feature on the list of candidates awaiting interview calls. The commission will receive the applications for a duration of two weeks. Calcutta High Court has set the commission a deadline of 12 weeks from the receipt of the applications to give the appellants a “reasoned hearing”, commission chairman Subha Shankar Sarkar said on Saturday. “Those who have not been called for an interview can apply within the dead-line.... The commission will give them a reasoned hearing. As part of this they would be called here (at the commission’s office in Salt Lake),” said Sarkar. While vacating its stay on the recruitment of 15,000 teachers for upper primary schools (Classes VI to VIII), Justice Abhjit Ganguly said on Friday henceforth the aggrieved candidates would have to submit their grievances individually to the commission, online or offline. The aggrieved candidates are alleging that the commission erred in putting their names on the list of candidates who have been rejected for interviews because, either they failed to upload documents like copies of the training certificate and academic qualifications within the deadline or documents were not properly uploaded. The commission on Thursday uploaded a list of 9,500 such candidates. Some of them are claiming that they had furnished the details within the deadline. Another section of the candidates alleged although the commission in a notification issued in January this year had said they would be notified through email for rectification in case the documents are found to be incomplete/ distorted/not properly uploaded, this was not followed. The documents were supposed to be uploaded from January 4 to January 22. Sushanta Ghosh, a candidate said since the candidates were denied the chance of rectification, many got rejected. When asked about this allegation of the aspirants being denied scope of rectification during Saturday’s press conference, the commission chairman said: “...candidates who feel that they have been deprived a call for an interview, will be given a reasoned hearing. This will be the remedy of their grievances”. Education minister Bratya Basu on Saturday said the  government would try to hold teachers’ eligibility test (TET) each year to appoint primary and upper primary-level teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||More private buses likely to ply on Calcutta’s roads from Monday||More private buses are likely to ply on Calcutta’s roads from Monday and operators said they would charge fares that make their business viable. This means a passenger will be expected to pay between Rs 10 and Rs 20 on most of the routes unlike the government-prescribed price band of Rs 7 to Rs 10. Officially, transport minister Firhad Hakim said it was unacceptable that a section of bus operators would fix their own fares even though the state government completely sympathises with their operational challenges. Unofficially the government has so far not acted on any of the buses that have asked passengers to pay more than the government-regulated fares. “Bus malik der haath joro korey onurodh korchhi (We are requesting the bus operators with folded hands). We know they are facing a lot of hardships.  But how will the commuters pay?” Hakim said at a meeting in Chetla on Saturday as a part of the Trinamul’s statewide protest against the rising price of diesel and petrol. The price of petrol crossed the Rs 100-mark and sold at Rs 101.62 a litre. Diesel sold at Rs 92.97 a litre. Bus operators said they require anything between 40 and 45 litre of fuel for a bus each  day. Moreover, there are not enough passengers as the state government has set limit of 50 per cent capacity. “More private buses will start their operations from Monday with the new fare structure. So far we have not faced any resistance from passengers. Most said they would have spent more than the revised ticket fare if they were to commute by other means,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus Minibus Owners’ Association. Several bus operators said they were keen on bringing out more buses on several routes in and around Calcutta. But in case the operators faced harassment from police, they would withdraw their services. On Saturday, operators of several routes came together to decide on the number of buses they want to increase from Monday, despite it being a holiday because of Rath Yatra. Operators of route 222 connecting Bon Hooghly near Baranagar in north Calcutta and Behala said they have 21 odd buses of which 12 were on the roads. The remaining would start rolling from next week. Similarly, operators of route 34C connecting Baranagar and Esplanade will roll out three more buses of the eight. At present, five buses of the route are plying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police start noting down numbers and details of beacon-fitted vehicles||Police have started noting down the numbers and details of all beacon-fitted vehicles spotted at major crossings in the city, sources in the traffic department said. All the 25 traffic guards in Calcutta have been instructed to deploy civic volunteers at major intersections and manually note down the registration number, the make of the car, the details on the board on the windscreen if available and the colour of beacon fitted on it. The data is being collected every day at the respective traffic guards. The move, which started on Tuesday, came a week after all the police stations were asked to compile a list of government officials in their respective jurisdictions eligible to use red or blue beacon-fitted vehicles. “Once both the lists are ready, it will be easier to tally the approximate number of vehicles with beacons spotted on the road with the number of people eligible to use beacon-fitted cars in different traffic guard areas. If the number of cars spotted (with beacons) is found to be more than the number of eligible officials, it would be clear that some of the cars are making unauthorised use of the beacons and flashers,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. There have been several instances reported in the past where beacons have allegedly been misused by unauthorised persons who have purportedly taken advantage of a beacon to jump signals or park in no parking zones. Of late, some of the misuse has been specially to get immunity against the road restrictions during the lockdown period, the police said. Several police officers said that the recent arrest of Debanjan Deb, who allegedly impersonated an IAS officer and used a beacon-fitted car, has been an eye-opener into how many in the city were misusing beacons, which are meant only for posts authorised by the court and the state transport department. After the arrest of Deb, who was posing as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC and state transport minister Firhad Hakim had said that the transport department would soon revise the list of posts eligible for beacon-fitted vehicles and flashers. A senior police officer said: “Our officers face a lot of harassment while trying to check the veracity of the occupant of a beacon-fitted car. To avoid that, we would like to start the crackdown once the accurate list in consultation with the transport department is ready.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal CID arrests 12 men for running fake call centre||The state CID has arrested a gang of 12 men who were allegedly running a fake call centre in the guise of a finance company at a highrise in Rajarhat. The gang was fraudulently offering loans from banks and financial institutions at cheap interest rates and allegedly convincing people to buy insurance in return. CID officers said the investigating agency had received multiple complaints of cheating from many people across the city running into several lakhs. The complainants were duped of lakhs of rupees in the guise of getting purported personal loans. CID sleuths said four “operatives” who were behind running the racket had hired around 10 youths who would call potential customers at random and offer bank loans at cheap rates. “Once the customer showed interest in taking a personal loan, the racketeer would say that the loan could be taken at zero per cent interest rate if he or she bought insurance from a particular company. If the customer agreed, the racketeers would start asking for processing fees,” said a CID officer of the cyber crime police station. Officers said several people who had invested money realised it was a racket when the purported insurance was not processed and neither was a loan sanctioned from any bank or financial institute. The racketeers were running the fake call centre in an office named Ignite Wealth Management at Mani Casadona, East Tower, 4th and 7th floor in Rajarhat, the police said. Based on information, the police raided the Rajarhat office and arrested eight people on Friday. Pursuing their statement, investigators arrested four more people — Ishwar Chand Das, Kaushik Pattanaik, Swapan Sil and Bappa Koley — who were identified as the “main operatives”, the police said. The accused were produced in court on Saturday. They have been charged with sections of cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy and under sections of the information technology act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||14-year-old boy gets gift of a kidney at Charnock Hospital ||A 14-year-old boy, whose kidneys are damaged, underwent transplant of one of the kidneys at Charnock Hospital on Saturday. Around midnight on Thursday, the teenager’s family was informed about the prospect of a kidney transplant. The boy was brought to the hospital around 3am on Friday. A team of doctors from Charnock Hospital went to Ruby General Hospital for retrieval of the kidneys of a 38-year-old woman who succumbed in the hospital to injures suffered in a road accident. A green corridor was created to transport the organ.  “The transplant began at 2am on Saturday and got over at 4.30am. The boy is doing well,” said an official of Charnock. The woman’s other kidney was taken to SSKM Hospital. Mohammad Parvez, the father of the boy who underwent the transplant, said he was grateful to the family of the woman, who agreed to donate her organs. “She was admitted to our hospital on July 3 after she met with a road accident at Chandernagore. We counselled her family after she succumbed to the injuries. The family agreed to donate her organs,” said an official of Ruby General Hospital. The woman’s skin was also harvested and taken to SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
11-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers learn to help anxious kids||A 15-year-old boy is struggling to balance his classes with his work as a caretaker of an apartment building. A 14-year-old boy, talking incoherently in the class, revealed that he could not bear to see his parents fight every day. The teenagers are pupils at a community learning centre for children of unorganised workers, mostly first-generation learners. The teachers of the centre — Rokeya Siksha Kendra — have been participating in a workshop focused on mental health of such children and teenagers. The aim of the training programme is to equip the teachers to deal with the anxieties triggered in the minds of the pupils by the pandemic. Rokeya Siksha Kendra is the only link to institutionalised learning for around 80 children, aged between six and 18 years. The students live mostly in slums in and around the Patuli-Briji-Garia neighbourhood, off EM Bypass. Their parents are masons, drivers, domestic help or from some other unorganised sector. Most of them are students of a government or municipality school on paper. But the lack of economic and technological resources have left them in the lurch. They cannot attend online classes. Many of them have to focus on assisting their parents in earning money because the Covid-19 curbs have robbed their income. “Many children are going through a lot of stress because of the pandemic. But being cramped in a 1,000sqft flat and being cramped in an 8ftX10ft room in a slum are two different things. The socio-economic condition of these children has only worsened their mental well-being,” said Mohit Ranadip, a psychiatric social worker, who has been conducting the workshop for the teachers of Rokeya Siksha Kendra. The sessions are held every Sunday. Theoretical lessons are a part of the programme but the stress is on activity-oriented modules. The workshop on July 11 will focus on counselling. The teachers at Rokeya have been dealing with several cases of mental anxiety among students. A 15-year-old boy comes running to the class, panting and often late or just in the nick of time. On several days a week, he has to work as the caretaker of an apartment and struggles to find time to attend classes amid running errands for the residents of the building. The pandemic has robbed his father’s regular income. Another boy, aged 14, was “speaking and behaving incoherently” at the class on multiple days. After much prodding, he told his math teacher that he was “sick and tired of seeing his parents fight every day”. “We try to be informal in our approach with students. They confide in us because we give them a proper audience. More often than not, they don’t have anybody to share their feelings with,” said Manas Bose, who teaches mathematics at the centre. Another student is a 17-year-old girl, who works as a domestic help. Virtually abandoned by her father, she used to pay her school fee and other educational expenses from her own earnings. Her mother died when she was six years old. She wanted to carve out a future for herself and the long shutdown of school has multiplied her stress. “We are learning what affects children’s minds. Not being able to attend school, being bereft of friends and neglect at home — all these are reflected in the students,” said Adharshila Chatterjee, who teaches English to students aged 16-18 at Rokeya Siksha Kendra. Chatterjee is an assistant professor of English at the Women’s Christian College. “I am used to teaching adults. Dealing with teenagers is also a new learning experience for me,” said Chatterjee. The workshop will also focus on imparting “life skills” to the students, said Ranadip. “Self-esteem building, assertiveness and critical thinking are important aspects of the workshop for the teachers,” he said. Named after Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain (1880-1932), Bengal’s pioneering Muslim feminist writer, educationist and activist, the centre has been set up by a group called the Humans of Patuli, formed in 2019 to resist the Centre’s citizenship thrust at the grassroots level. “Rokeya inculcates values that help build a society of equality, empathy, scientific temper, conscience, rights, unity of the oppressed, with awareness of co-existence in a planet we need to nurture and repair; rejecting a society of discrimination and oppression and hate,” said a member of the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
