12-07-2021||Calcutta||37 people arrested for partying amid Covid restrictions at The Park||As many as 37 people were arrested at The Park early on Sunday for allegedly taking part in night-long revelry at the Park Street hotel, defying Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Some of those arrested were allegedly involved in a scuffle with police when asked to stop the revelry. The Park issued a statement: “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of the Covid-19 protocols. Many of our patrons and their friends or families book stays in the hotel as a weekend getaway on a regular basis. We are complying with all rules and regulations and will continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities.” Two cars, including a Mercedes Benz, and several mobile phones were seized, along with other items. Park Street police station has drawn up an FIR under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. The FIR names some officials of The Park, senior police officers at Lalbazar said. The officials of the hotel will be questioned to establish whether they had any role in helping the revellers organise the party, which was accompanied by loud music and held on the corridor of the third floor. The police said some of the revellers had booked four rooms on the second and third floors for nearly a month. On Saturday night, they allegedly invited guests from outside and arranged a party. They also allegedly hired a DJ. “The party was on beyond midnight and hotel employees asked them to stop,” an officer said. The hotel authorities alerted the police after the revellers allegedly ignored their plea to stop. “A team from Calcutta police’s detective department reached the hotel around 1.15am and asked the revellers to stop. They were in no mood to listen. Most of them were gyrating to loud music that blared from sound boxes placed atop one another on the third-floor corridor,” said an officer. When officers showed their identity cards and tried to stop the music, some of the revellers allegedly pushed them away. Some are said to have argued that they were entitled to party till late hours as the event was being held inside a hotel. The cop team arrested 37 people and took them to Park Street police station. The accused were produced at Bankshall court, where the police sought remand of nine persons, who had allegedly assaulted them and prevented them from doing their duty. Seven of them were remanded in police custody and the other two in judicial custody. The remaining 28 accused were granted bail. Later in the day, a team of forensic experts reached the hotel and collected some items for examination. Officers said some powder-like substances seized from the party spot would also be sent for forensic tests. Investigating officers have asked the hotel management for the registers of room reservation of the second and third floors. “During the raid, some of the revellers manhandled our officers,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “Two Pioneer DJ discs, an amplifier, two sound boxes, a DJ light, three hookahs, four liquor bottles and a ganja pouch were also seized.” The Bengal government had on June 28 imposed a series of restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the West Bengal Epidemic Disease Covid -19 Regulations 2020. The order had mentioned that the restrictions would remain in force till July 15, 2021. The 26-point government order had spelt out: “All political/ social/ cultural /academic/ entertainment / related gatherings shall continue to be prohibited.” The order had also mentioned not more than 50 persons would be allowed at a time in marriage ceremonies and related gatherings. “We have reasons to believe that this was not a gathering related to any wedding and there were more than 50 persons. The participants had organised a party violating the restrictions that are in place,” said an officer. The alleged incident exposed the habit among some party organisers to ignore Covid curbs at weekend get-togethers. From Saturday night till Sunday noon, as many as 83 persons were booked for not wearing masks and 14 drivers were prosecuted for defying the ban on movement at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Rathyatra to roll on trailer truck, not chariot in Calcutta||For the first time in five decades, Lord Jagannath will roll out of Iskcon’s Albert Road temple not in a chariot but on a trailer truck, to be escorted by a police pilot car, because of the Covid pandemic. To avoid the congregation of devotees along the road, the route has not been announced. The Rath Yatra festival will also be scaled down in Nadia’s Mayapur, the global headquarters of the Iskcon. “There will be no traditional Yatra this year. The deity of Jagannath, which used to travel 6km from Rajapur village to the Gundicha temple in Mayapur, will travel within the Iskcon premises with only 50 pujaris alongside,” said a source. The Mayapur premises will remain closed to all visitors on Monday. In the golden jubilee year of Iskcon’s Calcutta Rathyatra, the divine siblings will travel from the temple to Iskcon House on Gurusaday Road. The traditional mela on the Maidan has been cancelled. “We had been planning for this occasion for seven years. An order had been placed in the US for a 40ft Flying Hanuman balloon, costing Rs 1.5 crore. Devotees would have come from 150 countries to join a 3km-long procession. But the Covid pandemic put paid to all our plans,” said Radharaman Das, vice-president, Iskcon Calcutta. Last year, the idols were not even brought out of the temple. Monday’s puja will start at 11am, followed by 556 bhog and then mid-day bhog to be sent by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who used to inaugurate the rathyatra. A mini empty rath will be pulled inside the temple as a symbolic gesture. The deities will be placed in the trailer at 1pm for the trip to the Gurusaday Road premises, where a symbolic Gundicha temple (or aunt’s house) is being erected for their stay. “A speed of 15 to 20km per hour will be maintained by the trailer for the 4km ride,” Das said. Darshan will be allowed in batches from 4pm to 8pm daily. “We will maintain the cap of 50, according to Covid protocol. Barely six of us and the priest will stay inside so that more devotees can get in. Darshan will take place as part of a moving queue,” Das said. Packed prasad will be distributed. The priests in the city on Sunday spoke about Fr Stan’s “fight against injustice” and to convince tribals to believe that they should not “lose their rights”. ituals will be live streamed on Iskcon Calcuttta’s social media pages. At Mayapur, only one chariot, instead of the customary three, will travel less than 200m from Gada Bhawan to the gate of the Panchatatva temple. “The movement of the chariot of Lord Jagannath will be restricted to the Mayapur temple premises,” said Iskcon Mayapur’s head of media communications, Subroto Dasa. In Serampore, while the 625th edition of the Mahesh Rathyatra has been cancelled, the natmandir will be opened to the public at 4pm for darshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrest three Bangladeshis for suspected terror link||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested three men suspected to be operatives of the banned terror outfit Jamat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), which was allegedly responsible for the Khagragarh blast in East Burdwan in 2014. Rabiul Islam, Naziur Rahman Pavel and Mekail Khan were arrested early on Sunday from a house in Haridevpur, where they had been staying for months. All three are Bangladeshis, the police said. “We have seized several incriminating documents from their possession, including a handwritten diary which has names and numbers of some top JMB leaders,” said an STF officer. “There are reasons to believe that these three men are actively involved in JMB activities.” The police said they had been tracking social media accounts of the three based on specific intelligence inputs and realised that they were part of the JMB’s sleeper cell engaged in organising funds and recruiting people. The officers then started tracking their phone calls and identified their hideout based on their tower location. The accused will be produced in court on Monday. The police have learnt that the three had taken the Haridevpur shelter on rent using false names and posing as traders dealing in fruits and mosquito nets. Naziur, for instance, had taken the name of Jayaram Byapari, the police said. Naziur, who also went by the name of Joseph, had served three years in jail in Bangladesh. “We want to find out whether the three were in contact with other modules across the country and details of their funding pattern,” an officer said. In September last year, the National Investigation Agency had arrested 10 people in Bengal and Kerala for their alleged terror links. These were followed by several more arrests in subsequent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Former classmate arrested for circulating girl's number, photos on WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger||A former classmate of a senior police officer’s daughter has been arrested in Barasat for allegedly circulating her phone number and objectionable photographs in several groups on WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The accused, Arkadeep Kundu, is the son of a Trinamul Congress leader and coordinator of Ward 10 of Uttarpara-Kotrang Municipality in Hooghly. He was picked up by a team from the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake on Sunday morning. An officer of the commissionerate said the daughter of a senior police officer had lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police station alleging that her cellphone number and objectionable photographs were being circulated for several months in various  WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger groups. She mentioned in the complaint that several people had called her and made objectionable comments. “We started checking the numbers from which the woman’s number had been circulated. We found that several numbers used by Kundu had added the complainant’s number to various groups on WhatsApp,” the officer said. Another officer said the woman and Kundu had been classmates in college. “Initially, the woman had tried to persuade Kundu not to circulate her number and photographs but he refused, citing connections in political circles,” the officer said. “Incidents of people trying to use social media as a tool to commit crime are on the rise. It is important for women to come forward and report the crime to the authorities. There are strict laws against online offences,” said an officer not attached to the case. Hundreds of such incidents happen where women are subjected to extortion and blackmail by men they had trusted. Only a few are reported. Another officer said it was best to avoid clicking personal photographs with strangers or with persons one barely knows. Social media platforms, including messenger services, have become potential weapons of cyber crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Roman Catholic churches pay respects to Father Stan Swamy||The Roman Catholic churches in Calcutta paid their respects to Father Stan Swamy and spoke about the work of the ailing Jesuit priest who passed away in federal custody waiting for bail at the age of 84. In some of the churches, spontaneous respect was shown to the tribal rights activist during the Sunday service and in some others, prayer meetings were held remembering him and  praying for the repose of his soul. Priests in the city on Sunday spoke about Fr Stan’s “fight against injustice” and to convince tribals that they should not “lose their rights”. A prayer was held for Fr Stan at Archbishop’s House on Sunday evening. The Ranchi-based Fr Stan, who had been suffering from Parkinson’s disease, died on July 5 at a Mumbai hospital after being in custody for nine months. “...Father Stan Swamy never gave in and did not compromise to injustice. He persevered and fought for the cause of justice for the tribal people, marginalised, downtrodden, rejected and unwanted, for which he had to pay a heavy price,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. On Sunday, he led the prayers at St Vincent’s Home Chapel and St Catherine’s Home Chapel, both in Kidderpore. The sisters of Daughters of the Cross arranged to pay tributes to Father Stan and prayed together for him. Father Gomes said at the prayer meeting that to be “a Christian, a Missionary in today’s world is indeed a great task, a challenge and a responsibility”. “Should one give in and not take up the challenges or make efforts to fight… today all of us should continue to fight against the injustice to the tribal and poor people… many are behind bars for no reason whatsoever,” said Father Gomes. “Are we going to dilute, compromise, be lukewarm or adopt an all-is-adjustable policy with respect to our Christian values? Or are we ready to grow and stand firm in our convictions and make efforts to live a true Christian life? “How many of us will take up the cause of Father Stan and be ready to follow in his footsteps, to be a martyr for their people. Is the world transforming me… or am I, as a Christain, transforming the world?” he said. Father Gomes asked all those present to take a pledge. “Let us pledge today to fight injustice at all levels of our society and pray for more and more Father Stan to take birth and stand for the poor and weak,” he said. At the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, the parish priest spoke about Father Stan in the morning as well as the evening service. “Father Stan told the tribals that they should not lose their rights and dues and that like any other community they have to come to the mainstream,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish  priest, Church of Christ the King. “Many would think tribals mean backwardness,  tribals mean no-civilisation but he (Father Stan) was fighting and was like a light to the community,” he said. The visitors,  limited because of the pandemic, prayed for Fr Stan’s soul. “In almost all 65 churches of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta, respect was shown to Fr Stan in different ways,” Father Gomes said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
12-07-2021||Calcutta||Two friends who set pigeons at the Maidan||Two young men come to the Maidan on most Sundays to set dozens of pigeons free from a cage. They buy the pigeons from New Market, where the birds are usually meant to be slaughtered for meat. “We have been doing this for the past year. We have released close to 400 pigeons till now,” said Tushar Ranjan Das, 30. Das, along with his friend and neighbour Saurabh Pandey, had started freeing birds last summer. “No one is meant to live in a cage or end up on a plate,” said Das. Das and Pandey, who live near Burrabazar police station, usually keep Sundays aside for freeing birds. The two drive to New Market in Pandey’s car in the afternoon. Last Sunday, they bought 18 pigeons at Rs 400 a pair. The birds had to be taken in a cage for which they had to deposit Rs 400 with the trader. The amount is refunded once the cage is returned. Accompanied by Pandey’s younger brother, they reached the Maidan around 3.40pm. The three released the birds, one by one. A couple of teenagers who had come to play at the Maidan looked in awe and cheered them as the birds took flight. “When we started, we used to buy some smaller birds as well. But predators like eagles killed and devoured them, sometimes in front of our eyes. So, we restrict ourselves to pigeons. Pigeons usually survive,” said Das. The friends choose different spots on the Maidan on different days to release the birds. Das, a commerce graduate, runs a tutorial for children of Classes I-XII in Mullick Street, behind Burrabazar police station. Das used to earn “around Rs 30,000” from his tutorial before the fresh Covid curbs. His student pool has come down to 28 from 50 because of the curbs. “Many parents and their wards are not ready to pay the usual fee for online classes,” he said. The price of one pair of pigeons has gone up to Rs 400 from Rs 300 a few months ago. Pandey, who comes from a family of cloth merchants, also contributes to buying birds. “The sight of the birds getting a taste of freedom is priceless,” said Pandey. “We had set ourselves a target of releasing over 50 birds every month. More often than not, we cannot match the target,” said Das, who also runs a charity that works for the uplift of street children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
