13-07-2021||Calcutta||Seasonal flu strikes in city amid Covid pandemic||Fever is almost at every home in Calcutta as the seasonal flu has struck in the middle of the Covid season. Hospital outpatient departments and clinics are swamped with people running high temperatures and having chest congestions. Doctors said the symptoms are often similar to Covid but the test reports are mostly negative. Some of the private hospitals said they have detected types of influenza virus in many swab samples collected from people suffering from fever. Doctors said although the fever is going away in three to five days, some of the elderly people with comorbidities are getting admitted to hospital. The number of tests, which had dipped from the first week of July at hospitals and diagnostic centres, have increased again because of the outbreak of the flu, said health department officials. On Monday, 45, 287 samples were tested and the positivity rate was 1.95 per cent, according to the state health department. On July 5, 40,388 samples were tested with a 2.19 per cent  rate of positivity in Bengal. Doctors said Covid cases could have dropped as many people are vaccinated, still they are not taking chances and asking anyone with fever lasting for two to three days, to get themselves tested. At the fever clinic of Peerless Hospital, in May during the peak of the Covid pandemic, 275 people would turn up on an average with running temperature. “Results of about 60 percent of those samples tested would be positive. As the number of cases dipped, we would have around 35 people everyday at the fever clinic out of whom barely five percent would test positive for Covid,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. However, in the last one week, the number of footfall at the hospital's fever clinic has gone upto around 70 everyday, said Mitra. “But less than two per cent are testing positive for Covid. We have detected H3N3, a type of influenza virus in some of the samples tested for flu,” he said. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, during the peak of the pandemic there would be more than 200 people with fever and 60 percent were testing positive. Now, around 15 people are coming everyday at the fever clinic of the hospital but around three percent are detected with Covid, said R. Venkatesh, director of Narayana Health which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, tropical medicine and infectious diseases specialist at Peerless Hospital, said the flu is causing fever that usually lasts between three and five days. "It's starting with running nose and then there is high grade fever along with cough and after that most people are getting cured. The clinical presentations are similar to that of Covid but tests are generally coming negative.” However, two elderly patients with co-morbidites, were admitted under him at the hospital on Monday. Both patients had fever and have tested negative for Covid. "This category of people are still at risk from flu even if they don't have Covid. At Belle Vue Clinic too, there has been a steady decline in the Covid cases and now it is less than two percent of the samples tested. “There has been an increase in acute respiratory illness since last week of June. These cases were tested to be Influenza A,” said Anuradha Agarwal, head, clinical microbiology and hospital infection control at Belle Vue. She said the quadrivalent flu vaccine can protect people from this. “The vaccine is safe and should be taken by all with co-morbidities and those above 65,” said Agarwal. Doctors said although most of the symptoms of influenza virus were similar to Covid, some like diarrhoea and lack of sense of smell are not there. “But still it is important to get everyone tested because the pandemic is not completely over,” said physician Amitabha Saha. "Now, we have three categories of fever patients, those who have taken two doses of Covid vaccine, others with a single dose and a third section without being vaccinated," said Saha. "The second wave showed that young people also can get severe Covid infection. A large section of the young people are still not vaccinated and so we cannot take chances," he said. The young people who have to go out for work can also spread Covid again even if they are asymptomatic. "So, we are asking everyone with fever to get tested," said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Police seek CCTV footage of revelry from The Park||Police have sought CCTV footage of the second and third-floor corridors of The Park from where 37 people were arrested early on Sunday for partying in violation of Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Some of those arrested were allegedly involved in a scuffle with the police when asked to stop the revelry. The Park issued a statement: “Guest and staff safety being our utmost priority, the bars and restaurants at our hotel are shut on the basis of the Covid-19 protocols. We are complying with all rules and regulations and will continue to do so and there has been no violation. We are fully cooperating with the authorities.” Park Street police station has drawn up an FIR under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. The FIR names some officials of The Park, senior police officers at Lalbazar said. On Monday, officers of the detective department said they would want to know when on Saturday night the party began and whether such late-night parties were often held at the Park Street hotel in violation of curbs Across the second and third floor of the hotel, four rooms were booked for several weeks and several guests would come and go through the day, investigators said they had learnt. The statements of the seven accused who were remanded in police custody on Sunday will be cross-checked with CCTV footage from the hotel. Two other accused were remanded in judicial custody while the rest were released on bail. “We want to know the number of people who attended the rally. That will be compared with the number of people our team came across when they reached the spot on Sunday,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta recalls students facing connectivity issues to attend online classes||IIM Calcutta has allowed students from small towns and tier-III cities facing connectivity issues to return to the campus and use the Internet facility available in hostels to attend online classes. As part of this, 25 per cent from the first-year and second-year MBA programme put together has been allowed entry. The first lot of students started arriving from Sunday, said an official of the institute. Even as classes started from June, many of those from the two-year MBA programme were encountering hassles in attending classes over online platforms because of the digital divide. “Twenty five per cent of the 960 students from the first-year and second-year batch so far have been allowed to come. These students are from the small towns and muffasil areas who are encountering connectivity issues, posing hindrances in attending online classes. Upon arrival they will be quarantined for 10 days in an isolation facility, before allowing entry to the hostels,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid-19 taskforce. Students have complained about unstable connectivity and steep charges on account of datapacks. The second lot of students from the pool of 25 per cent will start arriving from July 21. In mid April, the Joka institute had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels because of the developing Covid-19 situation on the campus. As many as 70 students had tested positive between late March and mid April. An official of the institute said the hostels in between have been sanitised. The issue regarding the connectivity woes coming in the way of attending the online classes was flagged in June last year by the then office bearer of the institute’s student council. Hunar Gandhi, the student council president, had on June 13 in a letter to then director Anju Seth written: “Would it be possible to allow some students, who may be facing connectivity issues or other constraints at home, to return to campus and utilise campus infrastructure even when classes are online? Can this process begin from now onwards as there is still a month before the classes begin? Students are apprehensive about the quality of learning through the online mode.” Decision on arrival of the remaining batch of students and those from the one-year MBA executive programme would be taken later. “Since several cases were reported during the stay of students at the hostel in April, we are treading cautiously on recalling the students,” said an official. He said they were planning to set up hybrid classes with contributions from the batch of “92’ so that students could attend online classes much more effectively. In hybrid classes, lectures are live-streamed for some students, while others attend them in person.The concept has gained popularity in campuses across the globe amid the pandemic because this helps in maintaining physical distance. The institute's students’ council in a letter on IT infrastructure woes addressed to the former director Anju Seth on February 16 had stated: “We don’t have the required infrastructure in our classrooms to conduct hybrid classes.” The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has demanded that the students who are facing resource constraints and not being able to attend online classes be called back to the campus at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Rain exposes poor drainage system in Mukundapur and New Garia||Large parts of Mukundapur and New Garia go under water several times every monsoon and civic officials blame it on the lack of a proper drainage network in the area. There is no underground drainage network in many parts on the south-eastern fringes of Calcutta that have some of the city’s largest private hospitals, where thousands of patients turn up every day. The place, with a population of around 50,000, is also dotted with large housing complexes, apartment blocks and standalone buildings. Rainwater from the area flows into kuccha drains, said a civic official. The drainage system of Mukundapur and New Garia is dependent on canals flowing through the area, he said. The water from the kuccha drains is supposed to be drained out into the canals. But the official said that the plinth of houses and the kuccha drains are either at the same level as the canals or at a lower height. As a result, the rainwater does not easily flow into the canals. An underground drainage network with pumps fitted to drain out water is required in the area. However, civic officials said there is no plan yet to build any new underground sewer infrastructure. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has approved building plans for many housing complexes and standalone buildings without ensuring proper drainage infrastructure for them. Residents allege they have got an unfair deal. “We pay taxes to the CMC but are treated like second-class citizens. The drinking water supply is poor, roads are bad and waterlogging is a perennial problem. I have been living here for over a decade. The situation has only worsened over the years,” said Boby Banerjee, a resident of Nayabad. “When we started living here, there were many vacant plots. The rainwater would flow down into those plots. But as new buildings were built there, the water has no place to go and roads get waterlogged,” she said. The neighbourhood has hospitals like the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, AMRI Mukundapur, Medica Superspecialty Hospital and Peerless Hospital, among others. Large housing complexes like Upohar, Utalika and Avidipta are located in the area. New housing complexes of similar scale are coming up. But all this without ramping up the drainage infrastructure of the place. “The main problem of Mukundapur is that the level of the canals that drain out water from the area are at a higher or the same level as many of the plots. When there is waterlogging, the water in the drains is pushed towards the canals. Once the level of accumulated water comes down, the force decreases and the rest of the water in the drains does not flow into the canals,” said a senior CMC engineer. “This water gets evaporated or absorbed underground over days, which is why the place remains waterlogged for many hours even after it stops raining,” said a civic official. Residents of the area also alleged that unscientific and indiscriminate road construction have aggravated the problem. “The CMC has laid layers of bitumen over previously laid layers to fix potholes and craters. The old layers were never scraped off. As a result, the level of the road has become higher than the ground floor of many homes and water enters the ground-floor rooms of these houses even after a small and intense spell of rain,” said a resident. The CMC had built underground drainage in a part of the area about a decade back. No more underground sewer lines have been laid since. When the underground drainage was laid more than a decade back, the civic body had also built a pumping station for the network. The pump covers only about 50 per cent of the area and the rest still depends on open drains for their drainage. The sewage going to the drainage pumping station is drained out into the canals using pumps. “Over the last 10 years, no new sewer infrastructure has been built in the area. There is no plan right now to expand the underground sewer network in Mukundapur either,” said a senior CMC official. Civic officials said there are two ways of allowing construction of buildings in a place that is rapidly urbanising — either the government decides to build all necessary infrastructure and then allows buildings to be constructed or sets up infrastructure as new buildings come up. “In the case of Mukundapur and adjoining areas, the state government and the civic authorities decided that it will build infrastructure as more people start living here. They did not want to invest crores of rupees before people moved in,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Crutch clue leads to murder accused, arrested after body found on road||A man in his 30s was found throttled to death at the crossing of Zakaria Street and Balai Dutta Lane, in the heart of central Calcutta, on Sunday night. Police said CCTV footage obtained from near the spot showed at least three men running away. “One of them was with a crutch and that gave away his identity within a few hours of the offence,” an officer said. The three men — Haru Karmakar, 38, from Sonarpur; Mohammad Samir, 19, from Jorasanko; and Firoz Khan, 36, from Balai Dutta Street — have been arrested and charged with murder. The victim, Ranjeet, was a van-puller in the neighbourhood. “Mohammad Samir, the youngest of the three accused, walks with the support of a crutch. A few years ago, he had jumped off a building while trying to flee apparently after committing a theft. He fractured his leg and has been limping since,” said an officer of Jorasanko police station. Cops have come to know from a preliminary inquiry that the four were eating and drinking together when a dispute arose over Rs 100. “That led to the alleged strangulation of the van-puller,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy inaugurates new wing with updated technology||An annexe of the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy with updated technology was inaugurated on Monday. The two-storey building at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama in Narendrapur has smart classrooms, a multipurpose hall, space for judo, a visitor’s room and more. “We will use technology to teach our students Braille. There will be large screens for those with poor eyesight and recorded books and other devices to make learning more up to date,” said Biswajit Ghosh, the principal of the academy. The project was initiated about two years back but got delayed because of the Covid pandemic and a lack of funds, said Swami Sarvalokananda, secretary, Ramkrishna Mission Ashrama. “Now that the building is complete, we plan to use it fully and we are grateful to all those who made it happen.” Principal Ghosh said: “The pandemic had hampered some of the work in the project but we are happy to inaugurate it today, though it must be said that we missed our students today.” The building also has classrooms for BEd in special education under Calcutta University. The annexe has been completed with financial assistance from the department of mass education of Bengal, the MPLAD fund of C.M. Jatua, SBI Capital Ltd, Joy Foundation and others. The Blind Boys’ Academy was established in 1957. Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission who delivered the inaugural address virtually, said the academy started the higher secondary course in 2012. The institute has been providing the highest level of education and skill to visually impaired students, he said. The academy has a Braille press attached to it. Swami Sarvalokananda said Bhabani Prasad Chanda, a visually challenged student at a students’ home in north Calcutta’s Pathuriaghata (RKM Students’ Home, Pathuriaghata), had requested Swami Lokeshwarananda — the then secretary of the home and later, the founder of the Narendrapur ashrama — to be allowed to stay in the hostel so he could study at Presidency College. The student went on to become the first principal of the academy when it came up in Narendrapur. The annexe was inaugurated by Prasanta Kumar Giri, the president of the managing committee of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
