14-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals fight vaccine shortage in city||At least one private hospital stopped Covid vaccination on Tuesday. Another is administering only second doses of Covishield and a third has stocks that will last barely a couple of days. Covid vaccines have again become scarce at many private hospitals in Calcutta and several of them have stopped or restricted the vaccination drive. Most hospitals have Sputnik V and Covaxin doses but officials there said the maximum demand is for Covishield. All these hospitals placed orders with the manufacturers through the CoWIN portal and made payments by Friday. But till Tuesday night, there was no word when fresh doses would come. Last month, the state government had told private vaccination centres that it would help them procure Covishield and Covaxin doses. The private centres were provided with a link to place orders through the National Health Authority and told to pay the manufacturers directly. However, in the last week of June, the state government had informed the private centres that the process was cancelled because of a new tax component that would be added from July. The payments would be returned to the private vaccination centres and they were told to submit fresh demands through CoWIN. Placing the order through the portal would help the Centre monitor the distribution system. But many private hospitals said such complications had delayed the procurement process and stocks were getting exhausted before the arrival of fresh doses. Charnock Hospital stopped the vaccination drive on Tuesday as its stocks had exhausted. “We were rationing Co-vaxin doses for the last few days. On Monday, we vaccinated only 20 persons,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital. “The Covishield stocks had been exhausted more than a month back.” The hospital has placed fresh orders for 6,000 doses of Covishield and around 1,000 doses of Covaxin. But there is no clarity yet on when they will come. Peerless Hospital has not been administering the first dose of Covishield since Monday. “Only the second dose of Covishield is being administered. We have 1,800 doses and that will last for barely a week,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The number of vaccinations has come down from around 600 every day to less than 400. “We are administering a few doses of Sputnik V and Covaxin. Around 80 per cent of the people want Covishield,” he said. The hospital has placed orders for 35,000 doses of Covishield and 7,000 doses of Covaxin. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has stocks of Covishield for barely two days. “We have 1,000 doses left and every day around 500 people are getting vaccinated. We have placed orders through CoWIN for 35,000 doses of Covishield and made payments last Friday, but till now there is no response from the manufacturer,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has reduced vaccination at all three units and also at off-site camps. “We have stocks for at most a week. The number of people being vaccinated daily at our three units has dropped from around 3,000 to 1,500. Off-site vaccinations have gone down from around 5,000 daily to around 2,000,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. The group has placed demands for 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield and 30,000 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation health clinics see sharp drop in Covid shots||Several clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation that were vaccinating about 300 people daily in April are now administering around 150 jabs, a sharp drop that civic officials are attributing to unavailability of doses. The civic body had targeted to vaccinate 50,000 people daily from its centres, a feat it had achieved earlier. But over the past fortnight, the ward health clinics and other Covid vaccination centres run by the CMC have been able to administer only about 30,000 doses a day, said officials. “We have the capacity to vaccinate up to one lakh people from our centres daily. Earlier, we had performed 50,000 vaccinations in a day from our centres. A fast vaccination is the only way to prevent a third wave of Covid,” a CMC doctor said. “But in the last fortnight we have not been able to vaccinate more than 30,000 people daily. The number may seem high but if one considers that we run 190 centres, this is not a figure we can be happy about. We have the ability to vaccinate far more people,” the doctor said. CMC doctors said some of their clinics had vaccinated 300 or more people daily in April. “We had inoculated around 300 people on several days in April. The figure stood at 250 on many other days,” said a doctor in charge of a clinic in Garia. “Nowadays, we are vaccinating between 100 and 150 people daily.” Doctors attached to several other CMC clinics spoke about a similar drop in the vaccination numbers. The shortage of doses has crippled vaccination across the state, said a health department official. For all 23 districts of Bengal, there were only about 12 lakh vaccine doses in stock. “The doses will last for only four days. We are expecting fresh supplies in the second half of July. If enough doses come, we will scale up vaccination,” the official said. The daily vaccination numbers have come down from a peak of 5 lakh to about 2.5 lakh. The shortage has prompted the CMC and the state health department to give priority to second dose recipients. Xavier’s camp St Xavier’s Collegiate School organised a vaccination camp for the families of students who attend their night school on Tuesday. The free drive on the primary school campus was in association with the CMC and Alumnorum Societas (Alsoc — St Xavier’s School Old Boys’ Association). Around 380 parents, most of whom work as hawkers and house help, received Covishield doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to start undergraduate classes over digital platforms from August 9 ||St Xavier’s University, New Town, will start its undergraduate classes from August 9 over digital platforms. The university conducted online tests for admission to commerce, management, economics, English and mass communication between July 10 and 12. Vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said, “Students encountering connectivity problems or are unable to afford datapacks can come to the campus and use the university’s connectivity facilities to attend classes.” St Xavier’s is a private university. At a meeting between education minister Bratya Basu and vice-chancellors of state universities last week, it was decided that these universities would accept the application forms between August 2 and 20 and start undergraduate classes from October 1. At St Xavier’s University, Father Felix Raj said, results of the admission test would be announced on July 16. Admissions will start thereafter and continue till July 31. “Admission will be given on the basis of the tests. However, the student must pass a plus-II examination conducted by a recognised board/council in India and obtain a minimum of 55 per cent marks in the aggregate and also minimum 45 per cent marks in each of the four subjects as mentioned in the eligibility criteria. If it is found that a candidate has been selected on the basis of an admission test but has failed to fulfil the minimum marks criteria then the admission will be cancelled,” he told The Telegraph. CBSE board and the ICSE council would declare the Class-XII results on or before July 31. The state higher secondary council is going to publish results on July 22. An official of the university said an early start of the classes would enable the university to cover the syllabus and conduct the semester exam on time. “This year we are being able to start classes early as the university is enrolling students through online tests, marking a departure from the practice of selecting students based on their marks in the Class XII board exams,” he said. Since the board exams could not be held this year because of a surge in the number of Covid cases, the university conducted admission tests hoping that this would bring out the potential of an aspirant to study the programme and give a level playing field to all applicants. Father Felix said: “The prolonged run of the pandemic has caused severe financial distress among the families. There could be students who are not in a position to buy a gadget or afford the cost of datapacks. They can stay at the hostels and use the computer facilities on the campus to attend the classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal higher secondary results from 4pm on July 22||The Bengal higher secondary results will be announced on July 22. The websites where results can be accessed include http://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametc.com, www.results.shiksha, www.westbengal.shiksha, http://abpananda.abplive.in/ and abpeducation.com. Candidates have to submit their registration numbers to know the results online after 4pm on July 22. Mark sheets will be distributed from July 23. To know the results through text messaging, students have to type WB12 roll number and send the message to 56070, 5676750 or 56263. The candidates can register their roll numbers and mobile numbers on www.exametc.com to know the results through SMS for free. The students can also download a mobile app from www.results.shiksha to view the results. “The registration numbers that were provided to the candidates when they were in Class XI will have to be submitted to know the results through websites. The council will not publish any merit list this year. When the candidates visit their schools on July 23 to collect mark sheets, they will be given admit cards and certificates as well,” said Mahua Das, the president of the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education. The HS exams were not held this year because of Covid. The HS council has given 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the total was then added to 30-mark practical (for lab-based subjects) or 20-mark project (for non-lab subjects) to arrive at the final marks of an HS candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||State excise department bars The Park from serving alcohol||The state excise department has barred The Park, from where 37 people were arrested early on Sunday for allegedly partying in violation of Covid norms, from serving alcohol in all its 10 bars and rooms till further notice. A written order handed to the management of the Park Street hotel on Tuesday afternoon mentioned that the department had learnt that liquor had been served on Saturday night beyond the stipulated time of 8pm, in violation of the state government’s order under the Disaster Management Act. Hence, the hotel had been barred from serving liquor. “The FIR drawn up by police says that during the Saturday night party, liquor was served in the hotel’s corridor. When we asked the hotel authorities whether liquor served to the revelers was from their bar or from other sources, they couldn’t give any satisfactory reply,” said an official of the excise department. A case has been lodged under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code with Park Street police station. On Sunday, the excise department, which is responsible for licensing outlets serving or selling alcohol, questioned some hotel officials after going through details of the FIR. Officials of the department said they found out that liquor had been served to guests at the Saturday night party in the corridor adjoining rooms. “Had the guests been drinking in their rooms, we would have no role to play. But that wasn’t the case with this particular party,” an official of the department said. “The state government’s order related to Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut by 8pm.” The detective department of Calcutta police, which is probing the case, has asked a few officials of the hotel, including the floor manager and the food and beverage manager, to appear for a round of questioning at Lalbazar on Wednesday. “The FIR has the name of the hotel. We would like to know who had arranged for the DJ and the console sets for the Saturday night party and whether the revelry was restricted to the guests who had booked rooms or there were guests from outside,” an officer of the detective department said. Among the 37 persons arrested, seven were remanded in police custody and two in judicial custody. The rest were released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Trafficking survivors struggle to keep trade afloat||The pandemic has left in tatters the dream of hundreds of trafficking survivors to earn financial independence, key to sustainable rehabilitation and a life of dignity. Over 250 trafficking survivors in North and South 24-Parganas, members of self-help groups engaged in small business ventures, have been struggling to keep their trade afloat because of the Covid-19 curbs. The business ventures include trading in readymade garments, imitation jewellery and other stationeries. Some have set up tailoring units and some others have started pisciculture. The membership of self-help groups meant easy access to low-interest loans from banks, crucial in starting their own ventures. Most of these self-help groups were benefited by the Anandadhara scheme, launched by the state government to empower rural women in 2012. A 26-year-old woman who lives in a village near the Maina police check post in Barasat in North 24-Parganas, around 15km from the heart of Calcutta, has been running a tailoring business for over three years. She had started from scratch but by March 2020, she had around a dozen people working for her on a contractual basis. She got bulk orders, many from Calcutta, for embroidery work on saris and salwar suits. The 2020 lockdown had hit her hard but she had recovered and was earning “over Rs 10,000 every month” even after paying the contractual workers. But the curbs of 2021 — absence of adequate transport options and suspension of local trains — have again crippled her business. “The orders from the city have stopped. I have to depend on a handful of retail customers in the village. I earn barely Rs 2,000 a month,” she said. Her husband, a daily wage earner at construction sites, is out of work as well because of the pandemic. The woman, who was trafficked to Pune when she was a minor and rescued from a brothel in the Budhwar Peth area during a police raid in 2010, had received a stitching machine from the local administration as part of a rehabilitation scheme. She also received business loans through the self-help group. Another woman in Canning I block in South 24-Parganas, 60km from the heart of Calcutta, had started trading in imitation jewellery, trinkets, hairbands and clips. She procured her stock from Burrabazar and sold it at her village and a couple of neighbouring villages. “I am not being able to pick up new stock because local trains are suspended. But there is no point in procuring fresh clothes because I am left with unsold stock worth Rs 5,000,” said the woman, in her 20s. The number of customers has nosedived because tens of thousands of people in rural areas have lost their income because of the pandemic. The purchasing power of the local population has gone down sharply. A handful of customers are willing to buy from her but on credit. Many customers still owe her “a lot of money”. Her father, who used to work as a daily wage earner at a tannery in Tangra, has also been out of work since May. The woman, who escaped from the clutches of traffickers on a Delhi-bound train in 2015, became a member of a self-help group a couple of years ago and got a loan of Rs 10,000. She has faltered on repayment for the past two months. Most of the women this newspaper spoke to said they were struggling to repay the monthly instalments in the absence of fresh orders and rolling cash. Some of these survivors have received victim compensations from the state. Some others are engaged in the long and cumbersome legal battle to get compensation. But many survivors have not been able to seek legal recourse for want of resources and fear of stigma. Rights activists working with the survivors said the self-help groups were a step in the right direction but the pandemic took them back several years. They listed some cruel fallouts of the pandemic that were hurting the survivors, apart from the lack of transport options: ⚫ In most of the survivors’ families, other earning members have also lost their income ⚫ Most of these families are yet to receive even one dose of a Covid vaccine. They feel unprotected and are weary to step out for work ⚫ The crisis has forced them to turn to money lenders who charge steep interest rates. Being financially vulnerable, the women can fall prey to traffickers once again, warn activists. “The survivors showed a lot of courage to start their own ventures. Once they started earning, they realised that financial independence held the key to a life of dignity. Now, a virus is threatening to rob them of that dignity once again,” said Sambhu Nanda of Partners for Anti-Trafficking (PAT), a network of eight organisations working in North 24-Parganas that helps in rescue and rehabilitation of trafficking survivors. The network helped in setting up 10 self-help groups across North 24-Parganas that engaged around 130 survivors. Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a network of organisations in South 24-Parganas, said she was flooded with requests for help almost every day by survivors. The Goranbose network supports around 15 self-help groups that engage around 150 survivors. Most of them are dependent on ration from the administration and NGOs, she said. “The women refused to give up even after taking a massive hit during the lockdown imposed last year. But the renewed curbs are threatening to deliver a knockout punch,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-07-2021||Calcutta||Several parking rackets thrive across New Town||Parking rackets are fleecing owners of four-wheelers and two-wheelers at a time many men and women are avoiding getting on public transport as a precaution against Covid-19. Parking “agents” in several parking zones in New Town — including the ones in front of Axis Mall, near Central Mall and on the Ring Road of Eco Park — are collecting exorbitant fees. The parking zones in front of Axis Mall and on the Ring Road are run by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) employees, while a private agency has been hired to collect parking fees from vehicles in front of Central Mall. Apart from that, a group of “agents” has set up unauthorised parking zones on roads leading to Axis Mall and Central Mall. The parked cars constrict the carriageways, triggering bottlenecks. The parking rates fixed by the NKDA are Rs 10 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 an hour for two-wheelers. People who are commuting to New Town as well as residents of the township said the rate chart was hardly followed. The Telegraph drove around New Town on Tuesday and saw parking “agents” take anything from Rs 20 to Rs 50 an hour for cars and between Rs 10 and Rs 20 an hour for two-wheelers. After driving through nearly all major thoroughfares and visiting at least five such “parking lots”, a board announcing the parking charges was spotted opposite Axis Mall's main gate in Action Area I. But the part where the rates for four-wheelers were written was covered by black paint. This newspaper also asked several “agents” to show their identity cards but none had any. “This weekend I was forced to cough up Rs 30 although I had parked my car for barely 45 minutes in front of Axis Mall,” said Sudhakshina Sinha. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said: "We will look into this immediately.” An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they too would look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
