15-07-2021||Calcutta||CBSE directs schools to relook at Class X marks ||The CBSE has told schools that those who have not complied with the board policy and awarded higher marks to Class X students are being given an opportunity to “relook (at) the marks and redo moderation” according to “historical performance and given reference range”. Tuesday’s circular said the schools would have to complete the work by Saturday 5pm. To support schools, the circular said, the CBSE had given them the marks of best of three years and schools were expected to follow the reference distribution while awarding marks. The circular said upon analysis post uploading of marks by schools, it had observed that “some schools have not done the same and bunched the marks in upper brackets of given reference range, eg instead of distributing theory marks in 70-80 range, marks have been bunched in 77-80 range”. It said: “This is unfair to the few actually deserving candidates, whose performance will fall in this range of marks.” The board has said if schools do not follow the directions, “CBSE before preparation of result will moderate the marks... and also initiate action against the schools”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||19-year-old ‘blackmailer’ held for teen suicide||A 19-year-old boy has been arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abetting suicide of a 14-year-old girl, who had hanged herself at her Howrah home, earlier this month. Police said the girl had written the passcode of her mobile phone on her wrist that helped the cops gather evidence in the case. The police said they have arrested Sunny Khan who had been allegedly threatening the girl on social media to continue a relationship with him despite the fact that he was married. “The victim distanced herself from the accused once she realised he was married. But he threatened to post her photographs on social media. The victim was unable to take the pressure and ended her life,” said a senior officer of Howrah police commissionerate. The family of the Class VIII student had lodged a complaint against the man who they knew was “disturbing” the victim, the police said. “We knew that a man whom she had befriended on social media was disturbing her,” the girl’s elder sister had told The Telegraph on July 5. Based on the family’s complaint, officers of Bally police station had initiated a probe and on conducting the forensic examination of the victim’s phone, found evidence of how she was being blackmailed by Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro service on weekdays with 50% seating capacity||Metro train services will resume in a limited manner from Friday as part of the Bengal government’s latest relaxations to the pandemic-induced stricter restrictions, most of which have been extended by another 15 days till July 30. According to a notification issued by the Mamata Banerjee government on Wednesday, Metro trains will be allowed to run on weekdays with 50 per cent seating capacity. Consistent with its cautious approach of allowing movement only for emergency and work, the government said there would not be any Metro services on Saturdays and Sundays. Suburban train services, however, will remain suspended till at least July 30. The relaxations the state government has offered from July 16 to July 30 are: ⚫ Metro train services with 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday to Friday. ⚫ All kinds of shops can remain open without restrictions to their normal business hours, except for the 9pm-to-5am curfew. ⚫ Retail outlets at shopping malls and market complexes can remain open till 8pm with 50 per cent workforce and restricted entry of customers. These shops are now operating with 30 per cent of the workforce, and till 6pm. ⚫ Banks can operate from 10am to 3pm. Earlier, they could remain open only till 2pm. ⚫ Games and sports can resume, but in empty stadiums. Sources in the government said that during a meeting with the chief minister on Wednesday, senior officials advised that continuing with the stricter restrictions for a few more weeks would be prudent although daily Covid cases in Bengal have fallen to 800-odd from over 22,000 in April-end. “It is a precautionary step keeping in mind a possible third wave of the pandemic.… We discussed the situation in states like Kerala where the daily cases are rising again after stricter restrictions were eased. So we want to have a closer look at the infection numbers before we withdraw all restrictions,” a senior government official said. The sources said that before the chief minister’s meeting in the afternoon at Nabanna, an advisory from the Union home ministry had arrived at the state headquarters, suggesting that restrictions be relaxed in a carefully calibrated manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State health department writes to private hospitals to ramp up child care||The state health department has written to the private hospitals to augment beds and arrange infrastructure for paediatric care to deal with a third wave. The hospitals have been asked to augment existing beds — both general and critical care beds — so that paediatric as well as neonatal patients can be treated well. This may need “paediatric-specific infrastructures and logistics”, the department’s letter said. The letter also mentioned the need for adequate training for doctors, nurses and other human resources in the hospitals for paediatric care. “Given the Covid-19 experience in certain regions of the world, experts have been predicting a Third Wave of Covid-19 cases with a disproportionately high burden among the paediatric population. Therefore, there is a need to prepare for any sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in future in the paediatric population,” read the letter. “It is desirable to designate specific areas in the Covid facilities for paediatric care with due regards to infection prevention measures”. Most multispeciality private hospitals in the city have paediatrics departments, said officials of hospitals. “We have prepared a plan of how to segregate Covid and non-Covid paediatric patients in the paediatric ward. We have already submitted a plan to the government on how we will deal with any additional load of infants and children with Covid if a situation arises,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. The department’s letter also spoke about the need of emergency services for paediatric patients. “There need to be appropriate triage area system and holding area for patients waiting for reports. Available holding area, used for adults, may be augmented to suitably cater for the paediatric patients and their guardians”, the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Excise department to conduct probe into how liquor reached revellers at The Park||The excise department will conduct a probe to find out whether the liquor served at the Saturday night party at The Park, from where 37 people were arrested for violating Covid norms, was provided by the hotel or not. The decision was taken on Wednesday, a day after the excise department barred the hotel from serving liquor in all its 10 bars and rooms till further notice. The probe will run parallel to the one that is already being carried out by the detective department of Calcutta police. The excise department will set up a team that will visit the Park Street hotel within the next few days. “The team will talk to hotel officials and find out how liquor reached the revellers beyond the stipulated time of 8pm on Saturday,” said a senior officer of the excise department. “We will then scan the seized liquor bottles.” Following the findings of the probe, the department would invite the hotel authorities for a hearing and a final decision would be subsequently taken on whether the restriction on serving liquor would remain or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Snatchers pistol-whip, slash walker on Maidan||A 24-year-old morning walker who tried to resist as two scooter-borne men snatched his iPhone was hit by a pistol butt on his head and slashed in both arms and the right leg, and lay bleeding on the Maidan early on Wednesday morning. Police said the two assailants had robbed two other morning walkers at gunpoint before they targeted Hargovind Vyas off Kidderpore Road near the Read Road crossing. The two earlier victims, Rakesh Rana, 49, and Sachin Kumar Shaw, 21, had apparently handed over their mobile phones and cash without protest after being told they would be shot if they resisted or raised the alarm. All three incidents were reported between 5.20am and 5.35am. Two men were arrested on Wednesday afternoon from Entally and Beniapukur in connection with the offence. They were identified as Mohammad Imran alias Totla, 33, and Sheikh Sameer Hossain alias Saboo, 33. Hargovind, a resident of Basak Street in Burrabazar, had come walking all the way from his home to the Maidan. He was walking back home when he was accosted, his younger brother Shambhu said. “Usually, all three of us brothers go for morning walks together. But today he (Hargovind) had gone alone. We received a call from an unknown number — it was our brother informing us that he was seriously injured and that his iPhone 6s had been snatched,” Shambhu said. “My younger brother and I rushed to the Maidan and found he was bleeding profusely and the police were preparing to take him away in an ambulance.” Shambhu said his brother had told him that one of the two men on the scooter had pushed him from the back, and he felt his phone being snatched from his hand. As Hargovind grabbed one of the men, the other allegedly slashed him multiple times with a large knife, Shambhu said. “One of them attacked my brother with the butt of a pistol. That is when he fell and gave up. The two men fled,” the brother said. The stretch where the incident happened is frequented by hundreds of morning walkers from across the city. It appears that a morning walker found Hargovind, let him make a call home, and rang up the police helpline. The police said they had morning patrol vehicles in the Maidan area, which is why they could respond promptly. Hargovind was discharged from hospital late in the afternoon with 80 stitches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Value lessons keep kids busy at home||Students of Akshar School offered their tribute to Rabindranath Tagore on the bard’s 160th birth anniversary with enthusiasm and joy. It was an online endeavour where everyone was united in spirit. Students of classes I to VI celebrated Tagore Week. It was an enlightening period wherein the children spoke about the bard’s life, recited his poems, narrated stories, sang songs, danced, played instruments and made beautiful paintings and informative PowerPoint presentations on Tagore’s child characters. “Rabindra Jayanti was celebrated with fervour by children and teachers alike. In fact, the teachers have adapted Birpurush, the poem by Tagore into a skit for the prize distribution day which seems to be a very apt choice at these times,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Junior students of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated Mother’s Day, virtually. Children of LKG to Class II met online to share with their classmates titbits about their mothers and what made them special. Every class did something special to entertain their mothers. From card-making, sharing family photographs to twinning the children and their mothers made the best of the home-bound celebrations. The enthusiastic children of Class II prepared non-flame dishes such as cold coffee, salads and sandwiches for their moms. Beautiful handmade cards came along with the treat. “I feel every day is Mother’s Day. However, one occasion earmarked to celebrate motherhood has its own importance. Children have grown to appreciate the selfless effort of their mothers, especially during the new normal. One can never repay what a mother does for her child. However, a smile, hug and thank you from children do make mothers feel loved and appreciated,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. “During the pandemic, mothers are playing a major role to help their wards sail through all the adversities and crises. Her responsibilities have multiplied now. We are grateful to them and salute all mothers,” said the Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. Birla High School, Mukundapur, recently organised the annual day and prize distribution ceremony on a virtual platform with video presentations, compiling cultural performances by students and celebrating their various achievements in the online classes. The school report shared in the presentations highlighted the extra-curricular activities conducted virtually, the role of the teachers and students in the paradigm shift — from brick and mortar to virtual class. For the prize distribution ceremony, the school celebrated the performance of the students in online classes under different parameters such as being alert and responsive during online classes, good conduct, immaculate presentation of work and innovative thinking. “The Annual Day and Prize Distribution Ceremony is a much-awaited event in the school calendar and students look forward to being felicitated for the good work they have done throughout the year. Since the academic session 2020-21 was so different from our previous sessions, we decided to change our prize categories in order to reward students for their adaptability to the online mode of the teaching and learning process,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Purushottam Bhagchandka Academic School recently hosted a week-long summer camp, virtually. Students of Pre-primary to Class XII took part in the camp that included webinars and workshops on gardening, culinary skills and paper craft, to name a few. There were events such as psychological counselling, zumba, fitness and storytelling sessions as part of the camp. “Summer camp is an inherent part of the curriculum which aims to impart holistic education to the students. It has always been designed catering to the students’ interests,” said principal Madhuparna Andrews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||State expects to receive 45 lakh Covid vaccine doses by end-July||The state government is expected to receive 45 lakh Covid vaccine doses between now and the end of July, a senior official of the health department said on Wednesday. The vaccine manufacturers have informed the department about the supply schedule. The supply would consist of 37 lakh Covishield and 8 lakh Covaxin doses, said the official. However, there was no clarity when private hospitals would get fresh stocks for which they have paid manufacturers last week. The state received 3.5 lakh doses on Wednesday and would get another 5 lakh doses on Thursday. An official in the health department said that the 45 lakh doses for the rest of the month would enable the state to vaccinate about 3 lakh people on an average every day. The fresh supply is also likely to boost the vaccination from centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “We have received a schedule of supply for the rest of the month from the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin. We will receive 45 lakh doses by July 31. We were supposed to get 48 lakh doses for the rest of July but 3 lakh doses will arrive on August 2, though this will be considered as the supply for the month of July,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer. Bengal had managed to vaccinate 5 lakh people a day earlier but could not sustain the pace because of vaccine shortage, said a health department official. According to Co-Win, Bengal administered 2,24,930 doses on Tuesday and 2,03,052 doses on Monday. The state had vaccinated 3,90,838 people on June 25. Officials of the department said that the state had received about 25 lakh doses in the first half of July and the increased supply would mean more vaccinations on an average every day. For the last fortnight, the Covid vaccination in Calcutta and across the state has been very erratic because of the inconsistent supply of vaccines. The CMC’s clinics vaccinated varying numbers of people on various days. In the week before last, the CMC’s clinics vaccinated only 50 people on a couple of days because of the shortage of doses. Some of the clinics that had vaccinated about 300 people in April are now vaccinating only 100 or 150 people in a day. “Every day there is a ruckus outside some CMC clinic. There are people queuing up since early morning to get vaccinated. Sometimes there are 250 people in a queue but only 150 vaccine doses to administer,” said a senior doctor of the CMC. The CMC had targeted vaccinating 50,000 people a day, a feat it has achieved earlier. But in the last two weeks, it has barely managed to vaccinate about 30,000 people from all its 190 centres. The CMC’s clinics are prioritising second dose vaccinations. The second doses are being administered between 10am and 1pm and the first doses are administered between 1pm and 4pm. The CMC staff in the vaccination centres are asking people to form two queues, one for first dose and another for second dose, so that they can distribute the coupons that recipients have to carry to get vaccinated among both first and second dose recipients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math to open for a day on Guru Purnima||Belur Math, the global headquarters of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will be open for a day on July 24 on the occasion of Guru Purnima, the Math authorities have decided. Belur Math has remained shut to visitors since April 22  following a surge in Covid-19 cases. The authorities are yet to decide on its re-opening. At a recent meeting of the governing council, senior monks at the headquarters decided that visitors and devotees would be allowed inside the Math compound only for a day on Guru Purnima. It has been decided that the Math would remain open between 7.30am and 11am and from 4pm to 5.30pm. “Devotees and visitors will be able to visit only the temples and offer pranam,” said a senior monk of the order. “We hope that devotees and visitors would not loiter around unnecessarily on the Math compound that day.” Traditionally on Guru Purnima, devotees meet senior monks at Belur Math. But this time, the authorities have decided there will be no darshan of Swami Smaranananda, the president of the order, or the vice-presidents. Their blessings to the devotees will be premiered through pre-recorded video messages through the website and YouTube channel of Belur Math. Mayer Bari Mayer Bari in Bagbazar will be thrown open to devotees and visitors from July 16, the authorities have decided. Devotees can visit between 8.30am and 10.45am in the morning and between 4pm and 5.45pm in the evening. The visitors will have to abide by the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Jogger rushes to help, gets robbed but chases snatchers||The first morning walker whose mobile phone was snatched on Red Road on Wednesday was a 21-year-old who is new to the city. The second was a 49-year-old Calcuttan who responded to the cries of the first and came forward to help. Garments trader Sachin Kumar Shaw who has recently come to the city from Bihar was robbed of Rs 4,500 and his mobile phone at gunpoint. Rakesh Rana, who works as a peon in an office in central Calcutta, was jogging with a friend a few metres away, was the first to respond. Rana rushed towards Shaw when he realised a fellow morning walker was being robbed, police said. He, too, was forced to part with his mobile phone, the police added. As the two scooter-borne attackers fled, Rana and his friend who had a two-wheeler gave chase and found them attacking another morning walker — Hargovind Vyas — with a “big knife and a gun”, they purportedly told cops. The accused duo saw Rana approach on the two-wheeler and fled. Rana chased the scooter till the Outram Road-JL Nehru Road crossing after which the two managed to escape towards Park Street, the police said. The two suspects who were later arrested have claimed that they lost their jobs during the Covid pandemic, the police said. The police are yet to verify their statement. “One of them has claimed he worked in a shoe manufacturing unit and the other was an embroidery tailor and that both have lost their jobs. These soft claims are very common among criminals to gain sympathy… But the presence of a gun suggests that they are not amateurs,” said an officer in Lalbazar. The police said the butt of the gun was used to hit Hargovind on his head when he tried to resist the snatchers snatching his iPhone. Hargovind, who jointly runs his family business of wholesale grocery and printer’s ink, received four sharp cut wounds apart from being hit on his head with the pistol butt. “He had sharp weapon injuries all over him. One on his right leg, two on his right arm and wrist and one deep gash on his left arm. He received 80 stitches at SSKM hospital, including 12 on his head,” said a police officer. The arrested duo — Mohammad Imran alias Totla, 33, of Phoolbagan Road in Entally, and Sheikh Sameer Hossain alias Saboo, 33, of Dr Suresh Sarkar Road — have been charged with sections of robbery and attempting to cause death or grievous hurt while commission of the offence. They will be produced in court on Thursday. The police said they used electronic surveillance and human intelligence to zero in on the accused. “We received the information at 5.35am when a caller dialled 100. There was a simultaneous alert from the traffic control room. Our officers were at the spot within the next five minutes along with an ambulance to rescue the injured person. The accused were arrested within a few hours,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. Hargovind’s younger brother Shambhu, who had rushed to the spot after being informed, said Hargovind was lying in a pool of blood but had not lost consciousness. “He was aware of his surroundings and told me everything. He had been very brave,” said Shambhu. Later in the afternoon, Hargovind was discharged from the hospital and the family brought him back to their Burrabazar home. The other victims — Rana, of Chatawala Gali in Bowbazar, and Shaw, who is presently staying on SN Banerjee Road — were escorted to the Maidan police station where they recorded their statements. Rana reported the robbery of his mobile phone and Shaw reported the snatching of his mobile phone and Rs 4,500. The Maidan police station initiated a case for the three robberies, which was taken over by the anti-dacoity and robbery squad of the Calcutta police’s detective department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers raise Rs 1.5 lakh for students’ online classes in Howrah||Teachers of a government-sponsored school in Howrah raised Rs 1.5 lakh for the online education of the students who were unable to attend classes because of unavailability of phones or inability to recharge with datapacks. About 60 per cent of the students of the school come from low-income groups and a significant number of them are first-generation school goers whose fathers are hawkers and mothers work as domestic helps. Teachers at the Howrah Jogesh Chandra Girls’ School have so far given phones to 21 girls and helped 35 with data recharge in Classes V to IX. The school handed over the phones to the guardians during an event organised on the school premises recently. The pandemic has hit the livelihood of some of the parents. The school told the students that they would receive the phones recharged till the time their parents were unable to do it, said Subhra Chakraborty, the headmistress of the school. “We conducted a survey to understand the situation. Each class teacher from Classes V to X found out how many girls were unable to attend the online classes and the reason for not being able to do so,” said headmistress Chakraborty. Chakraborty said the school located in the Howrah Maidan area had started online classes from around March last year. However, drop outs increased after the classes commenced over digital platforms. A section of the girls went back to native places. The long absence of physical classes aided this migration, a school official said. “This is something that I have wanted to do since last year. This year I discussed with the teachers if we could come forward to help the students and they agreed to,” said Chakraborty. In the survey, the teachers found that 55 students did not have devices or had phones which could not be used for online lessons. “It was difficult to provide devices to so many students at one go. So we prepared a list of meritorious students but cannot afford to buy a device. The teachers recommended the name and we have provided them initially,” she said. Every month the school has estimated about Rs 7,000 in datapack recharge and the school is hopeful of raising more funds. Chakraborty said in each class about 20 to 25 per cent students are “first generation learners”. “Even 10 years back there were more students from the middle-income group but that has gone down. When income improves there is a tendency amongst parents to get their wards admitted to English medium schools. We have started English medium section in 2017.” Chakraborty said while the teachers have raised this amount this year there have been instances in the last 15 months when teachers have come forward to get the girls’ phones recharged or even help them with books even before the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Colleges to accept online applications for entry into UG courses from August 2 ||The Bengal higher education department on Wednesday told colleges and universities that a “prospective student should not be called for counselling or verification of documents during the process of admission” because of the pandemic. The colleges will start accepting applications online for the admission process from August 2. They will receive the applications till August 20, says a notification issued on Wednesday for the affiliating universities. The admission process was announced a day after the state higher secondary council said that Bengal board Class XII results would be declared on July 22. No physical presence “will be required at the college/university” says the notification. After the plus-II results are published across all the major boards, the colleges will assess how the students have performed. They will come up with the eligibility criteria and a format for online applications on their websites, said an official of the department. “If a college wants to factor in the marks of the secondary exams (Class X) held in pen-and-paper mode in 2019 as well while drawing up the merit list, it has to speak to the respective affiliating university. Since the plus-II exams could not be conducted and students have largely been evaluated based on marks in Class X board and Class XI exams and internal assessment or practical in Class XII, many colleges desire to consider the marks of the Class X exams,” he said. An undergraduate aspirant will apply according to the eligibility criteria and enter the best-four score and marks in the subject a candidate wants to major, in the application format. Scanned marksheets will have to be attached to the format. After going through the scores, each college will prepare a merit list and upload it on its website. Colleges have to publish the  list by August 31. Vice-chancellor of an affiliating university said the colleges would have to inform the prospective candidates through text message/WhatsApp or email that their names feature on the merit list. They will be given details of the bank where they will make the payment  of the admission fees. The lists containing names of eligible candidates will also be provided to the concerned bank branches for verification during payment. The notification says: “Payment of fees should be done only through e-payment or designated banks and not physically at the colleges.” The undergraduate admission process would have to be completed by September 30. A communication will be sent to the colleges by the banks. The colleges will then alert the selected students about the commencement of classes over digital platforms in case the Covid situation does not improve for the resumption of in-person classes by October 1 — a schedule fixed for the start of classes. Documents will be verified as and when students are allowed to visit the colleges. “Admissions will stand cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the declarations made in the online application,” said an official. The notification said candidates would not be charged anything for scanning or uploading of documents and for the application forms or the college prospectus. Since the JEE board has been barred from holding any admission test on behalf of Presidency University amid   the pandemic, vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said they would admit students based on marks. Postgraduate entry The universities will start receiving online applications for postgraduate courses from September 1 to 15. After publication of the merit list by September 20, classes for masters will start from the last week of October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro Railway to resume services from July 16 with 50 per cent capacity||Metro Railway will run 192 trains daily from Monday to Friday, the carrier said on Wednesday after the state government greenlighted its resumption from July 16. “Metro Railway service shall operate five days a week with 50 per cent seating capacity and shall remain suspended on Saturdays and Sundays,” said the notification issued from Nabanna on Wednesday. Local trains will remain suspended, “except for staff special trains for movement of emergency and essential services personnel,” it added. Metro officials said they were treating “seating capacity” as “passenger capacity”. The suspension of local trains, limited attendance in offices and shutdown of schools and colleges would ensure that the 50 per cent cap is followed on Metro trains, said officials. “We will run 192 trains every day from Monday to Friday. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations (Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash) at 8am and 8pm respectively. Commuters will have to use smart cards. Tokens will remain suspended,” said a Metro official. Between May 5 and 15, when the carrier operated with a 50 per cent cap before the fleet was grounded on May 16, the number of trains every day was 192 and the number of passengers varied between 1,00,000 and 1,50,000. After a long shutdown last year, Metro services resumed from September 14, 2020. An e-pass system was introduced for access control at the gates when Metro services resumed. The number of trains and passenger count went up slowly. The e-pass system was discontinued from January 18 this year. Now, Metro passengers will only need a smart card to avail the services. The number of trains was increased to 258 in April this year, the most since the September 2020 resumption. Still at its peak, the number of passengers did not go past the three-lakh mark. “The ridership reduced drastically as the second wave made its impact felt. Even now, once the services resume, we don’t see the passenger count surging. We will increase the trains according to the requirement,” said a senior Metro official. The frequency of the trains will be adjusted according to the rush of passengers during the peak hours, he said. “On Saturdays, there will be 104 staff special trains. There will be no service on Sundays,” the carrier said in a statement. “Forty-eight trains will be run on the East-West corridor from 8am to 8pm from Monday to Friday, starting July 16,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
