16-07-2021||Calcutta||Students give day one of ABP Education College Fair a virtual thumbs up||On July 15, ABP Education flagged off its maiden virtual college admission fair for students who are graduating from high school in 2021. The virtual fair, powered by anandabazar.com and telegraphindia.com, opened at 10am and witnessed a virtual footfall of over 1000 visitors on the first day itself. Students and guardians had the opportunity to explore leading academic institutes under one roof, and interact with their representatives directly from the comfort of their homes. Students were able to seek relevant answers to their queries and book a seat in an institute of their choice, without having to physically go anywhere. A team of career counsellors, with their expert tips and guidance, further helped students pursuing their desired career goals connect with suitable colleges as well. The virtual fair, which will bring a plethora of interesting events and will continue till August xx, aims to help students discover their career options and new avenues of learning at this crucial juncture of their educational journey. Alongside exploring spot admission opportunities, students can also attend a host of webinars on emerging careers and career development. Keynote speakers from various institutes and eminent industry experts will come aboard to deliver inspirational talks and empower students with practical knowledge about their chosen career paths. Topical discussions would be around careers in engineering, arts, social sciences, media, mass communication, nursing, design, hotel management, hospitality and tourism, commerce, law, among others. Over 16,000 students have registered for the online education fair till date. On the other hand, a myriad of renowned institutes have associated with this premium educational event to showcase their programmes and the career prospects they bring to their upcoming batch of students. Adamas University, Amrita University, Indian Institute of Hotel Management, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Sister Nivedita University, Techno India, Calcutta Institute of Engineering and Management, Eastern Institute of Integrated Learning in Management, Manav Rachna University, MCKV Institute of Technology, Swami Vivekananda University, OmDayal Group of Institutions, Dr B C Roy Engineering College, and B. P. Poddar Institute of Management and Technology are some of the top names in the bandwagon. Students, who have not yet registered for the ABP Education Admission Fair, can register here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Fake police vehicle seized; held for aiding terror accused||Tiljala: Traffic police personnel while carrying out a drive to clear no-parking areas found a Maruti Omni with a “police” sticker parked in a no-parking zone on Picnic Garden Road on Thursday. The officer-in-charge of the Tiljala traffic guard, Souvik Chakraborty, spotted the car. The owner of the car, identified as Sukumar Das, allegedly failed to explain why he had pasted a “police” sticker on his vehicle. Cops seized the vehicle and Das was arrested on charges of impersonation. Calcutta: A man was arrested for allegedly providing logistic support and funding to the suspected Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh operatives arrested in the city last week. Lalu Sen alias Rahul Sen alias Rahul Kumar, 38, was arrested in Barasat on Wednesday. “He used to support the JMB operatives by arranging funds for them through hawala and by preparing forged IDs for them,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||The Park hotel organised console for DJ at night party, say cops||The Park had organised an elaborate console for a disc jockey to perform on the third-floor corridor where guests danced till police arrived past 1 in the morning on Sunday, officers investigating the case said. There were over 50 guests in the corridor and the revelry began late at night, well past the time — 9pm — when night curfew kicks in across the state because of Covid-19. Some of the guests, the police said, had left by the time the cop team turned up at the Park Street hotel. In all, 37 people were arrested at the hotel for partying in violation of Covid norms. The disc jockey’s console was connected to large sound boxes, which were placed on one side of the corridor where the late-night party was held. Guests from the rooms booked previously across the second and third floors, as well as from outside, joined the revelry. The console box was placed on a three-tiered wooden desk. The turntable was placed right on the top shelf for the DJ to use. The second tier of the desk had the remaining part of the console with electric wires fitted into a socket. The lowest shelf had a heap of black, yellow and red wires connected to the sound boxes. Offices of the detective department of Calcutta police said the hotel authorities had made the entire arrangement for placing the console box and getting a DJ. “We have spoken to some of the hotel employees and collected information about the Saturday night party. We will speak to a few other employees as well,” a senior police officer at Lalbazar said on Thursday. “Apart from the accused, the FIR also has the name of the hotel and it is imperative for us to talk to the staff.” Officers who have spoken to hotel employees said that in all probability the party with loud music would have continued till dawn, in violation of the restrictions imposed by the state government to combat the spread of the coronavirus. “After speaking to some of the employees, it appears that the hotel authorities were aware that a late night party was being organised on Saturday,” the officer said. “The sound boxes and the DJ console set were accordingly moved to the third-floor corridor.” The hotel authorities did not react to the allegations. In an earlier statement, the management had said that being in the hospitality business for over five decades, the hotel had been complying with all rules and regulations and would continue to do so. A spokesperson said on Thursday: “We have nothing more to add.” The state government has banned most gatherings as a precaution against Covid. Weddings and related events can be held with up to 50 people. The cap for funerals is at 20. The excise department has prohibited sale of liquor from any of the bars on The Park premises. The department has sought CCTV footage of the party to find out who had served liquor to the revelers. Investigators have collec-ted CCTV footage of the corridor where the party was held and recorded statements of seven of the 37 accused who are in police custody. The rest have obtained bail. Those in custody will be produced in court again on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro to run trains every 7 to 9 minutes from today||Metro trains will run at an interval of seven to nine minutes for most of the day, once services for all resume on Friday. The first trains will leave the terminal stations of Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 8am. The last train for New Garia will leave Dakshineswar at 7.48pm.  From Dum Dum and New Garia, the last trains will leave at 8pm. “Service will be available at seven to nine minutes’ interval for most of the day. Let us see how the first day goes. The number of trains will be increased from next week if there is a need for the same,” said a Metro official. The services will be available for all passengers from Monday to Friday. Only special trains for railway staff and essential service providers will run on Saturdays. There will be no trains on Sunday. A smart card is a must for a Metro as tokens will remain suspended. Metro services were suspended on May 15. In a notification issued on Thursday, the carrier said the smart cards whose validity expired “on or after May 15 to July 15 will be treated as valid till August 16”. But like before, sufficient balance on a card will be a must for a Metro ride, said an official. “Commuters need to contact on-duty booking officials at any station to validate their smart cards. People whose cards’ validity expired on or after May 15 should get the cards validated by August 16 to have their residual balance carried forward,” said an official. The carrier has 27 air-conditioned trains in operational condition. “All 27 trains will not roll out every day. The daily fleet will be adjusted according to the increase in the frequency of trains,” said another official. When trains resumed after a long shutdown on September 14 last year, seats were cross-marked to enforce social distancing protocols. “The markings are still there. But I am not sure how many passengers will abide by them. So far we have got no instructions to enforce the seating arrangements according to the markings,” said an RPF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||CMC and Metro blame game over waterlogging||The outgoing city mayor inspected two canals that drain out water from Jadavpur and Kasba on Thursday. He blamed the waterlogging in these places on blockades in the canals that were made to erect piers of the New Garia-airport Metro corridor. The blockades are necessary to erect piers for the Metro Railway corridor but they were supposed to be removed before the monsoon, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The delay in removing the blockades can be blamed on the various government authorities responsible for providing citizen services. RVNL, the executing agency of the New Garia-Airport Metro, had built the blockades last year to erect the piers. "We could begin work only in February," said an RVNL official. “We needed traffic closure in the middle of the Avishikta crossing for the construction work. This permission was granted only in February, otherwise we could have finished the work before the monsoon.” The delay in handing over the site was a result of another delay. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of the Bypass, was supposed to widen a stretch of the artery at the Avishikta crossing last year. But the widening was completed in January this year. Police had agreed to barricade the crossing only after widening the stretch to prevent snarls. While the CMC blamed RVNL for the waterlogging, the railway agency blamed the state government for the delay. Caught in the blame game, people suffered. Several homes were inundated after spells of rain. Water had entered the reservoir of several homes and residents had to wade through shin-deep water more than 24 hours after it stopped raining. Waterlogging in these areas is also a result of a lack of underground drainage, lack of desilting of drains and lack of dredging of canals, said civic engineers. To reduce waterlogging for the rest of the monsoon, RVNL has promised to remove the blockade in the canals. “The RVNL will remove the blockade by July 22. Once the blockades are removed, the water will flow at greater speed and waterlogging will reduce,” Hakim said on Thursday. The two canals cut across EM Bypass — one near Calcutta International School close to Ruby crossing and another at the Avishikta crossing. The one running near Calcutta International School drains out water from Kasba. The one running under the Avishikta crossing drains out water from Mukundapur, Kalikapur and vast areas of Jadavpur. CMC engineers said that only about 50 per cent of the area in Mukundapur has underground drainage. The rest has open surface drains. The height of the surface drains is lower than the canal. As a result, water does not flow into the canal from these areas in natural force of gravity, said engineers. “If there was a proper underground drainage network with a drainage pumping station, then the water could have been pumped into the canal,” said a CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||ABP initiative gives parents choice on schools ||Over 50,000 school applications, including those from overseas, have been processed in the last two years through an online platform that gives parents the choice and convenience to pick their preferred school. The common online gateway —  admissiontree.in, an initiative by ABP —  completed two years on Wednesday. Over 250 schools in Bengal, most of them in Calcutta, are part of the online platform for admission. Several heads of schools have admitted that the portal had increased the visibility of their schools. Launched in July 2019, admissiontree had 100-odd schools enlist in the last one year, when distancing became the norm and institutions could easily digitise their system, thanks to the platform. “This portal provides guardians options to choose,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, the secretary general of Shri Shikshayatan School. It is the third admission season for the school with the portal. Parents can log on to www.admissiontree.in and choose a school without visiting individual school websites or calling up schools to enquire about admission. “...because of this online platform they (parents especially the working ones) can complete the (admission) process whenever it is convenient for them,” said Surendra Kumar Singh, the general manager, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. In the last two years, abo-ut a lakh people have registered on the website. For admission, guardians get a choice of schools from which they can pick one, give the date of birth of the child, upload documents, pay the fees and submit the form. The “credibility of the platform” has widened the reach for schools. “The platform has created a wider reach and many more parents can gather information, especially now when access to premises is limited,” said  Mahadevi Birla World Academy principal Anjana Saha. School heads said admission had eased the process  for parents as well as for institutions. “This is an innovative idea. We see this benefits both schools and parents,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. Brigadier V.N. Chaturvedi (retd), the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society that runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur said admissiontree was a well-thought and planned portal. “The evolution and revolution in the admission sector is being led by admissiontree and it should not be limited to Calcutta or Bengal.” Schools have also noticed a change both in the number of applications and the admission pattern. Biswas said the number of applications from far-off places in the city had gone up. “We have mostly done away with hardcopy applications,” said Sudipta Bose, the rector-cum-manager of HM Schools, which has a CBSE and a state-board affiliated school. Delhi Public School (Joka) principal Writuparna Chatterjee said it was a “blessing” to be able to reach out to parents during the lockdown. “Parents can compare school infrastructure and fees on a single portal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIEST Covaxin camp to resume for four days on Friday||A vaccination camp on the IIEST campus, which was shut down because of vaccine shortage, will resume on Friday for four days to ensure that the Covaxin recipients get their second dose on time. The stop-start nature of the camp on the Shibpur campus shows how the vaccination drive has moved everywhere in Bengal because of erratic supply of doses. The Telegraph had reported on July 2 that the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) suspended the Covid vaccination camp it had been running since late April because of non-availability of doses from the office of the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), Howrah. Since the suspension of the camp left the institute in a lurch, Bivore Das, an assistant registrar, met the district magistrate and CMOH on Tuesday with a plea for the resumption of the camp. An official of the institute said: “We have been allowed to resume the camp with a rider that only a second dose of Covaxin will be available....” A notice signed by Debabrata Majumder, the professor in charge of the institute’s hospital, on July 15 says: “The second dose vaccination with Covaxin for 200 beneficiaries (who got first dose vaccine from the Institute Hospital, IIEST, Shibpur on June 10) will be held on 16th July, 2021 from 11am onward at Pandya hall of residence.” Majumder told The Telegraph that 844 people would be administered Covaxin on July 16, 17, 19 and 22. An official of the district health office said the scarcity of supply was prompting them to focus on providing only the second dose of Covaxin. “Since the supply is irregular the first dose cannot be provided. Those who had taken the first dose of Covishield at the IIEST camp, will be completing 84 days gap from the end of this month. We hope to cover them as well,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Police ramp up Maidan vigil after series of snatchings||The two men who were arrested on Wednesday in connection with snatchings on the Maidan lied to police when they said they had been forced to rob people after having lost their jobs during the pandemic, officers said. Investigators said the two did not have regular jobs from before the lockdown last year and their unemployment was “not related” to the Covid pandemic. “One of them, Mohammad Imran, used to work at a shoe shop in Mumbai two years ago while the other, Sheikh Sameer Hussain, had never held a proper job. We have come to know this during a background check. In the last few years, they only did odd jobs and would spend their income on psychotropic substances,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The officer added that Hussain was a “rough” in his area. However, till Thursday, the police said they did not find any official police records suggesting their involvement in a crime. The duo were produced in court on Thursday and remanded in police custody. The two men had robbed three morning walkers in the Maidan area early on Wednesday and attacked one of them who resisted with a big knife and the butt of a gun. The injured man, 24-year-old Hargovind Vyas, had five deep cuts on his body and received 80 stitches. “My brother is stable now. The doctor has advised bed rest. He is recuperating but still traumatised,” said Hargovind’s brother Shambhu. Calcutta police introduced four police pickets comprising two officers each armed with walkie-talkies in the Maidan area between 4.30am and 7.30am for the safety of morning walkers from Thursday. The number of mobile patrol vans and motorcycle patrols has been increased from Thursday, senior officers of the south division said. “Earlier, there was only one patrol van and two motorcycle patrols to cover the entire Maidan. From today, we have introduced four police pickets and increased the number of patrol vans and motorcycle patrols,” said a senior police officer. In the evening, police raids are being conducted to stop criminal activities in the Maidan area. The police are planning to shift some of their morning exercise to the Maidan area to ensure more police visibility in a pocket that has become deserted because of Covid curbs parking restrictions. “There is zero tolerance for car parking in the Maidan area. Most of the people I know are unable to come for morning walk because there is no car parking area in and around the Maidan. Elderly people find it very difficult to park their car at Dalhousie or Dharmatala and walk all the way, hence many of them have stopped coming,” said a city lawyer who regularly goes to the Maidan with his son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab drive limps as supply falters in Calcutta||Erratic supply of Covid vaccine doses has hobbled the inoculation drive in Calcutta with only about nine lakh of the targeted 60 lakh people in the city receiving two doses till date. About 29 lakh people in the city have received at least one dose. State health department and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said many more people would have been vaccinated by now had the supply from the Centre been more robust. Public health experts said the vaccine hesitancy that was observed in the initial days of the drive has reduced to a great extent and people are eager to get a Covid jab. According to the CMC, approximately 38.4 lakh people have received vaccines in Calcutta, of whom 9.05 lakh have got both doses. A state government official said the target was to vaccinate around 60 lakh people in and around the city. The data on the CoWIN portal, managed by the ministry of health, confirm that the pace of vaccination in Calcutta has been erratic. Less than 20,000 people had been vaccinated on July 1. On July 5, as fresh stocks arrived, the count went up to around 60,000. However, on July 12, it dropped below 15,000. “Many among those vaccinated are floating populations who came from other states to get vaccinated,” said a CMC official. “So, the actual number of residents of the city who got vaccinated could be even less.” According to the Centre’s data, Calcutta is behind Delhi and Mumbai in vaccination but has done better than Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. “We could have vaccinated many more people had the supply of doses from the Centre been steady. We have deployed adequate personnel and infrastructure. The state government on its part is trying to procure more doses and we are expecting the drive to ramp up,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. There are 249 government and 84 private vaccination centres in Calcutta at the moment. Apart from CMC and state-run hospitals, the vaccination programme has suffered at private centers, too. Many small nursing homes could not start vaccination because of lack of supply. Public health experts have been repeatedly stressing that vaccination is the most preferred way to beat the pandemic. “Vaccines have proven to have prevented infection by 75 to 80 per cent. The death rate (among the vaccinated population) is also extremely low. So, the production of vaccines should go up. The target should be to vaccinate 50 lakh people across the country every day,” Naresh Trehan, the chairman and managing director of Medanta, The Medcity, told The Telegraph. At the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, he said, there were around 600 Covid patients admitted at a time. None of them was fully vaccinated, he said. Trehan, however, stressed the need to keep wearing double masks and avoiding crowded areas even after vaccination. “The primary issue in scaling up vaccination is insufficient supply of doses from the Centre. Unless the vaccination drive is speeded up, we cannot prevent a fresh wave. Another lockdown will be harder for our economy,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. He said vaccination and wearing masks were the two weapons to fight Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Bank official held for duping couple of Rs 1 crore in Calcutta||The Bidhannagar branch head of a private bank has been arrested for allegedly duping a city couple into investing more than Rs 1 crore in a financial institute the bank official was allegedly running with her husband, police said. Supti Mukherjee, the accused bank official, had allegedly promised the couple hefty returns on their investment but failed to deliver. Supti was arrested from her workplace on Wednesday. The police are looking for her husband Sudip Mukherjee. According to the complaint, Supti had allegedly used her position in the bank to convince the complainants into making the investment. “Supti Mukherjee and her husband had misused the former’s official position to lure my clients into believing that they were investing their money in a reliable financial institute for lucrative returns. My clients had invested Rs 1 crore and 5 lakh,” said the complainant’s lawyer, Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee. Complainant Partha Pratim Roy and his wife used to work in England. They had taken voluntary retirement and came back to their south Calcutta home a few years ago. Roy has told the police that they knew the Mukherjees for a long time and invested in their company in good faith. “Initially, I had invested a small amount in 2017. After a few months we were told that according to SEBI rules, if the minimum amount of investment could be increased to Rs 20 lakh a year, there would be higher returns. We then withdrew all our savings and started investing in this (Mukherjees’) financial institute. We paid in cheques,” an officer quoted Roy as saying. From 2017 to the end of 2018, the Roys had purportedly received interests on the investment as promised, they have apparently told the police. From 2019, the finance company allegedly started defaulting on their payment. “At times Mukherjee paid the interest in two cheques, both of which bounced,” Roy has apparently told the police. From mid-2019, the Mukherjees apparently became incommunicado. The police said Roy had told them that he found both offices of the finance company closed — one at Dalhousie and the other in the Shakespeare Sarani area. In February 2020, Roy lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station. Roy’s lawyer said the accused had moved for anticipatory bail by the end of 2020, but the court rejected the application. “We arrested Supti Mukherjee from her workplace. Her husband was not found at their home or any place nearby. We are looking for the co-accused,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Stolen canal behind waterlogging in large tracts of Calcutta||A canal has been stolen from Calcutta. No one knows who the real offender is, but the 4km-long canal that used to drain water from Metiabruz, Garden Reach and Maheshtala has been filled and shops and hawkers occupy most of the stretch. In government records, this is still a canal and it runs along Santoshpur Road, near Maheshtala. The lost canal did not have any name. It used to drain water into another canal called Monikhal, which finally merges with the Hooghly. Defunct pumps and pipes fitted to them still occupy a stretch of the dead canal. The pumps were installed to drain out water from localities served by the canal. They act as reminders that a canal once existed there. Gautam Roy, a resident of the area, said he had seen water flow through the canal even about a decade back. “When I was a kid, there was a very good flow of water in the canal. There was water even 10 or 12 years back. But now the canal is dead,” said Roy. The resident of Santoshpur, near Maheshtala, said most homes in the area get flooded even after a brief spell of rain. “Had the canal not been filled, the problem of waterlogging would not have been so severe,” he said. The canal has been filled over several years. It used to run close to the Garden Reach water treatment plant and the slush removed from the raw water in the plant was used to fill up the waterway. “This (restoration of the canal) will need big planning. The canal has to be dredged. We will request those who have set up shops there to let us lay an underground drainage line,” said Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators. Tarak Singh, a member of the board, said residents along both sides of the canal, too, played a part in killing the waterway. “When the Garden Reach water works was built in the 1990s, there was no plan to manage the slush. The water from the Hooghly is treated and the slush is removed. The slush used to be drained into the canal and it led to the fill-up,” he said. “The capacity of the canal dwindled with slush being dumped into it. The canal was not even dredged. Over time, residents dumped soil into the waterway and completely filled it. Now they have set up shops on the stretch.” Singh said a water treatment plant must have a management plan for the slush. Even now there is no robust slush management plan for the Garden Reach water works. The shops along the stretch are not legal but the civic body will not dismantle them without finding an alternative site for the owners, Singh said. “We are thinking about a system where we can dredge the canal and bring it back to life again. The canal will run underneath while the shops can function above,” he said. The mushrooming of shops and huts on the canal in Santoshpur is not unique. Across Calcutta, setting up of shops and huts by filling up portions of canals is common. Such encroachments is one of the reasons why it takes longer than usual for water to recede from streets after a downpour. Sarojit Sarkar, another resident of Santoshpur, said waterlogging was very rare in the area when the canal was alive. “Monikhal, into which the Santoshpur canal used to drain water, has not been dredged for years.  The slush and silt accumulating there has severely impacted the flow of water through Monikhal,” he said. Sarkar blamed the government, too, for the death of the canal. “They constructed an underground drainage line on a stretch of the canal. A road was built above it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||WhatsApp stage for cultural meet||Sunday meant a working day for marketing professional and Dhaka resident Safayat Mahmud. However, the latter cut short a work meeting in the evening to be part of a virtual programme that was organised by a cultural club of AC Block in Salt Lake. This was his first time. Kichu Kotha Kichu Gaan, a cultural evening organised by Suridbrindo Club, was meant to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of Bangladesh and India’s Satyajit Ray, both of whom completed their birth centenary in succeeding years, through music, poetry and an audio play. The whole programme was shared with audiences from Salt Lake and elsewhere through a Whatsapp group. “I was included in the group through a friend who is a resident of AC Block. I joined, eager to see how a cultural evening can be conducted on WhatsApp. It was an excellent experience. I got to listen to our national anthem and many other old favourites. I was left nostalgic,” added Safayat. He was not the only one. Audiences joined in from Japan, the US and all over Calcutta to make the community programme of a neighbourhood club much more than that. AC Block resident Sumitra Das’s rendition of Amar Sonar Bangla started off an evening of charged emotions as participants, mostly from Salt Lake, took turns to sing Bengali and Hindi songs and recite poetry and Mujibur Rehman’s famous speeches. All the performances were pre-recorded and uploaded at intervals on the WhatsApp group. Every performance was followed by a flood of praise, both from “old para friends” and new patrons. “This was the sixth programme that we conducted virtually since the start of the pandemic. We follow the same module. Friends and neighbours are requested to send recordings of their performances. The best are selected and uploaded at an interval of a few minutes. The anchor’s narration is also uploaded in between. Most people get drawn in and don’t leave the group till they have heard all the recordings,” said Samit Roy of AC Block, who along with Arup Ghosh, Animesh Mukherjee and Prabal Bhattacharya, formed the core team of organisers. “Our club has been presenting cultural programmes since 2016, bringing the Salt Lake community together. This time we received performance recordings from residents all over the city. Besides honouring Rehman, as a wrap up to his 101th birth anniversary, and Ray, on his centenary year, we also tried to reach out to people sitting alone at home,” added Samit Ray. The programme that stretched from 6pm to 9.30pm was a montage of five poems, two dance performances and over 25 songs. The youngest participant was four-year-old Anishka Das of AC Block, who danced to the Nazrulgeeti Rum jhum jhum jhum on the occasion. According to mother Achira Adhya, the child is a spontaneous dancer who was delighted to perform before a virtual audience. “As her father shot her in action she kept looking towards me for encouragement. I had taught her the steps and had to sing along,” laughed Anishka’s mother. An audio play, Class Friend, based on Ray’s story, was appreciated. “It was rehearsed and shot at my home, maintaining all norms of social distancing. It was the first time we presented an audio play,” added Samit Ray. The messages left by the audience members praised the performers as well as the organisers. Septuagenarian Syamal Kar, who joined from Japan, was thanked profusely by all. “I don’t miss out on such cultural events. I have been a resident of AC Block since 1975. I am now living in Japan for over 30 years but I visit Calcutta regularly. Since the pandemic, the WhatsApp group is the only way I can connect with my old neighbours,” said Kar from Japan. Hindustan Park resident Madhumita Ghose was all praise too. “I enjoyed the programme. I wish other para communities also learn from them how to bring people together through art,” said the chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Love of gardening is a seed that once sown, never dies’||The love of gardening is a seed that once sown, never dies”. Mitali Puitandi’s favourite quote also happens to be the story of her life. Time was when she would pick up saplings from the roadside while walking home from school. One plant led to more and now she has what she calls a whole family of plants to love and care for. The more the plants, the more the love, she says. The other day when we went for our Covid vaccines the queue was long and my husband was suggesting we leave without taking it. But I had no qualms waiting. The longer the better, I felt. You see, the vaccine was an excuse for me to go out. My real motive was a trip to the nursery, which wouldn’t open till a few hours later! And so happily after getting my jab, I went to Ultadanga and brought home 50 to 60 beautiful ceramic pots for my terrace and balconies. On the terrace, we have Hibiscus, Rose, Euphorbia Milii…there should be nearly 250 pots up there and in winter I grow Petunia, Chrysanthemums, Dahlias.... We have two spacious balconies and I keep plants there based on the amount of sunlight they need. In the south-facing verandah, there are Crotons, Snake Plants, Jade Plants and colourful flowers in hanging baskets. The north-facing balcony receives less sunlight and so I’ve kept Cacti, Succulents and indoor plants there. I think, watching me, a neighbouring house has also filled up their balcony with plants. I’m also fond of birds and thanks to the garden, birds come to my house despite all the construction work around. I wake up to the chirping of birds! What can be more beautiful than that? No matter how busy I am, I always find time for my hobby. I remember one chilly winter night when I was shivering under a blanket with fever and I suddenly remembered that I hadn’t checked my plants after applying insecticide on them. So at 12.30am I headed out to the terrace with a torch. My daughter thought I had gone mad but she now relates to my feelings. She too has started an indoor plant collection in her room. My husband is supportive as well. Today itself, he was talking of erecting a false ceiling in the balcony to enhance its beauty. This support motivates me. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Rathyatra, short but outdoor||Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra “Joy Jagannath!” hailed a devotee and everyone pulling the rath repeated after him. “Corona ke dur karo!” the man added and the others chuckled and repeated after him anyway. For the second year in a row, Rathyatra at this centre was held under the shadow of Covid-19. A handful of devotees had come down and drew the chariot a brief distance outside the DD Block address. “We sanitised the rope thoroughly before use and maintained distancing while pulling it too,” said president of Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra, Chanchal De. “We had informed the police that our route would be very short and they allowed us.” Passersby stopped in their tracks to fold their hands in obeisance and those like Raja Das of CD Block quickly stepped up to pull the rope too. “In normal years, there are several chariots to pull but I was lucky to spot one this year,” he smiled. Brajagopal Das Baul joined the procession singing paeans to the lord and prasad was distributed to all afterwards. Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj The idols of Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj were toured around the township by cars. “We did the same last year,” said general secretary of the body, Kumar Sankar Sadhu. “Once a year, Jagannath leaves the temple and mingles among the masses and even if symbolically, we wanted to uphold the tradition.” MLA and minister Sujit Bose and chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, dropped by during flag-off. “It is important to maintain both rituals and Covid protocol and it’s good that this organisation is balancing both. Hopefully, next year we shall return to holding the festival in the former grand way,” said Chakraborty. In other years, their procession includes music, dance, tableaux and thousands of devotees, who come to pull the rope along the way. This year, the convoy’s route included Central Park, City Centre, CA Island (around the place the chariot normally sets off from in other years), PNB Island and then back. Rupak Sinha, in whose car the Balaram idol travelled, played Jagannath arati on his phone, connected to speakers, to set the ambience. In other years, their idols stays at Central Park where a Rath-er Mela takes place but this time it shall stay at BF 20, where they stay throughout the year. “Since it will not be possible to take the idols to a different location for mashi-r bari, we are positioning the idols in a different place at home itself. We shall be open from 5.30 to 7.30pm till July 19 for darshan,” said Debasish Roy, in whose BF Block home the idols are kept. IA Market The traders of IA Market pulled their chariot up around the Purbachal area and back. “This is the fifth year of our Rathyatra celebrations. Due to the pandmeic, last year we had taken our chariot around within the market itself but this time, limited members pulled it out on the streets. Ward co-ordinator Minu Das Chakraborty joined us,” said Rishiraj Ghosh, who runs miscellaneous stores in the market and is secretary of Bidhan Nagar IA Market Traders’ Association. The idol is staying at the temple inside the market and organisers are keen to distribute prasad to devotees on Ultarath. AA Block Forty miniature chariots were handed over to underprivileged children at AA Block community centre on the eve of Rathyatra. Committee members and senior citizens handed over the chariots, masks and candy and the initiative was taken by a youth of the block, Argha Mitra. “We have lost so many loved ones to Covid and there is unemployment all around. How would parents buy chariots for their kids this year?” wondered Argha, a graduate, who bought the chariots and spread word in the nearby slums asking children to come over. “The kids were excited and I was also happy for the artisans who got to earn some money this festival by selling the chariots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||Pros and cons of lockdown The outbreak of the pandemic created a turning point in the history of civilisation. While being confined within the walls of our flat, boredom started to take over me. I started to explore some things that I had never tried before. For a week, I woke up early to watch the sunrise because I have always wanted to see the crimson sky which vitalises sleepy souls in the morning. The sight of the sunrise made me realise that Nature is indeed the best artist. I tried non-gas cooking and made biscuit cake which emerged as a total success. My interest in K-Pop songs gradually developed in this lockdown. BTS, Shinee and Blackpink became my favourite groups. I also watched K-Dramas which left me breathless as the plots are amazing. I have a passion for reading. I read a lot of story books during this lockdown and hope to read more in future. One of the books that became my favourite recently is Thea Stilton and the Chocolate Sabotage. This lockdown gave me both good and bad experiences. I was able to spend quality time with my family while being apart from my friends for such a long time is heartbreaking. I am eagerly waiting for daily life to resume again. Tiyasha Das, 13 years, DB Block, New Town Samriddh Kasera, 9 years, EE Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Plants for Sarat Abasan ||Residents of Sarat Abasan celebrated forest week by planting saplings of fruits and flowers in their pagoda park. The elongated block has three parks but Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of the corporation, was invited to the park that has a stage shaped like a pagoda for the ceremony. “Anyone entering Salt Lake can feel the difference in air quality thanks to the abundance of greenery here. The township has so many senior citizens with children living away. Wouldn’t it be nice if everyone of them adopted a plant and brought it up like one’s child?” suggested Chakraborty. But she also urged people to plant trees responsibly, such that their roots did not intertwine and damage pipes underground. Chakraborty went on to plant a Mango sapling that she herself had brought to gift the block. Twenty four saplings were planted in the inner perimeter of the park including species like Mango, Jaam, Lemon, Neem and Hibiscus. The project was executed jointly with Rotary Club of Bidhannagar and president Satyabrata Mukherjee said afforestation was an important issue for them. “We try to do something on this occasion every year. We plant trees and raise awareness among people to save plants,” he said. “While most blocks are built around a centrally located park, ours is like a rail line. This makes it difficult for residents of one end to meet and interact with those living on the other,” said secretary of Sarat Abasan, Soumen Kumar Dutta. “We do have events like sports and Rabindrajayanti in the block, but thought of celebrating forest week as well, in a bid to bring neighbours closer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Greening pledge to pay off carbon debt||A 2.13 acre plot carved out of the wilderness of Action Area III, further up from Uniworld City and behind Tank 20, will soon house 1,000 saplings of a variety of species. Green Verge 3 was formally inaugurated on Tuesday to coincide with the week-long state-wide afforestation drive, Van Mahotsav. As reported earlier in these pages, the NKDA is inviting NGOs to adopt about 40 plots it has designated as Green Verge across residential blocks to create pockets of greenery at regular intervals amidst built-up space. The Green Verge will be part of the carbon offset programme of CDE Asia, headquartered in neighbouring Eco Space. “By 2025, we aim to become a carbon neutral company. Overall, we emit about 250-300 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide as our goods come from and supplied to far-flung areas like Maharashtra and Bangalore respectively. Many come from our UK factory. To offset this, we will need to plant 25,000 trees. We will engage more with NKDA and try to do more in our home city,” said Manish Bhartia, promoter and managing director, CDE Asia. More applications have been submitted to NKDA in this regard by the company’s CSR company Sand Grains Foundation, he added. “I love to visit New Town,” said Nick Low, British deputy high commissioner, who inaugurated the plantation drive.  “There is nowhere in Bengal where I try coming to more. Be it movies or songs, there is dystopian, nightmarish view of the future that is put out. It doesn’t have to be like that. We can have a clean, green future. This is the future,” he said, pointing to the green expanse next to the stage with highrises dotting the skyline. “Last year,” he pointed out, “has made apparent this nexus between looking after the environment and climate change. Covid was almost certainly caused by abuse of nature, by breaking down the barriers between man and animal. It was same with SARS and MERS, its predecessors,” he added, referring to the aims of the upcoming United Nation’s Climate Change Conference, COP 26, in Glasgow this November. “No country or group can combat climate change on its own. But everyone needs to do one’s bit,” he said, lauding the plantation drive as well as the other initiatives by CDE Asia towards a circular economy. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen spelt out the greening target for the year for New Town. “Last year, we had a target of 10,000. Through citizen initiatives, we managed to plant 10,053 trees. This year, we aim to plant another 10,000 but we are doing it differently by involving interested companies,” he said. In course of the next 11 months, Hari Mitti Foundation will plant and nurture 1,000 saplings, on behalf of Sand Grains. Sen planted a Bokul sapling while Low planted Almond. Bhartia chose to plant a Jamrul, making it a mix of flowering and nut and fruit-bearing trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone & diesel push-up fruits, vegetables rates||A trip to the vegetable or fruit market this week may burn a hole in your pocket. Prices are skyrocketing and vendors are blaming everything from rising transportation to distress sale of damaged crops after Cyclone Yaas. “Vendors of Salt Lake generally travel to Koley Market and Bhangar wholesale markets to get vegetables. Earlier we had to pay around Rs 350-400 for travelling up and down but now, due to increased diesel costs, we are having to pay anything between Rs 700 and Rs 1,000 for the same trip,” said Subir Bose, a GD Market vendor. “Sale prices are rising as these costs have to be covered.” A couple of weeks ago, cauliflowers sold for Rs 50 in the township but they are now selling at Rs 75. Jhingey was selling for Rs 45 a kilo and now they cost Rs 70; the price of bitter gourd too risen from Rs 60 to 80. In Baisakhi’s fruit section, the price of Chikus has risen so much that Pachu Gopal Dey has stopped getting them altogether. “Who will buy them at Rs 400-450 a kilo? Kharbuja (muskmellon) is now Rs 80/kg and papaya Rs 50. People are grumbling about these prices itself so more expensive fruits are simply off my cart,” said Dey. Aajit Malik, a vendor who pushes a fruit cart around the township, says jackfruits are now Rs 60/kg, a good Rs 10 dearer than they were two weeks ago and way costlier than the price in 2020. “Wholesalers say many jackfruit trees fell during the recent cyclones and so this year overall production has been less,” he said. Soham Chakraborty, a resident of ED Block, said his shopping expenditure had nearly doubled in the past couple of weeks. “One cannot stop eating so we are being forced to spend nearly double,” said Chakraborty. Shyamal Pramanick, who runs a vegetable stall in CA Market, blamed middlemen. “Customers are blaming us for the hike in prices but it’s actually middlemen who are raking in huge profits,” he said. “They buy at much lower prices as there are several fields that had been flooded due to Cyclone Yaas but are still selling to them to us at a premium.” The government trucks however have stable prices. “Even if the market rate for potatoes is Rs 26 we continue to sell at Rs 14. Our prices are subsidised. In fact, our demand jacks up whenever prices in the free market rise,” said vendor Habib Khan at Baisakhi Market. “Since it’s not season for Simla apples yet, we are depending on imported ones from New Zealand, selling at Rs 200 a kilo.” The price of mangoes has risen too but Asadul Gaji of CK Market said it is because its season is fast ending. “It is mainly Lyangda available now, at Rs 70 a kilo. Supply is dwindling but people can never have enough of mangoes so the price is still high.” He blames rising diesel prices for the rise in prices of other fruits. Some products are seeing fluctuating prices. “The price of brinjal has fallen from Rs 80 to 50 since a week ago, lady’s finger has fallen from Rs 60 to 40, capsicum from Rs 120 to 100.  But they might rise tomorrow,” felt Kamal Halder of Baisakhi, clueless about the reason why. Kalipada of Joy Mata Ji in BJ Market said he could quote prices of vegetables today but they would mean nothing tomorrow. “Today cabbage is Rs 25 but tomorrow it could fall by five rupees. The market for perishables is volatile now and we cannot even say for sure that prices are rising,” he said. Jayanti Biswas, vegetable seller of CK Market, isn’t too worried. “Prices rise every monsoon as a lot of crops goes bad in the fields during heavy rains. Rates will rationalise in winter, which is the season for most vegetables. Till then, we have to bear with fluctuations. For instance, this week lady’s finger costs Rs 60-80 while it was Rs 80-100 a fortnight ago.” Vivekananda Das of Ramakrishna Bhandar in BJ Market cites competition from online stores. “Customers are veering towards them as they provide home delivery and can be a tad cheaper. To counter them, I have started providing bulk discount now,” he says. On purchase of 5kg, he sells potatoes for Rs 16 or 17, instead of the Rs 18 going rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Cop for all seasons||Rachpal Singh, a former IPS and a two-term MLA in the Mamata Banerjee government, passed away on July 8. According to family sources, the FE Block resident had suffered a cardiac arrest in hospital, triggered by septic shock resulting from urosepsis. He was 78 and is survived by his wife and daughter, and a son settled in New Zealand. Singh had shot into the limelight in 1993 when as superintendant of police, North 24-Parganas, he was called upon by minister Subhas Chakraborty to deal with a crisis in Sukhchar, 20km from Calcutta, emerging out of the disciples of a godman Balak Brahmachari refusing to cremate his body, claiming there would be a resurrection. After a 55-day impasse, a team of 450 policemen engaged in a pitched battle with the devotees who called themselves Santan Dal and got the body released. Singh was attacked by a devotee with a trident, leading to heavy bleeding. He also served as deputy inspector general of police, Presidency Range. He had run-ins with Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee towards the  end of his career and took voluntary retirement in 2002. In 2011, he contested on a Trinamul Congress ticket and won the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat. He was made a minister of tourism and then of planning and development. In 2016, he won the seat a second time. He did not contest this year and was currently the chairman of West Bengal Transport Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Dubai tower inspires Sreebhumi puja||Despite the pandemic showing no signs of receding, Sreebhumi Sporting Club is aiming high. The puja, organised by the club helmed by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, will be modelled after Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world. “Every year, we try to give visitors something special. Almost all interesting structures of India, from the temple of Puri to Chittor fort, have been replicated here. Many of our members have been to the tower in Dubai and we had considered this structure earlier as well but never took it up as building it is a complicated job. In our pre-golden jubilee year, we thought of taking up the challenge,” said Dibyendu Kishor Goswami, chief coordinator of the puja committee. The club held its khuti puja on the day of Rath Yatra. While the Dubai tower stands at 2,722ft, with 163 floors, 57 elevators and eight escalators, the Sreebhumi tower will be at least 110ft tall. “The structural drawing is being finalised. It will be critical for a temporary structure with such complicated architecture.” The tower rises from the flat desert base with 27 setbacks in a spiral pattern, that decreases the cross section of the tower as it rises and creates outdoor terraces at each level. These setbacks are arranged and aligned in a way that minimises vibration wind loading. Another challenge would be attaining the finish of the tower’s cladding system which has more than 26,000 reflective glass panels, and aluminium and textured stainless steel spandrel panels with vertical tubular fins. The glass acts as an anti-glare shield for the intense desert sun and strong winds. Experiments are on with various shades of acrylic paint to achieve the look of the reinforced concrete, steel and aluminium. But there will be no experiments with the idol. “It will be traditional goddess, sculpted by Pradip Rudra Pal, clad in gold jewellery,” he said. The organisers agree that the theme is bound to pull crowd. Is that not a concern with the third wave of Covid-19 looking in the horizon? “Some people will go out pandal-hopping, whatever be the situation. Scaling down is not an option for us as about 300 families depend on us, including those of the 120-odd labourers who are engaged in the making of the pandal. We will comply with whatever restrictions are set by the government at the time,” Goswami said. The organisers are betting on vaccination to minimise risk. “We are trying to vaccinate all our volunteers and the pandal-makers in phases.” The club is connected to Gandhi Seva Sadan, a local hospital which houses a vaccination centre run by the South Dum Dum Municipality. Will you visit the Sreebhumi puja this year? Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Containment zone count rises to eight||The number of micro-containment zones in Salt Lake now stands at eight, taking the total number of containment zones falling under the 41 wards of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) up to 15. A rise in the number of cases is being reported from Salt Lake, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. On Tuesday, an AH Block house was marked as a micro-containment zone as at least four family members have tested positive for Covid-19, the official said. Traffic guardrails with signage announcing that it was a micro containment zone were set up. “We have asked the residents not to step out and have given them our numbers to get in touch with us in case they need essentials or if any medical emergency arises,” said the official. This house is the eighth micro-containment zone that has been set up. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported earlier how three such zones had been set up in end-June in other blocks. Of them, a flat in Labony Estate’s D Block continues to be on the list though the two zones in BF Block are off the list. The seven other micro-containment zones in Salt Lake are recent additions — in HA, GD, AB, EE, BJ and AJ blocks, along with AH Block. According to the list released by the North 24-Parganas district administration, the number of micro-containment zones under BMC happens to be the highest in the district under a civic body. Among the least affected is neighbouring South Dum Dum Municipality which has two — in Green Park and in Block D, Bangur Avenue. In end-June, there were 11 micro-containment zones under the BMC, including three in Salt Lake proper. The total number of zones in North 24-Parganas is now 70. According to an official of the district administration, they have been setting up more such zones based on feedback from each area in association with the civic body. “We are monitoring the developments and each containment zone will stay in place till everyone in the affected family tests negative,” said the official. According to BMC health department sources, more than 30 fresh cases of Covid-19 are being reported daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||Dead fish in Central Park water raises upkeep query||After months of neglect, the authorities are finally planning to clean up the waterbody in Central Park that has got covered with water hyacinths. There are also plans to revamp Banabitan. Last week, dead fish were seen floating on the surface. The forest department had started the tender process for cleaning of the pond, said minister Jyotipriya Mallick, at the Banmahotsav celebration there on Wednesday. Last Friday, morning walkers had complained to the authorities that they had been seeing dead fish in the water for the past four days. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests, wildlife, and chief wildlife warden, explained that the water hyacinths had reduced the oxygen level in the water to an extent that might have made it difficult for fish to survive. “We have initiated the tender process to remove the hyacinths. We also need to stop professional anglers who sell the catch to make money,” said Mallick. He also spoke of plans for a new model of Banabitan. “An allotment of Rs 4 crore has been made for it. We want to rejuvenate Banabitan. We shall plant fruit-bearing and flowering trees and transform it into a beautiful park where residents can relax.” Many areas of the park are in serious need of restoration and Mallick said they had identified the portions affected by Cyclone Yaas and started planting trees there. “We also want to turn Banabitan into a no-plastic zone and install solar lights,” he added. At the event, saplings were planted and more than 100 butterflies released. Banabitan has a butterfly park. Two “tree ambulances” were flagged off to distribute saplings and raise awareness across districts about the importance of planting trees. The event was also attended by Birbaha Hansda, minister of state, department of forests. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-07-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2020: Pick of Puja writings & township shots||Best Editorial Winner: Subhasish Mondal, souvenir editor, Salt Lake BF Block Residents’ Association Why: This year, the editorial column was bound to be distinct from any other year’s, given the circumstances under which the souvenir had to be brought out. This article, titled Hobe Joy, is a mix of the acknowledgement of the reality of pandemic-hit life and the mental effect of being house-bound on one side and on the other the promise of help and unity in hours of need from fellow residents and the dawning of hope beyond the darkness that Durga puja stands for in our emotional life. Special mention: Iswar Mukherjee, secretary, Purba Co-operative Housing Society, Cluster XIII, Purbachal and Kumkum Chattopadhyay, editor, Pushpanjali, of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town Best Fiction Winner: Asim Das of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town, for Alps Othoba Adi Ganga Why: The story holds up a mirror to the stark reality of human relationships where even a close friend can stab one in the back if there is a clash of interest at stake. The language is crisp and lucid, the length is just right and the conclusion aptly left devoid of sentimentality. Special mention: Rita Das of Animikha Apartment Owners Association, New Town, for Suicide Note and Susmita Bhaduri of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate, New Town, for Ogo Bodhu Sundari. Best Non Fiction Winner: Monika Mitra of Animikha (C&D) Durgotsav Committee, New Town for Pakhider Ananda Niketan Why: The close study of birds in one’s own backyard speaks of an endearingly close bond with feathered creatures. The description is homely. The appeal to plant more fruit-bearing trees and allow the consumption of their crop by birds gains import as the author has set an example for the same herself. In a world beset by global warming and a pandemic, allowing Nature and all other creatures to be is a lesson to be learnt for all of us. Special mention: Diptendu Banerjee of CB Block Welfare Association for Nam-kirtan Best Poetry Winner: Asim Das of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town, for Stitadhi Sundar Satata Ajeya Why: The poem uses epic and mythopoeic imagery and references to posit the existence of hiatus in human history and existence. This is an obvious and relevant observation on human condition frozen when in a moment of crisis such as the world is in now. The only possible hope of redemption is in the unchangeable and incorruptible truth. Special mention: Sarbani Banerjee for Nistaran-adhyan and Gopal Lahiri for Konodin Jodi. Both are residents of East Enclave Residents Welfare Association, New Town. Best Cover Winner: CB Block Welfare Association Why: Women in masks in front of the goddess, come possibly for baran on Vijaya Dashami, is what last autumn’s Durga puja was about — continuity of tradition while conforming to Covid protocol. The use of an illustration by a young local talent (Pracheta Basu, a student of Class IV) sends a message of the puja and the puja souvenir being by the community and for the community. Special mention: Salt Lake BE (East) Puja committee and Animikha (C&D) Durgotsav Committee, New Town. Like every year, we have selected the three best pictures among those published in the “Click Your Township” column in the months since last year’s result. The snaps are a testimony to the wealth of photographic talent in the neighbourhood. Shriya Basu, AF Block Baisakhi Chakraborty, Sunrise Symphony, New Town Nilanjan Pathak, CA Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
