17-07-2021||Calcutta||IRCTC plan a 'fishy affair' on Rupnarayan bank as Hilsa season kicks in ||Monsoon ushers in relief from the hot and humid summers everywhere, and for Bengalis it also brings with it a silver lining on their plates in the form of the delectable Hilsa fish, usually savoured steamed, smoked, deep fried, or with mustard paste. In an attempt to cash in on this fervent love for the seasonal delight, the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has organised a daylong tour from Calcutta to Kolaghat for a gastronomical treat on the banks of Rupnarayan river, with unlimited supply of Hilsa, locally referred to as Ilish. The first such day-trip will be held on July 25 with a maximum of 20 tourists, IRCTC eastern zonal head Debasish Chanda said. "Visitors will be taken to the banks of Rupnarayan river in luxury mini buses, which will depart from Esplanade at 10.30 am. They will be offered a light snack during the travel," he said. On reaching Kolaghat, which is around 75 km from here, each of them will be offered a welcome drink. "A sumptuous lunch will be waiting for them, where various preparations of the silver-scaled fish will be on offer. The spread will include 'Ilish pulao' and 'Bhapa ilish' among other items," Chanda told PTI. On the return journey, the visitors will also be given a tour of the Radha Madhav temple and author Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay's house at Deulti, he noted. The trip will cost Rs 2,999 per person, the IRCTC official said. "As of now, we have zeroed in on four dates for conducting the tour -- July 25, August 8, August 22 and September 5," Chanda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||ED impostor arrested after bid to cheat Trinamul MP||A man who allegedly impersonated an Enforcement Directorate officer and offered help to Trinamul MP Santanu Sen in lieu of money to “settle” cases Sen said he did not know about, has been arrested. Police said Sen mentioned in the complaint lodged with Karaya police station that he was first approached by the alleged imposter on July 1 and informed that “several cases” had been pending against the MP with the central agency. “The caller identified himself as Santanu Maitra, senior special investigating officer of the ED. He told Sen that he would settle the cases against him for money,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The matter was brought to the notice of Calcutta police and an investigation suggested that the real name of the accused was Chandan Roy, 38, a resident of Dum Dum. “He was not in any way linked to the central agency,” the officer said. On advice of the police, Sen fixed a meeting with the accused. He told Roy that he would send an assistant to the meeting. However, instead of Sen’s assistant, cops had gone to meet Roy. The accused was picked up from the Esplanade bus terminus on Thursday night. Sen said he was thankful to Calcutta police for the “prompt action”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik results will be announced on July 20||The results of Madhyamik 2020 will be announced on July 20. The results will be available on websites from 10am on July 20. The websites where the results can be accessed include www.wbbs.wb.gov.in, http://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametc.com, www.anandabazar.com, www.telegraphindia.com, www.abpeducation.com, www.indiaresults.com, www.results.shiksha and Wb10.abplive.com. One has to enter his or her registration number and date of birth to know the results. Examinees can pre-register their registration numbers and mobile numbers on exametc.com to get the results on SMS for free, said an official of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. They can also download the mobile app “Madhyamik Result 2021” from Google play store or www.results.shiksha to know their results for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||JEE: 92,695 examinees will write first physical exam after 2nd wave||As many as 92,695 examinees will write the Bengal JEE on Saturday in what will be the first public examination to be held at exam centres this year. The state JEE, conducted to shortlist candidates for engineering and pharmacy courses in Bengal, will be held at 274 centres across the state. Here are the rules of the exams: Exam begins At 11am. Arrival time Examinees have been advised to arrive at the centre at least half an hour before the start of the exam. They must be certain about the location of the centre and means to commute as some travel restrictions are still in place. Things to carry Candidates must wear masks and bring their own hand sanitiser. They must carry the admit card, a copy of the colour photograph that was uploaded on the online application and an original photo identity card. Checks at centres A state JEE board official said the examinees would have to undergo thermal gun inspection at the centre for body temperature. The candidate will be segregated if he or she is found to be running a temperature. The board’s guideline says such candidates must be allowed to write the test from an isolated facility set up at the centre. Exam time Paper-1 (mathematics) will be held from 11am to 1pm. Paper-II (physics and chemistry) will be held from 2pm to 4pm. Invigilators The invigilators have been advised to wear N-95 masks, gloves and carry hand sanitiser. A guideline by the board on safety measures says: “If any candidate needs a mask, the invigilator should provide. Hand sanitiser should be kept in the examination hall for use as and when required.” The invigilator and the centre-in-charge have to ensure that the number of examinees in a room does not exceed 28. Transport An Eastern Railway official said JEE examinees would be allowed to board staff special suburban trains and Metro trains. “A candidate will have to produce the admit card and buy a ticket to board a suburban train,” the official said. To board Metro trains, examinees have to produce admit cards and carry smart cards. Some social groups have organised special buses for examinees. Centres The practice of allocating centres closest to the applicants’ homes was followed in this year’s JEE to curtail the use of public transport. The number of centres has also been raised, an official of the board said. The school service commission will hold in-person interviews from July 19 for recruitment of upper primary teachers for Class VI to VIII. Education minister Bratya Basu said the interviews will be held in phases because of the pandemic. Candidates can download the intimation letter for the interview from the commission’s website www.westbengalssc.com. Candidates are required to have a set of photocopies of all relevant testimonials along with the corresponding originals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Excise department seeks explanation from HHI for serving liquor after 8pm||The excise department has sought an explanation from Hotel Hindustan International (HHI) for allegedly serving liquor beyond the government stipulated time of 8pm in a suite on the sixth floor. Officers in the excise department said the Saturday night party at the AJC Bose Road hotel was held at the bar before it was shifted to the suite post-8pm. A state government order on Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut by 8pm. Excise officials who would not be named said when a team of officers reached the sixth floor, the hotel authorities allegedly switched off the corridor lights and the hotel’s manager remained unavailable despite saying he would be there within a few minutes. Asked for comment, an HHI spokesperson told this newspaper: “We have nothing to say as of now. I will let you know when my bosses tell me something.” A senior officer of the excise department said: “We have reasons to believe that liquor was served inside the suite and accordingly the raid was carried out under specific provisions of excise rules. The hotel authorities will have to explain whether they had served liquor in the sixth-floor suite after 8pm or the liquor was sourced from outside.” The excise department said it had sought CCTV footage from the sixth-floor corridor. One footage that the hotel authorities submitted on Friday was said to be hazy. “They said a large part of the hotel has remained shut during the pandemic and some CCTVs have developed snags resulting in blurred images,” the officer said. Officers from the excise department are believed to have visited the hotel around 9pm on Saturday, some four hours before a team of officers of the detective department of Calcutta police raided The Park, where a late night party was allegedly going on in violation of Covid curbs. In all, 37 persons were arrested from the Park Street hotel and several items, including liquor bottles, glasses and a DJ console were seized. An FIR was lodged with Park Street police station under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. On Friday, officers of the detective department spoke to senior officials of The Park to try and understand whether the hotel had played any role in making arrangements for the late night party in violation of restrictions imposed by the state government. “Some hotel employees claimed that they were not aware that some guests, who had booked rooms on the second and third floors, had planned to organise a party late at night,” said an officer. “We might need to question a few other officials again.” The Park has been barred from serving alcohol till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Police ask govt offices to comply with beacon rules ||Police have written to all offices of the state and central governments in the city to comply with the beacon rules issued by the Bengal government. A notification issued by the state transport department in 2014 — which the police said was the last beacon-related one issued — has been circulated so that all government offices are aware about the ranks eligible for beacon-fitted vehicles, the police said. The list has been circulated across the 25 traffic guards with instructions to “first request and then prosecute” if government officials are found using beacons in violation of rules. Recently, cops had requested an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner posted in the customs department to remove the beacon from his vehicle because his designation did not make him eligible for one. The officer immediately removed the beacon, officers said. In a letter to the 53 state government departments, Lalbazar has cited recent “instances of unauthorised use of such beacon-fitted vehicles… which tantamounts to the violation of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court… as well as sections 108(2) CMVR and 226(3) WBMVR”. “In light of the above, you are requested to direct the concerned officer in your department dealing with the deployment of beacon-fitted vehicles, to go through the notification… and take necessary action accordingly,” the letter said. In the communication to the central government offices, the police have made the same request and asked if there is any order by the Centre on this matter. Several cops said it was not easy to implement the beacon rules in a city where there is rampant misuse of beacons and flashers. Cops on the road often come in for a lot of flak if they try to stop a beacon-fitted vehicle and seek details of the persons inside. “Keeping all factors in mind, the sergeants have been asked to first request if any government official is found to use a beacon without being entitled to it. In case of repeated offence, we will have to prosecute,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. According to a state transport department notification issued on June 19, 2014, the governor, chief minister, chief justice of the high court, Assembly speaker, cabinet ministers of the state government, leader of the opposition in the Assembly and judges of the high court are eligible to use red beacons and flashers on their vehicles. There are other categories authorised to use beacons with and without flashers. An officer said the Centre had amended the list in 2017 but in the absence of a notification by the state mentioning the amendment, the city police were sticking to the notification issued by the state in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic blow: 71-year-old widow commits suicide in Haridevpur ||A 71-year-old widow, who was a pensioner and the lone earning member in the family that included an unemployed son and a daughter, is believed to have ended her life consuming bathroom cleaner at her home in Haridevpur on Thursday morning. Police said Swapna Bhowmick’s son had been engaged in odd jobs and was unemployed for a long time because of the pandemic. Family members and neighbours have told the police that the family’s financial condition had driven the elderly woman to suicide. Swapna used to live with her two unmarried children — Rabindranath, 51, and Ruma, 44 — in a rented apartment on the ground floor of a building on Bhuban Mohan Roy Road in Haridevpur. The police said she was found whimpering in pain at the apartment on Thursday morning. “Her son was the first to be alerted by the sound. He rushed in and found his mother lying on the floor. An open bottle of a bathroom cleaner was lying nearby. The woman was crying, her son told us,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. She was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where she died. “We learnt during the investigation that she was very depressed because of the family’s financial conditions, and more so because her son became jobless during the pandemic,” the officer said. “No suicide note has been found. It was apparent from the statement of the woman’s son and daughter that their financial conditions had driven her to suicide.” In the recent past, a man who had lost job at a pharmaceutical company and was supplying polythene bags to grocery stores in the city had ended his life. A couple who had bought four-wheelers and given them out on rent to be used as app cabs had committed suicide last year as they were unable to repay the car loan. More recently, a woman had committed suicide as she was apparently depressed because of inadequate income of her husband, whose salary was lesser than the monthly rent of their apartment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Metro Railway resumes services for all on Friday ||Metro Railway resumed services for all on Friday after a gap of 61 days. Officials said the footfall was high during the morning and evening rush hours. A passenger who boarded a train at Esplanade in the evening said all seats were occupied and physical distancing could hardly be maintained because of the number of passengers. Metro ferried 1,28,957 passengers on Friday. “Most of the passengers were travelling for work. In such a situation it is difficult to control the number of people and enforce social distancing,” said an RPF officer. The carrier ran 192 trains on Friday. The number will be 208 from Monday and trains will be available at an interval of six minutes. “The 208 trains will run from Monday to Friday between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhash, from 8am to 8pm,” a Metro official said. On Saturdays, 104 maintenance special trains will run for essential staff. There will be no service on Sundays. Before the pandemic, Metro would run 288 trains from Monday to Friday. The number of trains had been increased gradually since the service resumed in September after remaining suspended for close to six months as a precaution against Covid. The count rose to 258 in April. “We had increased the train count gradually and we will do so even now,” a Metro official said. Debjani Bhattacharya, who commutes between Dum Dum and Esplanade, is looking forward to an increase in the number of trains because that will ensure safer travel. “Commuters are cautious because of the pandemic but it is not possible to maintain physical distancing given the number of passengers. More trains are likely to lessen the commuter load on each,” she said. Forty-eight trains will run on the East-West Metro corridor from 8am to 8pm from Monday to Friday, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
17-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Civic body asks health department  to allot more doses to vaccination centres||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is vaccinating around 30,000 people a day but nearly 25 per cent of them are from outside the Calcutta municipal area, officials said. This highlights the fact that if vaccines have been scarce in Calcutta, they have been scarcer outside the city’s boundary. The civic body has asked the state health department to allot more doses to its Covid vaccination centres because they are not only vaccinating Calcuttans but also a large number of people from districts. “If the vaccination of the entire population of Calcutta is to be expedited, more doses are required for the city,” a civic official said. “Over the past 10 days or so, thanks to shortage of doses, we have not been able to vaccinate more than 30,000 people a day on average. We have found that about 25 to 30 per cent of the people who are getting vaccinated at our clinics are from Sonarpur, Baruipur, Bidhannagar, Barasat and other places in adjoining districts,” a senior doctor at the CMC said. “We have requested the health department to allot us more doses.” The Telegraph reported on Friday that erratic supply of Covid vaccines had hobbled the inoculation drive in Calcutta. Only about nine lakh of the targeted 60 lakh people in the city have received two doses till date. According to the CoWIN portal, where all Covid vaccinations are registered, over 39 lakh doses have been administered in Calcutta till 8pm on Friday. The figure includes the doses administered from government as well as private centres but the majority of them were given from CMC clinics. “More than a quarter of the people getting the shot at CMC clinics are not residents of the city. While allocating doses to us, one needs to keep in mind that we are inoculating a sizeable number of people from districts daily,” a CMC official said. Several households in Calcutta have domestic workers who come from adjoining districts such as North and South 24-Parganas. Also, a large number of people with blue-collar or white-collar jobs in Calcutta are from outside the city. Many of these people have taken their jabs in Calcutta as the vaccination infrastructure in the places they are from is not as robust as it is in the city. The CMC runs as many as 190 Covid vaccination centres. “Our domestic help comes from Lakshmikantapur in South 24-Parganas. She took both her jabs from a CMC centre. It was easier for her to take the jabs here because there are many centres in Calcutta. In Lakshmikantapur there are only a handful,” said a Gariahat resident. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury told The Telegraph that vaccination of those who come to work in Calcutta is as important as vaccinating those who stay in the city. “Huge numbers of people come to work in Calcutta from neighbouring districts. If they are not fully vaccinated, they could become carriers of the virus and spread it to others. These people can also take back the infection to their places of residence and become spreaders of the disease there. It is absolutely necessary to vaccinate them,” said Chowdhury, a member of the Covid task force of the state government. Civic doctors said the CMC had to discontinue bookings at its clinics through WhatsApp chatbot because many of the recipients who booked their slots were from outside the Calcutta municipal area, a trend that many ward coordinators had objected to. “The ward coordinators complained that many people in their wards had to stand in queues while people from elsewhere took the jabs after booking slots through the chatbot,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
