18-07-2021||Calcutta||Five duped of Rs 3 crore with loan promise||A man and a woman have been arrested for allegedly duping at least five men from Bengal of over Rs 3 crore. The two allegedly introduced themselves as senior officials of a Delhi-based non-banking financial company and made false promises of arranging a loan of Rs 50 crore for them. Police said the two accused who were put up in star hotels in the city, with the five men paying for their lodging, were picked up from a south Calcutta hotel early on Friday. “The complainant and his friends are from Burdwan. They had been promised Rs 50 crore as a loan from a financial institute at a lucrative rate of interest. They were asked to part with more than Rs 3 crore in instalments as processing fee for granting the loan,” said an officer in Lalbazar. The accused were identified as Ramnivas Shukla and Shirley John. The two were produced in a city court and have been remanded in police custody. Cops have started a case of cheating and forgery. An officer said initially, the complainant and his friends did not realise the fraud and kept paying money as the loan’s processing fee. The men also kept arranging star hotel accommodations in the city for the fraudsters and paid their hotel bills, the police said. Only recently, when the two asked the men for more money, the five realised they were being cheated. Last week, Calcutta police arrested the branch manager of a private bank for allegedly running a non-banking financial company with her husband, allegedly making false promises of high returns if people deposited their money with them. An elderly couple, who had invested over Rs 1 crore with them, had lodged a complaint, based on which the woman was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Nakhoda Masjid to hold two special prayers for Id-ul-Azha||Nakhoda Masjid has decided to hold two special prayers for Id-ul-Azha instead of one that was held pre-pandemic, a member of the mosque’s board of trustees said on Saturday. The extra prayer will allow those who used to offer their Id prayers on Red Road, which has been cancelled, to offer the namaz in a mosque. Tipu Sultan Masjid will not allow any congregation outside the mosque. The Id-ul-Azha, also called Bakr Id, will be spent with caution both by the mosque authorities as well as families. This would be the fourth Id — Id-ul-Fitr of 2020 and 2021, and Id-ul-Azha of 2020 and 2021 — since the Covid-19 pandemic started in India last year. Celebrating Id has never been what it was till 2019, rued the families as well the mosque authorities. “We will be having two special Id-ul-Azha prayers at our mosque on Wednesday. Usually, we had one special prayer. We are organising two prayers because the Red Road prayers have been cancelled. A number of people who used to pray in the open on Red Road would like to offer their namaz at our mosque,” said Nasser Ebrahim, one of the trustees of Nakhoda Masjid. “If we had only one prayer, it could have led to overcrowding....” Hafiz Mohammad Haroon Rashid, the assistant imam of Tipu Sultan Masjid, said the mosque has taken a decision to not allow any congregation for Id prayers outside the mosque. “It becomes difficult to control the crowd if any congregation is allowed outside,” said Rashid. Many families did not pray at the mosque during Id-ul-Fitr in May to avoid being in a crowd. Some of them said they preferred to offer namaz with a select few friends and family members on the terrace than praying inside the closed environs of a mosque. Some families have also avoided the Qurbani as the distribution of meat would have meant visiting relatives, many of whom have elderly members at their homes. Park Circus resident Bilal Khan will spend his Id indoors. He has also asked his relatives not to visit their home to greet his 75-year-old mother, which has been the custom for years. Instead, they would do a video call. “A big part of Id is about meeting and greeting, followed by a feast. That will not happen this year,” Khan, who lives in the family’s seven-decade old home at Park Circus, said. Khan had offered the last Id prayers on the terrace of the family home with his brothers and friends. They had timed it in a way that it coincided with the prayers being offered at the nearest mosque. Shaikh Sohail, a resident of Kidderpore, had offered the Id-ul-Fitr prayers with his father, uncle and cousin at the terrace in May. He plans to do the same on Wednesday. “My father is 75 and I do not want to expose him to a crowd...,” said Sohail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Two men arrested with pangolin scales on Bentinck Street||Pangolin scales weighing over 3kg and 38 claws were seized from two men in an app cab on Bentinck Street by a joint team of the Calcutta police’s detective department (wildlife wing) and the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) on Saturday. The International Union for Conservation of Nature lists the Chinese pangolin as a critically endangered species. Based on a tip-off, WCCB officials and officers from the detective department intercepted the cab. “It seems that multiple pangolins were hunted for quite some time and their claws and scales taken off,” said Agni Mitra, regional deputy director, WCCB. The two men — identified as Satish Kumar Chouhan, 37, and Basant Kumar Saw, 35 — were produced in a court that sent them to custody. A forest department official said pangolin scales were valued at nearly Rs 3 lakh a kilo in the grey market. The babies were born to a yellow anaconda at the zoo on July 11. The mother is one of the four yellow anacondas that were brought to Alipore in June 2019 from the Madras Crocodile Bank and Centre for Herpetology in Mamallapuram, near Chennai, where they had been bred in captivity. Most snakes lay eggs. But some, like anacondas, give birth to babies. The babies weigh between 100 and 150g and are around a foot long. “The enclosure that we built for the anacondas, comprising water bodies, rocks and swamps, helped in the breeding,” said a zoo official. y||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Bihar students reach JEE centres with help from Calcutta Police||Two students who came to the city from Bihar to take the Bengal joint entrance examination reached the test centre at Jadavpur University on Saturday morning, little realising that they were supposed to go to the university’s Salt Lake campus, 14km away. Manish Kumar, 19, who came from Patna, and Irfan Ansari, 18, from Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas, Bihar, had seen Jadavpur University on their admit cards and assumed they had to go to Jadavpur. Upon realising, the two were seen panicking at the bus stop opposite Jadavpur police station and sergeant Niloy Halder of Jadavpur traffic guard approached them offering help. “They had limited time and money. We arranged for one of our office staff to accompany them on a motorcycle. They managed to reach the Salt Lake campus on time,” said a traffic department officer. Rajib Bandopadhayay, the centre in-charge of the university’s Salt Lake campus, said all 279 candidates reached the venue before the start of exam at 11am. But for such minor glitches, the exam went off smoothly and around 74,000 examinees wrote the pen-and-paper test at 274 centres in Bengal. The first public examination amid the pandemic saw many candidates using private transport and app cabs to reach the centres because of the Covid-induced travel restrictions, said a higher education department official. At JU’s main campus centre, candidates were allowed to enter from 9.20am, said Anupam Debsarkar, a centre in-charge. “The JEE board instructed us to open the centre from 9.30am. But we opened 10 minutes earlier as candidates were required to undergo thermal scanning while maintaining the physical distance.” Registrar Snehamanju Basu and other officials stood guard to check that examinees wore masks and carried hand sanitisers. The board instructed those managing the centres to provide examinees the protective gear in case they did not have them. “We accommodated 28 examinees in each room, maintaining a distance of 5 metres between two candidates. Each bench had only one candidate,” said Basu. A JEE board official said they had allocated centres closest to the applicants’ homes to curtail the use of public transport. “Even if they had to use private transport, they did not have to travel much,” said the official. The results will be published by August 14. A three-phased centralised online counselling will be held by September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||HHI officials summoned by excise department for ‘hearing’ next week||The excise department has summoned senior officials of Hotel Hindustan International (HHI) to appear for a “hearing “ early next week. The department, during the “hearing”, would want to know from the hotel authorities whether liquor was served to a suite on the hotel’s sixth floor after 8pm last Saturday in violation of the Covid-19 norms. Last Saturday around 9pm, a team of senior officials from the excise department had raided the hotel on AJC Bose Road following information that a party had shifted from the hotel’s bar to a suite on the sixth floor after 8pm. HHI had allegedly made all arrangements for shifting the venue from the bar to the suite. The hotel has declined comment on the allegations. “During the hearing session, we would want to know what the hotel authorities have to say about our findings that liquor was served beyond stipulated time last Saturday on a sixth-floor suite,” said a senior official of the excise department. “Such hearings follow when we detect deviation  from rules.” The department had earlier sought CCTV footage of the sixth-floor corridor and the lobby from that day. The hotel apparently said it could not retrieve the footage since the machines were malfunctioning. The excise department has not barred HHI from serving liquor. It has imposed such a bar on The Park after police arrested 37 persons from a late night party at the Park Street address early on Sunday morning. The detective department of Calcutta police, which is probing the alleged violation of the government’s norms at The Park, has summoned senior hotel officials for questioning at Lalbazar on Monday. “The hotel’s management would have to clearly explain its position about last Saturday night’s party. We will record statements of each of the staff and then crosscheck it with the ones who have given their statements to us earlier,” said a senior police officer. Security and patrol personnel have been increased on the Maidan for evening walkers from Saturday. Police officers said extra patrol vans have been deployed in the area between 4pm and late evening — when many Calcuttans go to the stretch for walks. The move comes in wake of multiple snatchings on the Maidan. Three morning walkers were robbed and one was injured with a knife and the butt of a gun. Morning patrol had already been stepped up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
18-07-2021||Calcutta||Shift from physical to online classes dents pen sale||The pen is no longer mighty. A glowing screen in front and the keyboard or a stylus have replaced the traditional pen and paper combination for students, teachers and  even for a clerk in an office alike. The prolonged closure of schools and colleges and curtailed attendance in offices because of the pandemic have led to a steep decline in the demand for pens, said makers, sellers and users. A senior official of Linc Pen and Plastics, one of the biggest manufacturers of pens and stationeries in India, said before the pandemic, the company used to sell around 20 lakh pens every month in Calcutta alone. “In May this year, we sold around two lakh pens in Calcutta.” The company started reaching out to general grocery stores to arrest the slump. The shift from physical classroom to online classes is one of the biggest contributors to the decline in the use of pens. When in school, everything was by default on pen and paper. But now classes are online, students often record the classes and hardly use a pen. Ahana Ghosh, a Class XI student of a school in Behala, needed at least three pens every month. Now she needs one. “I do not have to note down all the lessons,” she said. “In school, teachers objected if we didn’t take notes. Now, the teacher posts a PDF copy of the lessons,” said a Class VIII student of a city school. Students still have to write exams on paper and send scanned copies to teachers. The decline in the use of pens is stark among teachers, who are checking assignments on phones, laptops or any other devices. “I do my corrections mostly on the phone,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St  Xavier’s Collegiate School. For want of resources, many students have been left out of the ambit of online classes. Private tuitions have also shifted to the online mode. These factors have added to the further decline in the usage of pens. Dhruba Ghosh, who teaches English in a New Alipore School, said: “I needed two to three red pens every month. Now, one pen serves me for two months.” Schools usually buy stationery, including pens, round-the-year. But this has gone down during the pandemic. “Assignments are happening online and so are corrections. So, the purchase of stationery, including pens, has gone down,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. Usually, schools would keep a stock of stationery for their teachers and administrative staff. “Since the teachers are not coming to school the consumption has gone down,” said The New-town School founder-director Sunil Agarwal. Both government and private offices are functioning with a limited number of staff, leading to a decline in the use of stationeries. The office of a pharmaceutical company in central Calcutta has been functioning with 10 people, compared to the full strength of around 35. “Hence, the use of pens has gone down,” said a senior executive of the firm. Khokan Chanda, a pen distributor who lives off the Jadavpur-EM Bypass connector, used to stock up pens worth Rs 30,000 every month before the pandemic. “I used to sell 700-800 pens every week. Now, selling 20 has become a challenge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
