19-07-2021||Calcutta||Heroin worth Rs 25 crore seized from biker in Calcutta||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested a 36-year-old biker and seized over 5kg of heroin from him on Saturday evening, said an officer. The seized heroin is worth around Rs 25 crore in the international grey market, police said. Tapas Ray was arrested from a spot near Captain Bheri, off EM Bypass, based on a tip-off that a man riding a motorcycle was carrying drugs. Ray, a resident of Dubrajpur in Birbhum, used to operate as a drug peddler in Durgapur, the police said. He was carrying the heroin in a bag tied to the back of his motorcycle. Officers said large quantities of heroin were usually seized from cars and trucks. “This was possibly the first time that such a huge quantity of heroin was found in a bag tied to a two-wheeler,” an officer said. “The accused wanted to hoodwink cops and chose to drive down all the way from Durgapur to Calcutta on a motorcycle,” the officer said. The police are yet to find out who Ray was to deliver the consignment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Cut your coat according to the stuff of your dreams||The old mosque in Keyatala is a few minutes’ walk from Sk. Akbar Ali’s tailoring shop, off Purna Das Road in south Calcutta. The almost century-old spacious, dignified mosque, painted a quiet shade of blue, lies quietly in a lane. Because of its low height, it may even be missed in a neighbourhood crammed with tall apartment buildings. Standing in front of the mosque, you can feel the silence within, and it fills you with peace, cutting you off from the chatter of the street and the clatter of the buildings and the turmoil inside your head, which can be overwhelming these days. You want to stay on. A bit of calm enters you when you meet Ali, too. “Akbarda” to some, the 53-year-old is a patient, smiling man, who has been running this small tailoring shop in a lane, that branches off the restaurant Tero Parbon, for the past 21 years. But he has been visiting the mosque for three decades, from the time he came to south Calcutta to work. His daily prayers at the mosque keep him going. Recently, he tried to show his gratitude by contributing in a major way towards repairing the mosque and cleaning its premises. He does not say much, but looks at the spotlessly clean walls of the structure with satisfaction and pride. He also looks at his life in a similar way. He is grateful that he has been able to choose his own path. He has built it himself. He is a “self-made” man. Ali is revered by some. The clothes he makes are impeccable in their cut, which is his forte, and also in their stitching and details. He can create, and recreate, the most complicated designs. He appreciates the different: he likes it when a customer asks him not to use the border of a fabric in the sleeves and the neck, but to let it appear naturally as the cloth turns, maybe at the back. Some of the clothes hanging at his shop look like designer chic. The finishing of his clothes is excellent. The designs he creates are usually simple and sophisticated, with the Chinese collar or the cutaway sleeves sitting perfectly. “They just appear in my mind. I do not consult design books or the Internet,” he says. But he is as enthusiastic if a customer wants Bollywood and bling. He was once approached by an A-list designer of the country with a job offer and a Mumbai designer had offered him a monthly salary of Rs 80,000 a few years ago. But Ali declined, because he had always wanted to do his own thing. He grew up with seven siblings in a poor family in Dhaldanga village in Khanakul, located in Hooghly district in south Bengal. He could only study till Class VIII, and tried to work in the fields, but at 16, came to Calcutta. “The real stories of my life…” Ali pauses. He suggests they are beyond telling. What he can talk about is the bearable. But he does not show any resentment. On the contrary. In Calcutta he joined his father, who worked at the India Government Press, and lived with him in Collin Street. They would sleep on hired beds, all they could afford. Soon Ali got a job as an apprentice at the Raymond workshop in Lindsay Street, where he was introduced to tailoring. A world opened up for Ali, who discovered he was a natural with scissors. “At first I used to earn a few rupees at the end of the week,” he says. But at the workshop, he was learning to cut men’s suits, which would be his education. Men are supposedly simple and so are their clothes. But the cuts and contours of men’s jackets, not to mention the male mind, are as complex and challenging as women’s clothes, if men’s and women’s clothes are separate categories any more. They were when Ali had entered into the maze of measurements, markings and manipulations that go into a making a tuxedo, and he mastered all of it. Even as he was aware that each body is unique and demands special attention. Making the perfect garment is an art that requires imagination and confidence and also carries its own sense of power. Ali was hooked. He soaked up all the knowledge and worked briefly at another workshop in Rajabazar. At 21, he was confident enough to set up his own shop, that too in affluent Hindustan Park in south Calcutta, quite a distance from his previous addresses. “It was not easy,” he says. He had to move after three years and relocated to the lane where his current shop is located, but his second shop was in the adjacent building. He made another major transition then: he veered into women’s clothing. Now he is famous for his perfect sari blouses. Batches of NRI women would visit him, before the pandemic, with bundles of fabric, to be turned into blouses. As his reputation grew, he was able to become a major support for his family. He got his six sisters married. He got married last. He now lives at his own house in Kasba with his family. His sons are 19 and 15. He wants to send his elder son to an engineering college. In 1998, he set up his third shop, where he is to be found now every day from early afternoon. He had employed six men before the pandemic. He counts a few celebs among his clients. “I feel blessed,” he says. Despite the pandemic. After the second wave, orders have been few. Most of his employees have gone back home. But he is certain of a better time and every day, offers his prayers at the masjid. “After praying, something changes,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Gang boards app cab near Ruby crossing, snatches IT professional's wallet and phone ||An IT professional who was returning home in an app cab after dropping his friend was allegedly robbed by the driver and “two or three” others who had boarded the vehicle despite his objections on Saturday night. Anirban Sengupta, 37, lodged a complaint saying several people had attacked him inside the cab on a deserted stretch behind the Urbana housing complex, near the Ruby crossing, and let him go after snatching his wallet and phone. Apart from money, the wallet contained an ATM card and his identity documents, Sengupta told the police. “The incident happened at Kheyadah, not far from the Ruby rotary, around 10pm,” said a police officer. “The complainant and a woman friend boarded an app cab in front of Acropolis Mall. The cab went to Mandirtala in Howrah, where the woman got off, before returning to the Bypass to drop Sengupta home near the Ruby crossing,” the officer said. The cabbie, however, drove past the “destination” towards a deserted stretch, Sengupta wrote in his complaint. The driver allegedly allowed two to three men to board the cab. The men allegedly beat him up and dumped him on the road after snatching his wallet and cellphone. Sengupta borrowed a phone from a passerby and called up his family and later lodged a complaint with Narendrapur police station. According to a medical report issued by a government hospital, Sengupta suffered  injuries on his lips, ears and face. The police said they had contacted the app cab company and sought details about the trip and the driver. No one was arrested till Sunday evening. Metallic types used to create rubber blocks to print documents were stolen from the Bengal Government Press at Gopal Nagar in Alipore on Saturday. Two men — Sheikh Ismail and Mohammad Mansur — were arrested in connection with the theft. Police said six bags containing stolen metallic types were seized from one of the accused. Officers said they had turned their focus on metallic types used in government presses after the Debanjan Deb case came to light. Vaccine scam accused Deb had allegedly recruited people using forged government letterheads. A woman who would step out of her home to feed stray dogs was allegedly verbally abused by a neighbour. The woman, who lives with her mother in south Calcutta, lodged a police complaint saying the neighbour would make indecent proposals. “The man had been harassing me on and off…. He keeps boasting of his political links,” the woman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals plan to resume vaccination drive after receiving fresh stocks  ||Several private hospitals that had stopped or curtailed outreach Covid vaccination camps because of shortage of doses are planning to resume or scale up the drive after receiving fresh stocks. One of the hospitals that had postponed its outreach camps is planning to start them this week. Another hospital is planning to expand off-site vaccination, which has so far been restricted to workplaces, and bring housing complexes within its ambit. A third is trying to open more outreach camps in districts, where there is a huge demand for vaccines. Officials of the hospitals said increasing the number of outreach camps was key to scaling up the vaccination. The number of people getting vaccinated at a hospital will not go up beyond a point, they said. The Telegraph has reported how shortage of doses disrupted off-site vaccination. Erratic supply of doses from the Centre has resulted in many people not getting vaccinated in Calcutta. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had to postpone all outreach camps because it did not have enough vaccines in stock. “We received 35,000 doses late on Friday. With the arrival of the new stock, we will be able to resume outreach camps,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The hospital had to postpone eight scheduled camps, all of which had been approved by the state health department. The hospital informed the hosts and the health department that they were not in a position to hold the camps for want of vaccines. “We will write to the health department again with the request to allow us to go ahead with the outreach camps. We are expecting to resume the camps from the middle or the end of this week,” Venkatesh said. The hospital will also resume discussions with housing complexes and other organisations on opening more outreach camps in the coming weeks. Fresh stocks will enable them to carry on vaccination at the hospital as well as in multiple other locations till the first week of August or beyond, an official of the hospital said. The management plans to place fresh orders so that more stocks arrive in the first week of August. The AMRI group, which runs three hospitals in the city, is vaccinating about 1,500 people daily at the three units together. It is organising two to four outreach camps every day. The hospital group received 25,000 doses last week. With the fresh stock, they are aiming to expand outreach vaccination in districts. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI, said the number of vaccinations would not grow beyond a point in hospitals. “To push up the vaccination numbers, we have to organise more outreach camps and take the drive to places where more people will be comfortable taking the jabs,” he said. AMRI is conducting outreach camps in Sodepur and Barasat in North 24-Parganas, Haldia in East Midnapore and in Burdwan. “We want to open more outreach camps in these districts and in other districts,” he said. The rush for vaccination is more in districts because the supply there is not as much as in Calcutta. The state health department had recently made it mandatory for city hospitals to tie up with a local private clinical establishment for opening outreach Covid vaccination camps in districts. The chief medical officer of health of a district is supposed to arrange inspection of the site before giving the permission. Woodlands Hospital has so far only conducted outreach camps for workplaces. Now, it is targeting housing complexes and associations to organise outreach vaccination camps. The hospital had 29,000 vaccine doses on Sunday and is to receive 15,000 more on Monday. “We are actively engaging with associations and housing complexes to organise outreach Covid vaccination in their places,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||The Park requests excise department to lift liquor ban||The Park authorities have written to the excise department requesting it to reconsider a ban on serving liquor in the 10 bars as well as the rooms of the Park Street hotel. The ban was imposed after the arrest of 37 persons early on July 11 for allegedly partying in the third-floor corridor of the hotel in violation of curbs announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid. The Park management has said in the letter to the excise department that the hotel staff did not serve liquor to the revellers. The management has said it is not sure whether the liquor bottles seized from the party spot were sourced from the hotel's off-shop, one of the bars on the premises or from outside, said an official of the department. The hotel authorities have said they did not see the bottles seized. “We have nothing to say about the letter right now,” said an official of The Park. A team of officers from the detective department of Calcutta police had raided the hotel’s third floor around 1.15am on July 11 and arrested the revellers, who were allegedly partying to loud music. Apart from the liquor bottles, a few empty glasses, a DJ console box and several other items were seized from the spot. Park Street police station registered an FIR against the revellers and The Park authorities for violating the state government's order, under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code. On July 14, the excise department issued an order barring The Park from serving liquor across the hotel until further orders. Officials in the excise department who have gone through the hotel’s letter said the management had cited the fact that the hotel industry had taken a severe beating during the pandemic and said they could not stay afloat and pay their staff unless liquor was allowed to be served. “We received the letter on Friday from a hotel employee,” said an official in the excise department. “No decision has been taken yet.” Apart from the detective department of Calcutta police, the excise department has initiated a probe to find out whether the staff of The Park had served liquor to the revellers after the stipulated time of 8pm on July 10, violating government restrictions. The state government’s order related to Covid curbs says all bar-cum-restaurants, including those in hotels, have to shut down by 8pm. An excise official said on Sunday that unless the probe was over, no decision about withdrawing the blanket ban on serving liquor could be taken. “Like any other case of violation, we will call the staff of The Park for a hearing and listen to what they have to say on the charges against the hotel brought by the police,” the official said. The police have already questioned some of the hotel employees and summoned senior officials from the hotel’s management for questioning on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta’s police commissioner takes bicycle ride to review security arrangements in Maidan||Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra took a bicycle ride to review the security arrangements in the Maidan area on Sunday morning. The inspection came a day after the city police stepped up vigil on the Maidan for evening walkers and the police commissioner's instruction to intensify security around all parks and lakes where people go for morning and evening walks. Mitra started the inspection from Prinsep Ghat around 5.30am, crossed Strand Road, Kingsway, All India Radio building and Council House Street to reach Lalbazar, from where he took a U-turn to reach Red Road and Victoria Memorial, via Council House Street. He ended his ride in front of Elliot Park. Senior officers said the top cop’s move suggested the heightened emphasis the city police are giving to security on and around the Maidan. “We have never seen a commissioner take a cycle ride to review security. This was symbolic and a message to the entire force about the seriousness with which Lalbazar is viewing the matter,” said a police officer. Last week, two scooter-borne men had robbed three morning walkers and attacked one of them with a knife and the butt of a gun when he tried to resist them. The security for morning walkers on the Maidan was increased the next morning, while that for evening walkers was stepped up on Saturday. Commissioner Mitra had during Saturday’s crime conference purportedly instructed all police stations in the city to tighten security around the places where Calcuttans go for a walk. “Sir (Mitra) has told us that not just the Maidan, emphasis should be given to all places where people go for morning and evening walks,” said an officer who had attended the crime conference. Based on the instructions, vigil has been stepped up at Rabindra Sarovar, Subhas Sarovar and all big parks where people gather to walk. Officers said police deployment on the premises of both lakes had been stepped up and cops had been given walkie-talkies for seamless communication. Last week, when three morning walkers were attacked on the Maidan, there were no police personnel in the vicinity. The absence of cops might have encouraged the scooter-borne duo to  carry out the daring daylight attack. After the incident, Calcutta police set up four police pickets, each comprising two cops armed with walkie-talkies. Also, the number of police patrol vehicles has been doubled. The commissioner has also purportedly instructed his officers to increase visibility of cops in the areas where people go for walks but are largely deserted because of restrictions on parking and movement of private vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Farmers in Hooghly get gumboots and gloves as shield against snakebites from NGO||One hundred farmers in Hooghly district on Friday got a pair of gumboots and gloves, each, as a shield against snakebites, from an organisation that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. The monsoon is the time when most cases of snakebites are reported across Bengal, said forest officials. With the advent of the rainy season, the farmlands need to be cleared of weeds before the sowing of paddy seeds. The earthen embankments surrounding the fields need to be raised to prevent rainwater from flooding farmlands. The raised mounds make the fields a thriving habitat for rodents, thereby attracting scores of snakes which prey on them. The farmers tilling the land often get bitten by snakes. Many of them work barefoot and are more vulnerable to snakebites. “Most of the time it is difficult to spot snakes. Many farmers happen to step on a snake before getting bitten. People get killed. The snakes that are spotted are also beaten to death by people,” said Kalyanmoy Das, of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), the NGO that distributed the gumboots and gloves. The boots and gloves were distributed on Friday — July 16 is observed as the World Snake Day — to 100 farmers in Hooghly’s Haripal block, around 50km from Calcutta. The distribution of boots and gloves is part of a pilot project of the NGO. “The boots are made of rubber and the gloves are made of thick leather. The sturdy gear will protect the farmers from snakebites. If successful, the project will be scaled up,” said Das. Around 46,000 people die after being bitten by a snake in India every year, according to the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. “Most deaths because of human-wildlife conflicts in India can be attributed to snakebites. Rural Bengal is no exception. The conflict is detrimental for both humans and snakes,” said Joydip Kundu of SHER. “Snakes play an important role in the general as well as agricultural ecosystem because they are natural pest-controllers,” said a forest official. “The drive is commendable. If successful, it can be replicated across the state. We are also trying to increase awareness to reduce the conflict between snakes and humans,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||NIT scholars can return after giving undertaking that they have taken both doses of Covid vaccine||NIT Durgapur has asked the project and research scholars to return to the institute after giving an undertaking that they have taken both doses of a Covid vaccine. The undertaking must also contain the dates of the doses. A notice signed by the institute’s dean of students welfare on Saturday states: “All willing PhD scholars/project staff who have been vaccinated both the doses (1st and 2nd) for COVID 19 may be allowed to come to the institute/hostel on August 01-07, 2021, subject to the recommendation from the supervisor, the head of the department and their parents.” The students need to fill in a Google form —https://forms.gle/ydjd8SNxrY2MLKwA9 - by July 29. The institute’s website mentions the email address where the undertaking in the prescribed format - signed by the student, supervisor and the head of the department - will have to be submitted. “Since cases are still being reported all over, we want to maintain maximum possible caution,” said Anupam Basu, the director of the institute. In the third week of April, the NIT had decided to close the hostels and asked the 250-odd research scholars and 37 MTech students who had returned to the campus to vacate hostels “immediately”. The decision was taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 following a renewed surge. In the declaration form addressed to the institute authorities, a student has to state: “I request you to allow me to access the department laboratory of the institute to accelerate my research at NIT Durgapur. I assure you that I shall obey all rules and regulations of the institute and am bound to follow the SOP issued by the ministry of health and family welfare time to time.” The supervisor has to declare that the research work to be carried out by the student is of extreme exigency. “In any unusual situation, I/We will extend my/our support to the student, if required,” the supervisor has to commit. A parent has to state in the declaration form whether anyone who lives at his or her address has returned from domestic or international travel in the last 14 days or been in physical contact with a Covid-19 patient recently. “Is any one who lives at your address currently under a form of self isolation as the result of an order of a government authority or as the result of a recommendation of a health professional?” reads a question in the declaration form. The parents will have to tick “Yes” or “No” against each question. Director Basu said that if the number of cases rose again, the students would be sent back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
19-07-2021||Calcutta||Elderly woman in Golf Green dies after falling from terrace ||An elderly woman who used to live alone in her three-storey home at Golf Green died after falling from the terrace on Sunday morning. Police said the Russa Road house was found locked from inside, suggesting that Binita Mukherjee, 62, was alone when the incident happened. Investigators said the woman either committed suicide or fell accidentally from the terrace. She was found in a pool of blood on the road in front of her home around 11am. “It seems the woman fell on the cables and then landed on the road. When her domestic help arrived, she found the house locked from inside. We entered the house after breaking open the padlock on the collapsible gate in the presence of a relative,” said an officer. Mukherjee was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. Officers said they informed her son Debasish Mukherjee, who lives in Lucknow, of her mother’s death. “No complaint was lodged till late on Sunday. Nor was there any evidence suggesting foul play,” an officer said. An unnatural death case has been registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
