20-07-2021||Calcutta||Candlelight vigil held for slain photojournalist Danish Siddiqui||A candlelight vigil in memory of Danish Siddiqui, the Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist who died in Afghanistan while on assignment for Reuters, was organised by the Press Club Calcutta on Monday. Scores of journalists, photojournalists, and civil society members attended the vigil in the evening, which began with a minute’s silence. The attendees lit candles before a photograph of Siddiqui and paid tributes. Some in the gathering offered prayers for the departed soul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||Visiting PSU banks a nightmare for elderly customers||A visit to a nationalised bank has become a nightmare for many customers, especially senior citizens, in the wake of the Covid curbs and a series of mergers. Thousands of elderly people — often with the simplest of business — are being made to wait for a long time in queues outside banks. On many occasions, only to be turned away from the gate. Ironically, the social distancing protocols are going for a toss in the queues. Many people, who just have a simple query or have come to collect a form, are not ready to wait for a long time and are jostling with others to get inside. The Telegraph has reported about similar queues outside banks in September last year. In a year threatened by disease and other constraints, trips to banks have become a necessity for many elders because issues that can be solved in one day are dragging on for an indefinite period. ⚫ Last week, an octogenarian waited close to an hour in a queue outside a nationalised bank on the northern fringes of Calcutta so he could get a new passbook. When his turn came, a man at the gate asked for the passbook and told the senior citizen the bank would call him when it was available. When the senior citizen asked for the person’s identity or phone number for future reference, he was told: “Please take your passbook and go home. You don’t have to get an update.” ⚫ On Monday afternoon, a 60-year-old man had to wait in a queue for close to 75 minutes outside another nationalised bank in Bansdroni. All Ashis Mukherjee had to do — give his permission to renew a recurring deposit after maturity. Till now, the deposit was auto-renewed on maturity but not any more because of a “system change”, he was told. ⚫ An 83-year-old woman waited for close to 40 minutes outside a nationalised bank in New Alipore. The bank has been recently merged with another bank. The woman had got a message saying that the old IFSC (Indian Financial System Code, needed to transfer funds online) had changed. “I could not understand whether the message was an intimation or a prod to visit the branch and get a new chequebook. I thought it was best that I visited the branch,” said Purnima Banerjee, a retired teacher. The Centre has amalgamated 10 public sector banks into four entities. Allahabad Bank and the United Bank of India — both used to be headquartered in Calcutta — have been merged with Indian Bank and Punjab National Bank, respectively. Across the city, thousands of customers of these two banks are going through a torrid time. A 72-year-old Behala resident, a customer of the erstwhile United Bank of India, received a message saying that she would be getting a new cheque book with a new MICR (Magnetic Ink Character Recognition technology, printed on cheques for faster identification of a bank and branch during electronic clearing of cheques) code. But the message also said she would have to get the cheque book “activated” through the branch. The woman, a former employee of a PSU bank, went to the branch last week but was told to visit “after seven days”. “The whole idea of sending a cheque book to my home is to reduce the need for going to the bank. What is the point in going to the bank twice to use my own cheque book,” asked the woman. The branches with a large base of depositors had bigger queues. The Bansdroni branch of a PSU bank had over 50 people waiting in a queue around noon on Monday. The sun was blazing, the mercury had touched 34 degrees, the RealFeel was 44 degrees and the humidity was close to 65 degrees. One of the people waiting in the queue was Prabir Barik, 65. He has a fixed deposit with the branch. But there was an error in the spelling of the name of the nominee for the deposit. “I came last month. I was told to come after a month. Here I am today, standing in the queue for over an hour but yet unsure if I will be able to get the work done,” said Barik. A helpdesk that was supposed to sort customers according to their needs at the gate was not seen at any of the 20-odd branches this newspaper visited on Monday. A branch manager of a PSU bank in south Calcutta said the social distancing norms were being implemented according to the capacity of each branch. “A 3,000sq ft branch with 15 employees and eight counters can allow 12 to 15 people at a time. A 1,000sq ft branch with three counters cannot allow, say, more than three to six people at a time,” said the official. Many banks have been providing “limited services” — mainly cash deposit, withdrawal and implementation of government schemes — citing lack of personnel because of Covid. A senior member of the State Level Bankers Committee in Bengal, which coordinates between the government and the banks, attributed the staff shortage to lack of transport options. “Local trains are suspended. Buses and taxis are also limited. Many people who stay far away from the branches cannot come to work every day,” he said. A senior official of a PSU bank in Calcutta said it was unfortunate that people still had to wait hours for ancillary services like collection of forms and updation of KYC details. “Leave aside digitisation and doorstep banking, there is no operational helpline for customers in most cases,” he said. Additional reporting by Pinak Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||Online platform launched to help candidates prepare for competitive exams ||An online platform to help candidates prepare for competitive exams was launched on Friday. RICE Education, which prepares students for recruitment tests for government jobs, will now offer online courses for exams conducted by the public service commission, staff selection commission, railways and banks through an app called RICE Smart. The course is a combination of online classes, pre-recorded videos, assessments (daily/weekly/monthly) and face-to-face doubt-clearing sessions. “A number of students from the districts or the city outskirts were staying in Calcutta to attend classes which have been impacted by the pandemic restrictions. The online courses will make it possible for students to access the best teachers and prepare for government services,” said Samit Ray, chairman, RICE Group. RICE Education has 19 centres in Bengal and has been coaching students since 1985. “In the last 36 years, about 1.5 lakh students have found success through RICE and we believe that with the quality and affordable online support from RICE Smart, many more will attain success in government competitive exams,” said Ray. Apart from doubt-clearing sessions, the on-site interaction will simulate the experience of in-person examination. “The centres will replicate the exam experience allowing students to prepare for an exam,” said an official. The platform is available as an app that can be downloaded from the Play Store. The platform also gives students an option to download the app and experience the free demo classes before deciding to join the paid courses. The rates are Rs 20,000 for the public service commission exams, Rs 15,000 for the exams conducted by the staff selection commission and the railways and Rs 8,000 for exams conducted by banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Halt in case slide sparks concern among state govt officials, public health experts  ||The number of new Covid cases every day has been varying between 800 and 1,000 over the past 15 days, a trend that has triggered concern among state government officials and public health experts. Several private hospitals said the rate of positivity for Covid tests and the number of patients admitted had almost remained the same over the past fortnight. According to the state health department data, Bengal recorded 885 new Covid cases on July 5. On July 18, the count was 801. In between, it hovered between 800 and 1,000. “At the peak of the second wave, the number of daily new cases in the state had gone up to around 20,000. From there it has dropped below 1,000. We were expecting it to drop even further by now,” said a senior official of the state health department. The main cause of concern, the official said, was that many people were dropping their guard after the government started relaxing the Covid restrictions. “More mingling of people without safety protocols means increased chances of transmission and that can lead to mutation of the virus. We are keeping a vigil on the situation,” said the official. The health department, he said, is regularly sending samples of Covid patients to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics to find out whether any new variant has emerged. “On Monday, the Delta variant, which drove the second wave in large parts of the country, was found in all the samples tested,” the official said. Private hospitals said the number of Covid patients admitted, after a sharp drop, has remained almost the same for the last 15 days. Peerless Hospital had 175 Covid beds in May. All of them were occupied on most days of the month. Now, the hospital has only 40 beds. On Monday, eight patients were admitted. “Since the beginning of July, two to three patients have been getting admitted daily. The rate of positivity (percentage of the samples tested positive) is not dropping below 5 per cent,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had cent percent occupancy in its Covid ward comprising 260 beds in May. “The number of patients had been falling drastically till 20 days back and we brought down the bed count to 25. But since the beginning of July, the number of admitted patients has remained steady at 17 or 18,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. The test positivity rate at the hospital, which had shot up to 60 per cent, is varying between 2 and 3 per cent. At Belle Vue Clinic, too, the test positivity rate has been around 2 per cent over the last fortnight. The hospital is testing around 35 samples daily, said CEO Pradip Tondon. Doctors said a more aggressive vaccination drive, along with maintaining personal safety, was the only way to ensure a further drop in the number of cases. “Even if the virus mutates, transmission can be kept under control if safety protocols are followed. If vaccination is not scaled up and people violate Covid protocols, a third wave will come,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases. Fliers’ protocol The state government on Monday announced that fliers arriving from outside the state would be required to be fully vaccinated or carry an RT-PCR negative report. The test has to be conducted within 72 hours before the flight departure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||Bank official’s body found in Salt Lake’s PG accommodation  ||The body of a bank official in his late 20s was found in his paying guest accommodation in Salt Lake’s Labony Housing Estate on Monday evening. P. Samwrith, from Amberpet in Hyderabad, was declared dead at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital. Samwrith had been suffering from anxiety and appeared depressed for the past few days, his flatmates told cops. “A homemade suicide bag using a helium cylinder has been recovered…. It is still not clear how he had sourced it,” the police said. An officer said helium cylinders were used to fill balloons. The police have found a suicide note in the flat and have alerted Samwrith’s relatives about his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||Hundreds of youths block road, demand immediate jobs||Hundreds of youths who said they had passed the recruitment test for the rank of constable in Bengal police and demanded immediate employment blocked Belvedere Road, in front of the state police directorate at Bhabani Bhavan, for three hours on Monday afternoon. The blockade threw traffic out of gear in several pockets of south Calcutta on the first working day of the week. Police had to push back the protesters as they refused to vacate the road even after multiple requests. The protestors, who were holding posters and banners, demanded employment on Monday and shouted slogans that they heard by the Bengal police brass. “We have cleared the recruitment test. Some of our batchmates have been inducted. When will we be employed? We will go home only after the authorities tell us our joining dates,” a protester shouted. Senior officers, including deputy commissioner (south) Akash Magharia and joint commissioner (establishment) Akhilesh Chaturvedi, tried to pacify the crowd citing a stay on recruitment because of a case pending with the state administrative tribunal. “We told the protesters that the matter was pending in court and that blocking the road would not get them jobs,” said an officer. The blockade started around noon and was removed at 3pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
20-07-2021||Calcutta||City cops remove 191 beacons from vehicles of govt officials ||The city’s traffic police have removed 191 beacons over the past 72 hours from vehicles of government officials who are not entitled to them, police officers said on Monday. The majority of the bureaucrats and others who were intercepted and allegedly found violating beacon norms claimed ignorance about their ineligibility for the privilege, the officers said. Some had to be shown the transport department notification about beacon eligibility. An officer said the public servants whose vehicles were “politely” stripped of beacons were of the rank of engineer, district judicial magistrate, additional district magistrate, divisional forest officer, deputy secretary, chief medical officer of health, medical superintendent (of a government hospital), deputy superintendent of police, sub-divisional officer and director of a government establishment. The personal assistant of a state minister was spotted using a beacon in violation of norms. All 25 traffic guards in the city and the special raids section of the traffic department cracked the whip on unauthorised use of beacons from Saturday. “We are stopping every vehicle with a beacon and politely asking which department the car belongs to. Then we are asking for the rank of the officer concerned and checking whether it is on the list given to us. If the officer is entitled to the beacon, we are immediately releasing the vehicle. If not, we are requesting the officer to immediately comply with the government order,” said a traffic sergeant in south Calcutta. Several empty but beacon-fitted vehicles were stopped and the drivers asked to remove the lights when the concerned officer was not in the car. The occupants of several vehicles allegedly resisted the move and challenged the list. “A beacon-fitted vehicle was ferrying a PWD engineer. He said he was confident about his entitlement. In such cases, we did not get into arguments and noted down details of the vehicle for verification,” said a sergeant in central Calcutta. Metro reported on Saturday that the police had written to all offices of the state and central governments in the city to comply with the beacon rules issued by the Bengal government. The maximum number of violations — 19 — was reported from the south-east traffic guard, which includes pockets like Southern Avenue, Rashbehari Avenue, Lake, Gariahat and Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
