21-07-2021||Calcutta||29-year-old techie arrested over murder charges in New Town||Police arrested a 29-year-old techie from Malda’s Kaliachowk on charges of murdering a woman with whom he was living in a rented apartment at Thakdari in New Town. Debabrata Poti was arrested on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s brother. An officer of New Town police station said Poti was in a live-in relationship with a 35-year-old woman from Jharkhand who worked in the same IT company. According to the officer, the two had been staying together for four months.“On July 15, a fight broke out between the two. The woman suddenly fell unconscious. Poti took her to a private hospital off EM Bypass, where she was declared dead,” said the officer. On Tuesday, the woman’s brother, Anand Mohan Singh, arrived in the city and filed a police complaint against Poti, the officer said. “Initial investigations have revealed that the couple used to have frequent fights. We have started a probe,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. The autopsy report of the woman is still awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Rain deficit in rainiest month in Calcutta||Calcutta's rainiest month has so far recorded a 23 per cent rain deficit in the city. But after a hot and sultry week, the Met office has finally forecast rain in Calcutta from Wednesday. Calcutta received 186.5mm of rain from July 1 to 20, compared with the usual quota of 240.8mm during the same period. July is usually the rainiest month of the monsoon. The usual July quota of rain for Calcutta is 396mm, followed by August’s usual quota of 344.5mm. The monsoon currents are expected to be active over south Bengal over the next few days, leading to a wet spell in Calcutta, Met officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal seeks CNG status report from Bengal govt||The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday asked the state government to submit the status report on bringing the environment-friendly compressed natural gas (CNG) to Calcutta and other areas of the state. The bench, comprising Justice Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, also asked the state to bring on record “the district-wise action plan” about laying CNG pipelines. The Telegraph has a copy of the order. Earlier, the tribunal had only stressed on transporting CNG to Calcutta and Howrah. “The judicial member said he is from a smaller city compared to Calcutta. Even in his city CNG has been available for quite some time. He expressed surprise as to why Calcutta still does not have the green fuel,” said a lawyer who participated in the virtual hearing. “The expert member pointed out that 10 years have already elapsed since the state signed an agreement with the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) on bringing CNG,” the lawyer said. “In 2011, the state government had signed an agreement with GAIL to bring CNG to Calcutta but nothing has happened on the ground so far,” alleged petitioner and environment activist Subhas Datta. Monday’s order was passed after GAIL informed the bench that “the acquisition of RoU (right of user) in West Bengal has been very slow” and pointed out that so far only 65 per cent of the land required for laying the pipelines had been acquired. The agency informed the bench that no land had been acquired so far for the stretch between Hansghara in Hooghly and Calcutta, the lawyer said. All other states involved in the 858km pipeline project — Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand — have already completed acquiring the required land, the agency said. Only after the acquisition process is complete can work on laying the 100km pipeline work for Calcutta start, GAIL said in its submission to the green tribunal. The pipes will run through the districts of Hooghly, Nadia and North 24-Parganas. “The NGT’s decision may be prompted by the fact that air pollution is increasing everywhere,” said an environment department official. The Telegraph recently reported how all the districts in the state, barring Kalimpong, have been  impacted by the air pollution. “In March 2020, the tribunal had directed the then chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to personally monitor compliance of its order on bringing CNG to the city after reminding the state that it had taken almost no steps to expedite the supply of CNG in the last few years. But nothing happened on the ground. We expect the situation to change after the current order,” an environmentalist said. Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert from the environment think tank Center for Science and Environment, pointed out that bringing CNG to Calcutta and other urban areas is crucial to minimise air pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik 2021: All 10,79,749 candidates clear Bengal board’s Class X examinations ||All 10,79,749 candidates cleared Madhyamik this year. In a year when the Class X board exam could not be conducted because of the pandemic, the pass percentage saw a jump by 13.66 per cent compared to 2020. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, which announced the results on Tuesday, decided not to detain any candidate this year because the exam could not be held, an official of the board said. Last year, the exams were held in February (18 to 27), before the pandemic had struck, and 86.34 per cent students had passed the Class X board exams. The board this year prepared the marksheet giving equal weightage to a candidate’s performance in the Class IX annual exams and internal formative assessments of Class X. As many as 79 students were declared joint toppers this year, scoring 697 out of 700 based on the evaluation methodology. While 86.07 per cent students had passed Madhyamik in 2019, the figure was 85.49 per cent in 2018. An official of the board said since they could not conduct the examination, it was decided that no candidate would be detained. “Overall, 90 per cent of the students have got first division this year,” the official added. Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board, said: “If the candidates are not happy with their marks, they will be allowed to write the test, subject to the improvement in the situation.” The percentage of first division usually hovers around 50 per cent, said an official of the school education department. Teachers’ associations are wondering if so many students could be accommodated in Class XI this year. Usually around eight lakh students are admitted in Class XI, they said. “This year, all 10,79,749 have been declared as having passed Madhyamik. There is a deficit of 2,79,749 seats. We wonder whether the government could add so many seats...,” said Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers’ association. Since a record number of students have scored first-division marks, teachers are expecting a surge in the demand for studying science in plus-II. An official of the school education department said they had already created the necessary infrastructure so that the students were not denied seats in Class XI. Marksheets were made available to the candidates on Tuesday itself. Candidates were not allowed to visit schools. Instead, their parents had to collect the marksheets, admit cards and certificates. Since the exams could not be conducted, admit cards were not issued earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIT Kharagpur caps scholars on campus||IIT Kharagpur has set a cap on the presence of research scholars on the campus because of Covid-19. Officials at the institute said the ceiling had been set at 900. “As and when scholars leave the campus after the completion of their research, more will be called in,” the official said. The institute has over 3,500 research scholars. The official said the authorities had decided on the ceiling to avoid gatherings as much as possible on the campus, which had to be shut down for a fortnight in September after a surge in Covid cases. Dhrubajyoti Sen, the dean of students’ affairs, had told students in an email on July 8: “Research scholars who are currently residing in the halls of residence on campus are those who have been permitted to join the institute in a phase-wise manner. Presently, the matter to further call other research scholars back to campus is being considered by the institute authorities, depending on the number of students who have left or are leaving the campus.” The mail states that “the list of scholars” to be called back to the campus will be prioritised based on the “year/semester” of registration. Sen told Metro last week that they had arrived at the ceiling of 900 to ensure optimum physical distancing and adherence to other Covid norms at the hostels. “Around 100 scholars have left the campus (following completion of their research). So now there are 800 scholars on the campus. We want to keep the number at 900 at the moment because maintaining physical distancing is the key. Abiding by the safety norms is crucial as the students during their stay at hostels rely on mess workers,” he said. “We will decide on the recall following discussions with the competent authorities.” Starting December 1, the institute had begun calling research scholars back to the campus following a directive from the Centre allowing researchers requiring laboratory/experimental work to return to their respective campuses. The institute later suspended the recall following detection of fresh Covid cases on the campus. The dean of students had said in the July 8 email: “Additionally, it is important to bear in mind that unknown circumstances such as a possible third wave of COVID-19 cannot be accounted for at present, and may delay or jeopardise any of the aforementioned plans.” An official said the research guides had been asked to help the scholars complete the research at the earliest so that slots could be created for the arrival of other researchers. If a guide thinks that the part of the research that is left can be done from home, the scholar should return home, the official said. Dean Sen said the institute was planning to recall 500 undergraduate students who were facing resource constraints and were unable to attend classes on digital platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Fishing in troubled waters keeps big hilsa away||Indiscriminate netting and inadequate rainfall have come in the way of mature hilsa swimming up the Hooghly from the Bay this monsoon, said scientists studying the movement of the fish whose delectability depends as much on the salinity of the sea as the sweetness of the river water. On Sunday, fishermen from Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas had ventured out on eight trawlers and returned with around 300kg of hilsa, less than half the yield they said they expected around this time of the year. Each fish they caught weighed 500-550gram, a far cry from the matured ones weighing a kilo or more. Several fishermen said they expected a bigger catch over the next few weeks but were not sure whether it would match last few years’, when the monsoon yield of the silvery delicacy was way above the expectations. Scientists expect this monsoon’s trend to continue as the rainfall has remained erratic. Typically, the hilsa moves from the sea to the river to lay eggs. The migration starts in June. For the fish to swim up into a river, the salinity of the river water in the estuary has to come down. This happens only when there is heavy rainfall for a considerable period and the concentration of the salt in the river water gets diluted. “When the fish arrives in sweet water, it draws water into the body resulting in what is known as gonadal hydration. When this hydration occurs, the ovary bloats and the membrane around it bursts, releasing the eggs,” said Asim Kumar Nath, who has been studying the migration of the hilsa at Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University. “The hilsa is a very delicate fish and environmental changes have an effect on its physiology. Unless the fish grows to a particular size, its egg-yolk remains undeveloped.” A matured hilsa lays 10 to 12 lakh eggs, of which only a very small fraction hatch. Scientists said years that witnessed heavy rainfall, like 2011 and 2012, saw a more robust flow of hilsa through rivers. “Those were years of bumper catch. For the last two years, the volume of the hilsa catch has been dwindling, leaving fishermen struggling to meet their ends,” said Bijan Maity, of the Kakdwip Fishermen Welfare Association. Apart from inadequate rainfall, scientists blame the tendency of illegal fishing of hilsa pawns and the state government's policy of allowing fishermen to venture into the waters early, before the onset of the monsoon. In Bangladesh, there is a blanket ban on hilsa fishing between May 20 and July 23. The Bengal government's ban is from April 15 to June 14. Scientists blamed the duration of the ban in Bengal for the netting of baby hilsas across parts of Frasergunge, Namkhana, Diamond Harbour and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. In Bengal, catching, selling and buying Hilsas weighing below 500g is prohibited and is a cognisable offence. So it is in Bangladesh. “We need to have stringent laws like in Bangladesh, where a fisherman is jailed for six months if caught catching a small hilsa,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine). For hilsa lovers, the delight in savoring a full-grown ilish is hard to match. “The ones weighing around 2kg or more have a taste of their own. We don’t get to see them anymore these days. But such hilsas — with broad abdomen — is always a chef’s dream,” said Anjan Chatterjee, who owns the Oh! Calcutta restaurant chain. “We are yet to start the Hilsa festival this year because of the poor supply of good quality fish.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||No-test order ‘violates’ Jadavpur University autonomy ||Teachers of Jadavpur University have written to education minister Bratya Basu that his department’s instruction that undergraduate students be admitted solely on the basis of marks “goes directly against the autonomy of universities”. The teachers said in an email to the minister on Tuesday that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams because of the Covid pandemic, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels”. The education department had on July 14 told colleges and universities that they were to draw up the merit list of undergraduate aspirants solely on the basis of plus-II marks. “This notification goes directly against the autonomy of universities. In the specific case of Jadavpur University, as per the university’s statutes, the admission committee is the final decision-making authority in matters having to do with admissions to various courses of study offered by the university,” the teachers of the university have written to Basu. Metro tried to call up the education minister several times but his phone was unreachable. Education secretary Manish Jain’s phone was switched off every time this newspaper tried to contact him. Partha Pratim Roy, the secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta), said the methodology of the evaluation of the plus-II students this year would not reflect an undergraduate aspirant’s aptitude for a specific field of study. “This year, the students will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in Class X board exams, Class XI exams, internal assessment and practical or project work. For a university like ours, that till 2019 used to admit students through admission tests or by giving equal weightage to the test and board marks, admitting students solely on the basis of marks is not an acceptable proposition,” said Roy. “We want to screen students through admission tests.” A JU teacher said admission tests could be held off-line with an agency setting up centres across the state. “The state JEE board conducted the admission test for the BTech programme at 274 centres on Saturday. JU was one of the centres,” the teacher said. Another teacher said students could be screened through group discussions or interviews held over online platforms. “If a candidate lacks a smartphone, he or she could be interviewed over a normal phone. The university will consider the board marks but some kind of screening is a must to choose the deserving and bright candidates,” the teacher said. Another teacher said: “We suspect that the HS candidates will be deluged with marks. So an admission test is the sole option to judge an undergraduate aspirant.” The higher education department at a meeting with vice-chancellors on July 7 barred state-aided colleges and universities from conducting admission tests at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Education minister Basu presided over the meeting. The department announced its opposition to admission tests when JU VC Suranjan Das sought to know whether the tests could be held to screen candidates. Education secretary Jain apparently told Das that tests could not be held this year because of the pandemic and the digital divide. This is not the first time JU teachers have stood up against the state government’s alleged attempt to undermine a university’s right to take its own academic decisions. In June 2018, JU had decided to scrap tests for admission to six undergraduate programmes in humanities and admit students on the basis of marks, as suggested by then education minister Partha Chatterjee. After teachers protested and students held an indefinite hunger strike, the education department was forced to let JU admit students through admission tests and plus-II marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police constables jog to boost Maidan security||Three teams of eight constables each are taking turns in jogging and exercising on the Maidan from 5am to 7am every day in an attempt to boost security of morning walkers by increasing police visibility on the greens. The 24 constables in the three teams have been drawn from 11 police stations in the south division. One team will jog and exercise each day. The group activity started on Monday, five days after three morning walkers were robbed by two scooter-borne men. One of the walkers was attacked with a knife and the butt of a gun when he tried to resist the robbers. “Each group has eight constables, who are split into three or four sub-groups. They jog and do other physical exercises in earmarked parts of the Maidan. The groups are numbered one, two and three,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “The constables have been given similar T-shirts so they can be identified as members of Calcutta police. This way we are trying to increase the police coverage across the Maidan.” This activity is in addition to the deployment of extra forces in the Maidan area, the officer said. Police deployment on the Maidan was stepped up a day after the three morning walkers were attacked. Hundreds of Calcuttans from across the city choose the lush green Maidan for morning and evening walks. Covid curbs and parking restrictions in and around the sprawl have reduced the footfall, making those who still turn up there vulnerable to attacks. Constables from Maidan, Hastings, Tollygunge, Kalighat, Chetla, Alipore, New Alipore, Charu Market, Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani and Bhowanipore police stations have been chosen for the morning activity. One of the officers who was aware of the plan said increased visibility of policemen, even those who are not in uniform, could act as a deterrent to criminals. “Incidents of snatching or robberies happen mostly on deserted stretches, where criminals feel they are not being watched or can get away easily. A person with bad intentions will think twice before committing a crime if he or she sees policemen around,” said an IPS officer. Before the attack by the scooter-borne men, cops in one patrol van and on two motorcycles were on Maidan duty every morning. The number has since been doubled and four police pickets were set up where cops with walkie-talkies are posted for quick and effective communication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court brake on teacher hiring||A division bench of the high court on Tuesday issued an interim order restraining the school service commission from appointing teachers for upper primary classes of secondary schools without the court’s nod. The order has cast a cloud on the government’s decision to appoint at least 24,000 teachers for Classes VI to VIII by Durga Puja. The division bench headed by Justice Subrata Talukdar, which issued the order, has allowed the commission to continue selecting candidates after conducting interviews but barred it from appointing teachers. The bench asked the commission to preserve all relevant documents related to the selection of candidates so they could be produced in court after 12 weeks. The order followed an appeal by some job aspirants against the verdict delivered by Justice Abhijit Ganguly of the high court, which had allowed the commission to appoint deserving candidates. Justice Ganguly had asked the commission to be more transparent in the selection process and to consider individually the grievances of the aggrieved candidates who had been alleging irregularities in the selection process. The division bench asked the commission to receive grievances through its website till July 31 and consider the cases with sympathy. The bench also asked the commission to display the marks obtained by the aggrieved candidates on its website. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that over 32,000 teachers would be recruited in secondary schools, at least 24,000 of whom would be appointed by Puja 2021. The list of successful candidates will be prepared based on the 2015 teachers’ eligibility test (TET). The recruitment process has been caught in a tangle of allegations and court cases between 2016 and 2020. After the high court had greenlighted the recruitment process in 2020 and a merit list was published, a fresh set of petitions were filed to stall the process. Some candidates alleged that the names of those who had scored less than them featured on the list while theirs did not. The commission was accused of flouting a 2019 high court guideline and failing to mention the marks beside the name of each candidate on the merit list. Following Justice Ganguly’s order, the commission published the names of selected candidates and also the marks they had obtained in TET.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
